Oral Answers to Questions Justice the Secretary of State be ask — Prison Capacity what step her Department be take to increase prison capacity . what step her Department be take to increase prison capacity . today be the day that those on the Opposition Benches always know be come . the legacy of the previous Government be a prison system on the brink of collapse , which leave we with no choice . today , around 1 , 700 offender have have to be release a few week or month early by change their automatic release point from 50 % to 40 % of their sentence . have we not do so , we face court unable to hold trial , police unable to make arrest and a total breakdown of law and order . this be not the long - term solution — there be more that we must do — but it be the necessary first step that we have to take follow the disgraceful dereliction of duty of the previous Government . I refer hon . member to my entry in the Register of Members ' Financial Interests . one way to reduce pressure on number be to treat more offender with drug and alcohol addiction outside the prison estate . that reduce prisoner number and reduce reoffende , which mean few victim and few people return to prison . such a system be operate successfully in many part of the country , but it require the high quality treatment . it also require probation to work well , otherwise magistrate be limit in their choice . may I encourage the Secretary of State to get hold of Dame Carol Black ' s internal review of treatment and recovery of drug - dependent people in the secure estate if she have not already do so ? I have not see it , obviously , but I be certain that it will contain many excellent recommendation . I thank my hon . friend for his question . he be right : good quality work on rehabilitation to reduce reoffende and deal with drug and alcohol issue be critical to deal with not just the rehabilitation of offender , but the prison system . he will know that nearly 80 % of offending be reoffende , which be far too high . the situation at the moment be that it be impossible to do good - quality , rehabilitative work in prison that be more than 99 % full , with prisoner lock up for 23 hour a day , so the first step be to address capacity . once we have do so , we will be able to build on recommendation make by expert in this area to make sure that we do everything we can to reduce reoffende . I thank the Secretary of State for her answer . my constituency of Wrexham be home to one of the UK ' s large prison . it be well know that if an offender have fix and secure accommodation to go to , they be less likely to reoffend . what step be she take to ensure that those release today under SDS40 will have accommodation on release , include in Wrexham ? we be work closely with colleague from the Ministry of Housing , Communities and Local Government to understand the impact on the housing sector , but , as be the case any time a prisoner be release , probation staff be work hard to prepare release plan , include permanent and temporary accommodation . if an offender be at risk of homelessness on release , they will be house in community accommodation . we expect to provide housing for the majority of offender use exist provision , but , should there not be enough , I have authorise probation director to make use of alternative arrangement , include budget hotel , as a temporary measure for the case that we will see in the next few week . during the debate on early prisoner release in July , the impact assessment produce suggest that there would be 5 , 500 few prison place than plan for because of the need to meet the capital saving that be discuss at the time . when I raise that with the Secretary of State , she say that this matter would be under review . can she now confirm that it be the Government ' s intention to cut back prison place by 5 , 500 over the medium and long term ? the right hon . Lady will know that I have commit to publish a 10 - year capacity strategy . there be also live discussion as part of the Budget and spending review process . we have commit to deliver the shortfall of 14 , 000 place in our prison system , which the previous Government fail to do . that be a commitment that we have give . those conversation be live conversation and I will report to the House in due course , but we will publish that 10 - year capacity strategy before the end of the year . can the Secretary of State explain why , when some 10 , 000 foreign criminal be block up space in our jail , they be not be remove and deport , which would simultaneously save the british taxpayer billion of pound every year and have the support of million of british voter ? they be be deport , and they will continue to be deport . nothing will change as far as the deportation of foreign national offender be concern , but the inheritance we receive from the previous Government mean we have to take additional measure . the answer will not come from the deportation of foreign national offender alone , but it be very much part of the picture . I call the shadow Secretary of State . under the early release scheme start today , the detail of which be design by the Secretary of State , how many people will be eligible to be release at the 40 % point who have be sentence , for example , for offence under section 20 , grievous bodily harm , and section 47 , actual bodily harm , of the Offences against the Person Act 1861 , both of which carry a maximum sentence of five year , but for which more often a sentence will be award that be less than five year ? the shadow Lord Chancellor will know that we have make important exclusion in the design of the policy and that all those who have commit serious offence and have be sentence to four year or more will be exclude from it . I will not be able to give detail on the specific mix of offence per offender , but those offence that would otherwise be include , but that relate to serious violence or sexual offence , have be exclude from the policy . I be grateful to the Secretary of State , but I have the statutory instrument and the list of exclusion in the schedule here , and those offence be not specifically include in that list of exclusion . my fear be — and this would be deeply disappointing — that many domestic abuser who be convict for those offence but receive few than five year may be eligible for early release and be consider for it , because her scheme do not explicitly exclude those offence . give that , the reality be that the Government ' s claim that domestic abuser will not be eligible to benefit from the scheme will ring very hollow to victim of domestic abuse and the wide public , win ' t it ? with respect to the shadow Lord Chancellor , what will ring hollow to member of the public be the Tory party ' s new - find commitment to exclusion for domestic abuse , and the sheer hypocrisy of talk about exclusion to this policy when he be a Minister in the previous Government who bring in the end of custody supervise licence scheme , which have no exclusion relate to domestic abuse whatsoever — [ interruption . ] he talk about the governor lock from a sedentary position , but he know full well that that be an attempt to shift the blame away from ministerial decision making and to place it on governor — something I be not sure be much appreciate by those who run our prison . we have take every step and every mechanism available to we to exclude offence connect to domestic abuse and , crucially , to give the probation service time to prepare — something the previous Government never do . I call the liberal Democrat spokesperson . it be clear that our prison be at break point . the Conservatives ' failure to tackle the court backlog have directly contribute to prison overcrowding . thank to their neglect and mismanagement , the Government have be leave with no choice but to take these measure . however , the Lord Chancellor say in her statement in July that these measure would be review " within 18 month of implementation — at the very late , in March 2026 . " — [ Official Report , 25 July 2024 ; Vol . 752 , c . 833 . ] that be a long time away , particularly give the various story we be hear about certain individual be release . will the Secretary of State once again confirm that no dangerous criminal will be release early ? we have take every measure available to we to exclude offence from this measure . serious violence , sexual violence and offence connect to domestic abuse have all be exclude , as have terror offence and so on — the hon . Gentleman will know the list of exclusion . we will work with our probation service , which have do a heroic amount of work over the summer to deliver this policy , in the come month . we will also work very closely with criminal justice system partner to make sure that the roll - out of the scheme be as safe as possible . we have take every measure , we will continue to keep matter under review and I will keep the House update in due course . we need to speed up a little . we be only now get to Question 2 . rehabilitation of Offenders what step she be take to support the rehabilitation of offender . what step she be take to support the rehabilitation of offender . what step her Department be take to help reduce level of reoffende . hon . member be right to focus on reduce reoffende . nearly 80 % of offending be reoffende , and it have an immense cost to the taxpayer and to community . as the Lord Chancellor say , we have inherit a difficult situation in relation to prison capacity , which make it hard to address the rehabilitation need of prisoner . the House should have no doubt that this Government will roll up our sleeve and get on with the job of reduce reoffende . my point speak to what the Minister just say . the lack of prison capacity mean that some people be lock up in their cell for 22 or 23 hour a day , and many prison be rank insufficient or poor for deliver purposeful activity such as education and training . how do the Minister plan to address that while we still have a bulge prison population ? how will he increase the provision of those purposeful activity ? we be take the hard decision that be necessary to create space and capacity in the Prison Service to address that issue . the hon . member be right that the report from his Majesty ' s Inspectorate of Prisons identify the provision of sufficient purposeful activity as its no . 1 issue to address . we know that education and employment help to reduce significantly the chance of reoffende , and we will work to do that with the Prison and Probation Service . rise — order . you be suppose to sit down , Minister ! I know that you be enjoy the Dispatch Box on your return , but please do not over - enjoy it . I call Monica Harding . as my hon . friend the Member for Carshalton and Wallington ( Bobby Dean ) mention , the chief inspector of prison say this morning that prisoner can sometimes be bang up in their cell for up to 22 hour a day , that classroom and workshop be empty , and that education and training be simply not give the priority they need . do the Secretary of State agree that , in order to cut reoffende , it be time to introduce a proper workable plan to improve the rehabilitation of people leave prison ? my own example demonstrate that training and education be very important in whatever role one take on , so I agree wholeheartedly with what the hon . Member say . address literacy in UK prison be crucial for successful rehabilitation . improved literacy skill empower inmate with well job prospect , aid their reintegration into society . education foster personal growth , self - esteem and decision - make ability , which be essential for a crime - free life . invest in prison literacy programme be a vital step towards create safe community and offering inmate a genuine second chance . what comprehensive strategy be be implement to address that ? my hon . friend be exactly right : literacy and numeracy be crucial . I be pleased to visit HMP Humber recently , where I see excellent good practice . it be important that those programme be in place , that we learn from good practice and that we continue to do our good in that area . a key driver of rehabilitation and the prevention of reoffende be sentence policy . in our manifesto , we promise a review of sentence policy — quite properly . when be that likely to take place , and will it take account of the very interesting recent paper by former Lord Chief Justices on sentence inflation ? the paper to which my hon . friend refer be a significant one , and I urge all member to look at it . the Government be commit to a review of sentence policy , and it will commence as soon as it can . we will report in due time . rape and Sexual Violence : Victim Support what step her Department be take to support victim of rape and sexual violence . what step her Department be take to support victim of rape and sexual violence . what step her Department be take to support victim of rape and sexual violence . what step her Department be take to support victim of rape and sexual violence . what step her Department be take to support victim of rape and sexual violence . what step her Department be take to support victim of rape and sexual violence . the Government be deeply committed to support victim of rape and sexual violence . to do that , we will increase the power of the Victims ' commissioner and get victim the information that they need , provide free legal advocate to uphold the right of victim of rape , and fast - track rape case to drive down waiting time for victim of those abhorrent offence . last week , " Emmerdale " air an upsetting episode deal with the domestic abuse suffer by Belle Dingle . the storyline have show just how difficult it can be for someone to leave an abusive relationship , not least because of the psychological control exercise by abuser . some victim also need somewhere to go for safety . accord to the late available figure , Scarborough have the high rate of report domestic abuse in North Yorkshire , but there be still no refuge for victim in the town . will my hon . friend work with I , colleague across Government and stakeholder to find the funding to ensure that a refuge finally open in Scarborough ? as an avid " Emmerdale " fan , I see that harrowing episode . it go to show the importance of tv drama in raise awareness of these vital issue . the Government be commit to halve violence against woman and girl within a decade . the Ministry of Justice be work with Departments across Whitehall , include the Ministry of Housing , Communities and Local Government , to support local authority to meet their statutory duty , include refuge for all victim of domestic abuse who need they . we know , though , that it be not just refuge support that be important ; wide community - base support be important too , and the MOJ provide funding to police and crime commissioner to commission those vital service for victim . victim of allege rape in Truro and Falmouth and across the country be have their trial push back for month , if not year , often very shortly before those trial be set to begin . that lead to severe distress for victim and family , and can have unintended consequence , such as bail condition become outdate as victim wait so long for their case to come to trial that address change in the meantime . will the Minister please outline what she be do to prevent or minimise the potential harm cause by such unintended consequence and to bring those long - delay case to a speedy conclusion ? I thank my hon . friend for highlight the awful state our criminal justice system be leave in by the previous Government . we be committed to ensure swift delivery of justice for victim at all stage of the criminal justice system , and we be work closely with various partner to achieve that aim . we know that due to the complexity of their case , rape victim often wait disproportionately long period for their trial compare with victim of other offence type . reduce wait time for victim be a priority for I and this Government , which be why we have commit to fast - track rape case through the justice system . I recently see at first hand at Bristol Crown court how that can be do , and how our judge be work tirelessly to make it happen . many will be watch with horror the extraordinarily disturbing case unfold in France , in which drug be allegedly use to facilitate the abuse of a woman by her husband and over 70 man . like many across the House , I have receive communication from victim of spike in my town of Weston - super - mare . they and I be keen to know what step the Minister be take to crack down on the devastating crime of spike here in the UK . the case in France be truly shocking , and we have all look on in horror as the detail have unfold . I commend the victim for her bravery in come forward and make it public so that we can see the full aspect of the trial . spike be a despicable crime . we have commit to introduce a new criminal offence of spike and we be consider how good to implement it . to be clear , in England and Wales , have sex with a person who can not consent be rape , and spike with intent to engage in sexual activity be a specific offence , with a maximum penalty of 10 year in prison . ten year ago , Jack and Paul Sykes , aged 12 and nine respectively , tragically lose their life at the hand of their abusive father , who set their house on fire . their mother , my constituent Claire Throssell , be a powerful campaigner against presumptive contact — a legal principle that allow a know domestic abuser to access Jack and Paul . will the Minister meet Claire and I to discuss how we can properly protect child from domestic abuse in our family court system ? I thank my hon . friend for that really important question . Claire ' s tireless campaign for family and child experience domestic abuse be inspirational , and my thought be with she and the whole community as the anniversary come close next month . both the criminal and family justice system will play an essential role in deliver our commitment to halve violence against woman and girl . the family court system must protect child victim of domestic abuse , and the new pathfinder court provide more support for domestic abuse agency and ensure that the child ' s welfare and voice be at the centre of proceeding from the outset . the Government and I take the need to respond robustly to perpetrator within the family court very seriously . the previous Government be review the presumption of parental involvement . we be consider the finding and will respond in due course . I draw the Minister ' s attention to the work of Bradford council and West Yorkshire Mayor Tracy Brabin , who have launch the safety of woman and girl initiative , together with a dedicated woman ' s safety unit within West Yorkshire police . what support can the Government offer to bolster the effort of local authority such as Bradford to stamp out violence against woman and girl in our community ? my hon . friend ' s question give I the opportunity to also place on record my thank to Mayor Tracy Brabin for all the incredible work she be do in this field . she be an outstanding champion for tackle violence against woman and girl , and we should be do more work like her across Government . as I have say , we be commit to halve violence against woman and girl within a decade . we be support colleague across Whitehall , include at the Ministry of Housing , Communities and Local Government , to ensure close collaboration with local authority . in addition , the duty to collaborate under the Victims and Prisoners Act 2024 will facilitate improved multi - agency working and encourage all local commissioner to provide join - up work for victim of all crime , include violence against woman and girl . this time last year , the Lord Chancellor announce her intention to introduce free legal advocate so that victim of rape can enforce their right — for example , in relation to the use of their personal information in court . what progress be the Minister make in bring forward that vital new protection for victim ? in our manifesto , this Government be clear that we be committed to introduce free , independent legal advice for victim and survivor of rape , from report to trial . I be work with official to develop this new policy and to ensure victim get the support they need to understand and uphold their right as soon as possible . I plan to draw on lesson learn from the successful pilot in Northumbria , as well as from the Mayor of London ' s current ila pilot . in the last session , when the Public Accounts Committee look at the effect of delay in the criminal justice system on serious sexual and rape case , it find that some case be take five year or more from prosecution to trial , and that some of the poor traumatise victim be simply disappear because they could not stand it any long . without enter into the blame game , what can the Minister do to improve that situation ? the hon . member be right that , although we do not want to get into the blame game , the current status of the criminal justice system be truly appalling . rape trial be not get as fast - track as they should be , and we be work at pace to try to remedy that situation . currently , 60 % of rape victim be pull out of the criminal justice system . the attrition rate be far too high , and I be work with official to improve that rate and to improve victim ' experience at court . how many prisoner be go to be release today in Kent , and can the Secretary of State guarantee that none of they will be homeless within a month ? as the Lord Chancellor have previously say , we can not give exact figure for specific area . however , we be work with other Departments , include the MHCLG , and with local authority to ensure that those who be be release from prison today under SDS40 have the accommodation that they need . the Probation Service have be work around the clock to ensure that . order . that question push the boundary a little bit . I think it should have be mainly about those who be rapist who be be release . I thank the Minister for her answer , but what discussion have she have with Education Ministers about support victim of rape and sexual assault who be under 18 year of age within our educational institution ? I thank the hon . member for his question . he will know that this Government have a mission to tackle violence against woman and girl . as I have say , that vision pull together department across Whitehall , include the Department for Education — I recently have a meeting with an Education Minister to discuss exactly that issue . I have be clear that sex with anyone who can not consent be a crime , and we be work across Government to tackle it . from my own experience , I know that independent sexual violence adviser provide by amazing charity such as SurvivorsUK be critical guide to help survivor navigate their path to justice and peace . could the Minister commit to redouble her support for isva and the organisation that make they available to the survivor who need they ? I know that the hon . Gentleman be passionate about this field of justice . his question give I the opportunity also put on record my thank to isva , who do immense work across this field day in and day out , support victim of these abhorrent crime — the work they do be invaluable . this Government be commit to introduce independent legal advocate to help victim and survivor get the support they need , and we be work with our stakeholder across the sector to ensure that support be available . recent disorder what assessment she have make of the impact of recent disorder on the criminal justice system . what assessment she have make of the impact of recent disorder on the criminal justice system . the criminal justice system rise to the challenge bring about by the violent disorder we see over the summer . as of 22 August , 576 individual have be bring before the court . of those , 123 have be give a custodial sentence by the Crown court . as a Crown prosecutor for 21 year , I know only too well that the court backlog have be worsen by repair issue force court to close . what be the Secretary of State do to address the repair need to the court estate , so that victim in my constituency of Amber Valley and across the country can get access to justice ? I thank my hon . friend for that question . it be of course crucial that court be in a position where the building — the infrastructure itself — do not prevent they from be able to sit . it will be a priority for this Government to resolve those issue , so that case can be hear and victim can be give the justice that they deserve . it be clear that we have come dangerously close to run out of prison place in the last few month , which as the Prime Minister have rightly say , be " about as fundamental a failure as you can get " . who do the Lord Chancellor blame for this failure , and do she think we will ever get a word of apology from the conservative party for leave our prison estate on the brink of disaster ? I would happily give way to anybody on the Opposition Benches if they would like to take up the invitation to offer an apology , but I do not think one will be forthcoming . I certainly do think that one be require give the state of the prison system that we have inherit , but it be our job to make sure that that never happen again . that be why we will be launch a review into how the current position be allow to come to pass . the conservative party ignore all the warning , put political gain ahead of the country ' s good interest , and it will fall to this Government to fix it . the Government have rightly find prison place for those involve in the recent disorder , but they have do that by continue their early release policy . will the Secretary of State confirm that those guilty of manslaughter be among those able to get early release , and will she explain to the House why people guilty of manslaughter should be release early ? I think the hon . member be guilty of wilful ignorance . he will know full well that the prison system that we inherit be on the point of collapse . the fact that some prison build that be already in course be able to be bring on line a little early to help we get over the crisis of the summer be testament to the people work at the frontline to make sure that those prison space be available , but we be still short of prison capacity . prison be still at over 99 % capacity , and that be the legacy leave by his Government . he will know that we have important exclusion to the SDS40 policy , and he will know that the offence and the sentence be both take into account . I will not give a running commentary on exactly which sentence and which offender be affect , but he know what exclusion be in place . court : victim ' experience what step her Department be take to improve the experience of victim at court . this Government be commit to improve the victim experience at court . we will work with the judiciary to fast - track rape case to ensure timely justice for some of the most vulnerable within the criminal justice system . additionally , this Government commit in our manifesto to introduce free , independent legal support for victim of rape from report to trial . we have also commit to strengthen the victim code and to increase the Victims ' Commissioner ' s power to make sure that victim ' need be meet . for victim , give evidence in a court can sometimes be a very difficult and distressing experience , which be why they sometimes prefer to give evidence via video link . can the Minister set out what step the Government be take to ensure that more victim can give evidence via video link across our country ? I thank my hon . friend for that important question . video link be available in all court to help vulnerable and intimidate witness give evidence . we have recently invest £ 50 , 000 to transform witness facility and upgrade video link room in 10 Crown court . Pre - record evidence be also available in all Crown court for eligible victim to spare they the trauma of give evidence at a live trial . to ensure that victim see justice , criminal case need to be hear in a timely manner , which rely on a number of court be in place to be able to hear they . the future of Chichester Crown court , which be the only Crown court in west Sussex , have be under threat for nearly a decade . local campaigner fight to save that provision , lead to its reopening to clear the backlog , but its future remain uncertain . will the Minister meet I to ensure the future of Chichester Crown court ? we know that courtroom availability be essential to deal with the backlog , and I will pass on that message to the court Minister — the Minister of State , Ministry of Justice , my hon . friend the Member for Swindon South ( Heidi Alexander ) . Prison Officer Recruitment Targets what step she plan to take to meet prison officer recruitment target . my hon . friend be completely right : prison officer recruitment target be essential . prison officer do a fantastic job . we have see how they have go above and beyond over recent week and month , so I pay tribute to they . nationally , we be currently above staffing target , but challenge remain in certain site with a high number of vacancy , and bespoke intervention be be develop for those site . I thank the Minister for that answer , and I praise the Government team for the way they have respond to the complete chaos leave in the wake of 14 year of a Conservative Government . in my previous work I visit young offender institution , which have be leave in total chaos by the last government . part of their recklessness be to start a botched recruitment process for the graduate recruitment training programme for prison officer . it be currently deliver by unlocked Graduates , which be do fantastic work . the Government ' s chief inspector of prison have say there be a real risk that that programme ending will add to the recruitment problem that the Government face . will they restart that procurement process and meet I to discuss its future ? I be happy to meet my hon . friend to discuss that matter . his Majesty ' s Prison and Probation Service work to reprocure the next iteration of the graduate scheme , with contract for an open procurement exercise . although unlocked Graduates be identify as the win bidder and be offer the contract , it do not confirm its intent to sign the contract . the Department be now work hard to come up with plan to put a graduate scheme in place for future year . Court Backlog what step she be take to tackle the court backlog . what assessment she have make of the implication for her policy of the backlog of case in court . it be good to be back . Mr Speaker . the Government be commit to reduce caseload and bring wait time down for court user across all jurisdiction . we continue to keep 18 Nightingale courtroom open across eight venue , so that we have more physical capacity to hear case in all jurisdiction . we plan to sit more than 105 , 000 day in the Crown court and more than 102 , 000 day in the family court this financial year , enable we to work through as many case as possible . Hartlepool ' s court building have stand empty since 2017 , after it be mothball by the then Conservative Government . will my hon . friend investigate the potential for reopen Hartlepool ' s court as part of our effort to expand capacity and clear the backlog , and will she meet I to discuss the issue far ? you might want to reopen Chorley court , which be also empty . I hear you , Mr Speaker . I welcome the question from my hon . friend . he will know that his Majesty ' s Courts and Tribunals Service keep the court estate under regular review to ensure that it meet operational requirement . I be afraid there be currently no plan to reopen Hartlepool magistrate court , but I would be happy to meet my hon . friend alongside official from HMCTS to discuss his concern . the reason behind the increase caseload in our criminal court be complex and multifaceted , but the number of courtroom available be not the main constraint we currently face . torquay magistrate court close in the last decade , and therefore justice be serve somewhat distantly from our community in Torbay . can the Minister assure the House that there will be some review to ensure that justice be serve more locally to our community in south Devon ? I may be have another meeting , with the hon . Gentleman , as well as look at the court in Chorley , and I be happy to discuss that matter with he . domestic Abuse : Victim Support what support her Department be provide to victim of domestic abuse . this Government be deeply committed to support domestic abuse victim , and we provide funding to police and crime commissioner , who commission community - base support service for domestic abuse victim and survivor , and independent domestic violence advisor . domestic abuse victim be automatically eligible for certain special measure in court such as screen or video link , and the pathfinder pilot in family court aim to improve experience and outcome for child and family affect by domestic abuse . Devon and Cornwall - base domestic abuse charity First Light south - west , and national domestic abuse charity Hourglass , which work specifically with old victim , have highlight to I the challenge that they face with short - term funding stream for their work . the current year - on - year funding model result in issue with the recruitment and retention of staff , which in turn impact on service provision to victim . specialist service be especially vulnerable give the nature of the support they provide . will the Minister commit to provide sustainable long - term funding for frontline domestic abuse service , include for specialist service for old victim survivor , so as well to support victim in my constituency and across the country ? the work that Hourglass and many other do be outstanding , and I place on record my thank to it for champion the right of old victim across the piece . the Ministry of Justice provide police and crime commissioner with annual grant funding to commission local practical , emotional and therapeutic support service for victim of all crime type . I be hear loud and clear the call from the sector , but it would be wrong of I to pre - empt the announcement of funding after March 2025 . we can not agree that before the spending review , but the Ministry of Justice have allocate £ 1 . 2 million of funding over two year to support the training and infrastructure of isva and idva and to support fantastic organisation such as Hourglass that do such brilliant work . another forum in which domestic violence be litigate be private child ' s case in our family court . the Secretary of State and Ministers will no doubt be aware of the huge delay that family be suffer in have their case hear and then those case be decide . at the heart of that be child wait for a conclusion . what step be the Government take to try to expedite those case , in particular work with other agency across government include the Children and Family Court Advisory and Support Service and local authority ? the Government recognise the importance of support separate family and , where appropriate , help they to resolve their issue quickly and without the need to come to court . this be a complex area . my official and I be work closely on it , and I would be happy to update my hon . friend with a more thorough review soon . I call the shadow Minister . domestic violence at its most severe become murder . domestic murder be often the most shocking and brutal . with that in mind , what assessment have the Minister make of the kill Women campaign ? I be aware of the kill Women campaign . I have liaise closely with it in opposition and now in government . its aim be admirable . any woman murder by domestic homicide in this country be one woman too many . we know that sadly three woman a week be be murder . that be a shocking statistic that this Government be hope to tackle . I thank the Minister for that answer . in light of that , will she commit to respond to the call of Carole Gould , Julie Devey and Elaine Newborough and many other to address the injustice of the discrepancy between the starting point for sentence in domestic murder case versus that for other murder case ? will she do so in quick time , so that she can include appropriate measure in the forthcoming victim , court and public protection Bill ? I be meet the woman imminently to discuss this far , and the Government have commit to a thorough sentencing review . Criminal Justice System : progress of Cases what recent assessment she have make of the adequacy of the time take for case to progress through the criminal justice system . what step she be take to help reduce the time take for criminal case to be hear at court . we be committed to ensure the swift delivery of justice for victim at all stage of the criminal justice system , and we be work closely with various partner involve to achieve that aim . in relation to the court , we plan to sit more than 105 , 000 working day in the Crown court this financial year , and we continue to hear criminal case at Nightingale court . we be also consider other measure to speed up justice for victim , and we will make further announcement in due course . I thank the Minister for her answer . after wait seven year for the Grenfell inquiry to report , the bereaved family and survivor have now be tell that they must wait two or possibly three year for a decision on whether and whom to prosecute . as Martin Luther King say , " justice too long delay be justice deny . " I understand from the Crown Prosecution Service , which I meet recently , that much of the delay be for the discovery process , where the welter of digital information must be assess . can the Minister tell I what be be do to address these delay and whether thing such as artificial intelligence be be contemplate ? as the Prime Minister make clear , those affect by the Grenfell tragedy have already wait too long for justice . I can assure the hon . gentleman that anything in my or my Department ' s power that need to be do will be do . the Government fully support the Metropolitan police and the Crown Prosecution Service as they complete their investigation and bring prosecution to trial , while respect their operational independence . I be sure the use of all form of technology will be consider in that process . perhaps too many barrister have become politician , but however cause , how will the Minister address the shortage at the criminal Bar ? I hesitate to answer the right hon . Gentleman ' s question , give that my boss be a former barrister — I say that we can not have too many . only last week I discuss the adequacy of number of legal professional in the Crown court with the chair of the Criminal Bar Association , Mary Prior , and I will be work with the profession to ensure not only that we be recruit sufficient barrister to work in the court , but that we be retain barrister at the criminal Bar . our team in Newport East be try hard to raise the issue of how long case be take for constituent — we inherit those delay from the Conservatives — but even the CPS be take month to answer basic query about where the delay be in case . will the Minister urge the CPS to respond fast ? I will take that away and do that . do the Minister agree that a properly fund legal aid scheme both here and in Scotland be essential for access to justice , and that the decline in this vital public service that both the Tories and the SNP have preside over be nothing short of disgraceful ? what we be experience be the very long tail of the legal aid , sentencing and Punishment of Offenders Act 2012 , which have mean that both the civil and criminal legal aid sector have face huge challenge . that be vital to people ' s access to justice . Topical Questions if she will make a statement on her departmental responsibility . on take office two month ago , it be immediately clear that we have inherit a prison system at the point of collapse . that be why our emergency action , which will see certain offender leave prison a few week or month early , have prove necessary . the measure take effect today . I pay tribute to the work of the Prison and Probation Service , which have go above and beyond the call of duty both in respond to the violent disorder in recent week and in prepare for the introduction of those measure . this mark the beginning of a rescue effort — one that will , in time , allow we to rebuild and reform our justice system in the year ahead . after the last Government leave our prison on the brink of collapse , I welcome the Secretary of State ' s commitment to build new prison and drive down reoffende . I also welcome her commitment to additional transparency . do she agree that such transparency be a significant departure from the approach of the previous Government , who release thousand of prisoner early in secret ? my hon . friend be absolutely right that it be a significant departure from the approach of the previous Government , who introduce an early release scheme — the end of custody supervise licence scheme — that operate under a veil of secrecy , with no datum ever publish on the number release . it take our Government to publish the datum show that more than 10 , 000 offender be release under that scheme . I be pleased to say today that we have end that scheme . I call the shadow Secretary of State . I be grateful to the Secretary of State for her previous answer on substantive question about accommodation for prisoner release early . far to that , have the Government contract any specific hotel for potential use by early release prisoner ? I have authorise probation director in area to make appropriate provision , if that prove to be need — at this point , it be not definite that it will be require — to ensure that there be no gap in provision for offender be release under the SDS40 scheme . I think the Secretary of State say that none have be contract at this time . if they be at any point , far to the point make by the hon . member for Reading West and Mid Berkshire ( Olivia Bailey ) , will she be open and transparent with the House , local authority and the public about how many , at what point and , in broad term , where they will be locate ? yes , I will . I call the liberal Democrat spokesperson . every 30 second , a domestic abuse - relate call be make to the police . it be positive to see that the number of domestic abuse case refer from the police to the CPS have increase , but those number be still well below the level see over the past five year . will the Secretary of State address the delay in domestic abuse referral from the police to the CPS and acknowledge the unique risk that they pose ? as I have state , this Government be elect with a landmark mission to halve violence against woman and girl within a decade . to do so , we must improve the justice system ' s response to these crime , include domestic abuse . we must relentlessly target the most prolific and harmful perpetrator , well support victim and survivor , and ensure timely and effective justice . we will put domestic abuse expert in 999 control room and strengthen the use of protection order , and we will strengthen the tool available to manage domestic abuse offender . over the weekend , Lord MacDonald , the former director of public prosecution , warn that court backlog and the complexity of any trial that may arise from a CPS decision in 2026 about the victim of the Grenfell fire may far delay justice . could the Minister give we and the victim reassurance that the criminal justice system will not far delay justice for those victim ? as I say to the hon . member for Wimbledon ( Mr Kohler ) , we will do everything we can to ensure swift justice for the victim of Grenfell . we plan for the Crown court to sit for at least 105 , 000 day this financial year , and we will do more to increase the speed with which case be hear in the Crown court . the Secretary of State have say that she will review her prisoner early release scheme after 18 month , but will she go far and commit to end it then , and if not , to return to this House for a fresh vote on it ? I have commit to the review , because that be the appropriate way , and I will not make early promise that might not be keep . I have commit to both transparency and a review . we will publish all the datum on a quarterly basis and I will return to the House with the result of the review and the approach that we will take at that point . the Minister will understand that , often for very personal reason , victim of sexual assault , such as my constituent , do not always feel comfortable report their attack to the police . she then find it extremely difficult to access specialist support service at what be clearly a very distressing time . what can we do to improve the accessibility of support service for those victim of sexual assault who do not report it to the police ? will she meet I to discuss this case far ? the victim code set out the service and support that victim of crime be entitle to receive from the criminal justice system in England and Wales . that include the right to access support , which apply regardless of whether they decide to report the crime to the police . I would be delighted to meet my hon . friend to discuss this far . there be yet more depressing figure this morning about drug - relate death in Scotland . will the Government discuss how drug addict be treat in the criminal justice system and look at way of improve that to tackle the issue , and perhaps move towards safe consumption ? the hon . member be right that drug in prison be a big issue that the Government be work hard to tackle . I would be very happy to write to she with further detail of what we be do . today , the first tranche of prisoner will be release early under the Government ' s emergency measure to address the prison overcrowding crisis . it be welcome that this Government have exclude some domestic abuse offender from the scheme . however , not all domestic abuse perpetrator can be exclude . will the Secretary of State consider extend the victim contact scheme to all survivor of domestic abuse and violence against woman and girl , regardless of the length of time that their perpetrator spend in prison ? first , let I congratulate my hon . friend on succeed I as chair of the all - party parliamentary group on perpetrator of domestic abuse . it be a vital APPG and I know that she will do sterling work as its chair . to confirm , we have exclude from SDS40 certain offence that be frequently connect to domestic abuse , such as stalk and control or coercive behaviour . the victim contact scheme be available to all victim of a sexual , violent or terrorist offence where the offender be sentence to 12 month or more in custody . we be work with the sector and other to consider how to improve communication with victim about an offender follow a conviction . the late figure show that the court backlog sit at nearly 68 , 000 . every one of those case mean yet another individual victim or family wait for justice . despite that , the Government plan to cap the number of sit day in our court at a low number than last year , lose 2 , 000 sitting day , which have draw criticism from many , include the Bar Council . could the Secretary of State tell I why those wait for justice , include many in North Norfolk , be be force to wait even long ? as I have say , the Crown court will sit for more than 105 , 000 day this financial year — an increase of 28 % on the year before the pandemic . that mean that there be more capacity in the Crown court this year than in six of the past seven year . we have inherit a criminal justice system on life support as a result of the previous Government , and we have a broken economy . everyone can see the state of the public finance , and justice be not immune from that . in Pembrokeshire we have no local solicitor ' firm offer pro bono work , and the near free legal advice centre be in Swansea . many of my constituent be therefore unable to access to justice , which be particularly distress in the area of family law and care proceeding . what step be the Minister take to tackle the issue of legal desert in place such as Pembrokeshire and west Wales ? access to justice be integral to a fair society , include for our rural community . in our court and tribunal , modernised service and a more effective use of technology can improve people ' s access to the justice system , but I recognise that there be more to do and I be happy to meet my hon . friend to discuss that . a significant proportion of the 1 , 700 prisoner be release early today , while have be convict of other offence , have a history of domestic abuse . what reassurance can the Secretary of State give to domestic abuse victim who fear the release of their perpetrator today ? we have take every measure available to we and pull every lever we could to ensure that offence connect to domestic abuse be exclude and that the probation service have have time to prepare . we will work with it in the come week and month to ensure that release plan be in place and victim be notify in the usual way . a widow be prosecute under the single justice procedure after her husband have pass away and the car tax expire . she be convict over just £ 3 . 34 , and the Driver and Vehicle Licensing Agency send the letter to the wrong address . will the Minister meet I to discuss how we can reform the single justice procedure to make it more accountable and ensure that there be well oversight of the process ? I be very happy to meet my hon . friend . I be also very keen that we keep under review what more can be do to support vulnerable defendant go through the single justice procedure , and to improve oversight and regulation of the organisation use that procedure . the harm do to family and woman by incarcerate woman be huge and make bad when they do not have safe home after they leave . some 47 % of woman be currently leave prison without settled accommodation . this break up family and leave they at risk of further exploitation and harm , often the same exploitation that lead to their offending . will Ministers tell the House what they be do to ensure that every woman set to leave prison , include all those leave early as a result of the Government ' s reform , be support into safe and stable accommodation ? the hon . member be right that this be a big issue . the Prison and Probation Service be work hard to ensure that appropriate accommodation be available , and work hard with partner across the country in different region . I be very happy to meet the hon . member to talk about the issue far . amazing charity such as Survive in York depend for their survival on the rape and sexual abuse support fund . however , without certainty over the amount , and if and when the funding will come , it be hard to leverage funding from other source , such as the national lottery . when will the funding be announce , and will the Minister meet I to discuss this vital funding as demand rise ? I thank my hon . friend for that question . I recognise the vital work that survive in York do to support victim and survivor in her area . I fully appreciate the importance of notify police and crime commissioner and provider about future funding as early as possible to effectively commission , plan and deliver those service . as I have indicate , it would be wrong of I to pre - empt the current spending review . we know that current provider be concerned about the cliff edge in March 2025 . I fully appreciate that and I would be delighted to meet she to discuss that far . will the Secretary of State ensure that measure be put in place in the criminal justice system to support survivor of violence against woman and girl , include mandatory training for prosecutor on understand the impact of trauma on survivor and the release of court transcript for free for victim of rape ? the hon . Lady may know that we currently offer free transcript of judge ' sentencing remark to family of victim of fatal road offence , murder and manslaughter . in May , we extend free transcript of sentence remark to victim of rape and serious sexual offence , in a year - long pilot . we will continue to look at how we can lower the cost of obtain a court transcript . former client of the law firm SSB Law be unexpectedly pursue for adverse legal cost follow the installation of defective cavity wall insulation . I understand that the Solicitors Regulatory Authority have open an investigation . will the Secretary of State review the situation urgently , include establish a cross - government working group on the matter ? I be aware from correspondence that I have receive , as the Member of Parliament for Swindon South , that there be significant concern about the collapse of law firm such as SSB Solicitors , Axiom Law and McClure . as my hon . Friend say , the Solicitors Regulation Authority be look at this , as be the Legal Services Board , and I shall be happy to speak to her far to provide an update . the Justice Secretary will be aware that the Criminal Cases Review Commission take 17 year to overturn the conviction of Andrew Malkinson , an innocent man , even though dna evidence exonerate he be available from the fourth year ; and his be not the only such case . have the Minister any intention of address the resource , regulation and management of the ccrc to ensure that innocent people be not leave incarcerate for many year ? what happen to Mr Malkinson be appalling , both for he and for the victim of the crime . it be vital that lesson be learn . as the right hon . Gentleman will know , follow the publication of the Henley review of the ccrc ' s handling of Mr Malkinson ' s case , the Lord Chancellor ' s view be that the current chair be unfit to fulfil her duty . as for resource , the amount that the ccrc have receive in recent year have rise , and we will continue to keep that under review . as the Minister will know , one of the factor that can contribute to backlog in court be the existence of basic maintenance problem with the building , which prevent case from be hear . in Swindon this year , we have a serious fire which result in one of the courtroom be closed and case be transfer elsewhere . what investment be be make in court in place such as Swindon to ensure that justice can be deliver swiftly ? I be very pleased to be respond to a fellow Swindon Member , and I be grateful to my hon . friend for give I the chance to mention our home town during my first ministerial outing . I should add that I be also grateful to local judiciary court staff and justice stakeholder for their work in maintain justice during that incident in Swindon . as the Lord Chancellor say early , ensure that building be maintain effectively be critical to the delivery of justice . my constituent be brave enough to report her husband for the abuse that he put she through . he have just be release from prison on two condition : he would be tag and he be not allow to go into her village . he have not be tag because the Probation Service say that it do not have enough tag and there be a technical fault , and he enter her village on his first day out of prison , stay overnight . he be on her street , and his family knock on her door . will the Secretary of State please respond to my letter about my constituent , who feel extremely vulnerable ? will she also confirm that there be enough tag , and that in case such as this there will be not just a verbal warning — which be all that her husband receive for his action — but remedial repercussion ? I be not aware of the correspondence to which the hon . Lady have refer , but I will chase it up and ensure that she receive a comprehensive response . the coronial system be a mess , with substantial backlog , a lack of representation for bereaved family , and erratic use of prevention of future death report . will the Secretary of State consider reform to deal with these problem ? if she need idea , there be a very good report from the Justice Committee . I concur : there be an excellent report from the Committee , to which the Government will respond in due course . I be well aware of some of the issue with the coroner and report death for bereaved family and I should be delighted to discuss they far with my hon . friend . catapult be not class as offensive weapon , but they be be use increasingly in my constituency to injure and kill livestock and pet . will the Minister responsible for such matter agree to meet I to discuss how we can deter these people and stop their use of catapult to kill ? I suspect that that may be a matter for my colleague in the Home Office , but I will happily liaise with the relevant Minister and ensure that the hon . Lady receive a response . Ukraine with permission , Mr Speaker , I will make a statement on Ukraine , but may I first reflect on last week ' s dreadful news of the death of Royal Naval pilot Lieutenant Rhodri Leyshon ? on behalf of this House , I pay tribute to he . he be a consummate professional to his colleague and be dearly love by his family . he will be sorely miss by so many , and the thought of this House be with they today . it have now be 930 day since Putin launch his full - scale illegal invasion of Ukraine — 930 day in which ukrainian force have fight heroically while community have endure relentless attack . child have be steal to Russia , and family have see their home destroy . yet , throughout everything , Ukraine have stand tall in the face of russian aggression . since day one , when I be the shadow Defence Secretary and sit in the place now occupy by the hon . member for South Suffolk ( James Cartlidge ) , this House , and our country , have be unite for Ukraine . in opposition , Labour back every package of military aid , every sanction on Russia and every scheme to support civilian , such as Homes for Ukraine . I know the opposition will continue to work with the Government in the same way , because this House stand united for Ukraine . I have be proud of UK leadership on Ukraine , and I be determined that it will continue . I be also determined to work across this House , so I will offer Opposition leader regular intelligence assessment on the conflict . I will offer mp of all party regular Ministry of Defence and Foreign , Commonwealth and Development Office briefing , the second of which take place in the MOD this morning . More than 100 colleague from both side of the House have attend the briefing , and the House will receive regular update on the conflict from I . Ukraine be a first - order priority for I as Defence Secretary , and for this Government . that be why , on the second day in the job , I fly to Odesa and join President Zelensky and his team for the afternoon . I tell he that the Ukrainians ' courage inspire the world . I also tell he that this new Government will step up support for Ukraine at this critical moment . in our first week , we announce a new package of UK military support , include ammunition , missile and artillery gun ; a new commitment to speed up the delivery pledge by the previous Government ; and a promise to spend £ 3 billion on military support for Ukraine this year , next year and every year for as long as it take . in the week since , we have step up support even far . we have sign a new £ 3 . 5 billion defence industrial support treaty , hit the £ 1 billion milestone for the International Fund for Ukraine , advance the UK - lead maritime and drone capability coalition , and agree a new £ 300 million contract for artillery shell . at the Ukraine Defence Contact Group meeting in Ramstein on Friday last week , I announce a new £ 160 million production contract for air defence missile . I also announce that the UK ' s Operation Interflex , which have train 45 , 000 ukrainian troop since 2022 , will extend beyond this year and throughout 2025 . our support be both short term and long term , entail immediate provision and long - term production . we be train troop today and develop ukrainian force for the future . this approach give the Ukrainians the confidence to plan , and it send a signal to Putin that the UK and our ally will stand with Ukraine for as long as it take . there have be important battlefield development during the past month . in the first week of August , ukrainian force launch a remarkable offensive across Russia ' s border and into the Kursk region . this expose the vulnerability of Putin ' s frontline force , and it demonstrate Ukraine ' s ability to achieve surprise strategic attack . it also help to well defend Ukraine and its northern centre by push back against site from which Russia can launch deadly attack . around 900 sq km of territory be now hold by ukrainian force in the Kursk region , and this have put Putin under pressure . after initial disarray , russian force be now deploy to the area in great number . but eastern Ukraine continue to be Russia ' s main focus , with tactical advance bring Pokrovsk within approximately 8 km of the frontline . with Russia continue to rely on infantry - lead assault , its casualty remain high and rise . daily casualty have double from this time last year , with Russia average more than 1 , 100 a day kill or wound in July and August alone . meanwhile , recent russian air bombardment have be some of the most intense since the start of the war . President Zelensky state on Friday in Ramstein that 4 , 000 missile and drone be fire at Ukraine in the last month , target critical national infrastructure and attack civilian centre , include Poltava and Lviv in the last week . since 2022 , the impact of this have be that Russia have destroy or capture more than 50 % of Ukraine ' s power generation capacity , force Ukraine to implement power outage with winter approach . meanwhile at sea , Ukraine have score some significant success , include drive Russia ' s fleet out of the western Black sea to reopen export trading route and destroy or damage 26 russian naval vessel operate in the Black sea , include a russian Kilo class submarine just last month . despite these notable achievement , russian pressure across the whole of the frontline will continue in the month ahead . russian industry remain on a war footing , russian artillery be outfire Ukraine by at least three to one , and Russia be also conscript or recruit 400 , 000 additional soldier this year . for the come week , two thing be clear : Ukrainians need to strengthen their frontline in the east and look to hold the territory in Kursk . the long they hold Kursk , the weak Putin become . the long they hold Kursk , the well defend Ukraine will be . this be discuss at the US - lead Ukraine Defence Contact Group that I attend last Friday with other Defence Ministers and President Zelensky . this be where military support and unity for Ukraine be strengthen among 50 allied nation , and where the US Defence Secretary Lloyd Austin serve an important reminder to everyone : " if Ukraine be not free , the world be not safe . " this be why the defence of the UK start in Ukraine . if President Putin prevail in Ukraine , he will not stop at Ukraine . if big nation redraw international boundary by force , the sovereignty and security of all nation be undermine . that be why UK support , alongside ally , be so important : military , economic , industrial and diplomatic support . I also want this House to know that we be see clear grow sign of russian aggression beyond Ukraine . NATO ally be report russian drone violate their airspace . the head of the UK and US security service have confirm that russian intelligence be conduct a " reckless campaign of sabotage " across Europe , and last week the National Cyber Security Centre reveal that Russia ' s specialist GRU unit be conduct offensive cyber operation direct at government and civilian infrastructure . Putin be target our security . he be target our way of life . we face a decade of grow russian aggression , but this be a Government who will protect our people and our country . we will actively deter and defend against russian threat , work in partnership with ally . that be why , as a new Government , our defence policy will now be NATO first . as we approach 1 , 000 day of war , this conflict be at a critical moment . that be why the UK be step up support . because this be not just Ukraine ' s struggle ; it be our struggle too . Ukraine be fight to regain its sovereign territory , but it be also fight to reinforce peace , democracy and security in the rest of Europe . I be grateful to the Secretary of State for early sight of his statement , and for the briefing he have provide to I and all parliamentary colleague . I associate myself and my party with the condolence he express regard the tragic death of Lieutenant Leyshon . as we have confirm previously , I reiterate without reservation that , as Labour do when in opposition , we will continue to do everything possible to support the Government over Ukraine . we remain steadfast in our total condemnation of both Putin ' s illegal invasion of Ukraine and his conduct of the war , during which he have show no regard for human life , even , it would appear , that of his own service personnel , with loss now at terrible level on all side . indeed — this be one of the Secretary of State ' s most striking point on the operational situation — it be an extraordinary testament to the brutal disposition of the Putin regime that their strategy continue to rely on the mass sacrifice of infantry personnel . that say , the Secretary of State be surely right to remind we that , despite the extraordinary naval success Ukraine have enjoy in the Black sea and the surprise incursion into Kursk that have throw Putin ' s regime into confusion , Russia remain a formidable foe and nothing at all can be take for grant . on the contrary , it be clear that the UK must continue to do all it can to support Ukraine ' s Government , people and armed force . on the conservative Benches , we be proud of the role our government play in show real leadership in respect of Ukraine . if Ukraine have fall early , the world would have be in a precipice situation akin to the late 1930 , but we make a huge difference to avoid that outcome by be the first nation to train ukrainian troop , the first to provide main battle tank and , in particular , the first to provide long - range weapon . in August , President Zelensky comment that Britain ' s support for Ukraine have slow down recently . what assessment have the Secretary of State make of those comment ? on these Benches , we recognise that a key part of our leadership have be bring other ally on board , which must continue in key operational and logistical decision making . nevertheless , we have also show leadership as a sovereign nation that believe wholeheartedly in Ukraine ' s fight for freedom . as such , I confirm that we would have no hesitation in support the Government in continue that leadership be they to confirm that the Ukrainian Government have maximum freedom of operation with regard to all the munition we have supply , include long - range missile . on the provision of additional munition and the late news share by the Secretary of State , I welcome the announcement of £ 160 million for air defence missile to be produce , of course , in Belfast . that underline the intention we have in government , when the late round of support commence , to ensure a maximum degree of benefit for the UK defence sector in our support for Ukraine . will the Secretary of State confirm that that remain a top priority and that , as we supply Ukraine with more and more drone across defence , he will ensure that we rapidly learn the lesson of their deployment so that we can build the ecosystem for our own sovereign uncrewed sector ? we agree that supply Ukraine with arm have be the right thing to do but — and the public feel this very strongly — that must be accompany by the replenishment of our own stockpile and platform inventory . a top priority of our fund , timetable commitment to 2 . 5 % be an additional £ 10 billion to replenish our munition . be the Secretary of State still commit to that extra £ 10 billion for munition ? can he confirm that the delay in set out a clear timetable to 2 . 5 % will not lead to the deferment of any major munition order , either this financial year or next ? the Secretary of State speak of russian artillery outfire Ukraine by 3 : 1 , and he know the crucial importance of industrial output . that be so , do he recognise that we must urgently fire up production across our own defence sector by commit to 2 . 5 % as soon as possible ? finally , one lesson from Ukraine be the vital importance of maintain air superiority in battle . in relation to our future combat air capability , I ask the Secretary of State a set of write question on 29 July on the sixth - generation global combat air programme spending , and he have to date answer only the question on historical spend , not those on the current financial year . will he therefore confirm whether his Department will be defer any spending on GCAP plan for the current financial year ? I thank the hon . gentleman for his support , his tone and his commitment to continue to back further military aid to Ukraine , include the £ 160 million contract for lightweight multi - role missile that I announce last week . he talk about the " mass sacrifice " of russian personnel , and he be right . President Putin be a leader who show contempt for the life of his own soldier . on UK leadership , I have set out to the House my determination to maintain that leadership in the support for Ukraine , and demonstrate how we step that up in the first week , in the week that follow and last week at Ramstein . in term of the lesson for drone , their deployment and our work with Ukraine , we be learn those lesson . we need to speed that up . give the hon . Gentleman ' s previous job , he will be well aware of the implication for the way in which we procure and contract for capability , both for export and for our stockpile . on stockpile , we have — as he will also know — so far spend £ 1 billion in the UK on replenishment . we have plan to build that , because we need to boost not just production , but the productive capacity of UK industry , so that we be capable of demonstrate that it can be scale up in the face of future threat in a way that be not apparent at present . the hon . Gentleman ask about long - range missile . I have to say that only Putin benefit from an open debate about those sensitive issue , and I will not comment on operational discussion . there have be no change in the UK ' s position . we continue to provide military aid to Ukraine , as I have set out , to support its clear right to self - defence and in line with the operation of international humanitarian law . on the question of 2 . 5 % , we will increase defence spending to 2 . 5 % of gdp . the last time the UK spend 2 . 5 % of gdp on defence be in 2010 , when I last stand at this Dispatch Box as part of the previous Labour Government . in 2010 , the Conservatives cut defence spending : they never match 2 . 5 % in any of their 14 year in office . my priority will always be to ensure that this country be well defend . in the face of grow threat , we will do more to make Britain secure at home and strong abroad . I thank my right hon . friend for his statement and the 100 % commitment to support Ukraine , as we have see previously . I welcome his statement about the investment in LMM defence . can he say a bit more about the scope of that ? I have say that Ukraine be my first - order priority , and I be in Odessa on my second day in the job . I have now have the privilege of meet President Zelensky four time while in post , and I have meet his Defence Minister six time . like the previous Government , we consistently try to respond to the need that Ukraine say it have for system and ammunition . at the moment , above all , it need new supply of ammunition and strong air defence system capable of take down russian missile and drone at different distance . while the US make a commitment at Ramstein last week to an extra $ 250 million in air defence system , we make a commitment of an extra £ 160 million through a short - range modern air defence system — 650 lmm , with production under way — the first of which will be deliver to Ukraine before the end of the year . we be step up the support that we pledge for Ukraine and speed up the support that we deliver to Ukraine . I call the liberal Democrat spokesperson . on behalf of the Liberal Democrats , I wish to add to the tribute that other have pay to Lieutenant Rhodri Leyshon . he serve with the Commando Helicopter Force in 846 Naval Air Squadron at Yeovilton . the Royal Navy say that Rhodri be one of their " most trusted and highly capable aircraft captain and instructor " . our thought be with his family . I be remind of the saying " train hard , fight easy " . it be attribute to the 18th - century russian commander field Marshal Suvorov , but the Russians be not practise that today , send to the front Russians who have have as little as two week ' training . by contrast , the training that have be provide under Operation Interflex have enable ukrainian troop to hold ground and exploit russian weakness . the Liberal Democrats welcome the announcement last week at the Ukraine Defence Contact Group that Operation Interflex will continue until the end of 2025 . indeed , we have welcome announcement on Ukraine from the current Government and the previous Government , and we would not want to see any party political capital seek from the solid british support for Ukraine . we have see some failure by the british state in recent year to plan for contingency , whether post - invasion planning for Iraq or for a non - flu pandemic . we have discover that sometimes in the british state there be a little bit of " hope for the good " . on support for Ukraine by the United States , what contingency planning be be undertake for an uplift in our support for Ukraine — and by other state in the Ukraine Defence Contact Group — in the event that a gap open up with a US Administration under Trump and Vance ? I be sure that Lieutenant Leyshon ' s family will appreciate the hon . Gentleman ' s comment . the outcome of the US presidential election will be determine by the american people . this country have a deep relationship with the US : it be our most important security ally , and we be its most important intelligence ally . the relationship go back decade and have survive the up and down of the political cycle on both side of the Atlantic . we be determined that it will do so again , whatever the result of the election . on the question of training , I can not match the hon . gentleman in cite 18th - century military figure , but I can say that the mismatch between the level of training that we and ally be try to provide to ukrainian troop be part of the attempt to counter the outmatch in number on the russian side . I can confirm to the House that that include not just the 45 , 000 ukrainian troop train so far under Operation Interflex since Putin ' s invasion , but the 93 F - 16 pilot train in English and technical matter as well as fly , and almost 1 , 000 ukrainian marine train by the UK , work with ally . that be why I be able to make the announcement last week at Ramstein that this important UK training effort , link into the new NATO arrangement , will be part of the way that we equip Ukraine force for the future to be well prepared and train than their russian adversary . let we be under no illusion : in the face of russian aggression and invasion , the defence of the UK start in Ukraine . my right hon . friend the Defence Secretary be right to focus not only on the immediate challenge face Ukraine but on the long - term imperative . do he agree that the UK - Ukraine friendship be not just for the short term or for as long as it take , but must endure in the year and decade to come ? I do indeed . a lot of attention be give to military aid to support Ukraine ' s short - term need — its immediate battlefield requirement — but in the long term we need to reinforce Ukraine ' s capacity to produce for itself . that be why an important element of the step we have take to step up support for Ukraine , since the election just two month ago , have be to sign a defence export treaty , which I be privileged to sign with Defence Minister Umerov in no . 10 Downing Street . it provide some £ 3 . 5 billion - worth of export credit guarantee that will help we do more to get the equipment Ukraine need manufacture and export , and into ukrainian hand for its fight against Putin ' s invasion . I thank the right hon . gentleman for his statement . People in Ukraine be face great challenge , and we can see how much resource Russia be throw at the situation . Most colleague on the Government Benches feel it be time for storm Shadow to be allow to be use with freedom by the ukrainian people . will the right hon . Gentleman set out the legal restriction that be stop that from happen ? conflicting briefing have be come out of Government . that be not a matter I be prepared to discuss openly , as such a debate would benefit Putin . the principle upon which this country have give , and will continue to give , weapon to Ukraine be that those weapon support Ukraine ' s defence and its right to self - defence as a sovereign nation . to do so , across the board , do not preclude Ukraine from strike target in Russia , if that be part of that determination and strategy for self - defence and provide it be within the bound of international humanitarian law . without wish for one second to diminish the threat of Putin ' s Russia or the sacrifice that Ukrainians continue to make , I note that Moscow ' s airport be close by ukrainian drone attack this morning , that the russian central bank will raise interest rate to 18 % on Friday , and that half a million russian troop have be kill . all of that have be inflict by a country that be a third of the size of Russia . do the Secretary of State share my frustration that so many people in the west seem to accept the misinformation war — Putin ' s version of event that this war be go swimmingly for he — when any rational assessment of the event of the last two and a half year show that they have be an absolute catastrophe for Russia ? my hon . friend be right . part of the battle that Putin be wage be with his own people — to control their freedom , include take step to assassinate political opponent , and their right to freedom of information . one thing that have put President Putin under pressure be that Ukraine have take 900 sq km of territory in the Kursk region to defend its own city and centre in the north . that have bring home to President Putin and the russian people the consequence of his aggression , and show that this be not a special operation , simply confine to Ukraine . Ukraine have the right to self - defence . in do so , Ukraine be try to defend itself well by strike target in Russia from where the Russians be launch the deadly attack from which ukrainian civilian , city and power system have suffer for too long . what assessment have the Defence Secretary make of Operation Renovator and how do he plan to change it ? the right hon . Gentleman ask a question with a good deal more information than the rest of the House . I will write to he with the detail he seek rather than try to give a superficial answer from the Dispatch Box . I welcome the Defence Secretary ' s statement , especially what he say about the deepen military and industrial strategy between the United Kingdom and Ukraine . there be clearly a grow alliance building between Russia and Iran , unite in undermine democracy and risk further proxy war . will the Defence Secretary give his assessment on how the UK Government seek to influence Iran ? my hon . friend follow these matter closely and speak with authority in the House on these thing . we have be warn — in fact , the previous Government be warn too — about the deepening security alliance between Iran and Russia . part of the declaration , make alongside international partner , at the NATO summit in Washington warn Iran that any transfer not just of drone technology , but of ballistic missile technology to Russia would be regard as a significant escalation . the House can take a broad lesson from my hon . friend ' s point : Iran ' s destabilisation be not a malign influence that be simply feel throughout part of the middle east , but have wide repercussion , which be why Iran be one of the most serious threat to this country in the future . the Secretary of State can look forward to the same support for Ukraine ' s defence from the SNP that the previous Government enjoy . he mention increase air defence come from the UK and the United States that will be in Ukraine before the end of the year . Russia will not wait until the end of the year before attack civilian infrastructure , particularly energy infrastructure , so will the Secretary of State advise of any step that have be take to accelerate that increase air defence to the benefit of the people of Ukraine ? I be grateful for the hon . Gentleman ' s continue commitment and support , give on behalf of his party , to stand with Ukraine in this House . for some month , the Ukrainians have be say they want delivery of the pledge of military aid to help with their fight against the illegal full - scale invasion ; they want what have be promise to be in their hand . that be why when I first meet President Zelensky , on my second day as Secretary of State for Defence , I make a point to not just say to he , " right , this Government be willing to step up the support we be offer , " but to tell he that we recognise that imperative and will speed up the support we offer . we will speed up the delivery of the big package of aid announce by the previous Government in April , and we will try to say to President Zelensky , " where we pledge our support , we will give you a guarantee about the delivery time by which it will be in your hand , to strengthen your fight for your sovereignty and against this illegal invasion . " I strongly welcome the confirmation of the extension of Operation Interflex over this year and next . will the Secretary of State join I in pay tribute to the hard work and professionalism of the UK troop involve in the operation , and the bravery of all the ukrainian troop who be serve to protect their home ? my hon . friend remind the House of a very important point . number be one thing — we can say that the UK have lead the Operation Interflex nation to train 45 , 000 ukrainian troop — but more importantly the expertise of british and other ally soldier have help to provide the ukrainian soldier who be step forward to help defend their country with combat medical skill , battlefield training and survival technique . I have the privilege to join the then Leader of the Opposition on Salisbury plain to witness some of the training and , later , to talk to ukrainian troop who have finish their training at Brize Norton as they be poise to fly back to Ukraine . they be man very much like any in this House — lorry driver , accountant and public relation executive — who be now , alongside their civilian colleague , fight for the future of their country and the right to decide , as a sovereign nation , its future in the world . I pay tribute to their bravery and to the skill of our armed force in help to train they for that task . we have have a quote from Suvorov , and Napoleon famously say that " the moral be to the physical as three be to one . " after two and a half year of a barbaric russian invasion , we can not expect the Ukrainians to keep resist with one hand tie behind their back . that mean that , while the Russians attack power station with long - range missile at will with winter come , and while they use glide bomb , which be brutally effective as tactical weapon on the frontline , we have to allow the Ukrainians full freedom of action to retaliate , not just as a military necessity , but to maintain their own morale . they must be bolster to keep go . we could help they , and it be about time that we do that one thing . the right hon . Gentleman make his very strong point in his customary way . this be about not retaliation , but self - defence , and he be quite right to say that the impact of the " moral " often outweigh the impact of the physical . when I update the House on the physical — the 900 sq km of the Kursk region that be now in ukrainian hand — the " moral " , or morale , impact on ukrainian troop and ukrainian citizen have be huge , so just as it be put pressure on Putin , it be also lift the spirit of Ukraine after nearly 1 , 000 day of a bloody battle against Putin ' s invasion . the Secretary of State spend the last Sunday of the election campaign in Prestwick , near our town ' s world war two polish war memorial . within day , he be in Odesa and have step up and speed up the support that the UK be deliver . do he agree that we have start as we mean to go on and that this Government will stand with Ukraine for as long as it take ? yes , I do . it be a real pleasure to see my hon . friend in his place . he bring expertise from a very wide field of foreign - policy affair . I know that he will make a big contribution to this House , and if I make a small contribution to his election campaign , then I be doubly pleased to see he . the Secretary of State be a consistent supporter of Ukraine in opposition , so it be no surprise to hear that positive statement from he today . when he go into battle with the Chancellor of the Exchequer for a good defence budget , will he remind she that , in the 1980 and the cold war , we regularly spend 4 . 5 % to 5 . 1 % of gdp on defence ? will he also assure the House that if America elect a President who do not wish to support Ukraine , the support for Ukraine by the remain european member of NATO will intensify , not diminish ? when , as a Government , we declare that we be ready , we show that by step up support for Ukraine . when we say that we will stand with Ukraine for as long as it take for it to prevail , we mean it . whatever the decision of other country may or may not be , I do not expect — whatever the result of the US election — for the US to walk away from Ukraine . I say in my statement that if big country with authoritarian ruler can redraw international boundary by force , the sovereignty and security of all nation be leave weaken . on the question of defence spending , we be a Government who will not be have battle , as the right hon . member put it . but I will go into the discussion that I will inevitably have with the Chancellor with a copy of our labour manifesto , which , at the election , say that we be a Government who will spend 2 . 5 % of gdp on defence . we will increase spending on defence , which be entirely the opposite of what happen when we have the change of Government in 2010 . that be a Government who cut defence spending over those first five year by nearly 20 % . may I thank the Secretary of State for his statement , but also the Ministers who have provide cross - party briefing to colleague ? it really be appreciate . President Zelensky have call on partner to ensure that aid package that be announce be deliver to Ukrainians as quickly as possible . will the Secretary of State set out the action that the Government be take to ensure that aid to Ukraine be speed up ? my hon . friend be quite right : step up the pledge of aid be one thing , but speed up the delivery be another . that be why , on that second day in Odesa , I make an undertaking to the Defence Minister and President Zelensky that this be a Government who would do both . I be able to update the Defence Minister in Ukraine of progress on each of the element of the package that we have pledge . I thank the right hon . gentleman for his statement . even though he have announce nothing new today , I very much welcome that he be keep this matter at the top of his and the nation ' s agenda . although he may be able to say little about this , will he forgive those of we who can speak for continue to press for the west to untie the hand of our ukrainian ally , so that they can strike back at those who be strike at they illegally and without justification ? we know that that probably do not apply to this Government , but will he confirm that there be discussion with our ally about this matter ? may I wish he every success in help we to deliver the freedom and security of the world by break the stalemate in Ukraine that will overwhelm the west if we allow it to continue ? I thank the hon . gentleman for his comment and for his welcome to I . I note the point that he make . on the point about my not announce anything new , I just say to he that I do so on Friday last week . this be my first opportunity to update the House on the announcement of extra aid not just last week , but in the week over the summer recess — and , indeed , the package in our first week in office . this be the fourth sitting week since the election , and I hope that he will be reassure by my personal undertaking to ensure that I update the House on development in Ukraine on a regular basis . I , too , welcome the Secretary of State ' s statement and his wholehearte commitment of this country to the defence of our ally in its hour of need in the face of Putin ' s aggression . I be very pleased that my constituency of Stevenage be where many of the storm Shadow missile be ship to Ukraine be manufacture , but , of course , manufacture missile and other armament take time . will the Secretary of State explain what step he and his Department can take to speed up that process ? I will indeed . I be delighted to see my hon . friend take his place on the Labour Benches as part of a Labour Government speak up for Stevenage . his constituency be home not just to the production of some of the most important defence equipment , but to their development and the technology that go into it . we will build on some of the step that the hon . member for South Suffolk ( James Cartlidge ) first take as Minister for Defence Procurement in the last month of the previous Government . I recognise that , with the nature of warfare change so rapidly — exemplify by what we see in Ukraine — large platform , which may take many year to produce , risk rapidly become outdate in the technology and system that they cover . we have to be able to procure , we have to be able to develop as we procure and , once in the field , we have to be able to update on a regular basis . my hon . friend must take it from that that this be a question not just of well value for money , but of more speed and clear decision making in everything we do . that will be a hallmark of the way we develop our procurement reform and our new industrial strategy , drive by the need to reinforce growth in this country as part of the success of this Government . I congratulate the Defence Secretary and his Ministers and welcome they to their place . it be right that the UK stand with Ukraine to protect the life and freedom of the innocent people and the sovereignty of a free state . in addition to the military support provide , will the Secretary of State update the House on what diplomatic effort be be make to negotiate an end to the russian aggression , a full withdrawal from Ukraine and a return to peaceful co - existence as soon as possible ? I will just say to the hon . Gentleman that it be the Ukrainians who be fight , not we . it be the Ukrainians who will make the call about when to stop fight and when to start talk , not we . our task be to reinforce the Ukrainians now , to put they in the strong possible position if and when they make that decision , and then to put they in the strong possible position if they go into negotiation . one of the key feature throughout the statement and the discussion today have be the importance of consensus and co - operation in build a coalition . will the Secretary of State give an update on what step he intend to take next to ensure that we be support Ukraine with the broad and good coalition possible ? it be my first time at the Ramstein meeting on Friday last week — the 24th such meeting of that coalition , lead by the US . senior representative of 50 other country participate , and all pledge both more military support for Ukraine and to reinforce the unity with which we stand with Ukraine . I hope that that be not just reassurance for Ukrainians , but a signal to President Putin that we remain united , we remain resolute and , in the end , he will not prevail . I very much welcome the Secretary of State ' s statement . he be quite right to outline the threat that Russia now pose to NATO territory . last week , the NATO Parliamentary Assembly be in Alaska , look at the missile intercept system , part of which be do through RAF Fylingdales . however , the UK and most of Europe be not protect by the missile intercept system . in relation to the comment he have make on the threat Russia pose , may I ask that , as we move into the strategic defence review , a NATO - lead missile intercept system be something that he discuss ? it be quite a hole in the defence of Europe at this moment in time . I grow up and go to school near RAF Fylingdales in North Yorkshire . those big golf ball , when they be up , be a feature of the landscape for many year . I can say to the right hon . Gentleman that the strategic defence review , lead externally but with the Department support it , have set out proposition that pose some of the question he be interested in . I can confirm that this defence review will welcome and invite contribution from all party , include not just those on the Front Bench but those on the Back Benches who be well informed and play role in the wide defence and security world . I invite he to consider the proposition the review have publish and to consider the sort of submission he might make as part of its deliberation ; if he can do that , we will certainly welcome he . I be proud of the role that service personnel in my constituency have play in train our ukrainian brother and sister . I thank the Secretary of State for outline the death toll of Putin ' s brutal war ; it be absolutely horrendous , and I hope that in time we will see Putin hold to account for that and for the wide damage cause by the conflict . despite the scale of the devastation , for many in the UK this war seem like quite a distant event . however , that could change almost overnight if one of the many nuclear reactor in the region be damage . what discussion have the Secretary of State have with partner about that particular issue ? may I pass on through my hon . friend our thank and tribute to any of his constituent who have be involve in the Interflex training programme to date ? on the question of pursue Putin for his war crime , this be a Government — indeed , this be a country , which be a tribute to the previous Government — that have be willing to help fund the ukrainian effort to gather the evidence require to prepare potential legal case that will allow we to bring to justice those leader in Russia who be responsible . the ukrainian legal authority be currently document 135 , 000 report incident of allege war crime in their country . that be a huge job and they can not do it without our expertise and our support . fundamentally , we be a Government that , in opposition , make the commitment to support the setting up of a special tribunal that potentially could try President Putin for the crime of aggression . I thank very much the Secretary of State for his statement and his very clear commitment to Ukraine and its people . everyone in this House support exactly what he be say and we thank he for it . with the break news that Ukraine have send drone to Moscow and central Russia , it be clear that technology be very much at the forefront of this conflict . will the Secretary of State underline the technical support that the Government have make available to our ukrainian friend , and say whether we can be of further assistance to bring this war to an end to allow ukrainian child back into education and ukrainian family to rebuild their life ? I be grateful to the hon . Gentleman , who prompt I to say something that I do not give enough emphasis to . never mind the Government support ; the technology that he talk about , which be play such a decisive role in the hand of the Ukrainians , be often develop and provide by the bright people in our and other country ' industry . we pay tribute to all those in our british industrial and research company , who in some case be work with the Government and in some case be work under contract to the Ukrainians to provide they with what they need to win this fight , to protect their country ' s future and to regain their territorial integrity . I thank the Secretary of State for his statement and for the early opportunity he have provide for mp from all party to be brief on the ongoing situation in Ukraine . I welcome the Government ' s commitment and his personal commitment to keep member of the House update regularly . may I ask that he ensure that the lesson identify from Ukraine , in particular those of the formation and structure that be allow the ukrainian force to be so effective , be feed into the SDR ? yes , indeed . my hon . friend serve until very close to the general election in a very distinguished and senior capacity in our force , so I say to he , as I do to the right hon . member for Wetherby and Easingwold ( Sir Alec Shelbrooke ) , that the defence reviewer will welcome contribution from all side of this House , particularly when member who have such deep expertise be willing to make that available . I appreciate his welcome of this early statement and say to he that it will not be the last . point of order on a point of order , Madam Deputy Speaker . today the House be to debate and vote on a vital issue that affect million of our senior citizen : the winter fuel payment . if absentee Sinn F é in Members from Northern Ireland — who have receive million of pound over recent year for not have do their job and not take their seat — be to take their seat today and vote with many of we , include some Labour Members , the outcome might be different . have the Speaker ' s Office be inform that the seven Sinn F é in Members intend to take their seat in the House today and actually vote to oppose austerity , as oppose to just talk about it ? I be grateful to the hon . member for give I notice of his point of order , but that be not a matter for the Chair . Royal Assent I have to notify the House , in accordance with the Royal Assent Act 1967 , that his Majesty have signify his Royal Assent to the follow Act : Budget Responsibility Act 2024 . Social Security before we start , I inform the House that I will bring in the Secretary of State at the end of the debate . I call the shadow Secretary of State . 1 . 30 pm I beg to move , that an humble Address be present to his Majesty , pray that the Social Fund Winter Fuel Payment Regulations 2024 ( SI , 2024 , no . 869 ) , date 22 August 2024 , a copy of which be lay before this House on 22 August , be annul . the Labour party — the Government — say in the general election that it would bring in a new style of politic ; politic centre on integrity and transparency . so it be that during the election , we hold they to account and press they on tax , among other matter . we will find out , with the Budget at the end of next month , whether they be tell the truth — I have my suspicion . but we have already discover one thing right now . we also press they on the winter fuel payment , from which million of pensioner benefit up and down the country . why ? because the conservative party stand four - square behind our elderly . we believe that they should have security and dignity in their later year . we receive cast - iron assurance from the Labour party . in fact , the then shadow Chief Secretary to the Treasury , the right hon . member for Bristol North West ( Darren Jones ) — [ hon . member : " where be he ? " ] that be a good question . he say when press that the Labour party have " no plan " to do anything in respect of the winter fuel payment . indeed , labour candidate up and down the country gleefully point to their manifesto as have no mention of do anything on this particular matter . but look at what have happen in a matter of a few short week . what happen to integrity ? what happen to transparency ? they go out of the window — broken promise already . the special contract that Labour seek to have with the british people base on integrity and decency have be smash into a million piece . what be the impact of these measure ? to a degree , we do not know — I will come to that — but we do know that nine out of 10 pensioner will lose the winter fuel payment of up to £ 300 at a most difficult time of year for million of they , and a time when the energy price cap be go up by 10 % . there be a suggestion from Labour member that somehow only the wealthy — the millionaire — be affect . far from it : two third of pensioner live below the poverty line will have this benefit remove . [ interruption . ] Labour member do not like hear it . the 880 , 000 pensioner who we know be eligible for pension credit but be not yet receive it will also suffer — [ interruption . ] Labour member chunter from sedentary position , but although they say that they will have wonderful campaign to get everybody who be entitle on to pension credit , in reality , even if they do so it would cost the Exchequer £ 3 . 8 billion , which be over twice the money that they say they will save . it be an absurd policy that their own plan be actively work against . the haste with which this have be carry out be simply jaw - dropping . we do not have any impact assessment . will the shadow Secretary of State give way ? I will in a moment . we do not know what the impact will be across the income distribution . no member of this House know what the impact will be within their own constituency . we do not know what the recommendation of the Social Security Advisory Committee will be . why ? because it will not be give the information until tomorrow , we be tell . and of course , the measure do not form part of what it should : a major fiscal event with the Office for Budget Responsibility score it and an economic and fiscal outlook accompany it . rise — I will come to the hon . gentleman . in fact , the only authority to comment thus far on these measure be the House of Lords Secondary Legislation Scrutiny Committee , which say : " we be unconvinced by the reason give for the urgency attach to lay these Regulations and be particularly concerned that this both preclude appropriate scrutiny and create issue with the practicality of bring in the change at short notice . " that , I think , say it all . will the shadow Secretary of State give way ? I will give way to the hon . Gentleman , who have be very patient . I thank the shadow Secretary of State for finally give way . will he clarify which conservative leadership contender have call for the means - testing of the winter fuel allowance ? I be leave feel that that intervention be barely worth the wait . the fact that we even have a debate today be near miraculous give the resistance from the Labour party — we have it thank to the scrutiny that the conservative party be provide to the Government . we know that petition have be rail against the measure : 100 , 000 people have sign the silver Voices petition , a third of a million the 38 Degrees petition , and over half a million the Age UK petition . they be call on the Government to think again . the press , particularly the Express newspaper , be do a sterling job in bring these matter to our attention . even the trade union movement , include Unite , be point a finger at the Government and say that they be pick the pocket of pensioner . there be a sense of disappointment . yesterday , the Health Secretary be drag in here because a multimillion - pound - make consultant in the health industry be wander corridor with access to paper , and today pensioner be be betray . do my right hon . friend agree that when people vote Labour , they think that they be get change and transparency ? they be promise high standard ; they be get the opposite . I thank my right hon . friend for his appropriate intervention . he be right , of course . the only surprising thing be how remarkably quickly this have all fall apart . the Government will take responsibility for what have happen . they will blame we , with this fictitious black hole . the Leader of the House have suggest — I invite Labour Members to support she in this assertion — that the measure be necessary in order to avoid a " run on the pound . " it be just as well that Labour be not in charge of the economy , or we might end up in a real mess . do the shadow Secretary of State agree that if a local council have run its finance into the ground , in the way that his party do to the country ' s finance with a £ 22 billion black hole , he would have call in the commissioner in the morning and instigate swingeing cut ? can I ask he — [ interruption . ] give that that be the case , and that he now seem to have decide that his party no long care about balance the book , will he apologise — order . I call the shadow Secretary of State . thank you , Madam Deputy Speaker . that slightly lengthy question might be well address by way of a rather lengthy letter to the leader of Birmingham city council . of course , all politic be about choice , and what this Government have do be cave in to their trade union paymaster . they have settle way above inflation . junior doctor — 22 % . train driver — 14 % . they have stand up for their trade union paymaster on the back of vulnerable pensioner , and that be not right . if it be not the case that the trade union be run the Labour party , hand up everybody on the Government Benches who have not receive money from the trade union for their campaigning or their private office . [ hon . member : " one ! " ] one person . therein lie the truth about who be run the Labour party . of course , we have see all of this before . under the last Labour Government , we have the 75p pension increase , we have Gordon Brown ' s stealth tax on private pension — £ 118 billion in total — and be it any surprise that we end up with the fourth high level of pensioner poverty across the whole of Europe ? the right hon . Gentleman talk about choice and pensioner . when his party choose to suspend the triple lock in 2021 and give a below - inflation increase to pensioner , cost they £ 500 , what be his concern then ? why do he say nothing ? the hon . Gentleman be entirely wrong . we go into the election promise the triple lock plus . unlike his party , under which million of pensioner be go to be drag into income tax spend , many of they for the first time , we be prepared to stand up and say that we would not do that . will the right hon . Gentleman give way ? how could I not ? I commend the right hon . Gentleman and his party for bring forward this issue , which be massive for my constituent and those across the whole United Kingdom . I say this with respect to the Labour party : this policy do not conform to any Labour party policy that I have see in the past . pensioner who have contact I say that they be concerned because the threshold be too low , because pension credit will take nine week to process even if it get to the 28 % who be eligible in Northern Ireland , and because the £ 400 that the Labour Government have approve will not come until spring next year . those be three reason why the motion have to be support . the hon . Gentleman be entirely right , as always , and I completely agree with every word that he have just say . we be the party of the triple lock , and we be the party of the triple lock plus . we be the party that have raise the state pension by £ 3 , 700 since 2010 , and we be the party that have see 200 , 000 few pensioner in absolute poverty since we come to office . that be now go to go into reverse . I will now , rather more gently and rather more quietly , make an impassioned plea to Government Members : look to your conscience . you know in your heart that these measure be wrong , that the Labour party have break its promise , and that these measure will lead to untold hardship for million of elderly and vulnerable people right up and down the country . you now have an opportunity to join with we and put a stop to it . before I start , I want to thank the House for put its confidence in I to chair the Treasury Committee for the term of this Parliament . I be the servant of this House , and I will question without fear or favour those who appear before we . I look forward to engage with the new member I have yet to get to know . I also declare an interest : my husband have be in receipt of the winter fuel allowance , but if the vote change that today , he will no long receive it . for his own vanity , I should add that it be the low limit . the decision that we be be ask to make today be a difficult one , but sadly it will not be the only difficult decision face the new Labour Government . before the general election , I have the privilege of chair the Public Accounts Committee for nine year . in that role , I see all of the impact on public finance — current , past and future . when I hear my right hon . friend the Member for Leeds West and Pudsey ( Rachel Reeves ) talk about the challenge ahead and the dire consequence , I would say , " you think it ' s that bad ; I know it ' s a lot bad . " we have hear of the Chuckle Brothers , but I describe we as the Misery Sisters , because when she say it be bad , I say it be go to be bad . that be the reality . the chicken be come home to roost on the spending of the previous Government . we see a number of problem , which I lay out in my last annual report as Chair of the Public Accounts Committee — factually accurate information . the NHS capital budget be raid to pay for day - to - day expense , but the backlog of capital expenditure in the NHS be £ 10 . 2 billion in the year end 2022 . as I serve with the hon . Lady on the PAC , I warmly congratulate she on her election as Chair of the Treasury Committee . the House have make a very good choice . member of the Rayleigh , Rochford and District Association for Voluntary Service , whom I meet last Friday , be genuinely worried about this policy . in a nutshell , their argument be that if people on very modest income be now frightened to heat their home , that could lead to illness for many of those people , who will then present themselves to hospital and increase the winter pressure on A & E . by that method , it would be a false economy . the game be not worth the candle . what do the hon . Lady , whom I respect , say to that ? I thank the right hon . Gentleman , with whom I have the pleasure of serve on the Public Accounts Committee . that be an example of how the House work closely together ; most people would not think that we would agree on many issue , but on that Committee we produce every report in tandem . the right hon . Gentleman will know that the pressure on the NHS be legion , and that many of the same people who will be suffer this cut to their income — we will come on to some of the measure to ameliorate it — will be the same people queue and wait for a hospital appointment . I know too many pensioner who do not get that hip replacement if they can not afford it , but many be cash in their saving , when they have they , to pay for a hip replacement so they can have quality of life . that be not the nhs that the right hon . Gentleman or I want to see in this country , so we need to make choice . one choice that this government be make be to ensure that we pull the NHS waiting list back . I could digress into the NHS for a long time , but if he will forgive I , I will move on . look at our school estate , under the last Government the Department for Education ask the Treasury for capital funding for school of £ 5 . 3 billion in 2020 . it be allocate only £ 3 . 1 billion , so there be a big backlog there . in the defence sector there be many example , but I will pick just a couple . not a single nuclear submarine that have come out of service have yet be decommission in this country . it will cost around £ 500 million in 2018 price for a single one , amount to nearly three quarter of a billion pound in 2018 price to complete all of those . it be get to a critical point . these decision have be delay and defer for too long — in this case , by government of all colour , not just the last government — and there be a gap of at least £ 17 billion in the defence equipment plan over 10 year . there be also a lack of transparency about local authority spending because of the crisis in local government audit , which be oversee by the last government . not enough be do to deal with it . I could go on : there be a long list of expensive thing that this government now need to put right because of neglect over a period of time . rise — let I continue for a moment . there be budget challenge this year , and many decision that be make in recent Budgets will hit the public finance in 2025 , 2026 or beyond , because there be either huge optimism about the state of economic growth or a deferral of painful cut . different member of the House will have their own view . I congratulate the hon . member on the post to which she have be elect . she have just outline a number of project for which public money need to be find . as the shadow Secretary of State outline , the Government ' s decision today will save £ 1 . 1 billion , and the replacement they be put in place will cost £ 3 billion . how do that make economic sense , and how do it help the case that she be make ? I give credit to the hon . Gentleman for his chutzpah in come to the House today to say that it be this Government who have denude pensioner of income . as my hon . friend the Member for Stoke - on - Trent Central ( Gareth Snell ) highlight , the previous Government have a track record in that area , and there be 880 , 000 pensioner who , on the hon . Gentleman ' s watch , deserve pension credit but do not get it . those pensioner have lose out on £ 3 , 900 a year , in some case for many year , because the last Government fall down on the job . they protect some pensioner , but not all . where be the urgency then ? these be crocodile tear when those people be suffer , but it be right that pensioner should get what they be entitle to , and pension credit be not be abolish by this Government . rather , it be be promote to make sure that the very poor pensioner get that income . one of the thing that be absolutely apparent be that we can not take this issue in isolation . we have a Budget come on 30 October , and know what I know a few month ago as Chair of the Public Accounts Committee and what I know today , I be not go to change my tune about the dire state of public finance . however , we face a second challenge : at the same time that our public finance be in that dire state , many of our citizen face the same challenge in their personal finance . this Labour Government be rightly commit to growth , but that will require an approach to taxation that help ensure growth . we will therefore hear many argument about the need for a taxation system that will underpin growth . I thank my honourable friend for give way . I call her " friend " because we have work together very closely over the past few year , and I welcome her election — I would have support she for that role . the difficulty be that the public be not buy it . the Government can not claim that they need to take this money from vulnerable pensioner — over 20 , 000 in my constituency will lose the support they be currently get — and then reward train driver who work four day a week on 70 grand a year . that be the difficulty , so how be my hon . friend explain that to her constituent ? I have not be able to give an answer . I could speak forever about the challenge that the last Government leave . I have speak about the NHS , but let we take the dire state of our train service . the previous Government refuse to engage and stop the strike , which mean that anybody travel have no certainty about whether they could get to everything from work to a family funeral . life be put in havoc , so it be absolutely right that we begin to set right the chaos that the last Government leave . yes , there be a cost to that , so the challenge for my right hon . friend the Member for Leeds West and Pudsey and this Government be how we address that , make decision that will build up the future of Britain in the way that we all want to see . we also need to address the issue of taxation . the big challenge in our taxation system be that those who face the great financial challenge often face the big challenge of all , because the great cliff edge in our taxation and benefit system affect not those who be start to earn and accumulate wealth , but those who be most financially challenge . for those at the margin , we keep come across example — this be not the only one — where the marginal cost of a slight improvement in income can drastically outweigh that improvement , whether that be tax threshold be freeze or the issue we have see with child benefit . there be many more example , and the debate we be have today be one of those . the solution be not to duck or defer the need for tough choice , so , for the record , I will be vote with the Government . equally for the record , though , I want this Government to commit to tackle those cliff edge , because that be what progressive policy — include taxation policy — look like . like many member of this House , I know from bitter experience that rush law tend to be bad law , so I do not expect some Houdini - like solution to be announce from the Front Bench by my right hon . friend the Member for Leicester West ( Liz Kendall ) in her closing speech . instead , I expect and trust that she will consider remove those chain of poverty as a key mission for this Government in a thoughtful , carefully plan way ; one that be tie up with the next Budget but go way beyond it . I also know , as will many member , that there be technical challenge in make change . look at what have happen with child benefit : the limit on income be drag many people into tax return , where household of the same income do or do not receive child benefit depend on who be earn the money . that be a lesson in why change need to be make in a sustainable way and accord to a plan . my right hon . friend on the Front Bench and her colleague have a plan , but the winter fuel allowance , which we be discuss now , be a prime example of the problem that those cliff edge create . address those problem in isolation , however , will leave in place all the other cliff edge ; we need to look at challenging poverty in the round . I be honour to be choose yesterday to be Chair of the Treasury Committee . I do not yet have Committee member — they be yet to be elect , as be the Chair of the Work and Pensions Committee — so I can not speak for a Committee that do not yet exist on a cross - party basis , but I will be urge the Committee to consider this wide challenge of cliff edge as a matter of urgency . I look forward to work with Ministers to find some practical step forward . we have to make tough choice as a Government in - year , because one of the challenge be that the hole in the public finance be not just about the hole today . in previous Budgets , decision be make to defer spending to later year , so the real challenge be now . too often I have see call for efficiency saving and cut in - year that end up be defer . if we look at what happen to the defence equipment plan under the Conservative Government in 2010 , we see that there be a desire to balance the book . in do so , the Ministry of Defence defer spending — move it to the right — which leave we with aircraft carrier without aircraft and a raft of other problem . defer decision and spending do not solve thing , and this Government and this Cabinet be make the tough choice to make those difficult decision in - year , because that be financially literate and the right thing to do . I call the Father of the House . if I can reach out to the Labour party for a moment , there be a case for have a serious debate about the total package that we give to pensioner . we could have do that in a sensible way — I have raise it myself , have question some aspect of the triple lock a couple of year ago . it be a very difficult debate , but I understand that the total package pay to pensioner as a proportion of gross national product must not keep increase every year , because that be the way ultimately to bankrupt the country . we need to have a social contract between old people like myself and young people , particularly when it come to house building . I understand all that . that be the debate we should have be have today , and we could have combine as a House to have that debate and protect the public finance . however , that be not the debate we be have . we be debate the action of a Government who have not just go against a manifesto commitment — there be no manifesto commitment to do this — but actually give a specific promise that they would not do it . this be surely a question of public trust . they give an absolute guarantee and I think that be why people be so upset . I know that some people will say , and here I declare an interest : why should somebody like I receive the winter fuel allowance ? all right , let we have a serious debate about that . but what about the people — these be the people I feel so strongly about — who have work hard all their life , have serve their country , receive a very small occupational pension , do not receive pension credit and be look after every penny , and suddenly , because they do not and can not receive pension credit because they have a very small occupational pension , their winter fuel allowance be take away ? that will make a real difference to they , so we really have to consider they , and have a serious debate about how we be go to protect those people . may I make one suggestion to the Government ? the hon . member for Hackney South and Shoreditch ( Dame Meg Hillier ) allude to the fact that there should have be a serious debate about tapering , or something similar . I will tell the House what this be all about . this be about a punishment beat . the New Labour Government decide they have to make their case that the public finance be in a dire state and that there be this — [ interruption . ] hang on — there be this £ 22 billion black hole . we spend £ 1 , 200 billion every year . the £ 22 billion so - call black hole be a mere accounting device . the Labour Government be try to make the political point that the conservative party run the country into the ground , so we have to punish the pensioner . it be absolute and complete rubbish . what those we represent can not understand — the people who work hard all of their life , who have do their bit for the country and whose total package be perhaps £ 13 , 000 or £ 14 , 000 a year — be that this so - call saving of public money be actually go to go to the train driver , who earn £ 70 , 000 a year . so for God ' s sake , let we have a serious debate , let we try to unite on this issue and let we not keep take away benefit from people just above the pension credit limit . of course , there be many pensioner who be entitle to pension credit who , for all sort of reason , will never claim it . they be suffer , so they will be even bad off . there be another point to be make . the Government will argue that the total package will be worth more after the increase in the triple lock next year , but actually a pensioner who draw their pension before 2016 , by the time they have have this cut , will probably be even bad off . the first cut in the state pension for year ! this be not acceptable . this be not the right way to go about thing . we should unite around a sensible package that reward pensioner for their hard work , but do not just indulge in a political gesture . I recognise the serious economic context of the debate today . the Institute for Fiscal Studies , for example , have estimate that 320 , 000 people be be push into poverty because of mortgage interest rate rise trigger by the disastrous autumn 2022 mini - Budget , and of course the then Prime Minister make many unfunded policy . I recognise that the policy measure in the King ' s Speech will go a long way to reduce household cost and increase income in the medium term , but those tackle the appalling poverty that we be see will not come in time for this winter . I be proud that Labour be continue with the triple lock on pension , something that will be worth an extra £ 460 , but that will not happen until next spring . the setting up of a new energy production company , great British Energy , alongside make home more efficient , be a fantastic initiative that will contribute to our net zero target and reduce energy bill for million , but again that will not be in time to offset the 10 % increase in energy bill this winter . I support our focus on grow our economy , but again that will not happen overnight . the Joseph Rowntree Foundation estimate in its report early this year that there be 2 million pensioner live in poverty — about one in six of all pensioner . in area such as my constituency , poverty rate be much high . we have one in two child live in poverty . from the figure , we estimate that will be the same for pensioner . we know that four in 10 old people in Oldham East and Saddleworth have a disability , and almost half have a long - term health condition . we also know that , even before the escalation of energy cost , over one in six household be live in fuel poverty . although pension credit provide extra financial support for the poor pensioner , and open up help such as housing benefit and council tax discount for those who be eligible for it , only 5 , 500 of the 9 , 000 household in Oldham be eligible to claim it . again , I welcome the automatic linking of pension credit to housing benefit to increase the uptake , but this again will not happen in time — in the next few month . will the hon . Lady give way ? I be not go to give way . I thank the right hon . member , but I can not because I be under strict guidance from the Deputy Speaker . one in three pensioner live in poverty be in the private rented sector , so what be we go to do about that ? even if everyone eligible for pension credit be claim it , accord to Age UK , there would still be another 2 million pensioner slightly less badly off who will not be eligible for pension credit and now the winter fuel payment . the cut - off threshold for pension credit be just under £ 12 , 000 a year for a single person . these be not wealthy pensioner . poverty be poverty whoever experience it , and we know that we have 8 million work people live in poverty , as well as 4 . 5 million disabled people , 4 million child and 2 million pensioner . as we do in previous Labour Administrations , I know we will tackle this , but again it will not happen overnight . could I point out what we know about the health effect of the cold ? the Lancet publish a very good paper reviewing datum from the last 20 year , and it show the extra death — the excess death — as a result of cold . I could mention dozen and dozen of case from my constituent who have write to I and who , again , be just cling on follow the last 14 year . be my right hon . friend the Secretary of State able to say not just what other option she may have consider for offset the loss of the £ 300 , but what alternative way there be of raise the £ 1 . 4 billion we will get from means - test the winter fuel payment ? I know how complex and difficult our economic situation be , but , please , we must protect our most vulnerable citizen . I call the liberal Democrat spokesperson . recent week have see my inbox inundate with correspondence from pensioner in North East Fife , because it get quite cold up there , who be deeply worried . I be sure — in fact , I know — that that be far from a unique experience across this House . since the Chancellor ' s announcement in late July , we have all hear the concern of our elderly constituent . we know that the winter fuel payment provide vital support during the cold month of the year . it be not a luxury , and the Chancellor ' s decision will leave as many as 2 million people extremely worried about how they will afford their energy bill this winter . we on the liberal Democrat Benches accept that the new Government have be leave with an unenviable task of rebuild our economy after the mess leave by the previous Government . no one be dispute that year of conservative mismanagement have leave the public finance in crisis , but this cut be simply wrong . it be wrong to strip support from many of the poor pensioner just as energy bill be set to rise again , it be wrong to force vulnerable elderly people to make that choice between heating and eat this winter and it be the wrong answer to the challenge we face . the way we treat the vulnerable member of our community reflect who we be as a society . what sort of signal do it send to be turn our back on million of pensioner ? in addition , I have campaign consistently for unpaid carer since my election , as have my party and our leader , my right hon . friend the Member for Kingston and Surbiton ( Ed Davey ) . census figure , with the proviso that scottish census datum be still await , suggest that almost 1 . 4 million people across the UK age over 65 be provide unpaid care . although Carers UK await datum on how many will lose the winter fuel allowance , we know that those carer , and those they care for , be some of the most vulnerable in our society . on the disproportionate effect on certain group , I be sure my hon . friend be aware that North Norfolk be home to 28 , 000 pensioner and have the title of be the old constituency in the country . many of they already face high energy cost due to the huge number of North Norfolk home that be off the gas grid . do she agree that these cut will have a disproportionate impact on old rural constituency such as North Norfolk , and that the Government must go back to the drawing board with these misguided proposal ? that be one thing often lose in relation to the energy price increase that we have see in recent year : the price cap and guarantee do not support those who be use other form of fuel . those issue have be raise in the House before and I look forward to hear what the Government be go to do to support those individual . a new Parliament represent an opportunity to move on from the chaos and misery of recent year , but this cut would be far from a fresh start . it would be a disappointing and shameful abandonment of poor and vulnerable pensioner . Age UK have strongly condemn the cut . it point out that it have be introduce with " virtually no notice and no compensatory measure " . I note from the debate this morning , when the Minister for Pensions be talk about compensatory measure , that there be real complexity around what will additionally be available to support people . we know the questionnaire that be need for pension credit . we know that the household support fund have be extend , but we do not know what that will mean . we know that the £ 150 grant may be available for some , but after listen to the debate this morning , we be leave in the position where the Government have make a decision to make the cut , but they have not properly think through the consequence or the measure that will be available to support those most in need . do the hon . Lady agree that in 2010 , when the coalition Government come in , we inherit a really serious economic crisis and a genuine black hole , and we have to make some very tough decision as a coalition Government , but we never consider — and never do — this ? obviously , difficult decision be make during the coalition . the Government be say today that one of the thing they be do be continue the triple lock . one reason why the Liberal Democrats support and bring that move in during the coalition Government , and one reason why we continue to support it , be that still not enough have be do to well support our vulnerable pensioner . I be sure the hon . Lady will acknowledge that Scotland have the cold climate in the whole United Kingdom . we will be disproportionately hit . it be absurd that that will happen in energy - rich Scotland . will she appeal to all Scottish Members to ensure their support tonight ? constituent right across Scotland will be watch carefully how Scottish Members of Parliament vote tonight , so will she encourage they to vote with we this evening ? we all know that geographical disparity exist . there be difference in how cold part of the country be . different community face differ energy cost and rate and have different mean of fuel . we will be support the official Opposition ' s motion tonight and I hope other mp across the House do so . Age UK have draw attention to low take - up rate for pension credit . around 1 million pensioner would be eligible for pension credit but do not claim it , often due to a lack of awareness . since the Chancellor ' s announcement , we have see lot from the Government about how they be go to increase the uptake . report do suggest an increase in application , but also that the wait time for that be increase . if people be apply for pension credit and get it confirm only after the date on which the winter fuel payment be make , will those people be catch up with ? an awareness drive be all well and good . the DWP have state that its calculation assume an increase in the uptake of pension credit . that will still leave more than 700 , 000 eligible pensioner not get pension credit , and therefore not get winter fuel payment . those of we in the last Parliament will remember numerous drop - in and " dear colleague " to outline the step that the then Government be take to encourage the uptake of pension credit , and what mps could do . I remember write regularly in my local newspaper column to outline how people could apply , but in reality the number of people take up pension credit be stubbornly stick at a ceiling of 70 % . I would be interested to know what the Government be go to do that will be radically different in order to increase that figure . the Government ' s rationale be that an estimate £ 1 . 4 billion will be save by mean - test the winter fuel payment , but have they make an assessment of what that saving would be if they fulfil that other stated aim of ensure that all those eligible for pension credit claim it ? be there not a fundamental contradiction at the heart of this measure ? how can the Government aim to boost pension credit on the one hand , while aim to maximise the fiscal saving they be make through this cut ? what will it cost to increase the take - up rate , and can the Secretary of State give an assurance that the Treasury will give its full support to any measure aim at boost the uptake of pension credit ? a separate but related issue be that of the cliff edge . analysis by policy in Practice show that around 130 , 000 elderly people miss out on pension credit , as they be just £ 500 over the income threshold to claim the benefit . we know that those vulnerable elderly people will now be cut off from winter fuel payment with just a few month ' notice . that leave I feel that there be cruelty at the heart of this cut . those vulnerable pensioner , who have spend year struggle under a conservative cost of living crisis , be now face with a double hit : an increase in the energy price cap from 1 October , alongside be strip of those winter fuel payment . it be important that we do not forget that energy cost be much increase from a few year ago , so arguably a winter fuel payment be need more than ever . this House have an opportunity today to do the right thing and protect those vulnerable member of our society . the Liberal Democrats will support the official Opposition motion and oppose the move to strip pensioner of that support . I hope other member will do the same . rise — order . member will have see that there be a lot of interest in this debate , so I will impose a clear three - minute time limit from now on . I be pleased to have the opportunity to speak in this debate on change to the winter fuel allowance . like many of my colleague , I have be contact by constituent who be worried about the impact of these change . I bring to this debate 25 year of experience of work in public health and with old people , latterly as chief executive of a national age charity . during that time I come to understand the impact of cold and damp home on the health and wellbeing of old people , and the challenge of address pensioner poverty . let we be clear with those pensioner up and down the country who will be lose their winter fuel payment about where ultimate responsibility for today ' s decision lie . it be not with my right hon . friend the Chancellor , but with the right hon . member for Godalming and Ash ( Jeremy Hunt ) and his party . it turn out that the Conservatives be pursue a scorch earth policy : the NHS run on empty ; the cost of housing asylum seeker spiral ; and hollow promise on capital project across the country , include in my constituency . I know that the Chancellor and her colleague have not take the decision to mean - test the winter fuel payment lightly ; hard choice have to be make to put the country ' s finance back in order . we know that many pensioner will miss out , and I worry that they will be leave in the cold . in my constituency 1 , 160 people be eligible for pension credit but not receive it . I speak to a resident in a sheltered housing scheme in Cottingley at the weekend . he do not know whether he be eligible , and be not sufficiently mobile to attend a local community centre . will the Secretary of State work with colleague in the Ministry of Housing , Communities and Local Government to urge housing association and local authority to support their resident to apply for pension credit and other benefit to which they may be entitle ? the other group who risk be leave in the cold this winter be those with disability or health condition , or those who live in cold and damp accommodation . cold home can cause and worsen respiratory condition , cardiovascular disease , poor mental health , dementia and hypothermia . in 2019 , the NHS spend at least £ 2 . 5 billion per year treat illness that be directly link to cold , damp and dangerous home . pensioner be more likely to be live in poorly insulate home , lead to a high risk of fuel poverty . I be worried about pensioner such as Barbara in my constituency — she be a full - time carer and her husband have dementia — have to spend more money because she and her husband be at home and he be ill . give the crisis that the NHS face , as a direct result of the 14 year of funding pressure and cut from the Conservatives , I urge colleague to work with colleague in the Department of Health and Social Care to ensure that winter planning guidance mean that the NHS tackle fuel poverty . who would have think that a Prime Minister not even in office for 10 week would be so out of touch with the public ? yet here we be , and yes this Prime Minister be so out of touch , along with the Chancellor and the whole of the Cabinet who be go along with and support this cruel policy . the Chancellor should be under no illusion : the public know that this decision to rob million of pensioner of their winter fuel allowance , for which the Government have no mandate , have nothing to do with economic and everything to do with cynical political calculation . the haste with which the change be be make be breathtaking . all benefit regulation be require by law to be consider by the independent Social Security Advisory Committee . that be generally do in advance of the legislation be lay . in this case , however , the Labour Government have opt for the urgency provision , which allow SSAC consideration to be retrospective . some say that be bypass SSAC scrutiny . as well as evade that scrutiny , where be the Government ' s impact assessment on remove winter fuel payment from these pensioner , particularly in the light of the late information that bill will be rise by £ 150 this year ? there be 18 , 900 people lose winter fuel payment in my constituency , and many of they be among the 800 , 000 people who be not eligible for pension credit , but be below the Government ' s own poverty line . what be they suppose to do ? well say . what be bad , that this Labour Government be so out of touch so early on in their government , the unnecessary haste that this change be be bring in with , the lack scrutiny of this policy , or labour ' s breathtake hypocrisy ? back in 2017 , when the conservative manifesto state that we would mean - test benefit , the Labour party ' s reaction be one of horror , say that this could not be do and publish research show that up to 4 , 000 pensioner ' life would be at risk and that pensioner would struggle to heat their home . the Conservatives do not do it . what be we see here ? we be see that a Labour party in office ditch its belief and its research . this government have be tell pensioner that they do not want to do this , but that tough financial decision must be make . we all know , however , that that be poppycock , as it be not the Government ' s message to the already highly pay train driver . when they meet they , money be no object . they say , " have as much as you want . " the public be not as stupid as this Government think they be . this be good old - fashioned pork barrel politic , take money away from the people who the Chancellor think do not vote Labour , such as pensioner , to hand to people who she think do vote Labour , such as train driver and public sector worker . million of pensioner , many struggle to make end meet , be be sacrifice in this political strategic game . by announce the scrapping of the forthcoming and long - await cap on care cost , as well as lay the ground to remove the council tax allowance for single people , Labour have basically declare war on pensioner , which will be neither forget nor forgive . our pensioner deserve well than this . it be time that Labour reverse this decision and restore the winter fuel allowance to all pensioner . in the interest of brevity , I associate myself with some of the remark make by my colleague on the Government Benches on the desperate financial legacy we have be leave and the nature of cliff edge within the benefit system . we should do well than have cliff edge in the future . let we remind ourselves that the subject of this debate be the Opposition motion not to means - test winter fuel payment . let we face it : that mean maintain payment to million of people , include some Opposition Members , who be happy to admit that they do not need it . give the dire legacy , the fragility of the economy and the immediate need for in - year saving , this be an emergency measure . with all the other call on public spending , I can not see how such payment be the good use of £ 1 billion or more . at the same time , I know that many of my constituent on state benefit , with small private pension , simply do not have the income to meet their everyday need . they fear not just the winter cold , but every bill . many have write to I with heartbreaking story of everyday struggle just to maintain the basic quality of life . we have hear some mitigation , and we will hear about more . let we remind ourselves that that include the fact that the poor pensioner will retain their winter fuel payment . let we remind ourselves that people just above the threshold can apply for household funding support through their council . my office in Rossendale and Darwen be already work hard with resident to make sure that everyone in need get the support they need . we have already help a number of pensioner to get the benefit they deserve and need . at the same time , we need to recognise that none of these step , include the winter fuel payment itself , address the fundamental issue of pensioner poverty . we have to ask how this country can be spend more than £ 150 billion a year on pensioner payment when million of Britons — people who have do the right thing all their life , work hard and pay in — be still live in deep poverty and unable to afford the most basic comfort . that be not something we should simply accept ; such deep pensioner poverty should be a national embarrassment . successive government have duck the issue . winter fuel payment be one example of the stick - plaster politic that have seek to kick the can down the road , respond to a problem but never fully address it . the benefit be poorly target , and for those who need it most , it be not nearly enough to make the difference . to truly address pensioner poverty , we need a fresh approach and to be willing to challenge the assumption of the past , with ambitious policy that target the cause of poverty , not just the symptom . home insulation and low energy price with GB Energy be just two example , but we can and must do so much more . we can only deliver real change with an economy that be fix and stabilise . that be what this Government be utterly commit to . today , hon . and right hon . member will make a choice : whether to take vital winter fuel payment from million of vulnerable pensioner , include 20 , 000 pensioner in my constituency . it be important , when member vote today , that they understand the consequence of their choice . it be important that they understand that when they take winter fuel payment away from vulnerable people , some elderly people will die . vulnerable elderly people on relatively low income will be unable to heat their home adequately , and as a direct result , because they be cold , they will die . why ? they will die because cold be bad for people . a number of report that member may read demonstrate that . when cold , people ' s platelet get high , they vasoconstrict and their blood pressure go up , put they at risk of stroke or heart attack . their lung become inflame , which put they at risk of pneumonia or chest infection . it make people with chronic pulmonary obstructive disease more likely to suffer exacerbation and ill health . study have show that physical performance and muscle strength — take cap off thing or walk about — be bad in people who be cold , particularly elderly people . that reduce their ability to complete the activity of daily live independently , and it make they more likely to fall . study have also show that elderly people who be cold in their home be more likely to need to get up at night to go to the toilet or to wake through the night . that again put they at more risk of fall and therefore hospitalisation . sleep disruption put they at risk from a whole range of different illness . we also know that as the home temperature fall far , the risk increase . it be a proportional dose - response relationship . the House do not need to take my word for it ; there be a lot of medical evidence to this end . the chief medical officer say in his annual report last year : " cold home and fuel poverty be directly link to excess winter death . " my hon . friend be make a powerful , emotive speech and quite rightly talk about some of the impact on pensioner . do she agree that those be exactly the impact that should be capture in an impact assessment and bring before the House so that we can make an informed decision and that my 25 , 000 constituent in Arundel and South Downs , who may face a loss if the motion be not agree to , be increasingly talk about the right hon . member for Leeds West and Pudsey ( Rachel Reeves ) as " Reckless Rachel " in proceed with this measure ? I thank my hon . friend for that intervention . he be absolutely right . why be there no impact assessment ? I have my suspicion , and my terrified constituent know why there be no impact assessment — it be because they know what the impact will be . I be sure , Madam Deputy Speaker , that your terrified constituent know what the impact of the policy will be . right hon . and hon . member all know , too . as right hon . and hon . member vote , they should be in no doubt that the Government ' s first job be to keep people safe , and they be go to fail miserably . it be a pleasure to follow the hon . member for Sleaford and North Hykeham ( Dr Johnson ) . we sit together on the Health and Social Care Committee and hear the evidence from Sir Chris Whitty . we know what Professor Sir Michael Marmot have be say for decade , and the public health evidence be clear . our inheritance be 2 . 1 million pensioner live in poverty ; we have to protect they every single day . they make the hard budgetary decision — hard than those make in the Treasury , where there be choice . they have no choice . they have to put a roof over their head , they have to pay for their food , and they have to pay for their heating . we know that those sum be not add up — we be get letter come in — and we look at the figure that our constituent have to look at every single day . they be scared , and they be tell we that . they will not switch the switch , because they know that if they do , they will have bill that they can not pay . we need to protect those very vulnerable people . I commend my right hon . friend the Secretary of State for drive forward the ambition to get 880 , 000 pensioner sign up to pension credit . I really hope that people will test the system . there be 243 question on the questionnaire , and then of course there be a nine - week wait for it to be process , but we must drive that forward . the last Government fail in that endeavour . we must also protect those that who do not apply . many may not for a reason ; we know that . they may have dementia , and the application be complex and stressful . perhaps there be pride involve as well . we be talk about man and woman who work hard all their life — they might have put a little bit aside or they might not — and ultimately we need to help they . then there be the million people who be above the threshold . they too need support , because they be fuel - poor and will struggle this winter . as the hon . member for Sleaford and North Hykeham say , the cold put great demand on a person ' s body . the body fight back but , sadly , as it do , people be at risk of heart attack , stroke and bad . of course , respiratory disease prey on the most frail and vulnerable . when we look at where those people will go , we see that they will be queue up at the gp and look to the NHS . sadly , many will not be with we . it be with my conscience that I can not vote for these measure , but I be determined to work with the Government to find mitigation , which be absolutely crucial . Age UK and many other charity be say that it be too late to find alternative ; they say delay . I say , let we delay . let we get this right — we can not afford not to . some 860 , 000 pensioner in Scotland be set to lose this benefit . the Prime Minister and the Chancellor have choose to cut the pensioner cost of live payment . they have choose to cut the winter fuel allowance . they have make the political choice to scrap those payment . the UK Labour Government be desperate to meet their self - impose fiscal target , but make no mistake : this be a political choice . they be try to meet those target by balance the book on the back of pensioner . who out there in the real world vote for that ? this be a key test for Anas Sarwar and Labour mps from Scotland . Anas Sarwar say : " read my lip : no austerity under Labour . " if that be what he believe , the platform he put to the people of Scotland and what Scottish Labour mp be vote in on , how can they possibly back the Government today ? who be the master of Scottish Labour mps ? be it the Prime Minister , be it the Labour party , or be it the people who elect they — the people who put they here — who will go cold this winter because of their government ' s decision ? this be not the change that people vote for . the UK Government be trail break promise behind they . they be refuse to scrap the two - child cap . they be refuse to allow pensioner the money to heat their home this winter . that be not what people in Scotland vote for , and they will be devastate if their Scottish Labour mps support the Government today . thank you , Madam Deputy Speaker , for the chance to speak in this important debate . I feel compel to do so because for nearly 20 year I be an active campaigner in the pensioner movement . I want to make it clear that the financial mess inherit by the Government be a result of 14 year of austerity and financial mismanagement , and I reject any suggestion that public sector worker be benefit at the expense of pensioner . that be well known to be a crude attempt to divide work people , and we should reject it as such . in the short time that I have , I want to make the case for universalism as the cornerstone of our welfare state . we know from the late figure that 880 , 000 old people be eligible for pension credit but do not claim it . mean - testing be suppose to target help at those who need it most , but those people do not claim it . for decade , successive government have talk about need to improve take - up , but even in the good year the take - up rate be 67 % . of course , some people do not claim it because they be unaware of what they be entitle to , but most be wary about have to answer more than 230 question about their circumstance , and many charity such as Citizens Advice in my constituency do not have the capacity to help people fill the form in because of cut to funding over the year of austerity . we should also recognise that there be still a stigma attach to have to declare that you be struggle , and concept around the deserve poor be as old as this building . I think that in the 21st century we would be hope for something well . the key question with any means - test - system be : where do we draw the line ? by its very nature , the big loser will be those just above the cut - off point . in my constituency , around 19 , 000 people will miss out . the UK have long - stand problem such as poor housing that be difficult to keep warm , one of the low pension in Europe , rise energy cost , and annual cold - relate winter death among old people — I could go on , but I be run out of time . I urge the Government to think seriously about delay this proposal and , in its place , put forward a pensioner taskforce to look at how we can tackle pensioner poverty in the UK . I stand to speak on behalf of my 18 , 500 pensioner who will be affect by this measure . before I do so , I commend the hon . member for York Central ( Rachael Maskell ) on a really impassione speech . I know it be not easy to stand against one ' s own party , but today ' s decision be a choice between right and wrong . member be defend the choice by the Government and the Chancellor to make this decision on the back of pensioner , who have the sheer brass neck to go out and defend it , allege a black hole when they have pay billion to union without any saving in return . there be GB Energy — a shell company for £ 8 billion — and climate promise of more than £ 11 billion , and then they say that there be no money and they be go to get £ 1 . 1 billion on the back of pensioner . will the hon . member give way ? I will not , because I be sure the hon . Lady can participate later . the Government might be fool themselves , but they be not fool the british public or my pensioner . if they want to do the right thing , they should follow the example of the hon . member for York Central . if there be issue , I be sure that even the opposition will look into they in depth and we will do the right thing , but the Government be use our pensioner as some sort of political tool to make an ideological point . the Chancellor stand up and find this alleged black hole to try to justify that . it be a horrible situation — rise — I will not give way , as I will make some progress in the limited time I have . many Opposition Members be absolutely enraged that this be happen . the Labour party talk about transparency , yet there have be no full impact assessment of the measure . where be it ? if the Government have nothing to be afraid of , where be the impact assessment ? why do they not wait until the Budget — the big fiscal moment ? rise — I have already say that I will not give way . there could have be adequate scrutiny so that the House could analyse it and see the impact . some 4 , 000 people be at risk of death — that be not my number ; that be what the Labour party say in 2017 . that be what Labour member be vote for if they allow this measure to pass . they must do the right thing , and not use our pensioner as a political weapon for their own ideology . this be a horrible situation to put they in . the anxiety that member be cause be outrageous . the Government really must step up their game if they be to convince the british public that this be the right thing to do . when an issue such as this have be so heavily whip , it be very difficult . I have not the eloquence to persuade people to vote another way , to be honest . I just want to make this as a personal statement , so that my constituent know why I be vote the way that I will today . I agree with the Government on so many point on this issue . first , this be the most toxic inheritance that any Government have ever have . I do a report last September that say that between 2010 and now we have lose £ 80 billion , not £ 20 billion . on the £ 20 billion black hole , we sit here and listen to a Government make commitment that they know they would never have to fulfil , because they know they be go out of power . I agree with the Prime Minister and the Chancellor of the Exchequer that we must ensure financial stability and that our income match our expenditure . I agree with the Prime Minister on the principle , and always have , that any burden should be place on those with the broad shoulder . this be where I disagree : the heavy burden be not be place on those with the broad shoulder but on some of the poor . large number of my constituent do not claim pension credit , and I will be out there like everyone else try to persuade they to apply , but a lot of my voluntary organisation have be savage by a Tory council . we do not even have the advice mechanism leave . I think that , at well , we can get to 70 % or maybe 75 % , but one in four will not be able to claim that benefit . I have large number of people who , for example , work at the airport and get a little pension at the end , and they will be tip into not qualify . they be live in accommodation that those on the Opposition Benches provide , which be squalor , to be frank — they be live in not insulate , freeze accommodation . they be the one at risk , as the hon . member for Sleaford and North Hykeham ( Dr Johnson ) say , of go to hospital and not even survive . we be in an unnecessary position , because there be so much else we could do . we do not need to put the burden on the poor . we need to make sure that those who can afford it pay . that mean redistributive tax measure , equalise capital gain tax , tackle the corporate tax relief issue that we must confront , and make sure that the City pay its way in financial transaction . we do not have to be here . I hope that people learn the lesson as we move towards this Budget not to put we on this position again , where we take a decision base on , I believe , misjudgment . it certainly fly against everything I believe in as a Labour MP about tackle inequality and poverty in our society . I be not elect to impoverish my constituent and put they in this hardship . I regret vote for a motion put forward by these character in the opposition , but I will have to because there be no other mechanism . I want to look at my people back in Hayes in the face and say that I do the right thing . this have be a really important debate about a serious issue , with many heartfelt contribution . my hon . friend the Member for Hackney South and Shoreditch ( Dame Meg Hillier ) , the new Chair of the Treasury Committee , forensically set out the delayed and defer decision by the former Government that have put such pressure on the public finance . my hon . friend the Member for Oldham East and Saddleworth ( Debbie Abrahams ) rightly speak about pensioner , child and disabled people in poverty , and the need to do much more to support they . the hon . member for North East Fife ( Wendy Chamberlain ) talk about the crucial issue of pension credit uptake and what we will do differently . I will say more about that later , but I reassure she that the Treasury be fully behind the action that we be take . my hon . friend the Member for Shipley ( Anna Dixon ) , who have huge experience in health and social care , talk about the need to work with those in support accommodation , housing association and the NHS to ensure that pensioner get the help that they be entitle to . I will spell out some of that action . my hon . friend the Member for Rossendale and Darwen ( Andy MacNae ) make a strong case for target help to the poor pensioner and the need to tackle the root cause of poverty , include insulate home and bring down energy cost . my hon . friend the Member for Poole ( Neil Duncan - Jordan ) mention , among many thing , the very long and complicated pension credit form , which I have ask the Department to reduce to make it as simple as possible . I would like to start by set out why we have take the difficult decision to mean - test winter fuel payment so that they be no long available to all pensioner whatever their income , but be focus on those in the great need . put simply , it be because we must fix the foundation of our economy as the first step to rebuild Britain and make the change that our country desperately need , and because when money be tight , our priority must be to target resource at those who need they the most . opposition member do not want to be remind of their record and the state they leave the country in , but their economic failure and reckless decision leave a £ 22 billion hole in the public finance this year , with a £ 6 . 4 billion overspend on the asylum system , a £ 2 . 9 billion overspend on the transport budget , and new road , hospital and train station announce but not budget for . there be one unfunded commitment after another , and the reserve be spend three time over — spending like there be no tomorrow , with no thought for the consequence today . that be before we even begin to deal with the challenge we already know about : NHS waiting list at 7 . 6 million , more than 1 million wait for a council home , a totally break prison system and more than 4 million child grow up poor . opposition member want to deny that be the case , but the Office for Budget Responsibility be crystal clear : it be make aware of the true extent of the pressure on the public finance only after we be elect — pressure it say constitute one of the large overspends outside the pandemic . face with that reality and the need to get the public finance on track this year , we take the difficult decision to focus winter fuel payment on those in great need . I be grateful to the Secretary of State for give way . pension credit uptake be clearly critically important . from discussion I have have in my constituency , I know there be some myth around pension credit eligibility . will the Secretary of State please confirm the effort she be make on pension credit uptake , and do she agree with I that it be vital we ensure everyone who be eligible for pension credit receive it ? my hon . friend be absolutely right . I would make that point in response to the faux outrage of Conservative Members , who leave 880 , 000 pensioner , the very poor , not get the pension credit they be entitle to . I urge all hon . member to work with we that their local council to ensure pensioner get the money to which they be entitle . as my right hon . friend the Chancellor and the Prime Minister have say , this be not a decision we want or expect to make , but when we promise we would be responsible with taxpayer ' money we mean it , because we know what happen when Conservative member play fast and loose with the public finance : work people and pensioner on fix income pay the price with soar interest rate , mortgage and inflation . rise — I will give way to the former Chair of the Treasury Committee . I thank the Secretary of State . will she confirm from the Dispatch Box that if every pensioner who be eligible for pension credit take it up , the cost to the Exchequer will actually be substantially more than the saving from axe the winter fuel payment ? be that the reason why Conservative Members never take the action need to increase pension credit uptake ? we take a different approach . all the saving the Chancellor have announce take into account the increase uptake that we want and intend to achieve . when money be so tight , it can not be right that all pensioner , include some of the wealthy pensioner , receive a payment worth £ 200 to £ 300 a year regardless of their income . I thank the right hon . Lady for give way and allow I the opportunity , at this late stage of the debate , to speak on behalf of the people of Northern Ireland . not in our name , Secretary of State . this be a political choice , irrespective of the debate back and forth between the Labour Government and the Conservative Opposition . it be not for we , it be not right and this measure be a measure of shame . I know the right hon . Gentleman will care about the increase in uptake in pension credit that we need , and that he will also care about those just above the threshold , which I will turn to later on . that be a really important issue and I will address it head on , but first I want to spell out the principle underlie the approach we have take , which be the most help go to those who need it most and significant support for all pensioner through the pension triple lock , back by extra help available for those on low income . pension credit go to 1 . 4 million of the poor pensioner and be worth on average £ 3 , 900 a year . will the Secretary of State give way ? I will not . but the truth we have to confront come into office be that up to 880 , 000 of the very poor pensioner be not even claim the pension credit that they be entitle to . that be a national scandal , and we be determined to make that change . the previous Government do nothing to tackle this issue properly . indeed , in 2012 they promise to merge housing benefit and pension credit , which we know would significantly increase uptake , yet when I arrive in the Department I learn it would not happen until 2028 — a decision that be take on their watch . that be completely unacceptable and , unlike the Conservatives , we will change it . I thank the Secretary of State for give way and welcome the increase measure to target the 880 , 000 who , because of the action of Conservative Members when they be in government for 14 year , have not receive pensioner credit . there be people who have legitimate concern about the low level of the threshold — hard - work people who have tiny pension pot . what mitigate measure will the Secretary of State put in place ? I will come on to extra help for those just above the threshold in a moment , but I want to spell out what we be do on pension credit . we have do more to increase pension credit uptake in the last two month than Conservative Members do in 14 year . we have write to all local authority to ask they to identify eligible pensioner , include by share datum . we be join force with Age UK and Citizens Advice to ensure pensioner check and apply . we launch a major awareness campaign , to continue right up to the deadline to apply on 21 December — and yes , pension credit will be backdate by three month — back by 450 extra staff to ensure claim be process as quickly as possible . the Deputy Prime Minister , my right hon . friend the Member for Ashton - under - Lyne ( Angela Rayner ) , be work with housing association and support accommodation provider so that their resident know what they be entitle to . I be work with the Secretary of State for Health and Social Care , my right hon . friend the Member for Ilford North ( Wes Streeting ) , to ensure that frontline NHS staff can signpost old patient who may be housebound because of disability and chronic condition . for the very first time , we be write to all pensioner on housing benefit who be potentially eligible to encourage they to claim , something the Conservatives never do . in the long term , because the only way to guarantee uptake be to make the whole process more automated , we will bring forward the merger of housing benefit and pension credit , which Conservative Members never do . that be the extra help for the poor that we be determined to deliver , but it be build on a bedrock of support for all pensioner through our commitment to the pension triple lock , which have see the new state pension increase by £ 900 this year and £ 970 the year before . our continued commitment to the triple lock mean that the new state pension be forecast to increase by a furth £ 1 , 700 over the course of this Parliament , include , if today ' s Office for National Statistics figure be confirm next month , an extra £ 460 from next April . when Gordon Brown introduce pension credit and lift 1 million pensioner out of poverty , in the tooth of the opposition of the conservative party — let we remind they Conservative Members oppose pension credit — he also introduce saving credit . saving credit be specifically target at pensioner who save for old age with a small saving pot and a second pension . what happen in 2016 ? the conservative party scrap it . do my right hon . friend not agree with I that we should not listen to the crocodile tear of those in the conservative party ? I could not have put it well myself : there be faux outrage from Conservative Members about those just above the pension credit threshold , when it be their former Tory Chancellor , George Osborne , who take a red pen to it , mean its value decrease , create some of the problem we be now have to deal with . there be much more we be do to help low - income pensioner , include those just above pension credit : the £ 150 warm home discount ; the household support fund , which we have just extend , with £ 500 million of additional funding that council can use to help low - income pensioner ; our warm home plan to tackle the root cause of fuel poverty ; and the fact that , because the only way to really control energy bill be through cheap home - grow energy , we have already legislate for Great British Energy . that be the difference a Labour Government make : fix the foundation , take the long - term decision our country need , prioritise help for those who need it most , help all pensioner with the pension triple lock , and provide more help for low - income pensioner too . we will not shy away from our responsibility , as member now on the Opposition Benches do . we be elect on a platform to deliver economic stability , rebuild the country and make the change that our country need ; make it well and give it its future back . pensioner deserve well than the faux outrage of Opposition Members . question put . Shockat Adam Jim Allister Gideon Amos Lee Anderson Stuart Anderson Stuart Andrew Steffan Aquarone Edward Argar Victoria Atkins Josh Babarinde Gareth Bacon Kemi Badenoch Harriett Baldwin Steve Barclay Peter Bedford Apsana Begum Alison Bennett Si â n Berry Saqib Bhatti Bob Blackman Kirsty Blackman Sarah Bool Andrew Bowie Karen Bradley Aphra Brandreth Suella Braverman Alex Brewer Jessica Brown - Fuller Richard Burgon Ian Byrne Gregory Campbell Charlotte Cane Alistair Carmichael James Cartlidge David Chadwick Wendy Chamberlain Danny Chambers Christopher Chope Ellie chown James Cleverly Geoffrey Clifton - Brown Lewis Cocking Chris Coghlan Victoria Collins Daisy Cooper John Cooper Jeremy Corbyn Alberto Costa Claire Coutinho Harriet Cross Adam Dance Steve Darling Edward Davey Ann davy Gareth davy Mims davy David Davis Bobby Dean Carla Denyer Charlie Dewhirst Lee Dillon Caroline Dinenage Dave Doogan Oliver Dowden Iain Duncan Smith Sarah Dyke Colum Eastwood Sorcha Eastwood Luke Evans Nigel Farage Tim Farron Stephen Flynn Richard Foord will Forster Peter Fortune Ashley Fox Mark Francois Z ö e Franklin George Freeman Richard Fuller Roger Gale Mark Garnier Andrew George Stephen Gethins Sarah Gibson Rachel Gilmour John Glen Olly Glover Marie Goldman Tom Gordon Helen Grant Sarah Green Andrew Griffith Alison Griffiths Claire Hanna Monica Harding John Hayes Pippa Heylings Damian Hinds Simon Hoare Wera Hobhouse Richard Holden Kevin Hollinrake Paul Holmes Nigel Huddleston Neil Hudson Jeremy Hunt Adnan Hussain Christine Jardine Liz Jarvis Bernard Jenkin Robert Jenrick Dr Caroline Johnson Clive Jones Lincoln Jopp Alicia Kearns Ayoub Khan Paul Kohler Danny Kruger Ben Lake Katie Lam John Lamont Chris Law Graham Leadbitter Edward Leigh Julian Lewis Carla Lockhart Seamus Logan Julia Lopez Rupert Lowe James MacCleary Angus MacDonald Ben Maguire Helen Maguire Alan Mak Kit Malthouse Mike Martin Brian Mathew Jerome Mayhew Charlie Maynard John Martin McDonnell James McMurdock Esther McVey Llinos Medi Freddie Van Mierlo Calum Miller John Milne Andrew Mitchell Iqbal Mohamed Gagan Mohindra Robbie Moore Layla Moran Edward Morello Helen Morgan Tom Morrison Joy Morrissey Wendy Morton Kieran Mullan David Mundell Tessa Munt Susan Murray Andrew Murrison Jesse Norman Ben Obese - Jecty Neil o ' Brien Brendan O ' Hara Sarah Olney Priti Patel Rebecca Paul Manuela Perteghella Chris Philp Al Pinkerton Shivani Raja Adrian Ramsay Jack Rankin David Reed Joshua Reynolds Joe Robertson Gavin Robinson Ian Roome Anna Sabine Roz Savage Liz Saville - Roberts Jim Shannon Neil Shastri - Hurst Alec Shelbrooke David Simmonds Vikki Slade Lisa Smart Greg Smith Julian Smith Rebecca Smith Andrew Snowden Ian Sollom Ben Spencer Patrick Spencer Gregory Stafford Blake Stephenson Jamie Stone Mel Stride Graham Stuart Zarah Sultana Rishi Sunak Robin Swann Desmond Swayne Luke Taylor Bradley Thomas Cameron Thomas Richard Tice Nick Timothy Jon Trickett Laura Trott Thomas Tugendhat Matt Vickers Caroline Voaden Helen Whately John Whittingdale James Wild Max Wilkinson Gavin Williamson Munira Wilson Sammy Wilson Pete Wishart Mike Wood Jeremy Wright Martin Wrigley Claire Young Rebecca Harris Louie French Jack Abbott Debbie Abrahams Zubir Ahmed Luke Akehurst Bayo Alaba Dan Aldridge Douglas Alexander Heidi Alexander Sadik Al - Hassan Rushanara Ali Mike Amesbury Callum Anderson Scott Arthur Jessica Asato James Asser Jas Athwal Catherine Atkinson Lewis Atkinson Calvin Bailey Olivia Bailey David Baines Alex Baker Richard Baker Alex Ballinger Antonia Bance Lee Barron Alex Barros - Curtis Johanna Baxter Danny Beales Torsten Bell Clive Betts Polly Billington Olivia Blake Rachel Blake Christopher Bloore Kevin Bonavia Jade Botterill Sureena Brackenridge Jonathan Brash Chris Bryant Maureen Burke David Burton - Sampson Liam Byrne Ruth Cadbury Nesil Caliskan Alan Campbell Irene Campbell Juliet Campbell Markus Campbell - Savours Dan Carden Sam Carling Alistair carn Sarah Champion Bambos Charalambous Luke Charters Feryal Clark Ben Coleman Jacob Collier Lizzi Collinge Tom Collins Liam Conlon Sarah coombe Andrew Cooper Yvette Cooper Deirdre Costigan Pam Cox Neil Coyle Jennifer Craft Mary Creagh Stella Creasy Torcuil Crichton Chris Curtis Janet Daby Nicholas Dakin Ashley Dalton Emily Darlington Jonathan Davies Paul Davies Shaun Davies Alex Davies - Jones Josh Dean Kate Dearden Tan Dhesi Jim Dickson Anna Dixon Samantha Dixon Anneliese Dodds Helena Dollimore Peter Dowd Graeme Downie Angela Eagle Lauren Edwards Damien Egan Maya Ellis Chris Elmore Kirith Entwistle Florence Eshalomi Bill Esterson Chris Evans Miatta Fahnbulleh Hamish Falconer Linsey Farnsworth Josh Fenton - Glynn Mark Ferguson Patricia Ferguson Natalie Fleet Emma Foody Catherine Fookes Paul Foster Vicky Foxcroft Daniel Francis James Frith Barry Gardiner Allison Gardner Anna Gelderd Alan Gemmell Gill german Tracy Gilbert Preet Kaur Gill Becky Gittins Mary Glindon Ben Goldsborough Jodie Gosling Georgia Gould John Grady Lilian Greenwood Nia Griffith Andrew Gwynne Amanda Hack Louise Haigh Sarah Hall Fabian Hamilton Emma Hardy Carolyn Harris Lloyd Hatton Helen Hayes Tom Hayes Claire Hazelgrove John Healey Mark Hendrick Meg Hillier Chris Hinchliff Jonathan Hinder Rachel Hopkins Claire Hughes Alison Hume rupa Huq Patrick Hurley Natasha Irons Sally Jameson Dan Jarvis Terry Jermy Adam Jogee Darren Jones Gerald Jones Lillian Jones Louise Jones Ruth Jones Sarah Jones Gurinder Josan Sojan Joseph Warinder Juss Chris Kane Mike Kane Satvir Kaur Liz Kendall Afzal Khan Stephen Kinnock Jayne Kirkham Gen Kitchen Sonia Kumar Uma Kumaran Peter Kyle Laura Kyrke - Smith Peter Lamb David Lammy Noah Law Kim Leadbeater Brian Leishman Andrew Lewin Simon Lightwood Josh MacAlister Alice Macdonald Andy MacNae Justin Madders Shabana Mahmood Seema Malhotra Keir Mather Alex Mayer Douglas McAllister Kerry McCarthy Martin McCluskey Siobhain McDonagh Chris McDonald Blair McDougall Lola McEvoy Pat McFadden Alison McGovern Alex McIntyre Gordon McKee Kevin McKenna Catherine McKinnell Jim McMahon Frank McNally Kirsty McNeill Anneliese Midgley Ed Miliband Julie Minns Navendu Mishra Abtisam Mohamed Perran Moon Jessica Morden Stephen Morgan Joe Morris Margaret Mullane Luke Murphy Chris Murray Ian Murray James Murray Katrina Murray Luke Myer James Naish Connor Naismith Lisa Nandy Kanishka Narayan Pamela Nash Josh Newbury Samantha Niblett Charlotte Nichols Alex Norris Dan Norris Melanie Onn Chi Onwurah Simon Opher Abena Oppong - Asare Tristan Osborne Taiwo Owatemi Sarah Owen Darren Paffey Andrew Pakes Matthew Patrick Michael Payne Stephanie Peacock Jonathan Pearce Matthew Pennycook Toby Perkins Jess Phillips Bridget Phillipson David Pinto - Duschinsky Lee Pitcher Jo Platt Luke Pollard Joe Powell Lucy Powell Gregor Poynton Peter Prinsley Richard Quigley Yasmin Qureshi Steve Race Connor Rand Andrew Ranger Angela Rayner Mike Reader Steve Reed Ellie Reeves Rachel Reeves Joani Reid Emma Reynolds Jonathan Reynolds Martin Rhodes Jake Richards Lucy Rigby Dave Robertson Tim Roca Matt Rodda Sam Rushworth Sarah Russell Tom Rutland Oliver Ryan Sarah Sackman Jeevun Sandher Michelle Scrogham Mark Sewards Baggy Shanker Michael Shanks Tulip Siddiq Josh Simons Andrew Slaughter John Slinger David Smith Jeff Smith Nick Smith Karin Smyth Gareth Snell Alex Sobel Keir Starmer Jo Stevens Elaine Stewart will Stone Alistair Strathern Wes Streeting Alan Strickland Graham Stringer Kirsteen Sullivan Lauren Sullivan Peter Swallow Mark Tami Mike Tapp Alison Taylor David Taylor Rachel Taylor Fred Thomas Gareth Thomas Adam Thompson Emily Thornberry Marie Tidball Stephen Timms Jessica Toale Dan Tomlinson Henry Tufnell Anna Turley Matt Turmaine Karl Turner Laurence Turner Derek Twigg Liz Twist Harpreet Uppal Tony Vaughan Valerie Vaz Christopher Vince Imogen Walker Chris Ward Melanie Ward Paul Waugh Michelle Welsh Catherine West Andrew Western Matt Western Michael Wheeler John Whitby Jo White Katie White David Williams Steve Witherden Sean Woodcock Rosie Wrighting Yuan Yang Steve Yemm Christian Wakeford Anna McMorrin the House divide : Ayes 228 , Noes 348 . question accordingly negative . business of the House ( today ) order , that , at this day ' s sit , notwithstanding subparagraph ( 2 ) ( c ) ( i ) and ( ii ) of Standing Order no . 14 ( arrangement of public business ) , the business in the name of the Leader of the opposition relate to Winter Fuel Payment may be enter upon at any hour and may be proceed with , though oppose , for three hour ; proceeding shall then lapse if not previously dispose of ; and Standing Order No . 41a ( defer division ) shall not apply . — ( Lucy Powell . ) opposition Day - [ 1st Allotted Day , First Part ] opposition Day Winter Fuel Payment 3 . 16 pm I beg to move , that this House regret that the Government approve the use of the urgency exemption in section 173 of the Social Security Administration Act 1992 to make and lay the Social Fund Winter Fuel Payment Regulations 2024 before the Secretary of State have refer the Regulations to the Social Security Advisory Committee ; far regret that the Government decide it be not necessary to publish an impact assessment for the Regulations , despite , for example , the evidence which show that live in a cold home increase the risk of serious illness for vulnerable people and those with disability and so restrict eligibility for the Winter Fuel Payment be likely to lead to increase burden on the National Health Service ; regret that the Government make time to debate the prayer motion from the Official Opposition without the Social Security Advisory Committee ' s Report , and government response ; and call on the Government to lay those paper before Parliament without delay , and to publish a full regulatory and equality impact assessment for these Regulations . the decision to remove winter fuel payment have come as a complete shock to million of pensioner — pensioner on as little as £ 11 , 500 a year . we have have no adequate explanation as to why this measure be so urgent . we have have no explanation as to why the Government have to invoke the special emergency provision that allow they to bypass the scrutiny of the Social Security Advisory Committee . we have have no explanation as to why no impact assessment be provide . this be a major policy change that will remove the entitlement for up to 10 million pensioner , include many who be already in poverty . it be a cut worth £ 7 . 5 billion over the course of this Parliament . rush such a policy through — without take time to consider the impact , ensure effective and fair implementation , and allow possible scrutiny — be impossible to justify . this be not the way to make good policy , and this be not good government . it be worth consider the conclusion of one of the few body that have be afford the opportunity to scrutinise these regulation . the Secondary Legislation Scrutiny Committee in the Lords have be damn in its criticism of the Government ' s approach , and I refer the House to my remark in the previous debate , when I quote the Committee at some length . as the Committee point out , such measure would normally be subject to the SSAC ' s consideration . that be an important part of the process for any legislation of this nature , as I know well from my time as Work and Pensions Secretary . conveniently , Ministers have claim that the measure be too urgent to wait for the SSAC ' s scrutiny . we understand that the SSAC be due to consider the measure tomorrow . can the Minister commit to the House today that the SSAC ' s report , and the Government statement respond to any recommendation , will be lay before Parliament before the regulation come into force next week ? as the Lords Committee have point out , it would seem wholly inappropriate for the SSAC ' s view to be take into account only once the regulation be already in force . in the word of the Committee , " it remain unclear what the practical impact of any statement might be on regulation which will have already come into effect . " if the government do not intend to provide we with the SSAC ' s observation before the House rise on Thursday , why be member ask to consider and vote on the prayer motion against the regulation today , before the SSAC have meet ? the lack of any impact assessment mean that we be severely hamper in our ability to scrutinise this measure . we be tell in the explanatory memorandum that : " a full Impact Assessment have not be prepare for this instrument because there be no significant new impact on business , charity or voluntary body . " this seem a bold claim to make about a measure that remove hundred of pound of support from some of the most vulnerable elderly household in our country . the guidance from the National Institute for Health and Care Excellence be clear : " for a vulnerable person , live in a cold home increase their chance of serious illness or death . " it also note that " be housebound increase both the exposure to an underheated home and the cost of heat it . " so can I ask the Minister on what basis it be conclude that there would be no significant impact from this policy on those charity and organisation that support elderly people or on the wide health and social care system ? will he now commit to the publication of a proper impact assessment ? the only basis for the urgency seem to be a claim that this measure be vital for public finance . we have even be subject to the Leader of the House claim that it be need to avoid a run on the pound . I might ask the Minister to comment on that when he appear at the Dispatch Box . the only real relevance of a measure of this kind to the public finance be its impact on the Government ' s fiscal rule . those fiscal rule be base on level of debt and borrowing at the end of the Office for Budget Responsibility ' s fiscal forecast period in five year ' time . the rule that the Chancellor have claim she will sign up to be already be meet when the Government come into office , accord to the OBR ' s own forecast . the Government could have opt to bring this measure in next year , with great time for scrutiny , well notice for pensioner , more time to drive up pension credit uptake and perhaps time to consider whether there be much well way of go about it . it would still have be a broken promise , and we on this side of the House would still have oppose it , but it would have be a much well way to make policy and it would still have deliver exactly the same saving at the end of the forecast period . minister will claim that they need to make immediate in - year saving , but that be base entirely on a black hole that they have confect themselves . the real reason this be be rush be pure politic . the Government want to rush this measure through while they can try to blame it on their predecessor in order to avoid proper scrutiny . there be no need whatsoever for the haste with which this be be do . do my right hon . friend , like I , find it inexplicable that the Government should fail to go through the proper process when their own research suggest that thousand of people could die as a result of precisely this measure ? that be something that the whole House should find deeply uncomfortable . my right hon . friend make a powerful point . this be a very serious step that the Government be take . of all the step that should be properly scrutinise , surely this be one of they . I remember when I be sit on the other side of the Chamber , I could barely breathe without the cry go out that an impact assessment should be hold . it be extraordinary that on such an important measure as this , affect million of the most vulnerable , the Labour party should be utterly silent on this issue . old people die in cold home , and they die particularly if they be very old . do my right hon . friend think that if the Government be not minded to change their mind entirely , they might look at those age over 80 ? those people be in receipt of the high rate of winter fuel payment , and paragraph 3 of the regulation point out that there be a difference between those over 80 and those under 80 . that might be one way that the Government could make this slightly less bad than it otherwise be . I thank my right hon . friend for his intervention . it have be suggest that the Government be examine way of ameliorate some of the harsh effect of this policy , and that might be one of the thing they consider . on that particular point , we can not escape the fact that , whatever age people be , over two third of those who be currently pensioner below the poverty line will lose their winter fuel payment under the current arrangement . I have the honour to represent the most remote , the most sparsely populated and the cold constituency . the Secretary of State , in respond to my hon . friend the Member for North East Fife ( Wendy Chamberlain ) , say early that the Government would try to maximise the take - up of pension credit , and I accept that , but would they accept that sheer remoteness and sheer distance can militate against people take up this offer ? I ask the Government , via the right hon . Gentleman , to please look at this issue , because it mean an awful lot to my constituent . I be sure that those on the Government Front Bench will have hear the hon . Gentleman ' s intervention . the reality be that the Government want to rush this through so that they can blame it on their predecessor and avoid proper scrutiny . there be no need whatsoever for the haste with which this be be do , other than to meet the political end of the Labour party . they be rip the plaster off and hope that the country will have forget by the time of the next general election . that be at the heart of it , but we will not forget . we would not have be give the opportunity to debate and vote on this measure without significant pressure from the opposition and the wide public . this be nothing to do with fiscal responsibility and everything to do with political expediency — no scrutiny , no impact assessment , no notice . this be an appalling way to govern . this be a serious topic and we know from the debate early this afternoon that it be one on which member across this House and people across this country have strong feeling . we understand that . this be a difficult decision to have to take . by mean - test winter fuel payment , we know that we will be end future payment to most pensioner while maintain our steadfast commitment to protect those in great need . but although they do not like to be remind of it , Conservative Members know exactly why we need to take this step . because it be Conservative Members — and , indeed , former member of this House who have now be vote out by the british public — who do such damage to our country ' s economy and the public finance . the legacy of the last — on a point of order , Madam Deputy Speaker . this be the second Government Minister we have hear from the Dispatch Box today , yet only moment ago we see the Chancellor sit on the Front Bench . it be the Chancellor who choose to spend billion on set up great british Energy . it be the Chancellor who choose to spend billion give pay rise to their union paymaster . it be the Chancellor — Order . I thank the hon . Lady , but she will be aware that that be not a point of order ; it be more of a speech that she be seek to make . perhaps she will find an opportunity to contribute in the debate . thank you , Madam Deputy Speaker . the hon . member who just intervene , and indeed everyone on that side of the House , might like to reflect on what the legacy of the last government truly be . it be one of irresponsible overspending , of uncosted commitment after uncosted commitment , and of Ministers run away from take difficult decision . as a direct consequence , when we come to power we be face with a £ 22 billion black hole in the public finance for this year alone . I be genuinely grateful to the Minister for give way . he be a Minister at the Treasury , so I be hope he will be able to outline some of the fact and answer my question . he will outline today that the saving make by cut the winter fuel payment be £ 1 . 1 billion . if everybody accept the means - testing that he be propose , it would cost £ 3 . 3 billion , so can he outline to the House , despite the bluster that he have just make about save money for the great british people , how it will save money when it will cost more under his proposal ? I thank the hon . gentleman for his intervention . the announce saving include an assumption of an increase take - up of pension credit , which be in line with the high level ever achieve . frankly , if more people be take up pension credit when they be eligible for it , we should welcome it because it mean that support be be target at those in great need . rise — I be go to make some progress . the Opposition do not like to be remind of their legacy when they be in government , but let we have a look , shall we ? what do they have to show for their year of reckless overspending ? a fail asylum system , prison at break point , more than 1 million people wait for council home , 4 million child grow up in poverty , and more than 7 . 5 million people on NHS waiting list . this Government and every member of this House who stand on my party ' s manifesto be elect to turn thing around . yesterday , in the other place , the Transport Minister cast doubt on the continuation of travel concession for pensioner , which have cause significant alarm in my constituency and other . notwithstanding the discussion we be have today , could the Minister reassure we that travel concession for pensioner will continue under a Labour Government ? I thank the right hon . gentleman for his intervention . the Chancellor will take all decision in the Budget on 30 October — [ interruption . ] let I make one important point to he as we approach the Budget on 30 October : we know there be go to be difficult decision that we have to take in the Budget and , frankly , that be a direct consequence of the decision take by he and his colleague when they be in government . as he be a Treasury Minister , I wonder whether he could help I with this question . how many of the pensioner who will lose the winter fuel allowance today receive less than the average train driver the Government have just give a pay rise to ? I understand the political point that the hon . Lady be try to make . but let I be clear . if she be talk about pensioner , the foundation of state support for pensioner be the state pension , which be why the Government have commit to maintain the triple lock for the duration of this Parliament . rise — I be go to make some progress . the triple lock mean that pensioner be receive £ 900 more this year . figure release this morning indicate that they may get well over £ 400 more next year . over the course of this Parliament , they will get £ 1 , 700 more under the state pension . that be the foundation of state support for pensioner . rise — I be go to make some progress . we have see clearly how conservative member do not like to be remind of their legacy in government , of the mess in which they leave the economy , our public service and the rest of our country after their 14 year in office . this Government and every Labour Member be elect to turn thing around . rise — I be go to make some progress . we be under no illusion . we know it will be a slow and difficult process when the damage go so deep , but we be determined to fix the foundation of our country so that , on the bedrock of financial stability and fiscal responsibility , we can get our economy grow after 14 year under the Conservatives . I thank the Minister for give way on the point about fiscal responsibility . I be not sure of the morality of try to balance this country ' s fiscal book on the back of pensioner . he reference the manifesto on which the Labour party stand at the election . " no austerity under Labour " be say in Scotland , so what should the 37 Scottish Labour mp do in this vote ? should they bow down to the Chancellor , or should they stand up for their scottish constituent ? every Labour Member be elect on a promise to restore economic stability and fiscal responsibility to our country , and it be on that basis that we will get the economy grow to make people across the country well off and to put our public service on a sustainable footing . I remind the hon . Gentleman that winter heating assistance be a devolved matter in Scotland . the Scottish Government intend to legislate to introduce a means - test payment this winter which be equivalent to the winter fuel payment in England and Wales . rise — I have take several intervention , so I will make some progress . the point of this debate be to focus on why we have to take difficult economic decision , even if they risk we be unpopular . we know that the universal application of winter fuel payment be already recognise as unfair . in the face of our dire economic inheritance , it be simply unsustainable . we should be clear that , when the winter fuel payment be introduce in 1997 , a high percentage of pensioner than people of working age be in poverty . that be no long the case . put simply , there be now pensioner receive winter fuel payment who do not need they and that be a reality we can not afford . let I put it in financial term . over a quarter of pensioner have wealth of more than £ 1 million , half have wealth of over £ 500 , 000 and a fifth of pensioner household have gross income equivalent to £ 41 , 600 a year . that be why it be right to mean - test winter fuel payment . pensioner in my constituency will be sadden by the way the Minister be caricature pensioner as wealthy and not in need of this winter fuel support . Age UK have say that , in the Gosport constituency alone , 15 , 000 pensioner stand to lose their winter fuel payment . these be not wealthy people ; they be people who , in many case , be just outside the pension credit limit and be hang on by their fingertip . do he agree that caricature they as wealthy and not in need be unbelievably insulting ? I think the hon . Lady unintentionally misunderstood my point . I will put the question back to she . do she feel that pensioner who have wealth of over £ 1 million or who earn more than £ 41 , 600 a year should get the winter fuel payment in the context of the financial circumstance ? the argument we be make be that , give the dire economic situation we face and give our dire inheritance , we should mean - test the winter fuel payment . rise — I will make some progress , because it be important to explain why we be choose to mean - test the winter fuel payment . mean testing will allow we to make sure that those in the great need still receive the help they need . we will make sure that all pensioner continue to benefit from the triple lock , and we will start to deal with the shocking state of the public finance that we have inherit . rise — I be go to make some progress , as I have take many intervention already . under our approach , those eligible for pension credit will continue to receive winter fuel payment . we want to target winter fuel payment to those on the low income , which be why we be link the payment to eligibility for pension credit and other qualifying income - relate benefit and tax credit . that be the right approach to help those on the low income . we be determined to make it as effective as possible by make sure that people who be eligible for pension credit make a claim . the point I make to the shadow Secretary of State , the right hon . member for Central Devon ( Mel Stride ) , be a fair one . distance and remoteness militate against take - up . People live in very remote hamlet in the highland do not necessarily perceive the Department that they should . can I have an undertaking from the Minister that the Government will look at this issue ? I thank the hon . gentleman for his comment , and I know that my colleague be aware of this issue . in fact , it be one reason why the automatic payment of pension credit and other benefit be so important . for instance , the merging of housing benefit and pension credit would help to overcome some of the problem . it would help some of the people in the situation he describe . that merger of housing benefit and pension credit be first moot in 2012 , and be delay several time by the previous Government — I think they intend to leave it until 2028 . my right hon . friend the Secretary of State for Work and Pensions be look at that as a matter of great priority , to ensure that people get the help that they deserve . rise — I be go to make some progress . the important point to focus on in this debate be make sure that everyone eligible for pension credit take up that offer , not only so they receive the benefit of pension credit , but so that we can well target the winter fuel payment , give the financial inheritance that we have . we estimate that 880 , 000 pensioner be miss out on pension credit to which they be entitle , and frankly the Conservatives fail to act on that for year . that be why it be so important that we be now conduct a campaign to make sure that as many people as possible make a claim . our approach be already show sign of success . the Government have receive around 38 , 500 pension credit claim in the five week since the announcement on 29 July . that be more than double the number in the previous five week , and we will continue to do all we can to encourage pensioner who be eligible to apply for pension credit . we have use a wide range of medium to reach pensioner and key stakeholder , and have be work with voluntary organisation such as Age UK and Citizens Advice , local authority and the devolve government to raise awareness through their network and channel . the Secretary of State for Work and Pensions be take the further unprecedented step of write to 120 , 000 pensioner household who be in receipt of housing benefit but who be not yet claim the pension credit that they be likely to be entitle to . our national pension credit campaign will run right through until the application deadline on 21 December . on 11 February 2021 , the temperature in Braemar in my constituency sink to minus 23 ° . some 17 , 000 pensioner there will lose their winter fuel allowance through a decision take by this Labour Government . can the Minister explain to those pensioner in one of the cold constituency in the country why they have to surrender that important support at the same time as the Government have find £ 11 billion to give pay rise to their union paymaster ? I would be interested to understand why the hon . Gentleman be back a candidate to lead his party who support the means - testing of the winter fuel payment . he might want to have a conversation with that candidate before he start criticise our approach of target support at those in great need . the critical point be that the combination of the state pension rise under the triple lock with those in great need get winter fuel payment alongside pension credit , not to mention the extension of the household support fund , mean that the right measure be in place to give all pensioner the support they need . opposition member want to know why the legislation be be progress urgently . I will be really clear : it be urgent because we need to deal urgently with the £ 22 billion black hole — the huge in - year spending pressure — that we inherit from the Government that they run . it be crucial that we act quickly to restore responsibility to our public finance and stability to our economy . on top of that , it be important that we make sure that regulation be in place at the start of the qualifying week for winter fuel payment , while waste no time in do all we can to raise pension credit take - up . we have hear that the Transport Minister yesterday could give no assurance to pensioner about their transport concession . last week , I ask the Deputy Prime Minister about the single person council tax discount . there be a very real prospect that pensioner could lose even more than £ 300 — another £ 300 or £ 400 . will the Exchequer Secretary take this opportunity to reassure pensioner that there be no way that the Government will remove the single person discount from the council tax ? it would be politically good for he and the Labour party , and it would be enormously important for people who need to hear some reassurance at this time . the right hon . Gentleman will not be surprised to hear I say that the Chancellor will take all decision in the Budget . however , he might like to reflect on the record of his party in office on encourage take - up of pension credit . we have be painfully aware since take office how little the Conservatives do to increase take - up of pension credit during their 14 year in office . that be why it be so urgent for we to make progress in get those eligible to sign up for pension credit . by do so , they will get pension credit , which they may have be miss out on for year under the Conservatives , and they will continue to receive the winter fuel payment . pensioner may well be angry at the Conservatives for how little they do to get people to sign up for pension credit while they be in office . pensioner may well be angry at the Conservatives for leave the country with a legacy of a £ 22 billion black hole in the public finance . we on the Government Benches be commit to protect the triple lock . that will mean that pensioner on the full new state pension , who have receive an extra £ 900 this year , will , pende the uprating review by the Secretary of State for Work and Pensions this autumn , receive a boost that could be worth well more than £ 400 , so by the end of this Parliament they could be receive around £ 1 , 700 more than they do today . conservative Members be keen to play politic with the tough decision that this Government be take . they be desperate to take attention away from the fact that , as people across this country know , it be the Conservatives who be to blame for the economic mess we have gain . they create a mess and now they want to criticise we for clean it up . if they have govern more responsibly , they might not have be sit on the Opposition Benches , in opposition to a Government who be fix the foundation they leave to rot . do the Minister agree that the only shameful thing in this debate be the legacy that the Government be leave ? it force the new government — [ interruption . ] the reality that 800 , 000 pensioner be not receive pension credit be a shameful legacy . if Conservative Members want to show humility and learn from their party ' s record in government , they would acknowledge that they be the one who crash the economy , leave the NHS in a way that pensioner can not get to see a doctor , and break NHS dentistry . do the Minister agree that it be our job to fix the economy so that we can keep on help pensioner ? my hon . friend be absolutely right . frankly , it be time for Conservative Members to recognise and accept what they have do to this country , and to show some contrition and accept responsibility . however , no matter what the Conservatives choose to do , we be get on with the tough decision that be necessary in government . by change the winter fuel payment and make it mean - test , we be begin to take the necessary step to address the black hole they create , while protect the most vulnerable in society . the Prime Minister have say that we must be prepare to be unpopular if we be to govern responsibly , which mean face up to tough challenge and tackle they head - on . the motion lay by the Opposition set out several " regret " , but they have never once show regret for all the reckless decision they take and the damage they do to our public service , public finance and economy . our task now in government be to fix the mess they make and to give our country the chance of the well future we deserve . I call the spokesperson for the Liberal Democrat party . it be a pleasure to see you in the Chair , Madam Deputy Speaker . Liberal Democrats welcome the opportunity for this debate . we will continue to call on the Government to change course on their plan cut to winter fuel payment . we know the Government have inherit a mess , and we know that at the core of that mess be a legacy of reckless economic mismanagement by the previous Conservative Government . however , that can not be allow to serve as a cover for measure that cause suffer for the most vulnerable in our society . early this afternoon , Liberal Democrats support the prayer motion to annul the social fund winter fuel payment regulation . strip support from many of the poor pensioner , just when energy bill be set to rise again this winter , be the wrong thing to do , and we have table our own early - day motion to reject these plan . it should be note that the Secondary Legislation Scrutiny Committee in the other place have say that it be " unconvinced by the reason give for the urgency attach to lay these Regulations and particularly concerned that this preclude appropriate scrutiny " . we be supportive of this motion and particularly of the point that there should have be great scrutiny of the Government ' s decision to cut winter fuel payment . it be well establish that there be strong link between live in a cold home and an increase in the risk of serious illness for vulnerable people and those with disability . I be extremely disappointed by the lack of creativity in this Government . I agree entirely with the hon . Lady that there be a legacy of unfunded promise , but it be not for my constituent in Lagan Valley to bear the burden . do she agree that they do not have broad shoulder ? I thank the hon . member for her intervention and for state so passionately the case that we on the liberal Democrat Benches be make in this debate . the Government should have do far more to understand the likely consequence of restrict eligibility for the winter fuel payment , and how that would translate into increase burden on the national health service . I and my liberal Democrat colleague have listen to our constituent and hear from countless pensioner who be worried about how they will afford their energy bill this winter . since these cut have be announce , I have be inundate with local people express their disappointment at this decision . that be why the Liberal Democrats have table early - day motion 121 , call on the Government to withdraw these plan , and it be why we vote in favour of the prayer motion early today . we believe that it be simply wrong to remove winter fuel payment from million of struggle pensioner . I recognise the comment that the hon . Member have make about the economic inheritance , but do she not agree that , compare with the situation that we manage in coalition with the Liberal Democrats in 2010 , the Labour Government be in a well position ? they have unemployment low than we inherit , employment high than we inherit , the deficit lower than we inherit , and economic growth fast than we inherit . we , in partnership with the Liberal Democrats , manage to keep winter fuel payment in those circumstance . do she not agree that Labour should do the same ? I thank the hon . member for his intervention , but it be important to reflect on the disastrous legacy of the mini - Budget and the circumstance that many people continue to struggle with thank to high interest rate on their mortgage payment . certainly , from the perspective of my constituent , that cast a much long shadow , which the winter fuel payment cut will do nothing to ameliorate . last week , I ask the Chancellor if she would give her full support to measure to boost the uptake of pension credit . I welcome her commitment to work with the Secretary of State for Work and Pensions to maximise the take - up of pension credit by bring forward the administration of housing benefit and pension credit — we have speak a lot about the take - up of pension credit in this debate already , but it be important to say that 800 , 000 pensioner — I think that be what the Minister say — be still not take it up . those people will , by definition , be hard to reach and the most vulnerable . I do not understand how the Government can , in good conscience , take away this guarantee benefit at a time where there be no certainty whatsoever about their be able to get the other people sign up to pension credit in time . I welcome my hon . friend ' s intervention . he make an important point , although I would say that I welcome the Chancellor ' s commitment last week to work with old people ' s charity and local authority to raise awareness of pension credit . none the less , he be exactly right that many people will have this benefit take away without know that there be pension credit for which they be eligible and should claim . as the Lords Secondary Legislation Scrutiny Committee have highlight , the DWP have assume that the uptake of pension credit will increase by just five percentage point , and that will still exclude around 700 , 000 pensioner . have the Government make a proper assessment of what the impact will be if uptake of pension credit increase by more than that amount ? I continue to call for assurance that the Government will ensure that all those eligible for pension credit claim both the benefit itself and the winter fuel payment . we will be vote against the scrapping of this stream of support for pensioner . although we recognise that the Government face difficult choice give the appalling mess leave by the Conservative party , the liberal Democrats will continue to advocate for the necessity of winter fuel payment . the mismanagement of our economy by the outgoing Conservative Government have leave formidable challenge and we understand that undo that damage will not be easy . whatever fiscal pressure be be address here today , we have hear about the additional death that could possibly result from this measure . do the hon . member share my disgust at some member celebrate the result of the previous vote as if it be a football match ? I thank the hon . member for his intervention . I be afraid that I can not comment because I do not see that , but I thank he for raise it . it be not right for the consequence of the decision of the outgoing Conservative Government and this burden to be carry by some of the most vulnerable in our society . those with the broad shoulder should carry a heavy burden . liberal Democrats have set out detailed proposal to tackle fuel poverty and we be call on the Government to look at they very seriously . that include step such as : launch an emergency home energy upgrade programme , with free insulation and heat pump for low - income household ; introduce a social tariff for the most vulnerable to provide target energy discount for vulnerable household ; and implement a proper windfall tax on the super - profit of oil and gas producer and trader , to raise vital revenue . we have also call on the Government to tackle the wide cost of living crisis , include by invest an extra £ 1 billion a year in our farmer to bring down food price , increase the carer ' s allowance and expand it to more carer , and remove the two - child limit and the benefit cap . More than 2 million pensioner be currently live in poverty . they have have a tremendously difficult time during the cost of living crisis , deal with record high energy bill and eye - water food cost . that be why the Liberal Democrats be proud to have introduce the triple lock when we be in government , lift countless vulnerable pensioner out of poverty , and why we be strongly committed to ensure it remain in place . pensioner deserve to have the support and the security of know that the triple lock will be there in the long term . we acknowledge the dire economic situation the new Government have inherit , yet we have hear warning call from sector representative , include Age UK , Disability Rights UK and many pensioner themselves , regard the damage that this cut might cause . as the Government try to clear up the conservative party ' s mess , they must ensure that that do not come at the expense of pensioner and family who will struggle to heat their home this winter . on a point of order , Madam Deputy Speaker , you will know the rule far well than I , but this be a really important debate and I just want to ensure that the House be quorate . can you tell I how many people have to be on the Government Benches for a debate ? there be few than 20 Labour mp who have decide to find this a worthwhile debate to come to , and I want to make sure we have enough people here for this debate , because it be really serious . as the hon . Gentleman will know , the House be not count , and the matter of quorum be not a relevant consideration at this time and therefore we shall move on . I be proud to be elect on a manifesto that commit to deliver economic stability , security and growth . after 14 year of Tory recklessness with our economy and after the disastrous Liz Truss mini - Budget drive up inflation , food bill and mortgage repayment and push my constituent to the brink , the public vote for change . that change must start with get our economy back on its foot . when the previous Labour Government leave office , Trussell Trust food bank be give out 40 , 000 food parcel a year . last year they give out 3 million . when we on the labour side of the House talk about the recklessness of the previous Government , it be not academic . we be talk about taxpayer ' money be pour into ideological gimmick while child be go to school hungry , work adult be one rent rise away from homelessness and a broken NHS be stall productivity and fail those who most rely on public service , include our pensioner . we face a £ 22 billion black hole in the public finance that they cover up and walk away from . stability mean bring the economy and the country back from the brink to which the conservative party knowingly push it . no one doubt that this policy be tough , and it be not a measure we want to take , but we have be leave a huge bill to pay . Means - test the winter fuel allowance will allow we to support those pensioner most in need as we take the difficult step we have to take to right the ship . member across this House know that in our community there be too many pensioner struggle . that be why I welcome this Government ' s commitment to the triple lock , under which the state pension have rise by £ 900 this year and will rise by more than £ 450 in April . I also support the extension of the warm home discount , worth £ 150 for more than 1 million low - wage pensioner . the hon . Gentleman will be aware that the Tory triple lock be introduce by the Tories , precisely in order to deal with the legacy leave by the previous Labour Government when , unless I have get this number wrong , there be a low take - up of pension credit than there be today — we raise that . the triple lock raise pensioner income , and the first act of the Labour Government , of whom he be clearly aim to be a loyal member , be to take £ 300 away from people who really need it . three million food parcel be distribute last year . that be the legacy of the Conservative Government . and the triple lock that the Conservatives purport to defend ? they break it in 2022 . I also support the extension of the household support fund to help the family most in need this winter , as well as the Government ' s commitment to introduce tough regulation to the energy market , which have let customer down for too long . I be work hard with Bracknell Forest council to ensure that pensioner in the Bracknell constituency who be in need but not claim the support to which they be entitle be identify and encourage to get help . I urge any pensioner who be concerned about their finance to go to Age UK ' s benefit calculator to see what support they may be entitle to . what do the hon . Gentleman say to pensioner during the election campaign ? I say that the Labour party would restore the broken economy inherit from the conservative party . in the long term , there be only one permanent solution to end fuel poverty : we must end our dependence on volatile foreign energy market and deliver last energy security . the conservative party fail to do that in Government , leave energy bill high for every household , include those most in need . that be why this Government ' s plan to create GB Energy , a new national energy company , be vital . it will bring energy supply back into the hand of the british public and help to get price back under control . that be the long - term solution to fuel poverty : home - grow , British - control power . roughly 13 , 000 people in the hon . Gentleman ' s Bracknell constituency will not get the winter fuel allowance this year as a result of the change that he have just vote for . how many of they do he estimate will struggle to pay their bill ? I have already set out the support that I want to see , as well as the support that the Government have put in place to help pensioner in my constituency and to bring energy bill down in the long term , which will help all household in Bracknell and across the country . that be a really important first step on the road to growth . because of the triple lock , a grow economy mean grow pension and grow support for pensioner in need . future prosperity do not fall out of the sky . we have to create the condition for it , and those condition be sensible spending , bring debt under control , and encourage investment . to do those thing , we must dig ourselves out of this financial hole , and that mean tough choice . this policy be a difficult step — a step that I do not want to take — but it be a step away from the brink towards stability , security and growth . that be why I back it . rise — Order . I have no choice but to put a three - minute limit on Back - Bench speech before I hand over to the next speaker , which I be very sorry to do . member will be aware that more than 40 of you wish to take part . I call Priti Patel . who would have think that one of the first act of this awful , cruel and ideological Labour Government would be to assault the nation ' s pensioner by remove winter fuel payment ? let we be candid : the nation ' s pensioner be fall victim to an ideological decision — a betrayal by Labour as it succumb to shovel gross amount of public spending into the pocket of many of its union paymaster . it be quite interesting — [ interruption . ] no . I have a time limit ; the hon . Member have already speak . it be interesting that there have be so little transparency around finance and the fiscal choice that the Government have choose to make . there have be no impact assessment , no honesty around the cost of all this to the Exchequer in the long run , and nothing about the administration of the household support fund . how have Labour Ministers make the spurious claim that they have have no choice in this decision ? Bear in mind that the government — so desperate be they to justify this brutal cut — claim a couple of week ago that there would be a " run on the pound " without the decision , which be just extraordinary and speak to their fiscal ineptitude . I have a series of question on the mitigation . first , it be right to encourage more pensioner to take up pension credit where they be entitle to it . I know from my time at the Department for Work and Pensions that many on the Conservative Benches have spend year encourage pensioner to take up pension credit . we should know how the targeting will work and what the cost will be . secondly , in recent day the Government have be spin , yet again , that those affect by the loss of the winter fuel payment will benefit from an estimate £ 400 rise in the state pension . will the Minister confirm what the net real - term impact will be on overall household income for those who be lose the benefit , and will he confirm how it will add up over time and what the actual cost will be ? thirdly , concern have be raise throughout the day that if pensioner can not afford to heat their home there will be a serious impact on health . we do not have an impact assessment , so can we have some honesty now ? what be the cost to the NHS ? the Government owe it to the british people to be honest about this . we have hear that the household support fund will be extend , but how exactly will that £ 500 million be fund ? who will pay for it ? finally , there be so many unanswered question . the Government must be honest and answer they . there have be a lack of transparency , with no impact assessment whatsoever . it be right that we hold the Government to account and that they be honest with british pensioner about their intention , even on the future of the triple lock . I be glad that we be have this debate . perhaps the opposition and part of the medium be bore face something that they have not see for year — Government Benches pack full of member represent all part of the United Kingdom who respect each other and support the government — because they have stoke a frenzy that I fear be at risk of obscure the most important argument for the change that we be debate . yes , there be the economic argument , which matter . as the Office for Budget Responsibility and Institute for Fiscal Studies have recognise , this Government inherit public finance in a shocking state , in " one of the large in - year overspend outside of the pandemic " in history — or , as one Member put it early , an " accounting error " . unlike the rapid succession of Conservative Chancellors , our Chancellor have level with the british people and be transparent about the nation ' s finance . restore stability mean hard choice . this be not the first , and it will not be the last . however , it be not the economic case that I wish to emphasise today , but the principled one . let I make a general point about the argument we make in politic . sometimes we politician can be too quick to hold up our hand and say that we have no choice — the lawyer require this or the economist require that . that can leave voter frustrate : " why vote if the people we vote for be not in charge , but lawyer or economist be ? can the people we elect not control the thing that affect our life ? " to restore trust in politic , we must show that politic matter . that be why it be important that we articulate what we do in term of principle and choice . to govern be to choose . target winter fuel payment be a choice . however difficult and necessary , it be the right choice for two principle reason . the first be about the moral purpose of the policy . Gordon Brown design the winter fuel payment to ensure that nobody be at home cold because they could not afford to turn on their heating . it be a time when state pension rise be miserly and , as many find , insufficient to heat their home . but let I note that pensioner be well off after the last Labour Government . one million be lift out of poverty by 2004 . the change we be debate today do not move from that position . in a time when the state pension have rise by £ 900 , and will rise again by as much as £ 400 , the change target the winter fuel payment base on the principle of need . that be the right principle . let I be clear : I do not believe that taxpayer — Order . there be a three - minute time limit . my wife , Suzy , be over retirement age . she be also in full - time employment . I be over retirement age . I be also in full - time employment and a high rate taxpayer . I have always believe that the winter fuel allowance should be mean - test , because while we give it to charity , there be other , perhaps young people — such as the young and disabled , who can not run around and keep warm — who could use the money . I have believe that for probably as long as the now Chancellor of the Exchequer have believe it . let we be clear : this have nothing to do with black hole in the economy , which Laura Kuenssberg identify while interview the Prime Minister on Sunday as be largely contribute to by inflationary pay increase for the union — for railway worker and junior doctor . this be a policy dream up in 2014 by the present Chancellor of the Exchequer — that be on the record . it be a policy make in no . 11 Downing Street and endorse by the nation ' s undertaker in no . 10 . it be cruel , it be heartless , and it be go to lead to death this winter , so while I believe that there should be a means test , the manner in which the Government be go about it be profoundly wrong and deeply flawed and will cause untold - of hardship . it have get to change . my right hon . friend be give a moving and compassionate speech . will he tell we where , specifically , the responsibility for this cruel policy lie ? I be grateful for my hon . friend ' s question , because it do not lie with the hon . member for Ealing North ( James Murray ) . it lie with the Chancellor of the Exchequer and with the Prime Minister , both of whom should be on the Government Front Bench this afternoon , but neither of whom have be present during the debate — although the Chancellor do come in to vote , and then nip out again . that in itself be shameful . I abhor the fact that there be politician sit on the Labour Benches who be quite prepared to fight to the last drop of somebody else ' s political blood , because that be what be happen this afternoon . you say that our Chancellor and the Prime Minister be not here on the Government Benches , but where be your leader and your shadow Chancellor ? they be not here either . you talk about means - testing be right : we have a difficult financial situation and difficult decision that we have to take , so the right hon . Gentleman seem to agree with we on that . order . I appreciate that passion be run high this afternoon , and that there be many new member in the House , but when we use " you " and " your " , we be refer to the Chair . there be good reason for why we direct debate through the Chair . please can member remember that ? thank you , Madam Deputy Speaker — I stand chastised . the Leader of the Opposition be in the Chamber early this afternoon , but I see no sign whatsoever of the Prime Minister . however , the answer to the hon . Lady remain the same : the responsibility for this policy lie directly with the Chancellor of the Exchequer and the Prime Minister , and they be go to live to regret it . the right hon . Gentleman have express the principle that mean - testing could be accommodate . do he agree that many of those who have write to we as Members of Parliament also sympathise with the principle that mean - testing could and should come in at some point in the future ? the manner in which this proposal be be bring in , before the 880 , 000 pensioner who be eligible for pension credit be register for it , be the problem that particularly affect the 21 , 000 pensioner in Taunton and Wellington . I be grateful to the hon . gentleman for his intervention . I have make the point , and will make it again , that I have no quarrel with the principle . I have a huge quarrel with the manner in which this policy be be implement , because it be cruel and heartless . it be go to leave thousand , if not million , of pensioner literally out — or more probably in — in the cold this winter , and some of they will die as a result . it be not necessary , it do not have to be do , and it will not save money , so there have to be a rethink . just to conclude , I detect a degree of arrogance on the Government Benches this afternoon . the fact that there be only about 30 member on those Benches speak volume to those outside who think that member be go to come and hear this matter be seriously debate . there seem to be a belief that the next election be five year away . the next general election may be five year away , but the next election be next May , and those vote in the county council election in May — those pensioner and their family — will not forget this . I have not write a speech — I have write down a few point — because , like many colleague , I have spend the past week agonise over how to vote today . in the end , I decide to vote with my conscience , which mean that I vote with the Government . [ interruption . ] conservative Members laugh , but I will tell they why . today I listen sincerely to contribution from Conservative Members , and this be what I have learn . first , there be several intervention in which they criticise the Government ' s effort to improve the take - up of pension credit . [ interruption . ] well , they do — member can go and read Hansard if they want to dispute that . there have be several criticism of that , almost to the point that , when they talk about who be vulnerable , I wonder whether they have a blind spot for some of our most vulnerable constituent . secondly , I have learn about Conservative Members ' disdain for hard - work people , because we have learn that , in their spending plan , they intend to reject the pay recommendation of their own pay body . do the hon . member appreciate that some of the hard work people be the pensioner we be now stand up for , and who we be try to stop freeze in the winter to come and those ahead ? I absolutely do , and Members may recall that I come to this House last week and ask the Chancellor a question about my own constituent . I represent the snowiest and cold constituency in England , and I have have deep concern about those pensioner . however , I have study the detail and listen to pensioner in my constituency . in the last week alone , it have turn out that several people who have come forward to I express concern about this policy be people who could be claim pension credit but be not . I want to make a broad point about the winter fuel allowance . the winter fuel allowance be introduce under the last Labour Government in 1997 , when the state pension be £ 3 , 247 a year . if that have increase at the rate of inflation , today it would be £ 6 , 200 a year . thankfully , it be more than twice that . [ hon . member : " because of we . " ] conservative Members say that it be because of they , but , again , they may want to look at the record . in fact , under both the previous Labour Government and the previous Conservative Government , the state pension increase at above the rate of inflation , and I absolutely welcome that . the winter fuel allowance , however , have not increase for 20 year . so the winter fuel allowance , in real term , have become less and less year after year . the point I be make be that we need to consider our people . if the Conservatives ' argument be that , after 14 year in government , people on the full state pension be £ 100 away from death and destitution , what have they be do for 14 year ? we need a new settlement for the economy , and this Government be actually answer the concern of my constituent , who live in cold , stone - build , badly insulate home , and who lose out when the previous Government choose to cut the funding available to insulate home . this government be set up great British Energy , which will help to cut bill over the long term . People be poor and struggle to pay their bill not because we do not give away enough taxpayer ' money in small pocket of benefit here and there . what we need be high wage and well pension , and I have be convince by the Chancellor ' s argument that , under this Government , the pension will rise at or above the rate of inflation year on year , while energy bill will fall . finally , my constituent would not thank I if I do not take step to stabilise the economy , because we need to get NHS waiting list down and we need — order . it be interesting to follow the hon . member for Bishop Auckland ( Sam Rushworth ) , and to follow the angst - ride journey with his conscience to ensure that he could abandon those in most need of their winter fuel allowance in this come winter . it be good of he to highlight the Tory triple lock , which do take the absolutely woeful state of the pension leave by the last Labour Government and transform it into a sounder one today . however , even in these condition — where , thank to the Tories , pensioner be much well off than they use to be — there be people , and this come from Labour research a few year ago , who will die , accord to that research , if this policy , which he in good conscience think he should vote for today , be implement . that be the truth . that take we to one key issue that we have be discuss today , which be process . the hon . member for Bishop Auckland seem like an honourable and decent man — at least he use the word " conscience " in this debate , rather than purely political theatre . the point be that when something could lead to thousand of people die , the Government have not do what they be legally oblige to do — they use some rare exemption requirement — and produce an impact assessment . so we do not know . People who in good conscience want to do the right thing , like the hon . Gentleman , do not know what the impact be . if it be in front of we , and if it validate the Labour party ' s previous analysis , and show that 4 , 000 people could be go to die , could he really support the measure in good conscience for £ 1 . 1 billion when we spend more than £ 1 , 200 billion ? the £ 22 billion black hole be a sort of political theatre from a Government who say they be not go to do politic as theatre and performance , and that they be go to do it properly . in fact , this be a miniscule amount . it be significant , but it be miniscule in the overall scheme of thing . a choice have be make and ram through on a timetable that be not in order and do not follow the normal and proper way of thing or allow new member of Parliament , like the hon . Gentleman , to look at the issue , weigh it up and come to the right conclusion . it be truly shameful . Peter , one of my constituent , be one of 882 people who sign a petition in my constituency against this measure . he and his wife be £ 12 over the pension credit limit . the right hon . Gentleman be cite concern about the safety of vulnerable group , and I wonder if he might reflect on the past 14 year , and that he enable a Government that lead to the decay and decline of every single public service . when public service decay and decline , that disproportionately affect vulnerable group . the hon . Gentleman know full well that that be not true . I use to chair the Education Committee , so I know a little about that , and standard be lift — [ interruption . ] look at the OECD or the PISA table . it seem that the new Ministers do not want to take into account the most reputable international measure of educational performance , which show that we lift ourselves up massively . the NHS be under enormous tension and in crisis , but compare with five year ago we have 20 % more doctor and nurse , if it be purely a budgetary matter . I wish the new Government well in reform the NHS , but if we want to see what a Labour Government mean for the health service , we can find it right now . we just need to travel to Wales , and the hon . Gentleman know that that be not deliver . let I return to Peter and his wife . they be not the only people who be worried about this policy . I spend a little time yesterday read Labour ' s manifesto , as I hope Labour Members may have do , and I be touch by the quote from Gary on page 48 : " I ' ve never struggle this much to keep warm . I can only afford to heat one room with a small portable heater . sometimes I sleep in my armchair to save money … it ' s no way to live . " surely Labour Members , in good conscience , recognise that he be right : it be no way to live . when 9 . 7 million people vote Labour , they vote for it on the promise of change . I do not think this be the change that Gary and other be lead to believe they would receive . I be glad that the right hon . member for Beverley and Holderness ( Graham Stuart ) refer to the change in the labour manifesto at the last election , because the first line of that manifesto be the promise to bring economic stability to Britain , and that would be a change from the previous Government . we know that bring economic stability would involve tough choice , but even at the election we have no idea of the scale of the mess we would find . Means - test the winter fuel allowance be not an easy decision , but we must look at it in the broad context . let I make three point about the situation that pensioner face . first , the pension triple lock be a critical piece of public policy , which make the state pension genuinely liveable . the triple lock mean that pension increase by £ 900 in this year alone , and the state pension will increase by over £ 1 , 700 over the course of this Parliament . that help all pensioner . it be absolutely the right decision for the Government to prioritise the pension triple lock , even if that mean means - test the winter fuel allowance . secondly , the poor pensioner will still get the winter fuel allowance . I be reassure by the push to increase the take - up of pension credit . rise — sorry , I will not give way , I must make progress . thirdly , we must look more broadly at all the challenge that old people face . waiting list be appallingly long . old people in my constituency can wait 18 month for a hip replacement ; other spend their life saving on private healthcare . I understand that people be concern , but we do people no favour by pretend that tough choice do not exist . delay that decision only lead to tough , less enviable choice ahead . rise — let I make progress . if the House want to understand tough choice , look no far than my home of Scotland . despite have high public spending and high taxis than the rest of the UK , our pensioner face the long waiting list on record . today , the SNP will oppose means - test the winter fuel allowance in Westminster , while bring in its means - testing in Scotland . that be not to clean up the mess that the Tories leave they , but to clean up their own mismanagement of scottish finance . we can do well . in take this step , we must recognise that the country have change since the winter fuel allowance be introduce . today , when I look around my constituency , I see that age be no long the main factor in whether someone can afford to heat their home . it can not be right that we continue to give the wealthy pensioner £ 300 a year . as society change , we must adjust . we do today ' s pensioner a well service by target those who need help the most . I rise to publicly oppose this propose change . I understand the need to balance the book — we all do , and we know how it work — but to be perfectly frank , and it give I no joy to say this , I never imagine ever in my life that a Labour Government would seek to balance the book on the back of pensioner throughout the United Kingdom . I put that on record at the beginning . I say it respectfully , but with great grief . I fully comprehend that the system could do with an upgrade . perhaps we should look at a household cap , as we have with the child benefit payment . perhaps we could look at allocate per household , rather than per person . perhaps we could look at ensure that everyone who be still earn more than their pension through employment can have defer payment until full retirement . perhaps we could look at an opt - out scheme for pensioner such as I . I do not need the money ; I ask not to take the money . I give the money to charity . I be not well than anybody else — never be I well than anybody else — but I realise that I do not need that money , so I give it away . other might want to do the same thing . it should be direct face - to - face application for pension credit . there should not be a nine - week wait for the application to be process . my goodness , people need the money now . the threshold should be raise . the Government and the Minister have say about the £ 440 that be come next spring , but pensioner need the money this winter and as soon as possible . in Northern Ireland , 68 % of home rely on oil - fire boiler for heating . there be high level of fuel poverty , with 22 % of the population currently spend more than 10 % of their household income on heat their home . I think about the woman who have a tiny workplace pension from the hour they work while their child be in school . the woman of the Women against State Pension Inequality Campaign have already be disadvantage and will pay a further price for not be allow to save for their need . I be beg this government on behalf of my constituent in Strangford not to remove the benefit from everyone in one fell swoop . National Energy Action estimate that close to 45 people die every winter ' s day in the UK due to cold home . this Government , in their wisdom and through this decision , have decide to imperil many more . do my hon . friend agree that it be wrong , it will have an impact and it will cause death right across the United Kingdom ? my hon . friend be absolutely right . we all recognise that this winter will be one where pensioner will feel the gravity of this and the pain of the cold . I stand for all those who be make do with less than £ 1 , 000 a month and those pensioner who will be impact by the winter fuel allowance be take away from they . for they , this be a lot of money . it be the difference between be warm this winter or simply survive . it be not an exaggeration ; it be life for my constituent and , respectfully , for the constituent of those on the Government Benches . I will conclude . the clock for speech have stop . I will be respectful of the time , as you would expect , Madam Deputy Speaker . those who have work all their life deserve to be pay for what they pay in . there be a basic standard , along with woman and child go first in the lifeboat : protect those who can not survive the icy cold . so let we slow down the ship — I look to labour to make that happen — and veer away from the iceberg , which some member only see the tip of at the moment , which could be the destruction of the Government before their first journey even begin . let we correct course and get this right . let we support the opposition motion , which reflect the mood and opinion on the Opposition Benches . I hope that the Labour party will realise that it be go the wrong way . we be try to direct they the right way . I be grateful to follow the hon . member for Strangford ( Jim Shannon ) . I have have a short time in this place , but I already know that he often sit in the Chamber and listen to everyone : to member across the House . I listen to his point as well and will make these point to he . on this issue , like so many other , when it come to our economic inheritance — which be a £ 22 billion in - year black hole — we have to make difficult decision . we can choose to ignore the situation we be in and duck those decision — the well - trodden path that be too often take by the last government — but the price of entry to that path be not free . there be a cost . it mean accept a fail economy and fail public service . it try to shift the problem again and again to future generation . it be an easy path , but not a responsible one . the alternative be that we govern as we campaign — not just on economic stability but on credibility and truth in politic — and be honest with people about the mess that we be in and , crucially , about the path that we will take to bring about bright day : to lower waiting time in our NHS , to get more teacher into our school and more police on our street , deliver again for people across the country . failure to deliver have become the norm ; that must change . if we ignore the problem , we can not fix they . since record begin , no Government front - load spending so much to leave the cupboard so bare for the second half of the year . that be an easy path , but not a responsible one . I believe that Opposition member know that . indeed , there have be call over the year from conservative and Liberal Democrat Members to target winter fuel payment to those most in need . the Government be combine responsibility with compassion , and I know — Order . I call Wendy Morton . Madam Deputy Speaker , " the winter fuel payment give I peace of mind that I would be able to heat my home and stay warm during the winter " — not my word , but those of a constituent , and they be typical of the many comment I have receive in my inbox and those I have hear when I have be out and about across my constituency . in my constituency , there be just 2 , 138 recipient of pension credit , yet an estimate 18 , 300 pensioner will lose out this winter . this political choice , because that be what it be , mean that those very same pensioner — those 18 , 300 — will lose up to £ 300 of winter fuel payment ; in addition , the energy price cap rise of 10 % put further financial pressure on they of about £ 149 . it impact pensioner earn as little as £ 13 , 000 a year . contrast that with the inflation - bust pay rise that the Government have hand out . contrast that with the billion that the Government be spend on GB Energy , a state - run company that will not produce any energy , nor will it cut their bill . what be more , when the vast majority of my pensioner , who be wait for their annual increase of £ 460 next year — thank to our work when we be in government — deduct £ 300 for lose the winter fuel payment , they will be leave with an increase equivalent to just 44p a day : less than the cost of a pint of milk . I wonder how many of my right hon . friend ' s constituent who will lose that vital payment earn less than the train driver who have have all that extra money . my hon . friend make an important point . it come back to how this be about political choice , and I be here to stand up for my pensioner in my constituency . I also point out that it be the conservative party in government that drive up pension credit application by 73 % in just 12 month . it be important that we do not forget that . pension credit take - up be often an entrenched issue . People in my constituency be often too proud to apply . the process be too complicated : 22 page , 243 question and , as we have hear , nine week to determine the outcome of the application . tackle pension credit take - up be important , but it be not the solution to the crisis that pensioner face today . only week ahead of the winter , they need help now . accord to Age UK , across the UK , around 2 million pensioner who badly need the money to stay warm this winter will now not receive it . lose the winter fuel payment will make it significantly hard for they to keep warm , which undermine their health and wellbeing . as we have hear , pensioner often have serious health condition and disability . often , they live in old property , and in the north or in my constituency in the west midland it be often cold than in other part of the country . pensioner be all disproportionately affect , yet there be no sign of an impact assessment , just a Chancellor who , seemingly , storm ahead with her political decision . will my right hon . friend give way ? I will continue because I be conscious that other want to get the chance to speak . there be no time for old people on low income to set aside money — if they have it — to help they get through the winter . be at home in the cold increase the risk of raise blood pressure , stroke , heart attack and hypothermia . I do not vote for this callous cut early today . I will not pick the pocket of those who have work hard all their life , do the right thing by their family and this country . I will continue to speak up for my constituent , who deserve well than this . this be so wrong . I associate myself with the comment of Labour colleague in this debate , but I want to speak about the particular issue of public sector pay and the attempt make in this debate and the precede one to turn pensioner and public sector worker against each other , include the public sector worker who have be drive to rely on food bank and payday loan , who I be proud to represent as a trade union official . the 6 , 000 public sector worker in my constituency must wonder what the opposition have against they in this debate . a strong economy need strong public service , but the problem for the last government — and the public sector worker who work for they — be that their public finance strategy rest on " impose the big real wage cut in live memory . " those be not my word but those of the former permanent secretary to the Treasury , Nicholas Macpherson . the consequence for the service that we all depend on be clear : teaching vacancy have double over the past three year , there be an 8 % vacancy rate in the NHS and one in 10 999 call handler post be vacant . we all know the consequence of ambulance delay for pensioner and of cancel operation and appointment . [ interruption . ] do the right hon . member for Basildon and Billericay ( Mr Holden ) wish to make an intervention ? thank you , that be kind . in Basildon and Billericay , 15 , 000 pensioner will lose out because of this callous cut by the Labour Government . the hon . Member point out the impact on public service , but how many more hospital admission will we have , and how many more people will need operation because of his party ' s cut ? will we be unable to find out , because his party will not even put forward an impact assessment so that we can know who be affect ? we will take no lecture on hospital admission , give the state of the NHS that the right hon . member ' s party leave we . the Conservatives claim that they do not know what the pay review body recommendation would be , but the School Teachers ' Review Body recommendation be know to Ministers before July . they will know also that the different prb tend to make similar recommendation . why be most of those recommendation not submit in good time ? because Ministers be late in submit their evidence , push the timetable until after the election . the Office of Manpower Economics have say : " the work of the prbs be demand lead and essentially non - negotiable — department set the remit and timetable . " Shadow Ministers talk about productivity gain , but when it come to NHS negotiation under the last government , productivity be just a slogan . the cupboard be bare . they have nothing to actually ask for . the hon . Gentleman be make a case compare the salary of work individual with the pension of the elderly . could he tell I how many of the people who will lose the winter fuel allowance in his constituency earn or receive less than the minimum wage ? in my constituency , there be approximately 2 , 600 pensioner household that do not receive pension credit — that be one of the legacy of the previous Government — but be entitle to it . the Conservatives suggest that they would have reject the pay review body recommendation , forget that one of the first act of the Margaret Thatcher Government in 1979 be to accept the recommendation of the Clegg commission on pay comparability . if only the conservative party have more courage today . the winter fuel allowance exist because of a Labour Government : a Government who increase the value of those payment fivefold in 13 year , compare with an increase of zero under 14 year of the previous Government — a real - term cut of 33 % . it be fascinating to hear the recent convert to the fight against poverty on the Opposition Benches , particularly the right hon . member for North West Durham — sorry , Basildon and Billericay ( Mr Holden ) — yet they seem far quieter about the fact that the average food shop go up by £ 1 , 000 in the last Parliament , the average energy bill go up £ 400 — [ interruption . ] listen and you might learn something . the average mortgage go up £ 2 , 880 because of your lot . [ interruption . ] apology , Madam Deputy Speaker . on a point of order , Madam Deputy Speaker . I seek your guidance . I be under the impression that in the Chamber we should refer to Members , Friends or even the constituency . be that correct ? the hon . member be absolutely correct . may I just helpfully point out to all hon . and right hon . member that , in seek to make repeat intervention , they be actually cut into each other ' s time ? I have make the point previously about the correct way to address each other , through I as Deputy Speaker . intervention need to be a great deal shorter because they be just cut into the time for the debate and there be an awful lot of member who wish to contribute . on a point of order , Madam Deputy Speaker . I would like advice from the Chair , please . reportedly , more than 200 Labour mp receive more than £ 2 million in donation before the election from the trade union . before other member give speech about issue such as public sector pay , would it not be in order for they to declare that interest at the beginning of their speech ? as the hon . Member will know , it be for individual member to declare their interest , if one be applicable . I declare my background in the trade union movement , and I note that the hon . member for West Suffolk ( Nick Timothy ) write the manifesto , which he stand on , that propose cut the winter fuel allowance . now that the winter fuel allowance be to be mean - test , we must boost the uptake of pension credit . I welcome the measure Ministers have announce today , so that the allowance can be protect for the very poor pensioner . the Government ' s choice to remove the winter fuel payment from 21 , 365 of my constituent be cruel . the payment have be a lifeline for so many pensioner , help they to stay warm during the harsh winter month . Most pensioner live on fix income , so have almost no notice — no time to prepare — mean that the impact of this loss of income on many pensioner household will be that it be increasingly difficult for they to afford basic necessity . a number of Labour Members have talk about difficult choice , but the reality be that the Government have run away from difficult choice . they have duck the difficult choice . the difficult choice would have be to be upfront with voter during the election campaign , to explain why they feel this be necessary , appropriate and , as some have say , morally right , and to trust voter to decide whether to give they that mandate . instead , they run away . there be difficult choice , but unfortunately the difficult choice be the one that they have leave our constituent to face . do my hon . friend agree that this choice set a dangerous precedent ? free bus pass , prescription charge and , indeed , access to healthcare itself be all now at risk because of the logic be put forward by the Labour party in respect of pensioner ' ability to afford they . my hon . friend be clearly correct . many people , but particularly pensioner , will be worried about what this Chancellor will take away from they next . without these payment , many will be force to choose between heat their home and other essential expense such as food or medication — people such as my constituent Linda , who write to I : " my husband have several medical issue this year and I be very worried about the heating situation … I think it be likely that we will cut back on nourish food . I can not believe that a british Government would penalize our generation like this . " another constituent , Dawn , write : " now I fear the winter month , and afraid … of hypothermia . I personally be just above the threshold to qualify for pension credit . I be a single person claim state pension and also have a small NHS pension … I can foresee I not use my central heating this winter . " those be difficult choice that this Chancellor and this Government have force on too many of our pensioner , and they be choice that no one should have to make , and particularly not those who have contribute so much to our society . the Government the hon . Gentleman support be responsible for drive living standard down , in the first Parliament on record in which that happen . do he not agree that it be traditionally bad form for the arsonist to start criticise the fire brigade ? I think that the hon . Gentleman have a huge amount of cheek . he should consider first the inheritance of that previous Conservative Government : the present candidate for the chairmanship of the Business and Trade Committee have write that there be no money leave . he should also bear in mind that what we see during those 14 year be not only restoration in the economy but a huge growth in pensioner income , and what we see now be the fast growth in the G7 , unemployment at record low level , and inflation also back at low level . the Chancellor want we to believe that this decision suddenly come to she at some point in the run - up to the King ' s Speech , some time after the general election , and that it would not have be possible for she to imagine it before polling day . she claim in July that it be not a decision that she want to make . however , as have already be point out , in March 2014 she stand at the Opposition Dispatch Box , barely foot away from where I be now , demand that winter fuel payment be mean - test . in July she say that it be not a decision that she expect to make , yet , miraculously , this year ' s labour manifesto be the first in almost two decade without that specific commitment to protect winter fuel payment . this be a decision that have be a decade in the making — a decade in the planning . Labour have a decade in which to prepare and get it right , but we be see how poorly think through it be . we can not have a Social Security Advisory Committee report , and we can not have an impact assessment . labour imagine that it could take the money away from pensioner with no impact on our NHS or on charity . this decision be wrong , and it need to be reverse . many Opposition Members have throw the word " choice " at we . their party choose empty promise , choose unfunded policy , choose a course that lead to the decimation of our public service and to high mortgage rate and high bill , and choose to make the former Member of Parliament for South West Norfolk Prime Minister . we do not want to make this choice , but some choice be thrust upon we . we on the Labour Benches do not duck choice . this government be choose long - term economic stability , economic security and growth . this government be choose to maintain the triple lock , which will see the state pension rise year on year . this government be choose to do all in their power to make sure that hundred of thousand of pensioner claim pension credit , and they will do a lot more . do the hon . Member agree that it be deeply disingenuous for he and other Labour Members to talk about the drive to increase the uptake of pension credit ? he know full well that if the Government be able to do that , it would wipe out the saving that they be claim to make . they do not actually want people to increase their uptake of pension credit , because the Government would not save any money . order . I remind the hon . member that the word " disingenuous " be almost akin to suggest that someone be lie . perhaps he would like to withdraw his remark . I will replace " disingenuous " with " deeply , deeply concern " . I thank the hon . gentleman for his intervention , and for clarify his use of language . I can assure he that everyone on the Labour Benches , include my colleague on the Front Bench , be do everything they can to make sure that vulnerable pensioner who need pension credit receive it . we say that in good faith , and we mean it . what do the hon . Member say to the 18 , 883 pensioner in my constituency who will lose the winter fuel payment ? they include Rita , who look after her husband who have multiple sclerosis . she write to I today to say that she have to make the choice this winter between heat their home and pay for essential medication . I thank the hon . gentleman for his intervention . I say to he and his constituent that the Government be make every effort to ensure that vulnerable pensioner and pensioner who need pension credit receive it . we be stick by the triple lock to make sure that pensioner be well off year on year , and I be glad and proud that we be do so . will the hon . Gentleman give way ? I will make some progress , if I may . I have already take two intervention . this government be choose to move on from the terrible choice of the previous Government . we be choose a stable , strong economy that will benefit all of the people of this country — all demographic in all region , the next generation and definitely pensioner . fuel poverty be an enormous issue in my constituency due to a combination of demographic , geography , the housing stock and , indeed , living standard . I rise to speak on behalf of the many hundred of my constituent who have write to I to express their deep concern about the Government ' s policy . I do not have time to read out extract from their very moving email , but I know that Judy , Kenneth , Pat , Tom , Robert and Gwen be all deeply concerned about the impact that it will have . they have report their health issue , their partner ’ disability , and the fact that they be just over the limit and will not be able to access the winter fuel payment . that will force they into the classic , depress choice between heating and eat that this country must avoid . I have vote against the Government ' s policy today for three reason . first , it be socially regressive and will increase poverty among about 2 million people , nearly 1 million of whom ought to be get pension credit . the Labour party ' s effort be nowhere near fast enough to avoid increase poverty this winter . secondly , the policy be economically innumerate . it will not save the money that the Government argue it will save . there be far well way to save that money , and to fund the action that be certainly need to support our public service . thirdly , the policy be , frankly , politically inept . I really can not believe that this Government have spend political capital on make such an unfortunate and unjustifiable political decision . the winter fuel payment be not , and never be , a perfect policy . I have some sympathy with member who have speak today about the inequity of the inclusion error , whereby those who have significant wealth be still receive the payment , but that have be replace by a policy with an enormous and dangerous error of exclusion for those 2 million people who will no long get the support that they need . of course millionaire do not need the winter fuel payment , but do the hon . Member agree that there must be support for pensioner who really need it , rather than this cruel cliff edge , especially for those live in rural area such as my constituency who be not connect to the main gas grid ? I thank the hon . member for his point . like he , I live in a rural constituency with many people who be not connect to main source of power . this cliff edge be a key problem , and it have be refer to today by member from across the House . there must be a well way , and that require a well sort of politic . I have be in this Chamber today for the entirety of this debate and the one before on the statutory instrument and I have be very disappointed by the tone of some of the comment , the discussion , the debate and the argumentation that I have hear . it be the sort of politic that put people off what we do here in this Chamber . this be a classic example of how we need to find way to speak well about such fundamental issue . there must be an option to find some common ground . in the spirit of constructive criticism and constructive engagement , I urge the Government to stop , to review , to think again and to work out a way of meet their need to find funding for public service in such a way that it do not place the burden on those not with the broad shoulder but effectively with the narrow . we need to find a way of talk not just about how we deal with fuel subsidy but about make sure that every house be warm and well insulated , so that the money be not just go up the chimney , out of the window and into the pocket of the energy company . we must invest for the long term so that every home be warm and every pensioner can keep warm . two month ago , the Labour party be elect promise change and a Government of public service . although their announcement to cut winter fuel payment be change , I doubt it be one that million of pensioner up and down the land think that they would make . in term of a Government of service , I struggle to think of a great disservice to million of pensioner than take away the winter fuel payment on which they rely . pensioner who have work hard all their life deserve dignity and respect in their retirement , instead of this harsh and ill - judge policy from Labour . many of those pensioner will be force to make a tough decision this winter about whether to have the heating on , as energy price rise and temperature drop . the Government have admit to I in a response to a parliamentary question that , shockingly , they believe that 15 , 744 of my constituent in Epping Forest will have their winter fuel allowance withdraw by the Labour Government this winter , among the more than 8 . 6 million pensioner right across England who will have this lifeline withdraw . this could have so many implication for the health of old people , who spend more time inside their home when face condition , some of which need social care . there be a real concern that be cold at home may have a detrimental effect on people ' s health , as we have hear from some of our medical colleague today , result in respiratory disease , rise blood pressure , an increase risk of stroke and heart attack and even hypothermia . it be recommend by the UK Health Security Agency that the temperature should be 21 ° C in living area and 18 ° C in bedroom , which pensioner be go to struggle with this winter . in Stone , Great Wyrley and Penkridge , over 19 , 600 pensioner be go to lose their winter fuel payment . of course , so many of they be incredibly proud and do not want to apply for additional benefit , and so many will be just outside of be eligible . the decision of this Government be condemn they to a cold and incredibly hard winter . my right hon . friend be exactly right that many people be too proud to claim these benefit , and that many people be just above the cut - off point . these people have be portray by some Labour Members as rich and able to deal with it , but that be not the case . I be proud that our Conservative Government not only provide winter fuel payment , but extensively support old people and the country through difficult time during the pandemic and the effect of the war in the Ukraine and , very importantly , that they honour the conservative triple lock , mean that pensioner get the pension increase they deserve . I be also proud that my party be continue to defend old people , include through the compassionate conservative motion that trigger this debate and vote , and that I be proud to sign . the economic decision we make speak volume about our value as a society and a country . how the Labour Government respond to this debate on winter fuel payment , and how they respond in the upcoming Budget , be their chance to show where their value truly lie . this Government need to confirm that , now and in the upcoming Budget , their need to save money will not come at the expense of old people and the financial support they need . this government really need to think again about their move to cut winter fuel payment , for the sake of the million of old people who need they and for the implication it will have . if Labour choose to continue with this heartless policy , my constituent and the constituent of conservative colleague can be assure that my party and I will continue to stand up for our pensioner and will maintain our call that the winter fuel payment cut be reverse . rise — I will reduce the time limit still far , to two minute , after the next speaker . my volunteer and I have be out speak to resident across my constituency every weekend since the general election . like many other , Earley and Woodley be a very diverse constituency with diverse need . last weekend we speak to relatively well - off pensioner who tell we that they feel it be right that winter fuel payment be mean - test and that , with their sense of dignity and generosity , they do not need state aid in this respect . pensioner in other part of my constituency be less well off , and I be shocked to find that one in three pensioner in my constituency who be eligible for pension credit , which be roughly 1 , 000 pensioner — as well as one in three across the UK who be eligible for pension credit , or 880 , 000 — do not claim it . over the weekend I hold one of my first constituency surgery at the Whitley community development association caf é . a staff member tell I that they talk to the pensioner who come in about the struggle they face with the cost of living crisis that have unravel over the last few year . they talk to they about support , but these elderly people respond , " no , I don ' t need benefit . I don ' t need help . " I recognise that as part of the broad societal stigma around be a recipient of benefit and state aid , which this Government must challenge and defeat . a compassionate , generous and dignified society recognise when people require help , when people do not require help and when people can help other , and accept that people sometimes fall on hard time due to an accident , bereavement , illness or other reason outside their control . for those who need help , it be not undignified to seek it . in fact , it be very important that every pensioner listen to my speech , whether they be in my Earley and Woodley constituency or elsewhere in the UK , know how to seek help and can seek it if they need it . I be determined that we bring about a dignified and fair means - test benefit and tax system . fairness and dignity will keep that system function . member on both side of the House have talk about civility . we too often hear about individual and societal group be pit against each other . pensioner in Earley and Woodley be part of the broad community , and they have child and grandchild who work in hospital , who require care , who be support by teacher , who take bus and train and , yes , who avail themselves of all the mean of support provide to maintain our flourish and cohesive society . it be unacceptable — order . I call Rebecca Harris . about 20 , 000 pensioner in Castle Point be set to lose their winter fuel payment under this cruel and vindictive policy that the Labour Government have choose to adopt . contrary to the accusation from the Government , I have , with the support of former Work and Pensions Ministers , run campaign after campaign to increase the uptake of pension credit . only 2 , 076 pensioner receive it in my constituency , despite campaign after campaign and leaflette group and church . it be not easy to get people to take it up — some be proud . I have raise my voice with elderly lady who have say it be charity , and tell they , " no , it ' s not . it ' s not charity — we don ' t think you can live without it . " we have try very hard . hundred of worried constituent have write to I about heat their home . we have lot of low energy efficiency home , include one of the big park home site in the country , and I have many park home site . fortunately , we manage to find £ 2 . 5 million from the previous Government to retrofit some of they , but we still have a lot of people live in fuel - inefficient home that be hard to retrofit . the worry that this be cause people be the big issue I see now , and it show how out of touch and arrogant the Labour Government be that they do not understand this about pensioner . People who be 75 and on a fix income may have a little bit of saving or a modest private pension — I think all hon . member be very disappointed not to see a proper impact analysis of this decision . do my hon . friend agree that the good way to analyse the impact of such a policy be to speak to the people who send we to this place , as she be say , and to hear the utter fear and concern they have about its impact ? my hon . friend be spot on . it be the anxiety that it cause people . they do not know if they will live another 18 month or 25 year . People on fix income , with no ability to raise that income , be very worried about spend money . there be also a large and , sadly , grow cohort of elderly resident who be develop dementia , and one of the early symptom , often , be financial anxiety , include in people whom we would think of as really quite wealthy . I have know resident who have regress to think that they be still live under rationing because they grow up as a lad in abject poverty , and they will not spend money . be tell , " here ' s £ 300 for fuel , " make a world of difference to those people . I be not a fan of Gordon Brown , who once give a derisory 75p increase to pensioner , but this policy be a huge success — credit to he . that be why my Government never change it . for £ 300 for every pensioner , we give incredible peace of mind that they can put their heating on — do my hon . friend worry , as I do , that some of our constituent will die this year as a result of this policy ? I do not think that I need to worry ; I think we know that will happen , because we know about their behaviour and their concern about put the heating on , and their lack of understanding of how much every heating bill will cost they . this £ 300 be psychologically very important to know that they could put their heating on to keep they healthy and out of hospital . of all the tough decision that we have to consider when we come into office in 2010 , when there be no magicked - up , home - make £ 22 billion black hole excuse — there be a vast deficit and we have to make a lot of tough decision — we never make this one . I be sure Labour Members never think in the general election campaign that they would be give pensioner the choice between heating and eat . many Labour Members have not even bother to turn up for a debate on something so critical for many pensioner across this country . we have talk about choice , and this be all about choice . the Government have make a political choice . Labour Members will all have to make a choice , and face their constituent whether they vote for or against . I urge they not to cut the winter fuel allowance . let I go on a journey and set out the narrative . the Government say there be a debt and imagine there be a black hole they have to fill , so let we have a look at the number . they say they have to find £ 22 billion , so let we cut £ 1 . 1 billion but in the same breath add £ 9 billion for the pension . at the same time , the red herring that be the great british Energy flop add another £ 8 . 4 billion . that be a decision that the Government have make , but why would the Labour party let number get in the way of a good story ? the number show the Government have no issue make decision against pensioner . I be a proud veteran . in November , on Remembrance Day , we ask people to remember those who pay the ultimate sacrifice in the service of their country . I challenge Labour Members to look at pensioner who have serve and say , " we will never forget , " because those pensioner have already be forget . in the spirit of what my hon . friend describe , I will cite the example of Betty Webb , a constituent of mine who receive an mbe for her work as a codebreaker at Bletchley Park . she be 101 year old . she be a widow who live alone . she be live in fear not just that the Government will take away the winter fuel allowance , but that in future they will snatch away the 25 % single person ' s discount on council tax . many other constituent of mine be fearful of the same thing . my hon . friend make a great point . pensioner , include those who have give a life of service to this country , be live in fear of what be come next . almost a third of resident in South Shropshire be pensioner , and they have be write to I and they be absolutely livid . they feel like they have be lead down the garden path — take away this payment be not what be promise . it be cruel , heartless and callous . this policy need to change . the Chancellor have make a rookie error . she have go into the Treasury and , with everything in front of she , say , " do this , " and she have remove the personal view . she have make a political decision — [ interruption . ] of course it be a rookie error . this be a massive error . she have listen and remove people from the equation . when people be remove from politic , it be a road to nowhere . will the Chancellor go and see the Downing Street chief of staff and ask for permission to reverse this proposal ? nearly 22 , 000 of my constituent will lose their winter fuel payment . currently , only 1 , 500 will receive it . that be a massive cliff edge for those 22 , 000 resident . while many of they may feel that they do not require that payment , as have be mention by other hon . member , the vast majority of those pensioner fall into low and middle - income bracket because thing do not have such high financial value in the south - west . as the hon . member for North Cornwall ( Ben Maguire ) allude to , many property be off - grid . member may not have realise that 24 % of home across the south - west do not have gas , which be a much cheap source of energy . they resort to use oil and log to heat their home , with the enormous cost that go with they . that be an additional challenge . concern have be raise about those who be single , those in receipt of the old basic state pension , which be not as high as the new state pension , and those with health condition . the first resident to contact I be a 74 - year - old single man , on an old - style pension , who be just outside the bracket for pension credit or any other form of benefit , who be deeply concerned about this winter . my hon . friend make a good point about those with health condition . do she agree that there be no provision in the proposal for those live with dementia or long - term frailty ? those be not means - test disease or condition , yet the Government have not make any provision or assessment of how those live with dementia will miss out . I agree . my hon . friend make an incredibly important point about those vulnerable old people who live with dementia ; many of our constituent will be in that situation . why be we not look at alternative way to deal with this cliff edge ? a couple of year ago , the conservative party propose the council tax rebate scheme , which use the council tax system as a mechanism to ensure the most vulnerable receive support . single - person household , those where someone have dementia , or household in receipt of council tax credit because they do not have a particularly high income receive a discount through the council tax rebate scheme . that system could be replicate with the winter fuel payment , which would offer an alternative way of avoid that cliff edge for so many resident . finally , I know that health have already be mention , but I wish to use this as an opportunity to highlight the fact that so many more elderly people will need hospital care this winter , but that be massively impact and at risk because the Government will not confirm which of the new hospital programme be go forward . in particular , the emergency and urgent care centre in Plymouth will be vital to provide the healthcare that our old people will need if they be unable to heat their home or to look after themselves , and to ensure that they have all the support they need . it be only two month ago that Labour win a majority in the general election on a message of change . but in those two month the new Labour UK Government have refuse to abolish the cruel two - child benefit cap and now seek to take away winter fuel payment of up to £ 300 from million of pensioner across the UK , by limit it to recipient of pension credit . well , nothing have change . some 68 % of household in Carmarthenshire live in home with poor energy efficiency in 2022 , and 60 . 4 % of household in my Caerfyrddin seat live off the gas grid , often rely on oil as a heat source . but the price of oil be very volatile , and in winter we can see it go up by 20p or 30p a litre , cause uncertainty for people budget over the winter . not heat a home can have serious consequence . a cold home bring with it a high risk of stroke , respiratory infection and fall or other injury . the end Fuel Poverty Coalition estimate that nearly 5 , 000 excess winter death be cause by live in cold home during the winter of 2022 - 23 . and many old , vulnerable people have high energy cost due to health reason . it be a shame that the Minister of State for Crime , Policing and Fire misspoke early this week , as the consideration of other option , such as a social tariff or different way of mean testing , would be welcome . as constructive criticism , can the Government bring the winter fuel payment within the definition of a taxable income to ensure that pensioner get what they need ? in closing , I call on colleague to consider whether they can justify — order . I call Alicia Kearns . I rise to speak on behalf of the 20 , 800 pensioner in Rutland , Stamford and the Harborough and South Kesteven village who will lose their winter fuel payment this winter . this decision affect million of people who buy into our country ' s social contract : you work hard , you pay your taxis and when you grow old , we will support you through your retirement . I make two request of the Labour Government , although I know that they will both be reject . first , I ask they to delay implementation to give people more time to prepare . old people be some of the most financially cautious in our society . they save , they go without , they avoid debt , and they give what they can to their child , their grandchild and their friend in need . a delay of a year would give people the time to claim pension credit , if eligible , to face the upcoming increase in energy bill and to plan for the next winter . secondly , I ask the Government to give an exemption to anyone suffer from a chronic or life - shortening illness . since this cut be announce , I have hear from so many people , include Di , who email I out of concern not for herself , but for her husband Jeff , who suffer from cancer and have to wear three layer of clothe all year round , even in the summer . as Di put it , the decision — and it be a decision by the Prime Minister — be penalise the ill . her " hubby will suffer " and she be shatter . we will hear a lot from the Government about hard choice , but if I be ask to choose between heat the home of the elderly , cancer sufferer and dementia sufferer or give a no - string - attach pay rise to train driver already on nearly £ 70 , 000 , the choice would be pretty damn obvious to I . but then , ASLEF do not donate to my election campaign . People say that we can tell a lot about a society by how it treat its most vulnerable and its eld . if we apply that test to this cut , anyone with a heart will know that it be wrong . I , for one , will never vote to deprive the most vulnerable and our elderly of warmth . when I be 14 year old , I start deliver meal on Wheels on Christmas day for the disadvantaged around west London , and I have do so every year since that I have live in London . the scheme be organise by Age UK and it be a privilege to be invite into people ' s home in midwinter . I look forward to do it again this Christmas , and I hope that those I visit last year will be there this year . the Government be seek to raise money , and I get that . they be seek to do so by get those with the broad shoulder to take the heavy load , and I get that too . in order to achieve those goal , the Government be mean - test the winter fuel payment — and there be the rub . by choose that mean test , the Government be indeed take the winter fuel payment from millionaire pensioner , but they be also take it from the much less well off and from the not well off at all . in short , they be cut too deep . mistake happen , but it be how we deal with mistake that be important . I spend the weekend listen to the Prime Minister use the word " tough " as many time as he possibly could . on the battlefield of the world , which I have be on for the last 25 year , toughness be not one of the thing that people look for in their leader . the two thing they look for be courage and competence . courage — moral courage — sometimes mean that people need to admit when they have make a mistake and change their plan . however , the people of Spelthorne — and , I suspect , the pensioner across the country — would just settle for a bit of competence . this Government need to get good at governing , and they need to do so quickly . we have hear description today of pensioner as millionaire . we have hear that this be a principled decision to cut money from they . I be astonish at that description . like my hon . friend the Member for South West Devon ( Rebecca Smith ) , I be from the south - west — the south - west of Scotland — and I can count on one hand , I would suggest , the number of millionaire pensioner there . even if their home be worth million , have rise in price through no fault of theirs , they be asset - rich , and that be very different from be cash and liquidity rich . if they be hit with a bill , they can not sell their home . that leave people in an absolute bind . we have hear very little today from the SNP , because in Scotland the SNP Government have the ability to ameliorate this decision , should it go ahead . it will cost , they estimate , £ 160 million . I accept that be not button ; it be not peanut . however , the last Conservative Government send £ 41 billion to Scotland and I think we should be able to find that money in Scotland to help the bad - off in our society . this be a wrong - headed decision , and I be astonish to hear it be describe as a principled decision . since the announcement of the Government ' s plan , I and colleague across this House have be inundate with heartfelt story of elderly people across the country who will be unfairly harm by the removal of the winter fuel allowance . it be concern that the impact be not properly assess before the Government take this step . in Chichester , we have 24 , 000 pensioner who be not receive pension credit , many of whom sit just above the threshold — constituent such as Sherry , who be 80 and registered disabled . she have to maintain an even live temperature to deal with condition while live in a 100 - year - old cottage with poor insulation . Roy and his wife be in their late 80 and have burn through their meagre saving cover their rise energy bill during this cost of living crisis . Vicky write to I about have to choose between eat and heating in the current winter month because she will not be able to afford to do both . our elderly , who have work hard throughout their life , be now be abandon by a Government that should be support they when they need help the most . the Liberal Democrats understand the disastrous state our public finance have be leave in , due to the fiscal mismanagement of the previous Conservative Government , and we recognise that tough decision need to be make . however , those decision should not be make at the expense of our elderly . the burden of this conservative fiscal chaos need to be spread to those with the broad shoulder , rather than punish those who have already be hit hard by it . cut the winter fuel allowance in the midst of a cost of living crisis will leave thousand of elderly individual across Chichester and million across the UK without the financial support they need to stay warm and healthy this winter . with the price cap due to rise in October , it could be argue that the winter fuel allowance be need this winter more than ever . the change that the Government announce this morning will mean than 18 , 300 of my constituent will go without their winter fuel payment this Christmas . in the brief time that I have , I will set out why I believe that be just the start from the Government . the first reason be that cut winter fuel payment for poor pensioner be a political choice , not a necessity , despite what the Leader of the House say . over the election period , Labour say that it would not cut the winter fuel payment . it have break its promise to the british people , and they will remember that . Labour also say that it would possibly do more , although it have deny that it would not do more . today ' s measure will save £ 1 billion , as I outline in my early intervention , but Labour have award inflation - bust pay rise of £ 9 billion to its union paymaster . can the hon . member explain to the House and to his constituent why he would not back fair pay rise for teacher , nurse , prison officer and member of the armed force in his constituency ? I will not take any lecture from the hon . member , but I say to he that I always defend pay rise for people in this country who deserve they , which be exactly what the Conservative Government do . what our Government do not do be award inflation - bust pay rise of 22 % to the people who pay for our general election campaign , increase inflation in this country . I believe that people deserve pay rise , but that should be do within a responsible fiscal envelope . the Labour Government simply have not do that . as we hear from the Chancellor early , the measure that she have announce will cost more than the saving generate from scrap the winter fuel payment — that be a shamble . the Government have do this at a time when energy bill will increase by 10 % , despite the Labour party ' s promise in Opposition that it would freeze energy bill — another broken promise that pensioner will have to face this Christmas . the Government have also refuse to rule out scrap the 25 % single occupancy discount for pensioner and single people . if that go ahead , they will deprive pensioner of another £ 600 on average . that be a political choice and a cost of live bombshell that this Labour Government — supposedly the party of hard - work people — will impose on vulnerable and poor pensioner across the country . Labour Members have a choice this afternoon and go forward . they should reverse the cut , stand up for the thousand of people in their constituency who will be make poor by the Government , and reject the measure that they outline early . let I put it this way : 18 , 000 people in my constituency rely on the winter fuel payment , as do thousand of Labour Members ’ constituent . when we go to the ballot box in four year ' time , I look forward to Labour Members stand up and explain to those pensioner why they make they poor . in my first speech in this Chamber , I assure the House than my nan would keep I on my toe . even before the cut to the winter fuel payment have hit the news headline , she be on the phone to I to sort it out . my nan be one of 15 , 000 pensioner in Broxbourne who will end up lose £ 300 a year — a vital sum of money that would help they to keep their home warm this winter . the Government ' s priority be clearly dictate by their union paymaster , so I be tempt to advise my nan to start her own pensioner ' union . if there be one , I be sure that pensioner would have see their winter fuel payment go up rather than be abolish . when we put the Chancellor ' s decision into context , it be even more staggering . labour ' s deal with the union , which have cost the taxpayer £ 14 billion , will see the average salary of train driver , who be already well pay , rise from £ 60 , 000 to £ 70 , 000 a year . help for heating bill be be take away from the elderly , but the energy price cap be go up by 10 % in a few week ' time — a double blow for pensioner . be make it more expensive for pensioner to heat their home in Labour ' s manifesto ? it be not . in fact , we be tell that Labour would slash fuel poverty and save family hundred of pound . that be yet another broken promise , and Labour have be in power for only 10 week . my nan be not the only one to have get in touch with I about this ; I have be inundate with letter and email from hundred of constituent . winter be come , and I strongly urge the Government to change course . my constituency have a high proportion of people in receipt of winter fuel payment than most other constituency . over 21 , 000 of they be set to lose that vital support . constituent have tell I that they face a choice between eating and heating . other have tell I that they be concerned for their health during the cold winter month . their story be a powerful reminder of the human cost of this decision . Maggie be 86 and live in Handbridge in my constituency . she work as a midwife in the NHS for 40 year , so have a state pension and a small NHS pension . she be not eligible for additional benefit because she be careful with what she earn and save wisely . Maggie be just above the threshold to be eligible for continued support . she be also a dual cancer survivor , have beat breast cancer in 2013 and bowel cancer in 2016 . Maggie be understandably worried about the consequence of be unable to heat her home this winter . there be also the story of Jackie and John , who live in Audlem . like many people live in a rural village , they live off grid and do not have access to main gas . they must rely on heat oil to heat their home . pensioner who have pay into the system all their work life ought to be able to enjoy their retirement with dignity , security and respect . we all know in this House that to govern be to choose . Labour have choose . it have choose its union paymaster over our vulnerable pensioner community . it have let down Maggie , John and Jackie , and many other like they . I urge the Government to listen with compassion and reconsider this political decision . for over five year , I have be raise the issue of impact assessment and the fact that they do not make sense . I see the Opposition Front Benchers nod along , because they know that I have be raise that issue . impact assessment be do on a stupid basis that do not make any sense , and certainly not in today ' s world . if the Opposition Front Benchers have only change it when they have the opportunity , we would not be in this situation today . but the Labour party have the opportunity to change the way we do impact assessment so that they actually make sense . they should be about not just whether business will be impact to the tune of £ 5 million , but what matter to people and whether their life will be impact by a change in policy . that be the point at which impact assessment should be do . we do not have an impact assessment for this policy . do the Labour party and the UK Government know that single woman be three time more likely to be miss out on pension credit than single man ? do the Labour party know that pensioner who be black or from asian ethnic background be more likely to be in poverty than white pensioner ? do it therefore know that this decision have a differential impact on minority community ? be that why it have refuse to share the impact assessment with we ? how will this policy grow the economy ? how will ensure that pensioner , who we know spend in their local community , have less money to spend in those local shop grow the economy ? the issue with all of this be not whether we have a Tory or a Labour Government . it be that Westminster consistently fail to work for the people of Scotland . I find it slightly ironic that we be debate this policy today . this be about political choice . a policy that be bring in under Gordon Brown — a social democratic policy of inclusivity under which everyone buy into the state — be be scrap in favour of a neoliberal means - test policy , one that I think most actual Labour socialist would be ashamed of . I declare an interest : I be a member of Care Campaign for the Vulnerable , which help elderly resident who have medical issue or be in care . one of the issue for those elderly people be heat . these be the elderly who fight for the reconstruction of Britain in post - war London and across the UK , have rationing for year and year and pay their taxis . we have build this country on the back of their hard work and sacrifice , only to turn around and say , " no . we do not scrap this policy under 14 year of a Conservative Government , but we be scrap it as the first thing we do as a Labour Government . " I be not even blame the Minister , the hon . member for Ealing North ( James Murray ) . I know the Minister and his parent when they be councillor with I in Ealing — true socialist , for the many , not the few . I be not sure that apply here . this be a political choice to give labour ' s union paymaster a pay rise over vulnerable pensioner . this be about pay £ 8 billion or £ 9 billion for an energy company that will not generate a single watt of energy . this be about political choice and political will . if we , the Conservatives , could keep a Labour policy for our entire time in government , it be shocking and dishearten that the Labour party be make this choice now . maybe in two minute , this debate can well be sum up with a lesser - know fable : the farmer and the viper . a farmer be walk through his field . it be very cold in the winter , and he find a viper just under the bush . the viper be cold , limp , and almost dead . the farmer know it be poisonous , but he feel compassion for the creature , pick it up and put it in his pocket . as the creature become warm , it revert to type and bit he and , as he die in that field , he say , " I get what I deserve . I shouldn ' t have show kindness to a scoundrel . " that ring true , because after 14 year of the Labour party be out in the cold , the pensioner of this country back Labour into government , under an impression create by the Prime Minister . only in May 2024 , he goad our government , ask " will the Prime Minister now rule out taking pensioner ' winter fuel payment off they ? " — [ Official Report , 1 May 2024 ; Vol . 749 , c . 255 . ] if we scratch the surface a little bit deeply , though , we find that , on 25 March 2014 , the now Chancellor say that " we be the party who have say that we will cut the winter fuel allowance for the rich pensioner and mean - test that benefit to save money " — [ Official Report , 25 March 2014 ; Vol . 578 , c . 174 - 175 . ] so this be not a response to a concocted black hole . this be a choice — as Laura Kuenssberg point out , it be a choice to pay the union on the back of our pensioner . the public be not stupid . the cartoonist Matt sum it up perfectly when he say , " surprisingly , Robin Hood , nobody like your plan to steal from pensioner to give to train driver . " I be in the Chamber last week when the Secretary of State for Energy Security and Net Zero say that Conservative member should " show a bit of bravery — even break the Whip and stand out from the crowd . " — [ Official Report , 5 September 2024 ; Vol . 753 , c . 461 . ] I be disappointed that Labour Members do not take that advice , with only one Labour MP do so . I call another doctor , Dr Kieran Mullan . I rise to express my strong opposition to the Government ' s decision to remove the winter fuel payment from million of pensioner , a move that will strip vital financial support from thousand of my constituent — people who have contribute to our country and help to build it . the impact in Bexhill and Battle will be profound : Age UK estimate that more than 25 , 000 pensioner will lose their winter fuel payment as a result of this decision . I hope the Government understand just how significant their decision be in constituency such as mine . the Government say that they be focus on increase the uptake of pension credit . if all those who be eligible to claim pension credit do so , though , the £ 1 . 4 billion that the Treasury be expect to save by mean - test the winter fuel payment will be dwarf by the increase in the cost of pension credit , so the Government have to admit that , ultimately , they do not actually want all those pensioner to take up pension credit . our pensioner deserve well . the fall - back of this government since they take office be to blame the previous Government for all the unpopular action they have decide to take . they claim the state of the economy be a reason to remove this vital lifeline for pensioner , but let we be clear about the fact . on a broad range of indicator , the situation they have inherit be significantly less challenging than the one we inherit in 2010 . we inherit an economy just out of the deep recession since 1955 . labour leave we with public sector net borrowing at 10 . 3 % of gdp ; today it be at 4 . 4 % . unemployment in 2010 be 7 . 9 % ; unemployment now stand at 4 . 1 % . however , from 2010 onwards , through all these difficult time , we make decision to protect pensioner , and we make sure to keep the winter fuel payment . it be the right thing to do then , and it be the right thing to do now . I ask the Government to listen to mps from across the House , include some on their own Benches , and think again . the Prime Minister and Labour Members try to bring this country together after division and turmoil , and today I have to say they have succeed . they have unite the country . they have unite it in opposition to this new Labour Government and their attack on old people — the very people who deserve compassion , dignity and respect after their lifetime of hard work . I stand unashamedly shoulder to shoulder with pensioner in Upper Bann and across the United Kingdom in their opposition to this reckless decision . our pensioner be be leave out in the cold by a Government who promise to restore hope . where be the compassionate labour we be promise ? where be the restore hope ? what hope do pensioner have in Upper Bann ? what hope do they have that this government might listen , care for they and stop neglect they ? they now feel like they be the target . to be fair , this Government have offer pensioner something to keep they busy through the cold winter month by suggest they take a stab at complete the pension credit application form — a form with 243 question across 24 page , with a delay of nine week for a decision . they be ask pensioner to navigate a bureaucratic nightmare just to receive a fraction of what they need to survive . I stand here today unite with my constituent and unite with pensioner across this country in opposition to this baseless decision . in conclusion , no one be argue that millionaire should get the winter fuel payment , but over 6 million of the pensioner set to be impact by this decision be live on the state pension . they be live on just over £ 11 , 000 a year . could anyone in this House live on £ 11 , 000 a year ? Mid Norfolk be a profoundly rural constituency , with 130 village and four town , and in that very rural constituency , as with all rural area in this country , people be pay a surcharge because of energy cost and because of rurality . there will be cold weather , and many of my house be not on the gas grid , while rural area traditionally have low income and we have an elderly population . the Treasury , very helpfully — it be a shame Ministers do not read it — do a piece of work last year look at the risk of rural poverty and the high risk of rural area fall into real poverty . the Treasury ' s own figure show that the average household at risk of poverty in rural area need an extra £ 800 ; or in layman ' s term , there be a two and a half time — or 250 % — high risk of rural house fall into rural poverty . so I find it completely extraordinary that Labour , which in government profess to care about poverty and berate my party when in government about the risk of rural poverty and of pensioner poverty , have decide as their first act to punish people in rural area . it be because of those rural risk that , early this year , I and a number of colleague set up a fair funding alliance , support by Action with Communities in Rural England , the Countryside Alliance and rural body . high fuel and energy price be hit rural area , and we would have hope that this Government might have listen . I be proud that the conservative party in government upgrade pension , protect the triple lock and take 200 , 000 pensioner out of poverty . the former Member for Thornbury and Yate introduce the triple lock , which be actually a liberal Democrat policy . would the hon . member care to correct the record on that point ? it be my good friend the now noble Lord Willetts in a coalition Government with the Liberal Democrats , and I will happily debate with the hon . member some of the brave decision we take . the point be that this party , the conservative party , protect pensioner , protect the triple lock and lift 200 , 000 people out of poverty , but we see this Labour Government make this decision . the Minister put it very clearly early . this be an attack on people who own their own home , people who have retire in rural area and those just over the threshold , and in Labour world they be millionaire . this will not be forget by people in my constituency , the low - income rural pensioner who have save up to be able to afford their own home and be now be clobber . it be unfair , it be unjust , it be unjustifiable , it be unprecedented , and I urge and beg Ministers to think again . I rise to voice my strong opposition to the Labour Government ' s cruel choice to scrap the winter fuel allowance for an estimate 10 million pensioner across the country . I have be contact by hundred of pensioner in my constituency who be all incredibly concerned about the dire consequence of this Government ' s decision . I meet many of they in surgery and at Keighley agricultural show this weekend , and they be tell I that they be go to struggle to pay their bill this winter . statistic show that just over 64 , 000 pensioner across the Bradford district , include 20 , 000 in my constituency , will be negatively impact as a result of the Labour Government ' s decision . that , quite frankly , be a disgrace . Citizens Advice , Age UK and hundred of charity across the UK have also come out against these proposal , warn that low - income household that be already struggle to make end meet will be force this winter into impossible choice between heat their home or put food on the table . it be incredibly disappointing to see the hon . member for Shipley ( Anna Dixon ) from the Bradford district , vote with the Government this evening , ensure that she do not stand up for the wide Bradford district , as I will be do . it be Labour ' s choice that we be put pensioner at risk as a result of this decision , and labour ' s choice that be put my constituent , pensioner who be vulnerable , in the dire position of have to decide whether they heat their home or put food on the table this winter . I only hope that quick change will be make to ensure that pensioner be look after in the run - up to winter . some 19 , 500 pensioner in Angus and Perthshire Glens will be strip of their winter fuel payment by this Labour Government . I can not tell the House how cold it get in Angus and Perthshire Glens in wintertime , but if anyone on the Labour Front Bench want to come and sit in my garage on a January day , I will turn the heating off in the whole property and they can see what it will be like for some pensioner in my constituency . I will not be support this measure because it be incompetent . it be incompetent operationally , because it do not take cognisance of co - morbidity in already frail people , or of what will happen to those people as they budget to try to accommodate this unnecessary cut to their income . it be fiscally incompetent , because it do not take cognisance of whole - system cost — people present at hospital or go into care prematurely because they can not stay at home , because of what they do to try to make end meet . it do not take account of the cost to the suppose saving of £ 1 . 5 billion once pension credit be take up fully , render the saving meaningless . it be morally incompetent because , as we have hear from professional in the Chamber , as a result of this decision , people will die . moreover , this measure be not in the Labour party manifesto , which be reprehensible , and it ignore the cultural sensitivity of old people , many of whom find ask for help anathema ; they will never do it , no matter how entitled they be . I very much hope that when the Minister sum up the debate , she will estimate how many of the 209 extra labour mps in this House , include 37 in Scotland , would be here if cut the winter fuel payment have be on the face of their manifesto . it would be very many few . I speak on behalf of 19 , 300 pensioner in my constituency who be set to lose their winter fuel allowance . some 23 % of my constituent be age 65 or over , which be well above the national average . many retired people in my constituency have do the right thing : they have work all their life , pay their national insurance stamp , and now have a small private pension and modest saving . it be because they have do the right thing that many of those pensioner be not eligible to claim pension credit . this government be choose to punish they for the prudent and conscientious choice they make through their work life by withdraw this important mean of support . labour justify the decision to cut the winter fuel allowance by talk about its alleged poor economic inheritance . let we take a moment to clear up some fact . in 2010 , the budget deficit be about 11 % of gdp at £ 157 billion . today , it be about 4 % of gdp . in 2010 , unemployment be about 8 % , and today it have halve and be about 4 % . in May 2010 , inflation be 3 . 4 % . today it be 2 % . this be not the bad economic inheritance since the war . I be sure my hon . friend will agree when I say that the economic inheritance that the Government receive be incredible , consider that we have to deal with the covid pandemic crisis as well as the russian invasion of Ukraine . that put huge pressure on our economy . my hon . friend make an important point . it just emphasise the fact that when the Chancellor say that it be a tough decision that have to be make , she be actually make a political choice . she have choose to give train driver earn £ 60 , 000 a year a pay rise of 15 % . she have choose to cut the income of retire people with a pension of £ 15 , 000 a year . that be her choice , and the british people will judge she and the Labour party on it . let we be absolutely clear about what have happen today : every single Labour MP who vote to cut the winter fuel allowance have break their promise to the country . pensioner know that before the election labour deny that it be go to do this , but they might not know that the Chancellor have be plan it for 10 year . in 2014 she say : " we will cut the winter fuel allowance for the rich pensioner and mean - test that benefit to save money " . — [ Official Report , 25 March 2014 ; Vol . 578 , c . 174 . ] be we suppose to believe that she change her mind after that and then change it back again shortly after the general election ? I do not think so . there may be a case for means - testing , but the Chancellor be cut the payment not just for the rich pensioner , but for pensioner on very modest income . she be also not make the case for it . she be ask the Secretary of State for Work and Pensions to do her dirty work for she . if winter fuel payment be to be mean - test , surely the proceed should go towards low - income pensioner and the cost of social care , but they be not . they be go on above - inflation pay rise for the like of labour donor ASLEF . last Friday in Boston I be stop by a pensioner , a lovely lady call Elizabeth , who shake my hand and burst into tear — uncontrollable tear of genuine fear . she represent more than 22 , 200 pensioner in Boston and Skegness who will lose out through this cruel policy . it be the fear of be cold this winter — not know how cold — and the fear of what will happen to energy price in October . how high will they go in January ? it be the unbelievable fear of not know whether she will see the end of winter , because that be the reality : old , cold people die early . we have hear about choice a lot today . it be true that this Government have make a calculate deliberate , heartless , cruel choice to enrich their union paymaster , to enrich public sector worker with no requirement on productivity , to enrich well - pay train driver and to impoverish pensioner . let I tell this House that voter will not forget and they will not forgive . some 17 , 047 pensioner in Gordon and Buchan will lose their winter fuel payment follow today ' s vote by the Labour party , but this decision for my constituent show that they be be let down by their government at Holyrood and at Westminster . the Labour party be choose to let they down by cut the winter fuel payment , and the SNP be choose not to pass on Barnett consequential . in north - east Scotland , winter be long and harsh than in most of the country . our temperature often fall below minus 10 ° c for a sustained period , and in recent year it have not be unusual to have have minus 20 ° C in Aberdeenshire . the winter fuel payment be not a luxury for our pensioner ; it be a lifeline . this be the Labour party ' s choice . as much as it would like to explain that choice away , it have choose to cut the winter fuel payment , and it must face what that mean . labour ' s choice mean that our pensioner now have to make their own choice , so Labour ' s choice have become a pensioner ' s choice . perhaps most shocking of all be Labour ' s breathtake hypocrisy on this issue . in 2017 , Labour Members on these Opposition Benches have their own research show that cut winter fuel payment could lead to almost 4 , 000 excess death . they then vehemently oppose any change to what they call that " vital " support . what have change ? have pensioner suddenly become more resilient to the cold , or have the Labour party simply abandon its principle to fund its own political choice ? many pensioner in my constituency still rely on solid fuel such as oil , so once a year , go into winter , they fill up their tank . payment for that will be come shortly — before November , and way before next year and any pension rise . how will those pensioner afford to fill their tank and heat their home in the month to come ? rise — I be grateful for all the bobbing , but we must now go to the Front - Bench speaker . I call the shadow Minister . I welcome the Under - Secretary of State for Work and Pensions , the hon . member for Wycombe ( Emma Reynolds ) , to her place and wish she well . it be a pleasure to close the debate on behalf of his Majesty ' s official opposition , but sadly that be where any pleasure at be at this Dispatch Box on this matter end . we have debate a clear and stark choice make by the new Labour Government , the Prime Minister and his " this black hole be what make I do it " Chancellor . it be a patently poor political choice that be wrong - headed and frankly a disgrace . it be a blatant choice for union paymaster while axe key support for 10 million pensioner . it be a reward for Labour ' s funder . none of that be in the manifesto or on election leaflet — it be pure subterfuge and hoodwinking . no charity or group fully back this measure , give the timescale and its cack - handed and draconian delivery . the Government can bluster and say with the faux anger we hear early that they have be act with the hand they be give . they can say that they simply have no choice and that this be a necessity due to the fantasy inheritance they be allegedly leave . let we look at the fact . UK unemployment sit at 4 . 1 % , sterling be up against the dollar and growth be outpace inflation . despite some loyal speech from new Government Members and passionate speech from all around the Chamber , Labour Members know — many of they be blank , mute , absent or perhaps even stunned — that minister be target our pensioner with so little notice . as the night draw in , high winter fuel bill loom . to dress up this measure under the cloak of financial necessity be staggering . it be a costly mistake from the Treasury under the Labour Chancellor that the DWP will have to shoulder , move staff swiftly to cover the incoming impact of those apply for pension credit . what about those who have plan to pay for their pre - Christmas tank of off - grid oil with their £ 300 of expect support ? the demand surge for pension credit must be meet in both cost and delivery , and DWP Ministers will be scratch their head about where the resource will come from for the report surge in pension credit application . rise — I will give way to the hon . Gentleman if he can tell we why he think this be a good idea . I can assure the shadow Minister that I do not think it be a good idea . on the point that she and other have raise about no assessment have be do , I represent Northern Ireland , where 49 . 5 % of home rely solely on oil for heat . do she think that the Government realise the additional pressure that will be put on Northern Ireland pensioner follow the decision ? our Minister for Communities announce today that 306 , 000 people will lose the payment . I thank the hon . gentleman for stand up for his constituent . I agree about the disproportionate and deep impact on our cold spot in Northern Ireland , rural area , the north and Scotland . this benefit reform will not be easy . we bear the scar on the Opposition Benches from universal credit , but the change be truly worth it . as the hon . Gentleman say , what do the impact assessment actually say ? who gain , and do it stack up financially ? I think we all know that it do not , else the Government would have not ignore the Social Security Advisory Committee process and its scrutiny . they would have do a proper impact assessment and a regulatory assessment , and they would not have try to avoid a vote on the Floor of the House . Government Members will troop through the Lobby again , as fodder for an out - of - touch Prime Minister , or they may abstain to avoid the eye of the Chancellor , deep in the hope that spray billion of pound on gimmick like a shell company call GB Energy will be worth it . they must be aware that they will have to face people in their community who will want to understand why a few millionaire be worth the attack on million . let we take June . she tell the BBC that she will struggle to stay warm this winter . she be already plan her jumper , cardigan and candle . my constituent Valerie from East Grinstead write to I — one of almost 20 , 000 affected — and say : " I be 80 year old and live on a State Pension of less than £ 11k , not the … £ 13k that I keep read about … I don ' t know who get that much but I certainly don ' t ! " she go on to say that it will be " a long , cold winter … please do what you can to get this dreadful decision reverse . " Labour Members could join we in the Lobby to back pensioner like Valerie . the opposition welcome the household support fund extension and the commitment to the Conservatives ' triple lock , but we know go into winter , with energy bill go up , that the right thing to do be to help with cost of living payment . in my experience as an MP and a Minister , I know that the worry and responsibility of this job come to all member in the dead of night . it will be in the darkness and the cold in the small hour that woman and man who have serve this country and support family and community will be lie awake worried , fret and feel afraid . for those who be frail and live with a disability or a health condition , warmth matter to their health , Loneliness , isolation and worry will eat away at they , because they can not take a job or do some extra hour to help make end meet . medic have warn that this will have serious health threat , as have Age UK . pensioner on low income matter . they truly be the people who know how to budget . they be the people who eke out and work out their finance . nobody will work out how this new Labour Government of service have target those people so shamefully this autumn . those family will not forget . they be not statistic . they be Valerie and June , and thousand of other in every community and constituency . they be proud pensioner , who too often go without but do not tell other that they be . again this winter , they will go without for other . this be horrific . it be a blight on this new Government . it be not right for this to happen to pensioner on their watch . it be their choice . I ask that hon . member and Ministers do the right thing and stop this callous cut now . this have be an important debate , with many hon . and right hon . member make important contribution . my hon . friend the Members for Wirral West ( Matthew Patrick ) , for Bracknell ( Peter Swallow ) , for Bishop Auckland ( Sam Rushworth ) , for Edinburgh East and Musselburgh ( Chris Murray ) , for Rugby ( John Slinger ) and for Makerfield ( Josh Simons ) rightly speak about the importance of this Government ' s action to restore economic stability so that we can rebuild our economy and our public service . my hon . friend the Member for Birmingham Northfield ( Laurence Turner ) rightly remind we that a strong economy need strong public service . many hon . member , both on — will the Minister give way ? I be go to make a little bit of progress . many hon . member , both on — will the Minister give way ? I say I will make some progress , thank you . many hon . member , both on the Government side and on the Opposition Benches , include my hon . friend the Member for Earley and Woodley ( Yuan Yang ) and the hon . member for Castle Point ( Rebecca Harris ) , speak about the work they be do to encourage pensioner in their own constituency to apply for pension credit to get the support they need . I want to start by say some more about the principle that underlie the Government ' s approach to means - test winter fuel payment . first , most help should be target to those who most need it . secondly , significant support for all pensioner will come around via the triple lock . thirdly , alongside that , extra help will be available to those on low income . will the Minister give way ? I will in a minute . before I do that , I want to say something about means - testing . I have find , both in this debate and in the early debate in Westminster Hall where no Conservative Members be present , that there be a lot of support for means - test the winter fuel payment . we hear from the right hon . member for Herne Bay and Sandwich ( Sir Roger Gale ) , who say in this debate that he support means - test this benefit . we hear that the right hon . member for North West Essex ( Mrs Badenoch ) , who be the conservative leadership contest favourite , also support means - test this benefit . the hon . Lady have misrepresent I . she know perfectly well that while I say I support the principle , I abhor the way she be go about it . the right hon . Gentleman do indeed say that he support the principle . the Liberal Democrats , in their manifesto of 2017 , also say that they support means - test this benefit . I thank the Minister for give way , but I think she fail to understand that while we accept the principle of means - testing — we accept that there be many pensioner who can afford not to have the winter fuel payment — it be the manner in which the Labour Government intend to bring it in , with a sharp cliff edge and no accounting for the people close to the pension credit limit , that we find abhorrent . I will come on to that point , but first I want to say how crucial it be to boost the uptake of pension credit . we be take immediate action to increase that take - up , give that up to an estimate 880 , 000 eligible pensioner be miss out on this support , worth £ 3 , 900 on average . I hope there can be some consensus across the House that we need to work together to boost that uptake . that be why last week we launch an initial pension credit week of action to boost awareness . we will continue to raise awareness until the deadline , 21 December , for make a successful backdate pension credit claim . I grateful to the Minister for give way . on awareness , be she aware how much more it cost to heat a home in winter in Blairgowrie , compare with Brighton or Belgravia ? I will come on to the issue the hon . Gentleman raise in just a moment . on pension credit , my right hon . friend the Member for Leicester West ( Liz Kendall ) the Secretary of State for Work and Pensions and the Deputy Prime Minister , my right hon . friend the Member for Ashton - under - Lyne ( Angela Rayner ) have write to all local authority ask they to redouble their effort to reach those pensioner who could benefit from pension credit . [ interruption . ] the Opposition Front Bench might grumble , but it be a far sight more than they ever do when they be in power . we be join force with charity such as Age UK and Citizens Advice to encourage pensioner to check their eligibility and apply . we will be deliver a major campaign in print and broadcast medium , include to urge people to reach out to retire family , friend and neighbour to get they to check if they be eligible . will the Minister give way , on that point ? no , I will not . for the very first time , we be write to all pensioner in receipt of housing benefit who be potentially eligible to encourage they to claim pension credit — again , something that the last Conservative Government never do . will the Minister give way ? no , I will not . over the last five week , we have already see claim for pension credit more than double , and , back by more than 450 additional staff , we will ensure that claim be process as quickly as possible . as my right hon . friend the Secretary of State for Work and Pensions say in the early debate , we will bring forward the merger of housing benefit and pension credit as soon as that be operationally possible , something that the last Government promise but fail to deliver . we be also take action to ensure that all pensioner get the income that they deserve . despite be urge by the Institute for Fiscal Studies and other to drop the triple lock during the election campaign , the Government be steadfast in their commitment to it . the triple lock have see the state pension increase by £ 2 , 700 over the last five year , and it be increase by £ 900 this year and by £ 970 in the previous year . accord to figure release today , which still need to be confirm , in October we will see the provision of an extra £ 460 a year from next April . will the Minister give way ? no , I will not . moreover , the warm home discount of £ 150 will help low - income pension household this year . that be critically important , because it be not just for the low - income pensioner on pension credit . it be for pensioner on low income who have high energy cost , and it will be open to application in October . rise — I have say to the hon . Lady that I will not give way , and I will not give way , so she should sit down . the government encourage member to boost awareness and encourage people to apply for the warm home discount . rise — I will give way . I thank the Minister , but I should like she to explain why this Government have fail to extract any concession from the train driver and their union paymaster . rise — I have not finish . the Government ' s " digital centre of government " be all ready to use technology to improve public service , but there have be a complete failure of negotiation , and the price be be pay by our pensioner . I honestly think that Conservative Members have some brass neck . during their time in power , we lose an average of 3 million working day a year to strike because of their failure to deal with industrial action , and we lose 1 . 4 million NHS appointment which be cancel , which mean that pensioner and other be in pain for long than they need to be . we will not take lecture from the Conservatives . we have have to take this difficult decision to mean - test the winter fuel payment because of the £ 22 billion black hole in year , this year . [ interruption . ] they may not want to hear it , but they should apologise for leave that black hole . it be create by repeat and reckless unfunded spending — on a point of order , Madam Deputy Speaker . be the point of order directly relevant to the current proceeding ? yes , Madam Deputy Speaker . I just want some guidance from you on whether it can be appropriate for Ministers and other on the Government Benches who have be directly fund by the trade union not to declare that personal benefit before do something like this , which be hurt million of pensioner . member be guide to talk about any such conflict before they speak on the Floor of the House . I be not sure that this have a direct impact on proceeding , but the right hon . Gentleman ' s point have be note . again and again , the Conservatives be divide work people and pensioner , and that be disgraceful . in conclusion , mean - test the winter fuel payment be a difficult decision . [ interruption . ] I receive no funding from ASLEF , so the right hon . Gentleman can withdraw his comment . we be target support at the poor pensioner , boost the uptake of pension credit , maintain the triple lock for pensioner , extend the household support fund and the warm home discount and , in the long term , introduce a warm home plan to insulate people ' s home . these be the right decision to take . this Government be determine the fix the foundation of our economy so that we can deliver the change on which we be elect , and which this country and our pensioner so desperately need . bring down NHS waiting time — claim to move the closure ( Standing Order no . 36 ) . question put forthwith , that the question be now put . question agree to . main question put accordingly . Shockat Adam Jim Allister Gideon Amos Lee Anderson Stuart Anderson Stuart Andrew Steffan Aquarone Edward Argar Victoria Atkins Josh Babarinde Gareth Bacon Kemi Badenoch Harriett Baldwin Steve Barclay Peter Bedford Alison Bennett Si â n Berry Saqib Bhatti Bob Blackman Kirsty Blackman Sarah Bool Andrew Bowie Karen Bradley Aphra Brandreth Suella Braverman Alex Brewer Jessica Brown - Fuller Alex Burghart Gregory Campbell Charlotte Cane Alistair Carmichael James Cartlidge David Chadwick Danny Chambers Christopher Chope Ellie chown James Cleverly Geoffrey Clifton - Brown Lewis Cocking Chris Coghlan Victoria Collins Daisy Cooper John Cooper Jeremy Corbyn Alberto Costa Claire Coutinho Harriet Cross Adam Dance Edward Davey Ann davy Mims davy David Davis Bobby Dean Carla Denyer Charlie Dewhirst Lee Dillon Caroline Dinenage Dave Doogan Oliver Dowden Iain Duncan Smith Sarah Dyke Sorcha Eastwood Luke Evans Stephen Flynn Richard Foord will Forster Peter Fortune Ashley Fox Mark Francois Z ö e Franklin George Freeman Richard Fuller Roger Gale Mark Garnier Andrew George Stephen Gethins Sarah Gibson Rachel Gilmour John Glen Olly Glover Marie Goldman Tom Gordon Helen Grant Sarah Green Andrew Griffith Alison Griffiths Monica Harding John Hayes Pippa Heylings Damian Hinds Simon Hoare Wera Hobhouse Richard Holden Kevin Hollinrake Paul Holmes Nigel Huddleston Neil Hudson Jeremy Hunt Adnan Hussain Christine Jardine Liz Jarvis Bernard Jenkin Robert Jenrick Dr Caroline Johnson Clive Jones Lincoln Jopp Alicia Kearns Ayoub Khan Paul Kohler Danny Kruger Ben Lake Katie Lam John Lamont Chris Law Graham Leadbitter Edward Leigh Julian Lewis Carla Lockhart Seamus Logan Julia Lopez Rupert Lowe James MacCleary Angus MacDonald Ben Maguire Helen Maguire Alan Mak Kit Malthouse Mike Martin Brian Mathew Jerome Mayhew Charlie Maynard James McMurdock Llinos Medi Freddie Van Mierlo Calum Miller John Milne Andrew Mitchell Iqbal Mohamed Gagan Mohindra Robbie Moore Layla Moran Edward Morello Helen Morgan Tom Morrison Joy Morrissey Wendy Morton Kieran Mullan David Mundell Tessa Munt Susan Murray Andrew Murrison Jesse Norman Ben Obese - Jecty Neil o ' Brien Brendan O ' Hara Sarah Olney Priti Patel Rebecca Paul Manuela Perteghella Chris Philp Al Pinkerton Shivani Raja Adrian Ramsay Jack Rankin David Reed Joshua Reynolds Joe Robertson Gavin Robinson Ian Roome Anna Sabine Roz Savage Liz Saville - Roberts Jim Shannon Neil Shastri - Hurst Alec Shelbrooke David Simmonds Vikki Slade Lisa Smart Greg Smith Rebecca Smith Andrew Snowden Ian Sollom Ben Spencer Patrick Spencer Gregory Stafford Blake Stephenson Jamie Stone Mel Stride Graham Stuart Rishi Sunak Robin Swann Desmond Swayne Luke Taylor Bradley Thomas Cameron Thomas Richard Tice Nick Timothy Laura Trott Thomas Tugendhat Matt Vickers Caroline Voaden Helen Whately John Whittingdale James Wild Max Wilkinson Gavin Williamson Munira Wilson Sammy Wilson Pete Wishart Mike Wood Jeremy Wright Martin Wrigley Claire Young Rebecca Harris Louie French Jack Abbott Debbie Abrahams Zubir Ahmed Luke Akehurst Dan Aldridge Douglas Alexander Heidi Alexander Sadik Al - Hassan Rushanara Ali Mike Amesbury Callum Anderson Scott Arthur Jessica Asato James Asser Jas Athwal Catherine Atkinson Lewis Atkinson Calvin Bailey Olivia Bailey David Baines Alex Baker Richard Baker Alex Ballinger Antonia Bance Lee Barron Alex Barros - Curtis Johanna Baxter Danny Beales Torsten Bell Clive Betts Polly Billington Olivia Blake Rachel Blake Christopher Bloore Kevin Bonavia Jade Botterill Sureena Brackenridge Jonathan Brash Chris Bryant Maureen Burke David Burton - Sampson Liam Byrne Ruth Cadbury Nesil Caliskan Alan Campbell Irene Campbell Juliet Campbell Markus Campbell - Savours Dan Carden Sam Carling Alistair carn Sarah Champion Bambos Charalambous Luke Charters Feryal Clark Ben Coleman Jacob Collier Lizzi Collinge Tom Collins Liam Conlon Sarah coombe Andrew Cooper Yvette Cooper Deirdre Costigan Pam Cox Neil Coyle Jennifer Craft Mary Creagh Stella Creasy Torcuil Crichton Chris Curtis Janet Daby Nicholas Dakin Ashley Dalton Emily Darlington Jonathan Davies Paul Davies Shaun Davies Alex Davies - Jones Josh Dean Kate Dearden Tan Dhesi Jim Dickson Anna Dixon Samantha Dixon Anneliese Dodds Helena Dollimore Peter Dowd Graeme Downie Angela Eagle Lauren Edwards Damien Egan Maya Ellis Chris Elmore Kirith Entwistle Florence Eshalomi Bill Esterson Chris Evans Hamish Falconer Linsey Farnsworth Mark Ferguson Patricia Ferguson Natalie Fleet Emma Foody Catherine Fookes Paul Foster Vicky Foxcroft Daniel Francis James Frith Barry Gardiner Allison Gardner Anna Gelderd Alan Gemmell Gill german Tracy Gilbert Preet Kaur Gill Becky Gittins Mary Glindon Ben Goldsborough Jodie Gosling Georgia Gould John Grady Lilian Greenwood Nia Griffith Andrew Gwynne Amanda Hack Louise Haigh Sarah Hall Fabian Hamilton Emma Hardy Carolyn Harris Lloyd Hatton Helen Hayes Tom Hayes Claire Hazelgrove Mark Hendrick Meg Hillier Chris Hinchliff Jonathan Hinder Rachel Hopkins Claire Hughes Alison Hume rupa Huq Patrick Hurley Natasha Irons Sally Jameson Dan Jarvis Terry Jermy Adam Jogee Darren Jones Gerald Jones Lillian Jones Louise Jones Ruth Jones Gurinder Josan Sojan Joseph Warinder Juss Chris Kane Mike Kane Satvir Kaur Liz Kendall Afzal Khan Stephen Kinnock Jayne Kirkham Sonia Kumar Uma Kumaran Peter Kyle Laura Kyrke - Smith Peter Lamb Noah Law Kim Leadbeater Brian Leishman Andrew Lewin Simon Lightwood Rebecca Long - Bailey Josh MacAlister Alice Macdonald Andy MacNae Justin Madders Shabana Mahmood Seema Malhotra Keir Mather Alex Mayer Douglas McAllister Kerry McCarthy Martin McCluskey Siobhain McDonagh Chris McDonald Blair McDougall Lola McEvoy Pat McFadden Alex McIntyre Gordon McKee Kevin McKenna Catherine McKinnell Jim McMahon Frank McNally Kirsty McNeill Anneliese Midgley Ed Miliband Julie Minns Navendu Mishra Perran Moon Jessica Morden Stephen Morgan Joe Morris Margaret Mullane Luke Murphy Chris Murray Ian Murray James Murray Katrina Murray Luke Myer James Naish Connor Naismith Lisa Nandy Kanishka Narayan Pamela Nash Josh Newbury Samantha Niblett Charlotte Nichols Alex Norris Dan Norris Melanie Onn Chi Onwurah Abena Oppong - Asare Tristan Osborne Taiwo Owatemi Sarah Owen Darren Paffey Andrew Pakes Matthew Patrick Michael Payne Stephanie Peacock Jonathan Pearce Matthew Pennycook Toby Perkins Bridget Phillipson David Pinto - Duschinsky Lee Pitcher Jo Platt Luke Pollard Joe Powell Lucy Powell Gregor Poynton Peter Prinsley Richard Quigley Yasmin Qureshi Steve Race Connor Rand Andrew Ranger Angela Rayner Mike Reader Steve Reed Ellie Reeves Joani Reid Emma Reynolds Jonathan Reynolds Martin Rhodes Jake Richards Lucy Rigby Dave Robertson Tim Roca Matt Rodda Sam Rushworth Sarah Russell Tom Rutland Oliver Ryan Sarah Sackman Jeevun Sandher Michelle Scrogham Mark Sewards Baggy Shanker Michael Shanks Tulip Siddiq Josh Simons Andrew Slaughter John Slinger David Smith Jeff Smith Nick Smith Karin Smyth Gareth Snell Alex Sobel Jo Stevens Elaine Stewart will Stone Alistair Strathern Wes Streeting Alan Strickland Graham Stringer Kirsteen Sullivan Lauren Sullivan Peter Swallow Mark Tami Mike Tapp Alison Taylor David Taylor Rachel Taylor Fred Thomas Gareth Thomas Adam Thompson Emily Thornberry Marie Tidball Stephen Timms Jessica Toale Dan Tomlinson Henry Tufnell Anna Turley Matt Turmaine Karl Turner Laurence Turner Derek Twigg Liz Twist Harpreet Uppal Tony Vaughan Valerie Vaz Christopher Vince Imogen Walker Chris Ward Melanie Ward Paul Waugh Michelle Welsh Catherine West Andrew Western Matt Western Michael Wheeler John Whitby Jo White Katie White David Williams Steve Witherden Sean Woodcock Rosie Wrighting Yuan Yang Steve Yemm Christian Wakeford Jim McMahon the House divide : Ayes 214 , Noes 335 . question accordingly negative . dynamic Ticket Pricing Motion make , and question propose , that this House do now adjourn . — ( Taiwo Owatemi . ) I welcome the Minister to his place and very much look forward to work with he to promote our world - class creative industry , include our music industry and all the other fantastic sector that his Department promote . today , I want to talk about music ticket and recognise the remarkable circumstance that have provoke this debate . news of the Oasis reunion have dominate the news cycle for the last week or so , but some might say for all the wrong reason . what should have be a moment to celebrate one of the UK ' s most significant cultural export — and the chance to revisit the music that , for many , I include , be the soundtrack to our youth — have morph into a conversation about exploitative practice in the music industry that hurt fan and the grassroots sector . some of the issue have be rumble away for year . in fact , early this year , the Select Committee on Culture , Media and Sport publish a report on grassroots music that outline some of the major challenge face the live music ecosystem and suggest some way forward . the Minister know the fact . on 31 August , some 14 million people from 158 country log on to a digital queue to buy ticket to the Oasis live 25 reunion tour , 15 year after the band break up and 30 year on from their seminal first album , " definitely maybe " . fan be lock in an online queue for up to 10 hour and , when many of they , it seem almost at random , make it to the front of the queue , the ticket be in many case more than double the price that have be advertise . the dynamic pricing mechanism employ by Oasis , their promoter and management via Ticketmaster serve to increase the price of ticket in line with demand , but in reality it result in a kind of lucky dip game in which the price get bad and bad by no clear mechanism except the secret and opaque rule of a computer algorithm in the hand of Ticketmaster . I should declare an interest : after four hour of queue , I have become wistful about the halcyon day of real - life physical box office , where we queue almost overnight to get our ticket , but at least we could see the queue in front of we and we know how long we would have to wait . I commend the hon . member for bring this debate . she be right and many of my constituent experience the issue that she mention . we understand the economic principle of supply and demand , but we also understand the principle of price gouging . for those who believe they would be charge one price to have just a few moment to decide whether they would be prepare to pay double be unfair pressure . we must always encourage free trade , but we must also be mindful of consumer protection in Strangford , Gosport or any part of this United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland . I could not have say it well myself — that be exactly what it be . we understand the law of supply and demand , but we also understand the law of transparency and fairness . what be more , once ticket purchaser be through to the payment screen , fan realise that they only have a very limited time to decide whether the hugely inflate price be worth pay . someone compare the ticket purchase after such a long wait to the dopamine rush of a gambler . the £ 150 to £ 400 price increase mean that the transaction be no long a choice , but more of an impulse buy . I have hear many people say that the dynamic pricing method be use effectively in other sector , and that the technology be a perfect demonstration of the dynamism of a free market . even within the music industry itself , there be dispute as to whether dynamic pricing have a place and be an acceptable way forward . I congratulate the hon . Lady on secure the debate . I be hope to secure a debate on the subject myself but she beat I to it . there seem to be an issue about who be to blame for all of this — no one be take responsibility for the issue of dynamic pricing . Ticketmaster be blame the management and artist , and they be blame those who be promote the event . as she be now the Chair of the Culture , Media and Sport Committee , will she look into this on behalf of the House and find out exactly why this have happen , with a view to have it stop and outlaw entirely ? I be very fortunate to have be re - elect as the Chair of the Culture , Media and Sport Committee , but we do not have any member of the Committee yet . any decision about what the Committee will look at will very much be a group decision jointly take , but this be certainly something I will be put forward . I know the Minister have already announce some consultation of his own . to return to dynamic pricing and the law of supply and demand , mention by the hon . member for Strangford ( Jim Shannon ) , this be something that be use across different marketplace . uber employ a smart dynamic pricing mechanism that adjust the cost of journey in line with change variable , such as traffic and current rider - to - driver demand . hotel and airline be another market that use dynamic pricing , but they be very different . if people be stick at Waterloo station , as I sometimes be , an Uber be not the only option of travel and , when people go on holiday , multiple airline offer flight to the same city and different hotel option , but when it come to live music , particularly in case such as this one , there be one artist and one opportunity to buy a ticket . the imperfection of the dynamic pricing mechanism be obvious to anybody who attempt to buy a ticket on this occasion , but whatever the right and wrong of its suitability for music ticket and this market place , the most important issue be that fan be not warn about the use of dynamic pricing before they enter the digital queue . those be the fault that lead the Competition and Markets Authority to open its investigation into this debacle . it mean that people have no idea how much a ticket would cost when they log in . many fan end up pay at least double the original listing price of £ 148 , so four stand ticket could cost an eye - watering £ 1 , 400 once service and order processing fee be include . the CMA say that it will investigate whether fan be give " clear and timely information " . any free market economist would call this a classic case of information asymmetry . there be certainly a lack of clarity over how high ticket price might eventually go , with the additional chaos of a time limit put pressure on fan to make an imminent decision about whether they be go to buy . ticketmaster claim that the dynamic pricing mechanism be the good way to deter ticket tout , the logic be that any tout buy ticket in bulk would increase demand and therefore see his or her price and margin slash . the Guardian have already say that secondary ticketing platform be advertise more than 4 , 500 ticket for this tour already , include from one tout who claim to have at least 33 ticket for Cardiff , Wembley and Murrayfield list , for a combine price of over £ 26 , 000 . I be glad that this summer the Government announce a consultation on the secondary ticketing market , where ticket be sell in bulk by tout who often use bot to scout for ticket at face value and sell they well beyond the market value , but will the Minister set out the parameter and timescale for the work ? when will it happen and what be it likely to include ? he have now announce that the investigation will be widen to consider dynamic pricing and what happen in the Oasis situation , so can we have a reassurance that the eye will not be take off the ball of the original consultation that he announce in the summer ? there be so many aspect at play . this method of resale be also the culprit for a large amount of money lose to fraud , with Lloyd ' s estimate that £ 1 million be lose to scammer during Taylor Swift ' s era tour alone . will the Minister tell I whether the secondary market consultation will include conversation with digital search engine that be signpost customer into the hand of tout and not do enough to get they direct to principal sale site ? there be scope for an entire primary market review and for ticket to be review on a much wide scale . the Oasis episode have open the eye of fan to potential anti - competitiveness within the industry . as complaint about the ticketing process begin to flood in , Oasis say it be their management and promoter who have agree a dynamic pricing strategy with Ticketmaster . but , of course , their three tour promoter all have link to live nation , Ticketmaster ' s parent company and , in effect , they be all the same party . so that party be make money hand over fist through the system , which keep everything under the live Nation umbrella . for a typical tour , a Live Nation subsidiary promoter might take 10 % of the face value of a ticket . a service charge of perhaps a quarter of that face value will then be apply , and some of that money will be go to live nation - own Ticketmaster . the venue will take a cut at this stage , which , in all likelihood , will be a Live nation - own venue , too , as it own 28 festival and venue UK - wide . the process be repeat at resale , if people go through Ticketmaster at a high cost than before , leave live Nation with an even great cut . the Minister do not need to be a public intellectual to see that there be a real perverse incentive for Ticketmaster to see ticket in the hand of tout . he will know that the US Department of Justice have slap Live nation with a lawsuit , cite anti - competitive conduct , while it be now well establish that the company have a near monopoly in the UK . dynamic pricing be quite an effective way of reward a near - monopoly , with no upper limit on ticket price , mean a great cut for the parent company . the great sadness of all this be not only that the system be punish the fan — in this case , those Oasis fan for whom the music be so totemic , so life change back in the ' 90 — but that , to add insult to injury , there be no trickle down to the live music ecosystem , like the grassroots music venue that Oasis first play in while hone their skill , the venue that make they , such the Boardwalk in Manchester and King Tut ' s in Glasgow . although Oasis have since announce further tour date , ticket to new date will be sell at face value via invitation - only ballot . I can not help feel that the fan who pay through the nose via dynamic pricing be go to feel very hard do by . I encourage the Minister to look at way to amplify fan ' voice within the live music ecosystem . he might start by respond to the Culture , Media and Sport Committee ' s report into grassroots music , which I have already mention . it be publish in May . I know that we have have the small matter of a general election since then , but I would like to know when the response be likely to be forthcoming and whether the Government be minded to accept its recommendation . the recommendation include one for a fan - lead review of music — something like the fan - lead review of football that be lead by my still friend , my former hon . friend , the former Member for Chatham and Aylesford , Tracey Crouch — to look at how the music pyramid function and how the money trickle down from the big player to those small venue and fledgling songwriter and artist . the recommendation include a target vat cut , which to grassroots venue would have represent a final hour of salvation in a sector that be widely accept to be in crisis , and a live music levy , which would take a small proportion of the service fee from the pocket of the big venue and bring they right down to the struggle business at the grassroot . what be most pertinent to I about all this be that , while many of the 28 venue and festival in which Live Nation own a stake be flourish , grassroots music venue be close at a rate of two a week . I be sure that the Minister be aware that , of the 34 music venue in which Oasis play on their first tour back in 1994 , only 11 be still open today . and those venue be so crucial . they be absolutely fundamental to incubate our world - renowne talent . they be the R & D department for the music industry . they be a massive feeder into something that be fundamental to the UK economy and crucial to our soft power around the world . in a ticketing market go wrong , there might have be a gram of comfort to some of the fan pay through the nose for their ticket if they know that , in pay it , some of the money be protect grassroots music venue in their community and germinate the Oasis of the future . I know that , like I , the Minister want nothing more than to see our musical talent continue to thrill fan both at home and around the world , but behind every great act be a chance performance at a low - capacity venue that be struggle to keep the light on , that be at financial breaking point , and that be a hair ' s breadth away from close its door . I call the Minister . it be a particular delight to see you in the Chair , Madam Deputy Speaker ; I have not have an opportunity to congratulate you on your election — hurrah ! it be also a great delight to see the hon . member for Gosport ( Dame Caroline Dinenage ) and to congratulate she on her election . not many Tories have be elect to many thing this year , but it be a great delight to see that she be return as the Chair of the Select Committee on Culture , Media and Sport . she know a lot about this subject and have devote a lot of her time and energy to it , and I look forward to work with she . I be sure there will be time when she have cross word with I , but sometimes cross word make government well . that be certainly my policy when I be sit on the Opposition side of the House , so I be sure that what be good for the goose be good for the gander . live event be really important to the british creative economy , and to the whole economy in the UK . it be the joy that they bring . I be sorry to start with a Kylie reference — well , actually I be not — but I would defy anybody to have go to the Kylie concert in Hyde Park this summer and not come away bounce with joy and full of the joy of spring . it be beautiful . it be amazing . it be thousand and thousand of people in a royal park enjoy themselves and celebrate . for other who go the night before , it be Stevie Nicks , in a completely different vein , but none the less provide that same sense of joy . that be an important part of what live event can do — that sense of be part of an enormous crowd of people enjoy either singe along or listen and that special sense of be together . live music be really important to our economy . I remember , it must be a year ago now , be in Newcastle : Sam Fender be perform at St James ' Park and we go to see p ! nk , who be on at the Stadium of Light . that must have bring million of pound into the local economy . it be certainly an awful lot of money for the local hotel . down in Cardiff we have lot of concert , which many people from the south Wales valley go to , and people come from all over the world . when Springsteen be there early this year , Cardiff basically have to be close off , but the knock - on for the hotel , the bar and the hospitality industry be really significant . it be also significant for tourism , for which I be also the Minister . it be reckon that 200 , 000 people in the UK work in the live event industry last year and it be an important part of what we do . it be part of the reason many people want to come to the UK . if I may gently say so , one of the thing we would like to sort out be british act be able to tour elsewhere in Europe , but it be good that Europeans be able to come here to see some of our act . the hon . Lady make a really important point that this issue be not just about very big venue ; it be about small venue as well , and I do have anxiety about the state of play for many of they . some of those problem be share with the whole of the hospitality industry , incidentally — skill , staffing , the cost of fuel , security and so on — but it be a simple fact , as she point out and as her Select Committee have point out , that there have be far too many closure over recent year . we stand ready to do what we possibly can to try to slow down , if not halt , that process of closure , because she be right : if an act do not have somewhere to start with a capacity of 250 or 300 or 500 , how will they ever grow to end up fill Wembley or any of the arena we have be talk about ? the value in live event be create by the artist , the fan and the venue — it be a combination of the three ; it be not create by ticket tout — and it be that combination that we really have to work on . the hon . Lady be absolutely right that ticketing have change . I remember once when I be in Saint Petersburg , or Leningrad as it be then — that be how old I be — I go to buy ticket for the opera and we buy ticket that be roll up in a little peg hole . that be what a ticketing system use to be . that be what theatre use to have in the UK . then we change over to a system of have a physical ticket that we present . many of we have keep all our ticket for all the show we have ever be to ; I know friend who have collection of Orchestral Manoeuvres in the dark ticket through the year and so on . now , of course , we have a completely online , digital system . that be great in many way . it can be easy and enhance security , but it can also be much more difficult , and have produce a whole set of new challenge for fan , artist and venue to make the market work effectively : barcode , QR code and all the rest of it ; transfer a ticket from one person to another ; different app develop by different venue , and so on . there be very new challenge . first , there be security , to which the hon . Lady refer , and someone get the ticket that they actually pay for , rather than a ticket that do not exist in the first place . we have all hear hideous example of that , and it be an embarrassment for we all that over recent year we have see so few prosecution in that area , despite the fact that nearly all of we can cite instance of constituent fall prey to those who be effectively sell ticket that they think they might be able to buy online but do not possess . People then turn up to the venue and find that their ticket be not be honour because they be not ticket in the first place . that be a security issue in the modern market . there be also a fairness issue . the hon . Lady point out the experience of people log on at 9 o ' clock and sit there for hour and hour . it be a system in which we have no idea how somebody get to be number 1 , 273 rather than 1 , 884 in the queue . it seem completely and utterly random , but one suspect that there might be clever mean by which people who have deep pocket and know how to navigate the system be able to manipulate it . it be clear that there be many instance of bot effectively hoover up a large number of ticket use lot of different id , credit card and the rest of it . that be an issue of fairness . be everybody queue fairly or not ? then , there be the question of transparency . online site be not as open as they might be about the real or original cost — the face - value cost — of the ticket that they then sell for a different price . some people say to I , " well , it say ' FV ' , and all you have to do be click on the FV , " but why do site not make the face value immediately obvious ? let I give the House one instance of inflated pricing , which be much more excessive in the secondary market than the hon . Lady say . if someone who want to see Dua Lipa at the Royal Albert Hall on 17 October visit the Viagogo site , they can either buy a ticket with a face value of € 63 for £ 912 — I do not know why it be cite in euro — or they can buy a ticket with a face value of £ 70 for £ 1 , 000 . or — and this be my favourite — they can buy for £ 9 , 444 a ticket that have a face value of £ 126 . 38 . as the hon . Lady rightly say , not a single penny of the difference between £ 126 and £ 9 , 444 will go to the artist , the venue , the clean or lighting expert in the venue , the person who write the song that Dua Lipa will sing , or the fan . it be simply go to Viagogo , and I think that that be unfair . it be not right ; it be inappropriate . I know dozen and dozen of artist who be utterly embarrassed about the situation in which they find themselves , and they want we to act in this sphere . rise — of course I give way to one of our lead musician . we be delighted that the Minister be on top of this and know about the issue and difficulty , but we be more interested to hear , in the time that he have leave , about what he will do to resolve it . there have be report from the Competition and Markets Authority and the Select Committee of the hon . member for Gosport ( Dame Caroline Dinenage ) . will the Government look at they constructively and bring in legislation so that this be no long a feature of live ticket sale ? the hon . Gentleman be a terribly impatient man ; I be just come that . [ interruption . ] no , we have until 7 . 30 . he be right that we must take action on the secondary ticketing market , and we commit ourselves to do so during the general election . we believe that those people be deny true fan the opportunity to buy ticket on the primary market and be pocket any profit for themselves . as I say , very little of the additional revenue actually go to artist , venue or anyone work in the live venue sector more generally . the Government be commit to put fan back at the heart of live event , and to clamp down on unfair practice in the secondary ticketing market . that be why we have commit to introduce new protection for consumer on ticket resale , and we will be launch a consultation in the autumn to find the good way to address ongoing problem on the resale market . the consultation will consider a range of option , include revisit recommendation from the Competition and Markets Authority ' s 2021 report , such as put limitation on the price of ticket list for resale over the face value ; limit the number of ticket that individual reseller can list to the number of ticket that they can legitimately buy via the original platform ; make platform accountable for the accuracy of information about ticket that they list for sale ; and ensure that the CMA have the power that it need to take swift , decisive action against platform and tout to protect consumer . we want live event ticket to work for UK fan . I would say that the market be make for humanity , not humanity for the market , and sometimes Government need to intervene to ensure that the market do indeed work for humanity . as an Oasis fan , I too be queue endlessly , and it prove to I that badly regulate market have no morality . the conclusion from the dynamic pricing policy in that incident be that people with more money or tout could get those ticket . I speak as someone who play in rock band when I be a young man , although none so famous and successful as that of the hon . member for Perth and Kinross - shire ( Pete Wishart ) . live music be universal in that it reach out to the soul of people of all background . I would be grateful for the Minister ' s view on what he can do to ensure that as many people as possible can get ticket for live music . persuade people to do more gig , I guess . obviously , there be only so many ticket for certain event , but what people want to have guarantee be that the market be not exclude they solely on the basis of price . sometimes there be a ballot for ticket , as there be for Wimbledon , and I gather that Oasis have now introduce a partial ballot for the next round of gig that be be advertise , but we want to look at all these issue in the round . I should say something about the cma announcement . like many member across the House , I know lot of people , include my hon . friend the Member for Rugby ( John Slinger ) and the Leader of the House , with story about their process of try to buy ticket two weekend ago for the Oasis reunion tour — I should point out that Oasis only reunite under a Labour Government . in the light of the concern express by fan about the sale process , we welcome the CMA ' s announcement that it have launch a formal investigation into Ticketmaster . the CMA have say that it be " concerned that fan try to buy oasis ticket through Ticketmaster may not have be give clear information about ticket price " and have ask fan to share their experience . its investigation will look at whether the sale of oasis ticket by Ticketmaster may have breach consumer protection law . other have great freedom in what they can say than I do as a Minister . this be a live investigation and the CMA be an independent law enforcement body , and it be important to ensure that the independence and integrity of any investigation be protect , so , in order to avoid prejudice the process , I be not go to comment on that investigation . I look forward to read the cma ' s finding and I merely note that lot of people have say that they would like their money back . follow recent event , however , the Government will look at issue concern the transparency and use of dynamic pricing in the live event sector , and we be carefully consider how that be take forward in the light of the cma ' s announcement . I want to talk specifically about dynamic pricing for a moment . in general term , dynamic pricing involve a business adjust its price accord to change market condition such as high and low demand . it be an established pricing strategy and it have be a feature of our live event industry for some time , at least in certain form . as an example , I be sure that many member will have manage to snap up cut - price ticket to popular west end show by purchase they on the day of the event . we be use to see organiser or venue slash their price in that way in order to fill the few remain seat . it be also common to see early - bird ticket release at low price — punter essentially receive a discount on full - price ticket for an event by buy their ticket within a certain period after they go on sale or until a limited batch have be sell . Glastonbury do that , Wigmore Hall do that for people who be sign up to its programme , and for that matter , the Rhondda arts festival in Treorchy also do that . I urge people to look online and buy some ticket for next year . in both of those scenario , there be fan who benefit from a well deal than they might otherwise have be able to secure have they buy their ticket at another time . equally , there will be other fan who buy their ticket at another time and have to pay a different , or indeed high , price . hon . member will have their own view on all this , but I suggest it be a trade - off that most people be accustom to , and one that we can generally accept . motion lapse ( Standing Order no . 9 ( 3 ) ) . motion make , and question propose , that this House do now adjourn . — ( Taiwo Owatemi . ) we would not want half - empty venue — despite look around the Chamber — due to ticket be price too high , nor venue and festival that be not economically sustainable . what we should not accept , however — I be very clear about this , as be the Government — be practice that see fan of live event blindside by price hike , either because they be not provide with the right information up front or because that information be not provide clearly enough . do so might be in breach of exist consumer law , which require business to be fair and transparent in their dealing with consumer . it be the responsibility of the cma to investigate potential breach of consumer law arise from or involve the use of dynamic pricing method , and to take enforcement action where appropriate . I have already refer to its investigation in this case . it be the responsibility of Government , however , to confront the wide policy question around the use of dynamic pricing for ticket to live event . we have already say that we will look at this issue far to establish whether consumer be adequately protect under exist law , or whether more need to be do . the hon . member for Gosport ask whether this mean that we be go to take our eye off the ball on the secondary ticketing market — it do not . we be very clear : we have a set of manifesto commitment , and we will bring out our consultation this autumn . once we have complete that consultation , we expect to take the necessary action that we commit to in our general election manifesto . since most of that action be in line with what the Select Committee be advocate before the general election , I hope we might still enjoy the Committee ' s support for it . the hon . Lady be right that we will also be look at website : that be part of the whole panoply of action . she also effectively refer to vertical integration within the ticketing system . of course , that have to be part of our consideration , because it be another part of make sure that the market work for humanity — for fan , artist and the creative industry — rather than all of we have to operate as slave of the market . the Prime Minister have say that we be commit to put fan at the heart of music and end extortionate resale . as I have say , we will launch a consultation this autumn to work out how good we can do that . that consultation will look at ticket for live event , and a call for evidence on the topic of price transparency , include dynamic pricing , will be send out . that will help we understand the need of fan and the live event industry . to be absolutely clear with the House and the hon . Lady , that will be about ticket for live event , not the whole of dynamic pricing across all industry in the UK . the hon . Lady ask when we will respond to the grassroot venue report from May . we have be get our foot under the table as fast as we possibly can , and I be very eager to respond to that report in swift order . I take the responsibility of Select Committees very seriously — I sit on the Culture , Media and Sport Committee from 2001 to 2005 ; it be one of the most important thing I have do as a Member of Parliament — so we will respond as soon as we can . it will certainly be in the autumn , and I would like it to be as soon as possible after the Committee be fully form . in conclusion , I would like to thank the hon . Lady for secure this debate . I be not allow to refer to what she try to get as urgent question , but I have now . we have a world - class live event sector in the UK , and I be absolutely determined that fan have every opportunity to experience it at first hand . there be nothing well than someone stand in an audience — in a crowd , along with hundred of other people — either experience an artist they have never see before and suddenly realise , " my God , that ' s just pierce right through to my heart " , or go to see somebody they have see 50 time before , have listen to the album 75 time in the past week , and have that joyful moment . they will be different artist for every single one of we , but I want far more people in this country to be able to enjoy that opportunity . I want every child to have a creative education , and I want they to have the opportunity that so many other enjoy in my constituency and every other . I acknowledge that dynamic pricing can help match supply with demand , result in both high and low price , but when it be use as a business model it need to be transparent and fair , and that be what we want to ensure . it be wonderful to hear from two musician , and Sir Chris Bryant have give away his true old age . question put and agree to . House adjourn .