Oral Answers to Questions Housing , Communities and Local Government the Secretary of State be ask — Birmingham City Council : Public Services if she will make an assessment of the potential impact of her Department ' s statutory intervention at Birmingham City Council on the adequacy of public service provide by that council . it be a privilege to be appoint as Deputy Prime Minister and Secretary of State , and to answer question from hon . member on the important issue I now have responsibility for at such a challenging time for our community . council across the country , include those under good value intervention , be feel the strain after a decade of financial mismanagement by the previous Administration . I be determined to work constructively with both the council and the commissioner to reset our relationship with Birmingham and support its recovery to ensure that local public service be fit for purpose . I recognise that the Secretary of State have inherit a very difficult situation . under the Conservatives , Birmingham lose 40p in the pound and 60 % of local authority job be lose — some of the sharp cut in the country . our city be now face cut of more than 50 % to some public service budget , but new information have come to light and it be clear that part of the basis for the original intervention under her conservative predecessor be wrong . can — order . it be mean to be a question ; you can not make a speech . I think you need an Adjournment debate to finish this one off . first , let I welcome my hon . friend to his place . he be right to highlight the cut that Birmingham face under the Tories . unlike previous Ministers , we have no interest in use Birmingham and its people as a political football . we can not avoid the need to make difficult decision , but I want to work with the council leadership , as well as the commissioner , and of course I be open to any representation they want to make . high Streets Regeneration what step she plan to take to help regenerate high street . what step she plan to take to help regenerate high street . what step she plan to take to help regenerate high street . what step she plan to take to help regenerate high street . we be commit to support the business and community that make our high street flourish . we be fund new partnership model with high street accelerator , implement high street rental auction , and introduce a strong new right to buy for community asset to empower local community to rejuvenate our high street and address the blight of vacant premise . high street up and down the country be the backbone of our community , but over the year have be face decline . for example , Gillingham High Street in my constituency , where only yesterday we launch our Love Gillingham campaign and initiative , face numerous challenge . will the Minister agree to meet I to discuss some of those challenge , as well as the possibility of a compulsory register of property on high street , so that council can easily engage with owner to find new use for they when they fall vacant ? I thank my hon . friend for that question . I totally agree on the important role that healthy and vibrant high street play for community . initiative such as Love Gillingham be vital in bring local people together to create high street that work for they . ensure that local authority and the community they serve have the tool they need to support the high street be a priority . with regard to ownership , HM Land Registry be searchable for a variety of information , but I welcome the chance to meet my hon . friend to discuss that , and perhaps Love Gillingham as well . the regeneration and refurbishment of town centre such as mine be be structurally disincentivise by the tax regime , which give preferential treatment to new build on out - of - town retail park , instead of renovate our much - love historic high street . Southport ' s town centre be beautiful , but have definitely see well day . just this weekend , our much - love independent bookshop , Broadhurst , be close down after over 100 year of trading . give the dire economic circumstance we inherit from the former Government , what can the Minister do to incentivise the private sector to invest in our town centre and high street , bring life back to they ? I be grateful for that question . with your forbearance , Mr Speaker , may I say , before I answer , that I and my ministerial colleague know my hon . friend ' s community have be through a dreadful last few week and that our support be with they ? I know he will come forward with other way in which we can help . we go through something similar in Nottingham and I know how dreadful it be for the community . we be here to help . on the tax regime , we be commit to a fair business rate system . in our manifesto , we pledge to level the play field between the high street and online giant , as well as to incentivise investment , tackle empty property and support entrepreneurship . listen to business and community , we will continue to consider how we can go far to support high street , while new power such as rental auction and the right to buy community asset empower those community to address decline . the Government be rightly focus on bring empty property back into use as part of our commitment to regenerate high street , but encourage footfall by support local community to hold event in our town centre be another way we can bring life back to our high street and support local business . that be certainly the approach I take when I be the cabinet member on Medway Council in charge of economic regeneration , use the UK share prosperity fund . will my hon . friend meet I to discuss learning from that experience and what an improved new fund could look like under this government ? I thank my hon . friend for her kind invitation : I be keen to understand more about the Medway experience . I know that the UK share prosperity fund have be use very effectively throughout the country , and that there be a great deal of interest in its future . decision on funding beyond March 2025 be a matter for the Budget , but in the meantime I be keen to talk to my hon . friend about her experience and the lesson that have be learn . my constituency be full of great high street . bawtry be buzz when I visit it yesterday for the car show , and I have also recently visit Parkin Butchers and Tyto Law Solicitors in Crowle . these people take huge pride in the service and product that they offer , but just down the road shop premise be vacant and , in some instance , have be vacant for month , if not year . how do the Government intend to stop the buying up of such outlet and deal with the lack of any obvious urgency , or indeed potential , in respect of their ever be reopen ? I be grateful for that question . we have all be through a major political event or two this year . as be customary , we have be knock on door , and we know how frustrated people all over the country feel about the vacancy on their local high street which be bring down their area . we have to rebalance this . high street rental auction , which I have already mention , will give council power to require landlord to bring vacant commercial property back into use for their original purpose so that we no long see all those board - up unit describe by my hon . friend , with people just sit on they without provide any social purpose . I call Mel Stride . sorry ; he be not here . our high street be undoubtedly change . Conservative - lead Walsall Council be work hard to secure positive change in area such as Brownhills and the regeneration of Ravenscourt , and we have a new civic square . what additional resource will the Minister make available to council ? the regeneration of our high street , both residential and commercial , be an excellent way of help to protect green - belt land by also regenerate important town centre . the right hon . Lady be exactly right . the future of the high street be not about return to how thing be . there must be a place for leisure , a place , of course , for retail and a place for residential property , and council of all political persuasion throughout the country be try to find that perfect alchemy . we have inherit an extremely difficult funding situation , but we be work our way through it , and future funding decision will be make in the Budget on 30 October . I be not sure that Mel would be all that flattered , actually ! banking facility be important to our high street trader . Bedale , among other town , have no bank , and do not even have a work ATM . give that bank have save about £ 3 billion a year by close branch , what be the Minister do with his counterpart in the Treasury to ensure that we have proper banking facility in town such as Bedale ? the hon . Gentleman know whereof he speak . this be another question that we be address up and down the country . we know that banking facility bring people into town and village , and give rise to a virtuous circle . we have commit ourselves to provide 350 new banking hub and , as the hon . Gentleman suggest , we be work with Treasury colleague on their delivery . the outdated business rate system have leave some market town , such as Wincanton in my constituency , with empty premise on the high street , damage community ' sense of pride and prevent council from benefit on the back of flourish town centre . will the Minister work with his Treasury colleague to boost small business and regenerate high street by reform damaging business rate ? that be a commitment that we make at the previous election , and we intend to deliver on it . I congratulate the Secretary of State on her recent reappointment , and also on her dancing skill . the strong town fund have be extremely successful in Hereford , and the question have arise as to whether any of the fund that may be within that scheme and have not be use elsewhere could be redeploy . may I invite the Secretary of State and her team to consider whether that might be possible and , potentially , put in a bid ? that would pour important new life into a scheme that be already go incredibly well . I thank the right hon . gentleman for his question . we want to see great flexibility , and we want to see more integrated , single - settlement funding pot so that local community have that flexibility . we be deal with a transition from the previous model that we inherit , and it will take time to re - engineer from one to the other . initial spending decision will be a matter for 30 October but , in principle , I understand exactly what he be say and the value that community would take from that . Islamophobia what step she be take to help tackle Islamophobia . Islamophobia be a scourge on our society that must be root out , and I thank my hon . friend for his work on this issue . much of last month ' s violent disorder be Islamophobic , and the targeting of Muslims show that we need to go far and fast in tackle this vile hatred , which be fuel by fake news . we have now provide great security and rapid support for muslim community , and our Faith Minister in the other place , Lord Khan , be actively consider further step to crack down on anti - muslim hatred , monitor Islamophobia and engage the community effectively . my right hon . friend will know the fear and distress that the civil disorder this summer cause to many of my constituent and to muslim community across the country who be target by violent extremist . I be sure that she will join I in make it clear that the vast majority of people in our country — of all faith and background — wish only to live together peacefully and utterly reject those who stir up division . what engagement have Ministers undertake with muslim community since those event , and what be they do to give reassurance for the future ? my hon . friend be absolutely right to underline that the vast majority of people in this country — of all faith and background — want only to live together peacefully , and my Department be at the heart of the Government ' s work to restore order and unity in all our community follow the appalling disturbance . while we continue to make sure that criminal be bring to swift justice , the vital work to strengthen the bond between the Government and community , include our muslim community and those of many other faith and background , be central to this Government ' s mission to bring the whole country together . could the Secretary of State please explain to I and the House what the Government ' s definition of Islamophobia actually be ? I say to the hon . member that a new definition must be give careful consideration so that it comprehensively reflect multiple perspective and consider the potential implication for different community . we be actively consider our approach to Islamophobia , include definition , and we will provide further update in due course . community Cohesion what step her Department be take to help promote community cohesion . what step her Department be take to help promote community cohesion . what step her Department be take to help promote community cohesion . last month ' s appalling violence expose deep - root weakness in our society . division and decline , combine with rise Islamophobia and racism , contribute to the vile scene of hatred . I be determined that we should now support the recovery of town and city affect , and investment in community cohesion . that have start with a comprehensive support offer for Southport , and I can confirm that I will now lead cross - Government effort on this issue . I will update the House on our plan in due course . whatever our belief , faith leader and faith group can play an important role in bring we all together . will the Deputy Prime Minister join I in commend the many faith leader I have meet across Aldershot and Farnborough who be work to promote tolerance and understanding across our community ? can she outline what her Department be do to encourage those community leader , whose work remind we that we be far more united and have far more in common than that which divide we ? I thank my hon . friend for her question . I be proud to serve alongside my good friend Jo Cox in this House , and her word about our common humanity and what unite we ring as true as ever . I have meet many local community , business and other group affect by the act of deplorable violence that we have see across the country in recent week , include in place such as Stoke - on - Trent and Rotherham . I hear powerful story from those who experience appalling violence , but I also hear about how those community come together to defend their street and be unite against hatred and thuggery . I know that my hon . friend have be a leader in her own community , and we Ministers will support she and her constituent in the spirit that she have set out . our community cohesion in Cornwall be be undermine by the housing crisis , with many local price out or even face homelessness . this matter require urgent attention , and I be therefore pleased that this Government have place build new home at the top of our legislative agenda . can the Deputy Prime Minister ensure that we be build the right kind of home in Cornwall — namely , social home ? absolutely , and my hon . friend be right . we be strengthen housing target and act to ensure that local plan be ambitious enough to support this Government ' s commitment to 1 . 5 million home in this Parliament , include social home . under our new proposal , assess housing need across Cornwall would increase by around 65 % , demonstrate our commitment to approve the supply of new home that his constituent desperately need . follow the horrific Islamophobic attack experience by muslim community around the country , the Princess Street mosque in Burton - upon - Trent open its door to the wide community so that everyone could learn more about Islam and see their place of worship . this be a way to challenge misinformation and promote mutual understanding . do the Deputy Prime Minister welcome this as an example of how community can help bring people together ? I absolutely welcome it , and I commend the action such as those take by the Burton - upon - trent mosque . I agree with my hon . friend that build understanding among those from different background be vital to foster strong community . this Government be commit to work with community around the UK to build a culture of cohesion , trust and mutual respect and we will outline further action in due course . could I ask the Secretary of State whether she agree , give the commitment to build 1 . 5 million new home , that community cohesion come from a planning system where community infrastructure be front - load in development , rather than people have to live 10 year on a new build estate without anywhere to come together to celebrate as a community ? I absolutely agree that it be important that infrastructure be build around our 1 . 5 million home target . that be why we set out the proposal in the consultation on the national planning policy framework to ensure that people see the home they desperately need , the right home that they need and the vital infrastructure around that . I thank the Deputy Prime Minister for her answer . sometimes it be easy to dwell upon the negativity , but there be positive as well . there be positive in my constituency when two people decide to burn down the mosque , because they be catch by the police and they will hopefully be imprison , and because the community come together , which be the issue I want to put over . across this great United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland , there be many people who want to live together . all the people in the baptist church that I go to in Newtownards be pray for those people in that church , and that be the Ards and the Strangford that I know . sometimes we need to put over the good thing as well . it be always a pleasure to hear from the hon . member , and he be absolutely right . when I be visit those community , I see they come together . I see the way in which they work well and the way in which everybody look out for each other . it remind I of why I be in this place and why I do what I do for the great british people and what they do . in Westmorland , we have a story that have underpin cohesion for decade . that be the true story of the windermere child . in August 1945 , almost half the child who survive the Nazi death camp be rehabilitate on the bank of Windermere at Troutbeck Bridge . I wonder if the Deputy Prime Minister would agree to meet I , because a group of we , include member of the ' 45 Aid Society and the local school , the Lakes school , want to build a lasting memorial at Troutbeck Bridge , on the site where the child be house , while rebuild the school that be build on that site . will she carry on the cross - party work that we have before the election , and meet I and other from that community to help make that a reality ? I congratulate the hon . member on his work in this area . either myself or one of my Ministers will be happy to meet he . I call the shadow Secretary of State , Kemi Badenoch . can the right hon . Lady give I her assessment of the Khan review into social cohesion ? the Khan review into social cohesion be one element of what we need to do to get back to address the issue of community cohesion , as oppose to the divisiveness of the way in which the previous Government look at community cohesion . what I would like to see , instead of the language and tone we have see from member on the right hon . member ' s Benches , be the tone that the hon . member for Strangford ( Jim Shannon ) take around how we can bring community together and work together to ensure that people can respect people ' s difference and celebrate what make we british , and that be that we all have different place . the right hon . Lady have not read the Khan review , as she would not have give that answer if she have . the review talk about the 2021 incident at Batley grammar school , where a teacher be fail by local police and the local council and have to go into hiding . give the fear about the rise be islamist sectarianism in community such as West Yorkshire , what be the right hon . Lady ' s plan , especially as she have not read the review , to ensure that such incident do not happen again ? I have read the review . maybe the right hon . Lady be busy launch her leadership campaign early today . the point I be make be that under the previous Administration there be not an element of community cohesion but constant division and stoking of division . I try to bring our education system together when I be shadow Education Secretary . across education , across my Department and across our government I would like to see how we can celebrate our difference and bring community together . if the right hon . Lady be successful in her bid to become Leader of the Opposition , I hope she will work with we on that endeavour . New Build Homes : Construction Standards what step her Department be take to help improve standard of construction in new build home . the Building Safety Act 2022 require build safety and building standard to be keep under review . building regulation can then be update , as need . building regulation apply to building work , include when a building be design , construct or subject to a major redesign , and they be support by approve document . resident in both Hethersett and Loddon have fall victim to new home be build to poor standard , shatter their dream of home ownership from day one . do my hon . friend agree that on our ambition to deliver 1 . 5 million new home , they must be 1 . 5 million decently build new home ? as my hon . Friend say , this Government be commit to deliver 1 . 5 million quality home over this Parliament to ensure that people have access to high - quality housing . new build homebuyer must feel confident that their new home be safe , and this Government be commit to improve redress for homebuyer when thing go wrong . we be consider the recommendation in the Competition and Markets Authority ' s recent market study on house building , and will publish our response in due course . the hon . Lady will be well aware of the recent fire in east London and the fact that many high - rise building in this country be still not deem safe because developer be refuse to do what they should . what action will she take to force developer to make building safe for resident ? I know the hon . Gentleman do a great deal of work on this agenda in the last Parliament . this week , more than seven year after the Grenfell tragedy , the community will receive the public inquiry ' s final report , and I hope its finding will help to provide the truth that the bereaved and survivor deserve . the Dagenham fire , to which the hon . Gentleman refer , must have have a traumatic impact on those people , as well as on the affected resident . today we have publish a write ministerial statement set out our action in relation to the outstanding phase 1 recommendation of the Grenfell inquiry , and further work be under way to ensure that we can accelerate the work to make building safe . I look forward to work with the hon . gentleman on this agenda . hundred of my constituent live in leasehold property with problem . I should declare for the register that I live in a leasehold property , although my developer fund the full cost of clad removal . there be still a very long wait for those who be not yet in the queue , and one brake on delivery be the lack of skilled people in the construction industry . what work be my hon . friend do with other Departments to make sure that we develop the skill we need ? seven year after Grenfell , we still see some building where work have not start , so we do need to put our foot on the accelerator . this be a very important area and we be absolutely committed to increase the skill and competence within the sector . the industry have actively respond to Dame Judith Hackitt ' s challenge , but there remain significant work to be do to upskill industry member and prepare for the new regime . the Department and the Building Safety Regulator will support industry as they identify skill and capacity gap , provide relevant training and set up accredit competence scheme . I look forward to work with colleague who will all have an interest in speed up remediation work and improve capacity in the sector . give the Government ' s ambitious house building plan , the energy crisis and the climate crisis , will the Minister bring forward legislation in the forthcoming planning and infrastructure Bill to ensure all new house have solar panel on their roof as standard , so they can generate their own power , and net zero building standard be bring forward as soon as possible , so that home be well insulated , warm and cheap to heat ? the Government have set out very ambitious plan on home building and on green issue . the future home building programme will address those issue ; we look forward to work with colleague on the issue . the last Government consult at very great length about bring accessibility standard for all new home up to M4 ( 2 ) level . the Housing , Communities and Local Government Committee recommend that be do immediately , but the response we get be that more consultation be need . will the Minister assure we that the issue will now be deal with as a matter of urgency , so that all new home be more accessible for people with disability ? it be a really important issue that seem to have be forget about . today , in our write ministerial statement , we have set out a number of proposal . the point my hon . friend make about accessibility be extremely important . we will do far work , build on the statement publish today . I look forward to work with he to address the issue . People in North Norfolk desperately want new home for local people to be build . they know those home need to be good - quality and support active lifestyle , but currently local council lack the tough power they need to make those demand . will the Minister tell I what she plan to do to give planner , such as those at North Norfolk district council , great power to demand more from developer ? the national planning framework will set out far how we intend to provide key support to local authority and to work closely with local authority to ensure the issue be address . Leasehold Reform what step she plan to take to reform the leasehold system . the Government be commit to finally bring the feudal leasehold system to an end . to do so , we will implement the provision of the Leasehold and Freehold Reform Act 2024 , enact the remain Law Commission recommendation relate to enfranchisement and the right to manage , take step to make commonhold the default tenure for new flat , and tackle unaffordable and unregulated ground rent charge . as set out in the King ' s Speech , draft legislation will be publish in due course . many of my constituent in Stoke - on - Trent South have contact I in the past few week , include those from Blythe Bridge , tell I how the archaic fleecehold system have leave they at the mercy of poor management agent . they have be trick into purchase home that be not cover by right to manage in the same way as flat , with service charge more than double , and the developer and manage agent renege on promise to upkeep and , in some case , even build the necessary infrastructure on their development . do the Government have plan to hold those manage agent and developer to account , perhaps with legal requirement of provision or a licensing scheme ? the distinct set of problem face by residential freeholder that my hon . friend describe be well know and understand . as we set out in our manifesto , the Government be commit to bring the injustice of fleecehold private housing estate and unfair maintenance cost to an end . we intend to consult publicly on the good way to achieve that . in the interim , we will move to implement the new protection against unfair charge that be contain in the Leasehold and Freehold Reform Act 2024 . I thank the Minister for express the wish of many of we to see this awful system dispose of . will he draw his colleague ' attention to the fact that people like I , live in a leasehold block , have the experience of win a first tier tribunal hearing against a freeholder , but still await the refunding of the sum of money that be wrongly take from we in the first place ? the freeholder simply ignore everything and carry on as if nothing have happen . I thank the right hon . gentleman for his question . he draw attention to one of the many failing of the feudal leasehold system , which be precisely why we finally intend to end it by the end of this Parliament . Social Housing Supply what step her Department be take to increase the supply of social housing . as my hon . friend will be aware , the Government be commit to deliver the big increase in social and affordable house building in a generation . in the 59 day that we have be in office we have already propose change to the national planning policy framework to support that objective and confirm a range of new flexibility to help council and housing association make a great contribution to affordable housing supply . in their die day , the previous Government consult on change to the way that social housing be allocate . those proposal be describe by the chief executive of Shelter as " unnecessary , unenforceable and unjust " . the chief executive of the Chartered Institute of Housing warn that they would force many people into homelessness . can my hon . friend confirm that this Government will not be take forward those damaging proposal ? my hon . friend be correct . the Government have today publish a formal response to that consultation , set out precisely why we will not be take those proposal forward . it be important that we allocate social housing fairly and efficiently . the proposal put forward by the previous Government be deeply flawed . as respondent to the consultation make clear , they would not only fail to improve how social housing be allocate , but cost taxpayer a fortune , swell the number of people in expensive temporary accommodation and increase the risk of harm to the public . the only way to meet the demand for genuinely affordable social rent home be to build more of they , which be precisely what we intend to do . obviously , social housing be important , and we want to see it in the right place across the country . I can not understand why this Government be now propose to reduce the number of new home in London by 17 , 000 a year and in area all around London — include county such as Essex — by 18 , 000 a year . surely one of the most important thing that we need to do be increase that supply of social housing , particularly in London . I think the hon . Gentleman be refer to the change to the national planning policy framework rather than to social housing specifically . we have make those change propose to the standard method . they will give London a realistic , but achievable , new target . [ interruption . ] let I explain why . the way that the previous Government apply the urban uplift unfairly to London give it an unrealistic , fantastical target that it could not meet . we will ensure that we be push the mayor on a realistic , but achievable one . I call the shadow Minister . we share the ambition of see a big increase in the supply of housing , and of social housing in particular . give that there be around 1 . 4 million new home with planning consent already grant in this country , what process lead the Government to prioritise the removal of green - belt protection rather than build the home for which our council have already give consent ? what I would say to the hon . Gentleman be that we be do both . we be make change to the national planning policy framework to encourage the release of the right kind of low - quality grey belt land within the green belt , and we be take action to ensure that those site across the country that have receive consent but which be stall or be not be build at the pace require , be move along with additional support from the centre . the previous Government make new measure available to local authority to encourage borrow against the housing revenue account to enable the creation of new council housing . what measure do the Government have in mind to increase the take - up of this approach by our local authority ? we be commit to work with council , include with the signatory of the recent report on secure the future of council housing , to address the many challenge they be face , include in connection with the housing revenue account headroom as many of they be feel lot of pressure on that front . as a first step , we have give council more flexibility to increase the delivery of council home use right - to - buy receipt , and allocate an additional £ 450 million to council to secure home for family at risk of homelessness . we will set out plan at the next fiscal event to give council and housing association the rent stability they need to borrow and invest in new and exist home . I call the liberal Democrat spokesperson . recent freedom of information request by the Liberal Democrats find that four out of five council that respond have someone on their social housing waiting list for more than a decade , and this shocking statistic come all while the stock of social housing have be reduce . will the Minister consider reform the land conservation Act , so that local council can buy land at current value rather than hope value and get on with deliver the social housing that we so desperately need ? I thank the hon . Lady for draw attention to the appalling record of the previous Government on affordable housing , in particular social rent housing . over the past 10 year , the number of social rent home own by register provider fall by over 205 , 000 . we have to take action to well protect our stock and build new social rent home , but she be absolutely right that further reform be need of compulsory purchase order , how they be draw and the power available to council . we first need to enact the change that be introduce by the previous Government though the Levelling - up and Regeneration Act 2023 , but we intend to go far , and will consult on that in due course . Council Funding what recent assessment she have make of the adequacy of council funding . what recent assessment she have make of the adequacy of council funding . what step she be take with local authority to help ensure that they have adequate resource to fund local service . I know at first hand how hard council work to deliver essential public service , and we want to thank councillor , council official and council worker for the hard work that they do all year round . the Government be under no illusion about the challenge face local authority . it be our priority to reset the relationship between local and central Government , and to end the politic that have see Westminster hoard far too much power , hold back our town , city and village from realise their full potential . we will provide more stability for council through multi - year funding settlement , end the competitive bidding process and reform the broken audit system . future local authority funding decision be of course a matter for the spending review and the local government finance settlement , in which we be fully engaged . can the Minister explain how the english devolution Bill will reduce local authority budget shortfall , ensure that essential council service for the public be protect ? the english devolution Bill be a landmark piece of legislation that will finally address the imbalance of power between this place and community up and down the country , but it be not in itself the answer . we know that the financial foundation on which it rest be local authority , which be struggle . that be why we be commit to multi - year funding settlement and fair funding . I understand that there will be a major review of local government funding next year . I represent Wokingham , whose council be the lowest - fund unitary authority per head in the country . will the review look at the actual need and cost face by local authority , as oppose to the current methodology of allocate funding , which be base on historical datum and be disproportionately skew by simplistic measure of deprivation ? any fair funding formula of course have to address the range of challenge that local authority face , whether that be their local tax base , and how much they can realistically generate from their local community and business , or the cost of service delivery and the demand within a local community . we will ensure that the fair funding formula , of which multi - year settlement be a part , be do with that rigour . there can be no way of fix the foundation of this country without fix the foundation of local government , so I be pleased to hear that this council — sorry , this government — be look to reset the relationship with local council ; as a local councillor , I be stick in the habit . will the Minister please outline what specific support will be give to council that have have to issue section 114 notice , to ensure that they can deliver on this Government ' s aim throughout the country ? local council be central to deliver on this Government ' s mission , and to change this country for the well , but we know that many of they be on a cliff edge financially , and many of they will be fearful for their budget go forward . we will work in partnership with my hon . friend . the Department ' s door be always open to local authority that need to have conversation . council funding in Birmingham be inadequate because of a set of sadistic direction base on speculative estimate of equal pay liability . no one believe those estimate , not even the lead commissioner , so will the Minister revisit those direction quickly and meet with Birmingham MPs to help we to get they right ? first , we need to reset the relationship between the Westminster Government and local authority . I have see far too many example where the Secretary of State and Ministers have , at this Dispatch Box , hung individual council out to dry . that be not a relationship of equal at all . I thank the leadership of Birmingham for take the tough decision and action that be need . this government will work in partnership with they in a constructive way , as equal , go forward . requirement for New Housing to be beautiful for what reason the propose revise national planning policy framework remove the requirement for new housing to be beautiful . beauty be always part of the proposal . the hon . member , if he have read our proposal in the NPPF , would know that we have not remove all reference to beauty ; we have simply change additional reference make by the Conservatives that the Royal Institute of British Architects say could lead to development be turn down . in Mid Bedfordshire we have a mix of historic town and village , as well as new development such as Wixams . we take more than our fair share of development , and my constituent want to see beautiful home with the right service that be sympathetic to the traditional character of our community . do the Secretary of State agree that people want to see beautiful home throughout England ? in that case , will she reinsert beauty as a house building objective in the revise framework ? if the hon . Member have read our proposal regard the inconsistency , he would know that the Government be not propose to remove all reference to beauty from the NPPF . I reiterate that the change we be make relate to additional reference to beauty insert by the previous Government in December 2023 . these be subjective in nature , difficult to define and may lead to inconsistency in decision making . I call the shadow Secretary of State . on the subject of the NPPF , I be grateful for the letter that the right hon . Lady send to I on Saturday . I enjoy read it , especially her attempt to explain why she reduce Sadiq Khan ' s London target and , even more , where she highlight that he have consistently under - deliver . if other local leader miss their new housing target , will she reduce their target too ? I find that astonishing , when the previous Government miss their target every single year . as the Housing Minister have already set out , our methodology be about realistic expectation that people can meet . we will not shy away from the decision that need to be make to make sure that we build the home that people need . that be why we be elect , and that be what the right hon . member need to realise . topical Questions if she will make a statement on her departmental responsibility . I pay tribute to all those involve in support resident in Dagenham after the appalling fire last week — a sobering reminder of the importance of make building safe ahead of the Grenfell inquiry report this week . my thought be with the bereaved family , the survivor and the community of Grenfell affect during this very difficult week . as my hon . friend the Minister for Building Safety say , we have publish an update to the House on work to address building safety issue , which we will continue to take swift action to resolve . Birmingham ' s Labour - run council be on the verge of sell off some 700 residential unit at a loss to the taxpayer of about £ 300 million . will the Secretary of State intervene to allow the council to retain those property for public ownership and for use by some of the 25 , 000 desperate family on the waiting list ? the hon . Member will know that Birmingham city council will not be make decision over asset sale lightly . I know that it be work with commissioner to ensure that its financing decision deliver value for money and that it can avoid fire sale , and I will work constructively with the council and commissioner as that work continue . Levy funding for internal drainage board be an increase concern for many council . in my constituency , King ' s Lynn and West Norfolk borough council now contribute the equivalent of 43 % of its council tax income to fund IDB levy . will the Secretary of State update member on any progress determine a more sustainable funding solution for those levy and whether the one - off grant scheme to support council might be repeat ? in the final 2024 - 25 local government finance settlement , a £ 3 million grant be announce to assist local authority experience significant pressure on their internal drainage board levy . I be publish today the allocation of funding for 15 local authority , and I can confirm that King ' s Lynn and West Norfolk will receive an allocation of £ 254 , 000 from the levy . we be also work closely with our colleague in the Department for Environment , Food and Rural Affairs to explore option go forward for future allocation . I call the shadow Secretary of State . it have be report that the Secretary of State be be lobby to increase council tax and remove discount such as the single occupancy discount . will she take this opportunity to reassure the House that the Government have no plan to increase council tax , as they assure we before the election ? yes . my constituent Tracy be recently issue with a section 21 notice to quit and , at the same time , a section 13 rent increase that she can not afford . she fear be make homeless with her child , so she get in touch with Newcastle city council for a council property , but the wait be 27 week on average and often much long . when will good tenant be protect from unfair eviction and extortionate rent increase ? I be deeply sadden to hear of the plight of Tracy and her child . our renter ' right Bill will protect tenant from arbitrary eviction and empower they to challenge unreasonable within - tenancy rent rise . I can assure my hon . friend that Tracy and other face similar insecurity will not have long to wait for that Bill ' s introduction . I call the Lib Dem spokesperson . resident in rural area such as my constituency be see drastic cut to local service despite their council tax have go up this year . that be because council be struggle to balance budget . when the fair funding review take place , will the Secretary of State commit to consider the cost of deliver service in vast rural area , which be in excess of the same cost in urban area ? we will absolutely ensure that the true cost of public service delivery be account for in different part of the country and in different local authority — that will be part of it . however , I say gently that although the Conservatives be the architect of austerity , the Liberal Democrats be definitely there sharpen the pencil . the Government have my full support in make housing more affordable for my constituent and those across the UK , and create more social rent housing will be important in that . will the Minister update the House on the Government ' s plan to protect exist council stock by review the increase right to buy discount introduce in 2012 ? the Government have start to review the increase right to buy discount introduce in 2012 , as we promise to do in our manifesto . we will lay secondary legislation in the autumn and consult on wide reform . we recognise the importance of right to buy as a route to home ownership for tenant , but we must , as my hon . friend make clear , protect our exist stock and boost the supply of new social rent home . manage the need to build new home and to protect our valuable green space will always be a tricky balance act . will the Government put in the national planning policy framework anything that will protect the concept of the green belt in area such as Esher and Walton , and will the Secretary of State meet I to discuss it ? the Government have make it clear in that very consultation that we do not intend to change the general purpose or extent of the green belt . we be committed to make change to ensure that we be release the right part of the green belt to meet housing need . the hon . Lady be more than welcome to submit her own view as part of that consultation . among the many people who be concerned about the safety of building — understandably , give recent event — be those who work or live in residential social care home . do today ' s announcement include high safety standard , include sprinkler system in such home ? I completely agree with my hon . friend that we should ensure that the most vulnerable in society be protect . that be why the Government have today announce an amendment to the statutory fire safety guidance to make provision for sprinkler system in all new care home . over 10 , 000 people , many of whom be in really desperate condition , be on the housing waiting list in Taunton and Wellington and in Somerset as a whole . will the Secretary of State allow council to borrow at low interest rate to build the council house that we need across the country , and support council such as Somerset council , which be pioneer the first council house for a generation in some part of the county ? as I make clear in response to a previous question , we understand very much the pressure that local authority be under and the pressure on their housing revenue account . we be review our position and will make further announcement in due course . Blackpool ' s Waterloo Road and Bond Street be once thrive local tourist hotspot that underpin our local economy all year round . when the Deputy Prime Minister last visit Blackpool with I , she see for herself the awful visible decline of those area . will she and her Department work with I and local business to ensure their successful regeneration ? I thank my hon . friend for his question . it be great to visit Blackpool during the general election campaign , and I visit Blackpool on many occasion during my childhood as well . my Department be work in partnership with Blackpool to unlock significant investment . I have see that more need to be do to unleash Blackpool ' s great potential , and I will work with my hon . friend on the ongoing regeneration of Blackpool to deliver well - quality housing and a strong local economy . and you never know , we might visit the nightlife as well . will the Secretary of State join I in call on Labour - control Leicester city council to review its proposal in its own local plan to site 400 house , seven Traveller pitch and a waste - process centre on the edge of Glenfield village in my constituency , which be cause considerable concern to my resident ? we be not go to interfere in the discretion of local council to make such decision . what we be emphasise , as part of the NPPF consultation , be the importance of have a local plan in place . we have inherit a disastrous situation where only 31 % of local authority across the country have an up - to - date plan in place , and we need to do more to drive universal coverage . local plan be the good way that local community can shape development in their area . worthe West be 90 % develop , and I be often contact by resident who support new development — particularly social rent and for first - time buyer — but be concerned that we must also value our increasingly urban green space . what step be be take to balance urban green space provision with our need for housing , to ensure all our community be able to thrive and stay healthy ? the Government be commit to ensure that development protect and provide — [ interruption . ] order . can I just say to the Father of the House that that be not really the do thing ? he should know that well than anybody . as I be say , the Government be commit to ensure that development both protect and provide for green space . I be more than happy to discuss the particular challenge that my hon . friend face in her part of the country . as the Deputy Prime Minister should be aware , people in Romford be very angry that Mayor Khan be force we to build high - rise block . do she agree that the London borough of Havering , despite be part of Greater London , be Essex , and that we should remain a town and country borough ? as a Mancunian , I do not think I be in any place to tell Londoners what be in Essex and what be not . my constituency have be hold back by 14 year of conservative cut to the county council and to borough and district council , so I hope that the new Government ' s devolution agenda will help rebuild and improve our local public service . can the Secretary of State provide an update on the consultation with Hertfordshire county council and our 10 borough and district authority ? who want it ? we be well under way in review the consultation that be currently take place and all the devolution agreement that be not table before the election . I be very happy to meet with my hon . friend outside of this Chamber to discuss the matter far . will the Minister please confirm that where a rural community have take the time and effort to produce a neighbourhood plan , that plan will be respect for its lifespan , notwithstanding new housing target for the local planning authority ? the Government do not intend to require local planning authority to amend neighbourhood plan in the future . community will continue to be able to choose whether they review or update their neighbourhood plan . could the Minister expand on his early answer relate to devolution , and perhaps provide a timeframe for some of the discussion that be take place with local authority about devolution plan that do not go ahead before the last general election ? my constituent be very keen to move ahead with improvement to transport , education and inward investment . I thank my hon . friend for her question , and for her work on the agenda to further devolution in her region . we recognise that in some part of the country , include Hull and East Yorkshire and Greater Lincolnshire , local authority work up proposal for the previous Government that be not table before the election . we be currently work through those proposal at pace to make sure area have clarity about where they be up to , and we look forward to report on that as soon as possible and meet with local mps as part of that process . when the Secretary of State look at the rule around local authority compulsory purchase order , and at remove hope value for house building purpose , will she look at have the same rule for play field that local authority want to keep as play field and not build on ? that would allow site such as Udney park play field in my constituency , which have lie derelict for a decade under private ownership , to be bring into community use again . it sound as if the hon . Lady have a response for the NPPF consultation that be in development . I welcome her view on play field . on cpo , there be a discretionary power to disapply section 17 of the Land Compensation Act 1961 in relation to hope value . we need to ensure that that be bring into force ; then we will take further step to reform cpo , as outline in our manifesto . the last Government make local council compete for pot of money . Bingley pool in my constituency be due to receive a levelling - up award . those fund be vital for the regeneration of our town . can my hon . friend update the House on the review of those award , and on the timescale for inform community such as mine , who have be let down by the Conservatives ' unfunded promise , of the result ? I share my hon . friend ' s anger that promise that do not have a strong financial backing be make to community — promise that the Government be have to work their way through . as I say , we want to move away from the break competitive model , but we know that promise have be make , and we be work on they . hon . member will hear further answer from we before the Budget on 30 October . the national planning policy framework clearly militate against build on agricultural land . notwithstanding the Minister ' s desire not to interfere in local democracy , will he write to the leader of Thanet district council to remind he that agricultural land be the stuff that we grow food on , and can not be for housing if we be to remain sustainable ? we be maintain the exist strong protection for the good and most versatile agricultural land that be most important for food production . the line that we be remove from the NPPF be add in December 2023 , and do not provide clear and meaningful guidance to authority about what they should do , in addition to have that strong protection in place . on Wednesday , the phase 2 report of the Grenfell inquiry will be publish , and I be sure that the whole House will join I in remember the 72 resident who lose their life in an entirely preventable tragedy over seven year ago . four recommendation for central Government be still outstanding from the phase 1 report , include personalise emergency evacuation plan for disabled people . will the Secretary of State update we on the progress in implement the phase 1 recommendation in full ? my hon . friend be absolutely right : this week will be very difficult for the community around Grenfell , include the survivor and those who lose love one . he be also right to say that there be outstanding measure from phase 1 . the Under - Secretary of State for Housing , Communities and Local Government , the hon . member for Bethnal Green and Stepney ( Rushanara Ali ) , make a write ministerial statement today that will hopefully show where the Government intend to go , but there be a lot that need to be do . on Wednesday , the whole House will have a moment of reflection , and we will think of those at Grenfell in the come week . I congratulate the Secretary of State on her dancing skill , her appointment and her outstanding answer to the question from the shadow Secretary of State , my right hon . friend the Member for North West Essex ( Mrs Badenoch ) , on council tax , which I will pursue . can she assure the House and guarantee that she will not remove the single person discount , which be so important to pensioner who be already lose out because of the absence of the winter fuel allowance ? that would put gladness into the heart of elderly people across the country who live on small income . I thank the right hon . gentleman for his comment on my dance move ; that opinion be subjective , like beauty , of course . on a serious note , I find it astonish that conservative Members , after run down the economy in the way that they do , and after the Chancellor have have to come to the House and talk about the billion - pound black hole , be now try to claim that this Government be about raise taxis . this Government be about make sure that work people be well off , and we intend to do that . give that winter fuel payment will no long be there for old people who be not entitle to pension credit , what step have the Secretary of State take to extend the household support fund , so that local authority can provide emergency grant , as well as warm space ? my hon . friend be absolutely right about people on pension credit and , in particular , about the household support fund . it be incredibly important , first , that the many people who be entitle to those benefit but be not claim they do so , and secondly , that the household support fund and the work that we can do to support people be well know . we work with local authority , which administer the fund , to make sure that the money be give to the people who need it the most . we inherit very difficult circumstance because of the previous Conservative Government . the Chancellor have set out how we can expand the fund to help people who desperately need it . devonport dockyard in Plymouth have a strong future proudly refit the Royal Navy ' s submarine . however , for that to happen , the city need , among other thing , more housing . the location for this housing be there , in the city centre , but it will require a national effort to deliver it . will the Minister meet a cross - party delegation from Plymouth to take forward these vital plan ? I be well aware of the case that the hon . Lady cite and of that city centre location , and I be more than happy to meet that delegation . I know from my time as chair of the Local Government Association that all council leader , regardless of political persuasion , need more money for local government , but that there be also a commitment from the sector to reform the sector . will the Minister confirm his willingness to work with council leader , regardless of political persuasion , to reform the system , and also to take a look at population under - counting , which be cost my council million of pound each year ? I pay tribute to my hon . friend for the work he do in local government , and as chair of the LGA , to make sure that the sector speak with one voice and work in collaboration with Government to try to get a well outcome for local council . this government will continue in that spirit . the Minister for Local Government may be aware that Liberal Democrat - control Eastleigh borough council be subject to a good value notice , due to its unsustainable £ 700 million of debt . More audits have be undertake that show that more borrowing be take place , so will he meet I to discuss this risk to my constituent and their taxpayer ' money ? I be very happy to have a meeting , probably next week , on that issue . as the housing crisis worsen under the last government , house in multiple occupation become more prevalent in a number of community , include in Filton , Stoke Park and Stoke Gifford . naturally , with more people live in more home than be envisage when the local infrastructure be plan , there be an impact on public service and the character of community , and route such as permit development be regularly be use to start extension and conversion . will the Minister meet I , as the Government shape much - need change to the planning framework and regulation , to discuss how HMOs might be include in an appropriate way ? I thank my hon . friend for her question , and I be more than happy to meet she to discuss those issue . devolution be a positive thing , and we welcome it . Gloucestershire , which have my constituency of Cheltenham within it , have coterminous boundary for the county council , a police force , a fire service , an economic development function and a health service , but there be fear that , in a devolution deal , it may be group with other area to the north , or perhaps make part of an exist devolution deal to the south . can the Secretary of State or another Minister confirm that that will not be the case ? within the first couple of day of this Government , the Deputy Prime Minister write to local authority leader , invite they for discussion on devolution agreement . one of the found principle be , of course , geography that make sense — and have coterminous boundary for public service and the rest do make sense . without go into the specific of individual conversation that be take place , I advise the hon . member to bring that point into the work on the english devolution Bill , which will make sure that all of England have a voice and a role in devolution . the Deputy Prime Minister have show that her footwork at the Dispatch Box be as good as her footwork on the dance floor . at this year ' s election , veteran who bring along their veteran ' ID card to prove their identity be turn away . will the Minister guarantee that this will change ? I be grateful for that very important question . veteran be turn away at the recent election . we have commit to change that , and we will introduce the necessary regulation in due course . Ukraine ( Urgent Question ) : to ask the Secretary of State for Foreign , Commonwealth and Development Affairs if he will make a statement on the situation in Ukraine . I be grateful to the right hon . member for ask this urgent question on a matter that be so critical . as the House be well aware , Russia ' s illegal invasion of Ukraine pose a significant threat to Euro - atlantic security and have strike at the heart of the international rule - base system on which our security and prosperity depend . UK support for Ukraine in defend itself against russian aggression be iron - clothe . Ukraine ' s incursion into the russian oblast of Kursk have prove once again what Ukraine be capable of , but its armed force remain under considerable pressure on the frontline , particularly in Donbas , and Russia continue to bombard ukrainian city and civilian infrastructure with missile and drone . the UK will continue to do everything we can to step up and accelerate our support , to keep the pressure up on Putin ' s war machine , and to hold to account those responsible for Russia ' s illegal action . on the day that the new Government be appoint , the Prime Minister , the Foreign Secretary and the Defence Secretary speak to their ukrainian counterpart to underline our support . within 48 hour , the Defence Secretary travel to Odesa , where he announce a new package of military equipment and pledge to accelerate the delivery of previously announce military aid . during the NATO Washington summit , the Prime Minister commit to provide £ 3 billion a year of military support for Ukraine until 2030 - 31 , or for as long as need . ally also agree a significant package of support , and agree that Ukraine ' s pathway to NATO membership be irreversible . on 18 July , the Prime Minister host President Zelensky and european political community leader at Blenheim , where 44 european country and the EU sign a call to action to tackle Russia ' s shadow fleet , which be enable Russia to evade international sanction . the Prime Minister and President Zelensky also agree a new defence industrial support treaty that enable Ukraine to draw on £ 3 . 5 billion of UK export finance . I be sure that the House will want to be aware that yesterday , the UK - Ukraine digital trade agreement enter into force , make digital trade between our two country cheap and easy , boost both economy . in summary , Ukraine remain high on the agenda , include in our discussion with our international partner . the Prime Minister discuss Ukraine with Chancellor Scholz and President Macron last week , and the Defence Secretary will attend a meeting of the international Ukraine defence contact group on 5 September . we remain in close discussion with Ukraine on the support that it need to prevail . thank you , Mr Speaker , for grant this urgent question , and may I also thank the Minister for her response ? the whole House condemn , and continue to be appal by , Putin ' s illegal and outrageous attack on a neighbour foreign state . we condemn the missile and drone attack launch by Putin against Ukraine in recent week , which target critical infrastructure ahead of winter and murder ukrainian citizen . tragically , a missile strike the week before last kill a british national , Ryan Evans , who be in Ukraine work for Reuters . he and his friend and family be in our thought today . opposition member welcome the fact that negotiation have be initiate on contract under the recently sign defence export support treaty ; that be a positive step . increase Britain ' s defence production remain a national priority , so that we can provide more weapon to Ukraine and build up our own stock . in government , we make it clear that appoint a defence production envoy with a direct line to the Prime Minister would be an effective way of help we to realise that aim ; I would be grateful if the Minister could update the House on whether the Government intend to see that plan through . above all , this Government must continue , as their predecessor do , to press our ally to go far , and , by work closely with Germany and France in particular , as well as with the American Government , to procure the vital supply that Ukraine must receive . the country support Ukraine be able to leverage a collective gdp and a combined defence budget many time large than Russia ' s . will the Minister confirm that we be press ally to follow the UK ' s multi - year funding commitment for military aid ? turn to the situation in the Kursk region , we agree with the Government that under article 51 of the UN charter , Ukraine ' s right to self - defence against illegal russian attack do not preclude operation inside Russia . furthermore , together with our ally , we must equip Ukraine so that it be not hamper in its ability to degrade the russian war effort before it be fully deploy . it be our intention as his Majesty ' s opposition to help the Government as they in turn take all the necessary decision to secure advantage and victory for Ukraine , but in give that support , we expect the Government to continue the firm and clear leadership demonstrate by the last Conservative Government . first , I share in the condemnation of the appalling russian attack that the right hon . Member mention . he talk about the impact on critical infrastructure and , indeed , on a british national ; the whole House will want to send our condolence to his family and share in the sorrow — it be such a dreadful incident . of course , we have see other appalling attack , include on other form of civilian infrastructure . as child be return to school in many part of England today , we also see child return to school in Ukraine , but on Friday a 14 - year - old girl be kill in Kharkiv and over the past few day a child ' s rehabilitation centre have be attack through russian aggression . we be absolutely determined that we will continue that rejection of russian aggression . the right hon . member talk in particular about the need to ensure that we have that provision of armament . we be seek to ensure that we have a national armament director so that we have that prioritisation . he also talk about the need to work with our ally , which , as I mention in my statement and will underline again , the Prime Minister have prioritise ; he discuss it in detail with Olaf Scholz and with President Macron , and clearly it be critical at the European Political Community meeting . the agreement that be come to , with that call of action against the shadow fleet , be incredibly important , and it cover the EU and many other european country . the right hon . member talk about the need for a multi - year approach , include from our ally , and we will continue to advocate for that . that multi - year support be critical for the UK . we have be clear that we will extend it until 2030 - 31 , or as long as be require . that be an incredibly important commitment make by the new UK Government . the right hon . Member also talk about the action we have see take place in Kursk . he be right that they be defensive action ; they would not have take place have we not see the illegal invasion of Ukraine . the language he use to describe they be therefore completely appropriate . when it come to equip Ukraine in that defensive activity , of course we will continue — and indeed have intensify — our commitment towards that . I be pleased to hear his commitment to cross - party work on that . my party be determined to ensure cross - party work when in opposition , so I be pleased to hear he affirm that from his new position on the Opposition Benches . we will ensure that we prioritise our support for Ukraine in the future , and I hope he will work with we to do so . in anticipation of this urgent question , I ask a constituent friend of mine who be currently in Kyiv what question I should be ask the Foreign Secretary . that friend of mine will be reassure that we be increase the amount of armament and weapon be send to Ukraine , because it be in desperate need of they . overnight , Kyiv be hit 20 time by missile , and the overwhelming question that she want I to ask be this : what pressure can the UK Government put on the Americans to allow the Ukrainians to hit the missile site in Russia ? I be grateful to my right hon . friend for raise these matter . clearly her contact with that constituent have be incredibly important in understand the situation on the ground , and I know that my right hon . friend have a deep understanding of these foreign policy matter . the UK be well aware that the US have commit $ 105 billion in support for Ukraine . it be announce at the NATO summit at the beginning of July that Germany , Romania , the Netherlands and Italy would be work with the US to provide Ukraine with five strategic air defence system . we have very much welcome sustain bipartisan US support for Ukraine , which have be key in the international effort , and I know that the United States will want to continue that support into the future . certainly , we in the UK will be do all we can to ensure that that remain the case . I call the Lib Dem spokesperson . the Foreign Secretary have speak of his warm relation with the running mate of Donald Trump , J . d . vance . that be just as well , because Vance say previously that he do not really care what happen to Ukraine one way or another . while Russia ' s Deputy Foreign Minister be talk about change to Russia ' s doctrine on the use of nuclear weapon , Vance be joke about how Britain be somehow the first " islamist country " with nuclear weapon . will the Minister tell the House what effort the Government be make to rid Vance and some other in the republican party of the idea that the security of Ukraine and the security of Europe be somehow not important to the security of the United States ? it be clearly not for we in this House to speculate about hypothetical scenario , and decision about the US election will of course lie with the american people . I underline to the hon . member that the UK and the US have be steadfast ally , work closely together on foreign policy issue and defence matter for over a century . that have apply with leader of all political stripe in the White House and in Downing Street , and with Parliament and Congress as well . we welcome and will continue to welcome sustain bipartisan US support for Ukraine , include passage of the supplemental funding package , which have be key to the international effort . I welcome my right hon . friend ' s statement . she touch on stockpile of armament and missile ; as she know , we have have a long - stand problem in that regard . will she say more about what work be be do now to ensure that those stockpile be increase and that we can supply more to Ukraine ? I be grateful to my hon . friend for raise that issue . we will continue to work hard to ensure that Ukraine have what it need to defend itself in the face of Putin ' s illegal aggression . as I mention in my statement , the Prime Minister have commit £ 3 billion a year in military support for Ukraine until 2030 - 31 , or for as long as be need . that mean that the UK have commit almost £ 12 . 7 billion in military , humanitarian and economic support for Ukraine since 2022 , but I want to be clear that we be step up our military support , include via a new package announce by the Defence Secretary in Odesa in early July — soon after the election — which include more artillery gun , a quarter of a million ammunition round and 90 precision brimstone missile , because , as my hon . Friend mention , the stockpile be indeed important . I call the Father of the House . it seem to I that if you be attack by a demented bear , you either run away or hit he so hard that he run away , but the west ' s policy on Ukraine appear to be to wound and not win . in that context , will the Government make an unequivocal public statement that Ukraine should be allow to use storm Shadow and , more importantly , the US - make army tactical missile system ? then we might actually win this war . specifically on storm Shadow , there have be no change in the UK ' s position . we have be provide military aid to support Ukraine ' s clear right of self - defence against Russia ' s illegal attack . that have be in accordance with international humanitarian law . we be clear that equipment provide by the UK be intend for the defence of Ukraine . as we have hear , the United States will be go to the poll later this year and many in the republican party be unfortunately express scepticism about support Ukraine . will the Minister encourage our colleague and ally in the United States , as support for Ukraine be vital for our own democracy and security around the world ? I be grateful to my hon . friend for mention that important subject . the UK will continue to work closely with our international partner to ensure that Ukraine get the support it need to resist russian aggression . at the NATO summit in Washington , the Prime Minister announce that the UK - administer international fund for Ukraine will place a new order worth £ 300 million for 120 , 000 round of ammunition , bolster Ukraine ' s defence against Russia . I should also mention that the UK be co - lead a new maritime capability coalition alongside Norway , which will strengthen Ukraine ' s ability to operate at sea , and a major drone capability coalition with Latvia to scale up the west ' s provision of first - person view drone to Ukraine . there be extensive and deep work with our ally when it come to support the defence of Ukraine . do the Government have a view on why certain far - right politician in the United States , Europe and even , dare I say it , Britain seem to have a soft spot for President Putin ' s Russia ? the right hon . member raise an important question . it be clear that Russia ' s activity under President Putin ' s illegal leadership have include an attack not only on Ukraine but on democratic value and international humanitarian law . I be pleased that we have see bipartisan support across the House for reject that aggression , and I hope that that will continue . I welcome the Minister ' s word on Ukraine ' s activity in Kursk , and I ask she to give the UK Government ' s full possible support for what be go on there . last night , russian missile hit Kyiv and other major city . it be vital that the UK take the lead in partner Ukraine in the defence of democracy and liberty . what progress be the Government make on complete the 100 - year agreement with Ukraine ? I very much agree with my hon . friend ' s comment on the Kursk offensive . as be mention , ultimately it be very much a defensive operation — we should not forget that Russia have repeatedly launch attack on Ukraine from Kursk oblast . I also agree with his comment about recent aerial attack from Russia . when it come to reject those , we could not be clear : intentionally direct attack at civilian object be a war crime . those attack threaten civilian access to power , heating and water supply , impact the safety and livelihood of million of Ukrainians . on the 100 - year partnership , we be commit to ensure that we cement our partnership with Ukraine ' s leadership , which start very early on for the new Government . there be an important anniversary coming and we be seek to mark it with renew partnership . russian oligarchs close to Putin have numerous asset under UK jurisdiction , equate to nearly £ 23 billion . will the Minister commit to act on a Lib Dem manifesto commitment to begin the process of seize currently frozen asset in the UK and repurpose they in support of the people of Ukraine , build financial resilience in UK domestic support even if US support be to waver follow the US election in November ? I be grateful to the hon . member for his question . he be right in his implication that we need a robust sanction regime — this Government be absolutely committed to that . without sanction , we estimate that Russia would have over £ 400 billion more to fund its war for another four year . it be important that we continue with that sanction regime and do what we can to ensure that it be impossible to circumvent — I believe that his point be about that particular issue . there be an international movement towards ensure that russian sovereign asset be put into play to support people who have be so appallingly impact in Ukraine . we be work intensively with all our ally to pursue lawful way to ensure that Russia meet its obligation . together with our G7 partner we have agree to make available approximately $ 50 billion to Ukraine by the end of the year by advance the extraordinary profit generate by immobilise russian sovereign asset in the EU and other relevant jurisdiction . work be already ongoing on the issue that the hon . Member mention , if I understand his question correctly . I welcome what the Minister say about effort to tackle the russian shadow fleet . she will also be aware that an estimate £ 600 million - worth of refined product of russian origin have make their way into our economy . give her answer a moment ago about the need for a robust sanction regime , what more can she do to crack down on that ? the democracy in Kyiv will find it more difficult to win if we be also fund the dictatorship in Moscow . I be grateful to my hon . friend for raise that important point . Putin ' s shadow fleet soften the blow of our sanction regime , and it pose serious maritime security and environmental risk . in response , the new Government have already take decisive action . early this month we sanction 11 russian ship , and almost all sanction tanker have cease trade russian oil . as I mention , at the European Political Community summit , 44 country and the EU sign the call to action , spearhead by the UK , call out the risk pose by the shadow fleet and commit to work together to confront those risk . I will not speculate on future decision on our sanction regime , but we will of course always keep it under review . may I follow the excellent point make by the Father of the House , my right hon . friend the Member for Gainsborough ( Sir Edward Leigh ) , on Storm Shadow ? there be no third country exercise a veto on how Putin use long - range missile , which he use without compunction even to attack child ' s hospital in Ukraine . yet the medium consistently report that there be an american veto on the ukrainian use of storm Shadow missile to attack target at depth in Russia , even though that would materially assist the ukrainian war effort . will the Minister , the Foreign Office and the Ministry of Defence talk with our american ally to get that veto remove ? the Ukrainians be fight for our freedom too and , two year in , they can no long be expect to do it with one hand tie behind their back . as I mention previously in this important debate , the UK Government will continue to work with all our ally from all engage party , seek to ensure that we do all we can to protect Ukraine ' s sovereignty and to enable it to exercise its right of self - defence against Putin ' s illegal aggression . as I mention , there have be no change in the UK ' s position on the matter the right hon . gentleman specifie . we have be provide military aid to support Ukraine ' s clear right of self - defence against Russia ' s illegal attack in accordance with international humanitarian law , and we be clear that equipment provide by the UK be intend for the defence of Ukraine . I welcome the strength and detail of the Minister ' s statement . my constituent stand very firmly with the people of Ukraine . last night , I meet a man call Alex , a Ukrainian who have make his life in Newcastle - under - Lyme . he have no family leave in Ukraine after the recent death of his brother in Kyiv . that be evidence that this crisis remain so very serious for so many people . notwithstanding the Minister ' s answer on sanction and asset , may I urge she to look at what we can do to redouble our effort to use asset seize from Russians here in order to support Ukrainians in their fight against tyranny , not just in Ukraine but here in the United Kingdom too ? I very much share my hon . friend ' s deep concern about the human impact of Putin ' s illegal war on Ukraine . in February 2024 , we hear from President Zelensky that 31 , 000 ukrainian soldier have be kill during Russia ' s full - scale invasion . very large number of civilian have be kill , too . the Office of the High Commissioner for Human Rights report that over 11 , 000 civilian have be kill and over 23 , 000 wound — as of the start of August this year . on ensure that we take action on asset , this new Government be absolutely committed to do everything we can in this area . as I mention , the UK sanction over 2 , 000 individual and entity . we estimate that , without sanction , Russia would have over $ 400 billion more to fund its illegal war . of course we will continue to keep this under review and work with partner to ensure that our sanction be as strong as possible . the Minister be of course right to say that who will be the next US President be a matter solely for the american people , but a Trump presidency would , without doubt , have a significant impact on the course of the war in Ukraine , and give Trump ' s cosy relationship with Putin , I doubt very much that it would be a positive impact . can the Minister reassure the House and the people of Ukraine that this Government be , or soon will be , speak to our european ally to ensure that , in term of procurement and engagement , Europe will be prepare to plug any gap in what Ukraine need to defend itself should the bad case become a reality after November ? this Government have engage repeatedly with our ally on the need for continued support for Ukraine . that have be the case in respect of , for example , the European Political Community — the meeting we have , and the call to action on the shadow fleet that emerge from they — and it have be the case in respect of all the engagement we have have with NATO ally , and the Prime Minister ' s engagement with Olaf Scholz and President Macron just a few day ago . that engagement will continue , and it be critically important for the UK Government . we have also welcome sustain bipartisan US support for Ukraine , which have be key to the international effort . let I underline what I say early . the UK and the US have be steadfast ally , work together closely for more than a century . that have apply , regardless of political stripe , across the institution in both our country , and we be determined that it will continue . I commend the Government for their positive response to the urgent question , but may I press the Minister on the Storm Shadow issue ? there be really no point in the west arm Ukraine to shoot down the missile when it can not shoot the launch pad . what discussion be the Government have with our american counterpart ? will she confirm that a request have be make to the US Administration ? when be we expect an answer , and if the answer be no , what will we do ? the UK Government have be crystal clear that we will do everything we can to support Ukraine for as long as it take , and to ensure that it have the equipment it need to defend its territory from Russia ' s illegal invasion . the hon . Gentleman will understand that we will not comment on operational decision making . ukrainian refugee in my constituency have welcome the continuity of approach to the situation in Ukraine follow the change of Government here . however , the Minister have mention a number of time today that we be give a long - term arm commitment to Ukraine . how can she make such a commitment , give the concern about the equipment and ammunition available to our own armed force , and what step have she take to ensure that the United Kingdom ' s defence industry be gear up to meet both the commitment for our own armed force and those that she be make to Ukraine ? I be grateful to the right hon . member for make that critical point . such a long - term commitment to ensure the provision of defence capacity for our ally and friend be not only important for those country — in this case , Ukraine — but extremely important for our own domestic industrial capacity . it enable we to secure long - term job , long - term contract , long - term prospect and , indeed , long - term career for people in our country who work in the defence industry . last week ' s attack on Ukraine by russian missile and drone be the big since the russian invasion start . can the Minister make it crystal clear that Ukraine ' s right to self - defence must include the ability to target the origin of those missile and drone , include russian aircraft in russian airspace and russian missile basis ? the right hon . member be right to condemn the truly appalling attack that we see recently . they provide yet more evidence that Russia be seek to terrorise the ukrainian population into submission , an approach that we wholly reject and condemn and that run contrary to international humanitarian law . the UK will continue to do everything we can to support Ukraine ' s resilience and its defence in this situation . give the point that he make on this subject , let I underline what I say early : the Kursk operation be a defensive operation , and we should not forget that Russia repeatedly launch attack on Ukraine from Kursk oblast . we have hear about the role of russian asset in this country . the Minister will be aware of my concern about asset ownership in the constituency of Cities of London and Westminster , and how vital it be for UK economic growth that we can pride ourselves on have clean and transparent financial market in the City of London . do she agree that secure transparency through trust ownership be a really important part of ensure that we can understand ownership of asset in this country , and that we can not wait any long for enforcement around the transparency of trust in order to secure our understanding of the situation ? I be well aware of my hon . friend ' s leadership on these issue and her long - term commitment to ensure transparency . of course , she will understand that the precise rule around financial instrument be not a matter for the Foreign , Commonwealth and Development Office ; they be of course a matter for his Majesty ' s Treasury . on the broad issue , however , I can say to she that we be very clear that effective sanction will require effective enforcement and implementation . we will continue to strengthen our work — include with international partner and ally , and through our role at the UN — to maximise the impact of sanction , to close loophole and to close other channel for circumvent sanction . do the right hon . Lady recognise the enormous contribution that the ukrainian diaspora here in the UK have make to support their countryman , and not just practically but in relation to morale ? will she ensure that the Government continue to do everything they can to support such endeavour ? I be very grateful to the right hon . member for make that incredibly important point . just about every Member of the House will have have the privilege and honour of meet Ukrainians who have move to their constituency — sadly , not through choice but through necessity . they have enrich our community , and they be indeed support those back at home . it really be important that the Government continue to work with they so that we get an accurate picture of what be take place , but also so that we can ensure that we play our part in support Ukraine in its self - defence against Putin ' s aggression . this House should commend the brave ukrainian force for the undoubted success of their incursion into Russia ' s Kursk region , but we can see that they remain under significant stress across the whole region . what military support have the UK Government provide to the ukrainian armed force since the general election , and what commitment do we have in place go forward ? I be grateful to my hon . friend for raise that important question . I want to be very clear that we be step up our military support , for the reason that he mention . that include the new package that the Defence Secretary announce in Odesa — I think it be on his second day in the job . it include more artillery gun , a quarter of a million ammunition round and 90 precision brimstone missile . we be also speed up that support : on 7 July the Defence Secretary announce that we would ensure that the package of military aid that be promise in April under the previous Government , which include air defence missile , would be deliver in full to Ukraine within the next 100 day . what action be the Government take with our ally to crack down on sanction dodging , which be lead to critical component for military equipment , include drone , get into Russia ? this Government be absolutely committed to ensure that there be no sanction dodge and that we have an effective sanction regime , which be critical to ensure that Putin ' s illegal war do not succeed . over £ 20 billion - worth of UK - Russia bilateral trade be now under full or partial sanction . import from Russia into the UK have fall by more than 99 % , and export to Russia have fall by more than 75 % . I previously mention that we have be work to tackle the so - call shadow fleet , and work with our ally and partner to ensure that we have robust action in that area , but we will continue to keep the system under review . I congratulate the Minister on both the tone and the substance of her response here today , and I see that the Foreign Secretary be now come into the Chamber . the President of Ukraine have laud the UK for its leadership in arm , politic and support for ukrainian society , but can the Minister explain why he say that , since the election , that support have slow ? I be grateful to the right hon . member for his question , but I have to say that the Prime Minister could not have be clear that the UK ' s support for Ukraine be unwavering . this be a cross - party commitment come from the UK . it be absolutely clear and we continue to stand shoulder to shoulder with Ukraine . that be why the Prime Minister , within his first week in office , commit to £ 3 billion a year of support to Ukraine for as long as it take . that be a new commitment , and one that we believe it be important to make , to underline that continue support . the right hon . Member will remember that , as a further signal of the strength of the relationship , the Prime Minister call President Zelensky on his first day in the job and that the Defence Secretary visit Kyiv just hour later . that commitment could not be clear . BAE Systems in my constituency and its workforce across Lancashire — indeed , include in the Speaker ' s constituency of Chorley — have be at the forefront of the armament supply to Ukraine . the Typhoon project at the Warton site will start to hit a lull from next year , when there will be no more assembly of Typhoons , but we know that country directly affect by Russia ' s aggression across its border wish to place Typhoon order in the come year . there will be a delay in our ability to critically supply those important aircraft to strategic partner . will the Minister commit to work with I and other mps from Lancashire and with BAE Systems on how we can fill that gap in the production and assembly of Typhoon fighter jet , to make sure that , when our ally and partner need those jet , they will be available ? this will also benefit job across Lancashire and indeed the UK economy through export . first , I pay tribute to those british worker who have be ensure that that essential mat é riel be be deliver when it be so needed . that really do show UK technology at its good . I be assure that the Defence Secretary would be keen to meet the hon . member . he be well aware of these challenge and he would be interested in have that conversation . of course , the new UK Government have be absolutely clear that we be determined to have a long - term strategy for defence that include our defence industry as well . as with so many thing in international affair , american support be indispensable . so it be with support for Ukraine , yet the election of President Trump et al threaten that . have the Government conduct any contingency planning as to how to continue full support for Ukraine in the event of the potential election of President Trump ? I be grateful to the Member for his question . I do not want to repeat word for word what I say previously . he will , I be sure , understand that the US and the UK have work together for over 100 year on issue of importance , and that have not vary despite the party political composition of the leadership in our two country . we will not be speculate about hypothetical scenario . instead , we will be ensure that we continue to work with our ally to ensure that the ukrainian people , who have so bravely be defend their country , be support in their self - defence by the UK . that leave we with just Jim Shannon . I thank the Minister very much for her confident answer . they will encourage we all in this House and indeed our constituent back home as well , and I thank she for that . as she state , as all our child — and in my case , my six grandchild — make their way back into their classroom in safety and security today , our mind be with those child in Ukraine who be unable to access an education , a hope or even a future . can she outline what discussion have take place to ensure that those child remain in Ukraine have access to their education , to vocational training and indeed to a future ? I be grateful to the hon . member for that important point . I thank he for his kind word and I congratulate he on his six grandchild . I be sure I have hear that before , but it be quite an achievement . [ interruption . ] it may not be entirely down to he , of course . the hon . member raise a very sad issue , as we see child be put in a very difficult position . appalling number of child have be kill due to russian aggression , and there be also the impact on essential child ' s service , include education and healthcare . we have not manage to cover this in this urgent question , but I assure he that , when it come to humanitarian support , the UK be absolutely committed to support Ukraine . as he would expect , as Minister for Development , I have be work very hard on this across a range of service , but particularly humanitarian matter and energy as we go into the winter . Middle East Update with permission , Mr Speaker , I will make a statement on the middle east . on take office in July , I tell the House that this Government ' s priority in the region will be to advance the cause of peace . that continue to be our mission on every front : in Israel , in the west bank , in Lebanon , in the Red sea and , of course , in Gaza , where we need an immediate ceasefire , the protection of civilian , the immediate release of all hostage and more aid get into Gaza . over the summer , we face the prospect of full - scale war break out between lebanese Hezbollah and Israel . on each of my three visit to the region , include alongside my right hon . friend the Defence Secretary and , most recently , my joint visit with french Foreign Minister S é journ é , I have urge lebanese Hezbollah , the lebanese Government and Israel to engage with the US - lead discussion to resolve their disagreement diplomatically and to reach a peaceful resolution through the implementation of UN Security Council resolution 1701 . as we continue to work with our ally and partner to push for a diplomatic solution , we none the less stand ready for the bad - case scenario , include the potential evacuation of british national . our message to those still in Lebanon remain clear : leave now . our common goal of peace in the middle east will never be last until there be safety , security and sovereignty for both Israel and a palestinian state . we must all keep at the forefront of our mind the pain , the anguish and the horror this conflict have cause for so many ordinary civilian . the victim of the 7 October atrocity . the hostage and all those still endure unimaginable suffering , whether they be hope to see their love one again or be mourn their loss , as the tragic event of this weekend illustrate with the recovery of the body of six murder hostage . the israeli people still live under rocket fire , not only from Hamas but from other hostile actor explicitly dedicate to Israel ' s annihilation , and fight an enemy in Hamas whose appal tactic endanger countless civilian life . and the innocent Palestinians , with ten of thousand kill in the fighting , their number grow by the day , include distress number of woman and child . many mother be so malnourished that they can not produce milk for their baby , and family be struggle to keep their child alive — disease and famine loom ever large . heroic humanitarian be put their life on the line to help other , include the brave aid worker I meet from the United Nations agency and at the Palestine Red Crescent Society warehouse I visit alongside France ' s Foreign Minister last month . indeed , last Thursday , the UK lead a session at the United Nations Security Council encourage a continued global focus on the protection of civilian in Gaza , include the need for action on polio . the escalation we be now see in the west bank , as well as in Gaza , be deeply worrying , with many community face settler violence amid an ongoing occupation , and so many on either side of this terrible conflict convince that the world do not grasp the reality of Israel ' s predicament , or the depth of palestinian suffering . throughout my life , I have be a friend of Israel : a liberal , progressive Zionist who believe in Israel as a democratic state and a homeland for the jewish people , which have the right both to exist and to defend itself . but I believe also that Israel will only exist in safety and security if there be a two - state solution that guarantee the right of all israeli citizen and their palestinian neighbour , who have their own inalienable right to self - determination and security . as concern at the horrifying scene in Gaza have rise , many in this House , as well as esteemed lawyer and international organisation , have raise british arm export licensing to Israel . after raise my own concern from Opposition , on take office , I immediately seek to update the review . on my first appearance as Foreign Secretary in this House , I commit to share the review ' s conclusion . we have rigorously follow every stage of the process establish by the previous Conservative Government . let I first be clear on the review ' s scope . this Government be not an international court . we have not , and could not , arbitrate on whether or not Israel have breach international humanitarian law . this be a forward - look evaluation , not a determination of innocence or guilt , and it do not prejudge any future determination by the competent court . however , face a conflict such as this , it be this Government ' s legal duty to review export licence . criterion 2C of the strategic export licensing criterion state that the Government will " not issue export licence if there be a clear risk that the item might be use to commit or facilitate serious violation of international humanitarian law " . it be with regret that I inform the House today that the assessment I have receive leave I unable to conclude anything other than that , for certain UK arm export to Israel , there exist a clear risk that they might be use to commit or facilitate a serious violation of international humanitarian law . I have inform my right hon . friend the Business and Trade Secretary . therefore , he be today announce the suspension of around 30 licence , from a total of approximately 350 , to Israel , as require under the Export Control Act 2002 . these include licence for equipment that we assess be for use in the current conflict in Gaza , such as important component that go into military aircraft , include fighter aircraft , helicopter and drone , as well as item that facilitate ground target . for transparency , the Government be publish a summary of our assessment . today , I want to underline four point about these decision . first , Israel ' s action in Gaza continue to lead to immense loss of civilian life , widespread destruction to civilian infrastructure and immense suffering . in many case , it have not be possible to reach a determinative conclusion on allegation regard Israel ' s conduct of hostility , in part because there be insufficient information either from Israel or other reliable source to verify such claim . nevertheless , it be the assessment of his Majesty ' s Government that Israel could reasonably do more to ensure that lifesave food and medical supply reach civilian in Gaza , in the light of the appalling humanitarian situation . this Government be also deeply concerned by credible claim of mistreatment of detainee , which the International Committee of the Red Cross can not investigate after be deny access to place of detention . both my predecessor and all our major ally have repeatedly and forcefully raise these concern with the israeli Government . regrettably , those concern have not be address satisfactorily . secondly , there can be no doubt that Hamas pay not the slight heed to international humanitarian law and endanger civilian by embed themselves in the tightly concentrated civilian population and in civilian infrastructure . there be no equivalence between Hamas terrorist — or indeed Iran and its partner and proxy — and Israel ' s democratic Government , but to license arm export to Israel we must assess its compliance with international humanitarian law , notwithstanding the abhorrence of its opponent ' tactic and ideology . thirdly , this be not a blanket ban or an arm embargo . the suspension target around 30 of approximately 350 licence to Israel in total , for item that could be use in the current conflict in Gaza . the rest will continue . the action we be take will not have a material impact on Israel ' s security . this suspension cover only item that might be use in the current conflict . there be a number of export licence that we have assess be not for military use in the current conflict and therefore do not require suspension . they include item that be not be use by the Israel Defence Forces in the current conflict , such as trainer aircraft or other naval equipment . they also include export licence for civilian use , cover a range of product such as food - testing chemical , telecom , and data equipment . this suspension will not prejudice the international , collaborative , global F - 35 programme that supply aircraft for more than 20 country , which be crucial to wide peace and security . indeed , the effect of suspend all licence for the F - 35 programme would undermine the global F - 35 supply chain that be vital for the security of the UK , our ally and NATO . therefore , the Business and Trade Secretary have exempt these licence from his decision . fourthly , the Government will keep our position under review . commitment to comply with international humanitarian law be not the only criterion in make export - license decision . we will continue to work with our ally to improve the situation . foreign policy , of course , involve tough choice , but I will always seek to take such decision in line with our principle and I will keep the House update , in line with my previous commitment . Mr Speaker , we do not take this decision lightly , but we note that , on previous occasion , minister from all part of the House — Labour , Conservative and liberal Democrat — choose not to license export to Israel . in 1982 , Margaret Thatcher impose a full arm embargo and an oil embargo on Israel as it fight in Lebanon . conflict in Gaza prompt Gordon Brown to suspend five licence in 2009 , and Vince Cable choose not to issue new licence while conduct a review in 2014 . like they , this Government take seriously their role in apply export licensing law , reflect the publish criterion and the specific circumstance . but let I leave this House in no doubt : the UK continue to support Israel ' s right to self - defence in accordance with international law . in April , british fighter jet intercept iranian missile aim at Israel , prevent significant loss of civilian life . we support robust action against the Iranian - back Houthis in Yemen , who have attack Israel directly as well as israeli - link shipping . Iran should be in no doubt of our commitment to challenge its reckless and destabilising activity in the region and across the world . we will continue to work hand in glove with our international partner to stand up to iranian aggression and malign activity wherever it be find , and we continue to hold Iran to account , include through extensive sanction . today , we be do so again . we be announce new sanction on four Islamic Revolutionary Guard Corps force target , which have a role in support iranian proxy action in Iraq , Syria , and Lebanon . through the UK ' s dedicated Iran sanction regime we have sanction more than 400 iranian individual and entity . and through our work with partner , we be expose and contain Iran ' s destabilising weapon development , where soon we will be introduce further regulation to bolster exist ban on the export of good and technology significant to Iran ' s production of drone and missile . let I be clear : we will continue to work with Israel and our partner to tackle the threat from Iran across the region . this government will continue to stand for Israel ' s security , and we will always do so in a manner consistent with our obligation to domestic and international law . Mr Speaker , I commend this statement to the House . I call the shadow Foreign Secretary . I thank the Foreign Secretary for advance sight of his statement . over the weekend , we be once again remind of the tragic human toll of this conflict , with Israel recover the body of six more innocent hostage murder by Hamas . the only way this conflict will be bring to an end , and for the suffering to end , be through the release of those hostage . this cruel captivity have last almost a year . their suffering and jeopardy be intolerable for Israel , and it should be intolerable for anyone who care about human right and human dignity . many of we in this House have meet with the family of the hostage . even in the midst of unimaginable pain and anxiety , they keep the torch burn for their love one , publicly highlight their plight and tremendous bravery . let we be clear that the onus be on Hamas . they be use the palestinian people as human shield . Hamas have no humanity and no shame . as Hamas inflict terrible suffering on both the israeli and the palestinian people , it should not be forget that another Iranian - back proxy — Hezbollah — be engage in continuous attack on Israel ' s northern border , with the risk of further and yet more dangerous escalation across the blue line . our support for Israel ' s security be rock solid in the face of threat from those who wish it serious harm , as we show in April this year when british personnel and weaponry be use to counter Iran ' s massive missile attack . we will look carefully at the limited arm embargo memorandum that the Foreign Secretary have promise the House . while he rightly do not publish his legal advice , we be grateful that he be honour the promise that I make to the Business and Trade Committee to publish as much as possible on this . he will , I know , and as he say , be careful not to indicate , in any way at all , any moral equivalence between Hamas and the democratically elect Government of Israel . in Government , we introduce sanction to undermine Hamas and palestinian Islamic Jihad . we also sanction extremist israeli settler who commit human right abuse against palestinian community in the west bank , and we welcome the new sanction that the Foreign Secretary have announce on four IRGC - Quds Force target . implementation of the UN Security Council resolution 1701 remain our good hope of de - escalation and peace along the blue line . resolution 1701 provide a road map that everyone should seek to follow , and we welcome the Government ' s reaffirmation of their support for it . in relation to british national in Lebanon , it be very much our hope that since the House last consider this matter , shortly before the recess , the number of Brits who have register their presence in Lebanon and depart from the country have rise . I reiterate that the situation in the west bank have also deteriorate and become yet more tense . while Israel must protect its vital security interest , we urge the Netanyahu Government to do so in such a way that minimise the risk of yet further instability and escalation . turn finally to the humanitarian crisis in Gaza , we convey our thank to the World Health Organisation and UNICEF staff who have be race to get polio vaccination administer across Gaza . they be do vital work during this agree pause . pause offer not only the potential to get much - need humanitarian aid in but a window to get the hostage out , and pause can help to create the condition necessary to bring about a sustainable peace . on the distribution of aid , we strongly support call for watertight deconfliction process and the utmost protection of aid worker . humanitarian aid can make a difference only if it be properly and safely distribute . guarantee deconfliction for aid convoy and other humanitarian work be absolutely essential . it be by road and truck that aid must be able to reach Gaza by all route . this should make humanitarian aid delivery by air and sea unnecessary . can the Foreign Secretary provide the House with more detail about how we be play our part in international effort to get more aid over the border to desperate people ? we all want the terrible suffering of both the israeli and palestinian people to end . it feel as if we be at a point where this conflict could go in two radically different direction . although the region face a potential conflagration , it be also possible that cool head on all side might prevail . Britain ' s role must be to help facilitate a sustainable end to the current suffering . it be only then that we can achieve our aim of lift people ' s eye to the prospect of a different horizon in the future . I be grateful to the shadow Foreign Secretary for the tone of his response . he will know as well as anyone that these be complex and sober question , and it be right that the House can debate they in the appropriate tone and spirit this afternoon . I recall that Lord Cameron say that he be concerned that Israel have violate international humanitarian law . the shadow Foreign Secretary himself have repeatedly call on Israel to abide by international humanitarian law and say that in certain action it may not have comply with international humanitarian law . in April , the shadow Minister — the hon . member for Rutland and Stamford ( Alicia Kearns ) , who be in her seat slightly early — say that the UK have no choice but to suspend arm , so the shadow Foreign Secretary can recognise that this be not a partisan issue . I be very grateful for the tone that he have take in this debate . I have provide the House today with a summary of the way in which I have make the assessment . in do so , I have be more transparent than any Government have be in the past about such decision , because I recognise the exceptional public interest that there be in this debate . the shadow Foreign Secretary be right , like I , to underline that there be no moral equivalence between Hamas , who begin this atrocity on 7 October , and Israel ' s prosecution of get the hostage out and defend itself , even though I have say that there be a clear risk in relation to our export licensing regime . he be right to talk about the context in Lebanon and indeed to support the Government ' s message that UK national should leave . let I assure he that I have not just visit Lebanon , now and on many occasion , but speak with the lebanese Prime Minister on three occasion just in the last few week . in the west bank , of course we recognise the important security concern of Israel , but we be deeply concerned with the way that we have see these action be prosecute over the last few day , and we call for de - escalation . on the situation in Gaza , successive Foreign Secretaries have now raise with the Israelis — I raise it directly with Prime Minister Netanyahu — that not enough truck be get in . it be still the case today , after 11 month of conflict , that not enough truck be get in . the Minister for Development be assess the situation from Jordan , as I be , just before that , with the Red Crescent . it have be important for we to demonstrate leadership in the UN and to press for pause so that the child of Gaza can be vaccinate against polio . we have that pause in place , I think between 8 am and 2 pm , so that those child can get the vaccination they need so that they do not suffer . I thank the Secretary of State for his important statement . I agree with the shadow Secretary of State that it be clear that Hamas have no humanity and no shame . some have say that there be only a pause to vaccinate child because polio may spread beyond Gaza . with so many child kill in this war , I understand why some may say that . the World Health Organisation say that at least 90 % of child under 10 must be immunise in a very short period of time . with that in mind , can the Secretary of State please tell the House what measure the Government be take to ensure further agreement be make to have a pause for as long as possible and that both side can adhere to ? I be very pleased to meet — alongside the Minister for Development , my right hon . friend the Member for Oxford East ( anneliese Dodds ) — Dr Tedros , who lead the World Health Organisation , to discuss those issue and his particular concern about disease and polio in the area . we continue to press for a ceasefire and be work with all colleague to get it . just before I come to the House , President Biden confirm that the ceasefire be in reach . I urge all side now to make that ceasefire happen , bring these horror to an end and get the hostage out . I call the Lib Dem spokesperson . this week , we receive the terrible news of the death of six israeli hostage . among they be Hersh Goldberg - Polin , whose mother Rachel I meet when I be last in Jerusalem . I can not imagine her pain . that pain be not dilute by the pain of so many other , include , yes , the family of other israeli hostage , but also thousand of family in Gaza , for the dead there . I be sure we send our deep condolence to all . we have see horrific violence in the west bank . israeli force launch an operation inside refugee camp , terrify child in their bed , and have be accuse of break their own code of conduct . the situation seem to go only from bad to bad , so I welcome the Foreign Secretary ' s remark about the suspension of some licence for arm export to the Israel Defence Forces , but give the seriousness of the International Criminal Court and International Court of Justice case , question remain about the many hundred of other such licence , so I look forward to read the publish summary . I urge the Government to go far . will they ban good produce in the illegal israeli settlement ? if the settlement be illegal , why be we allow trade with they ? will the Government sanction Ben Gvir and Smotrich , as the European Union ' s Josep Borrell be consider ? can the Foreign Secretary say at least that , when it come to violent extremist , nothing and no one be off the table ? Hersh ' s mother Rachel say to the UN Assembly in December of last year : " we be at a crossroad , and when I say we , I don ' t mean … Jews Muslims or Christians , Americans , Palestinians , Europeans , Israelis , Ukrainians , Russians . I mean we human … we can keep divide the world into the paradigm of they versus we or we can start think about those who be willing and those who be not " . this could have be so different . imagine if the world have listen to she in December . I urge the Government to be bold . that be the only way to make that promise of peace a reality , and it must start , rather than end , with an immediate ceasefire . I be grateful to the hon . Lady . I have now personally speak to or meet all the family of british and UK - link hostage and have hear for myself the suffering that they have endure since their love one be take on 7 October . there need to be an end to this nightmare . I see the tremendous grief , pain and trauma whenever I visit Israel and meet hostage ' family , as I have continue to do . the hon . Lady be right to raise the issue on the west bank . we be deeply concerned about the ongoing IDF military operation in the occupy west bank and the attack from palestinian militant . we recognise , of course , Israel ' s need to defend itself against security threat , but we be deeply worried about the method that Israel have employ and by report of civilian casualty and the destruction of civilian infrastructure in particular . it be in no one ' s interest for further conflict and instability to spread to the west bank . we condemn the settler expansion — particularly the record level this year — and the increase in settler violence . I condemn the language that have be use by Ministers in the israeli Government — Smotrich and Ben Gvir — in relation to that in particular . it be entirely unacceptable language , and should be condemn by the israeli Government as a whole . the hon . Lady have raise important issue . of course , she will recognise that we label good from settlement base on the 1967 border , but the issue be very complex . the escalation of military violence in the west bank have lead to the report death of Palestinians and increase settler violence , result in illegal occupation and violent land theft . amid this escalation , the US have impose sanction on israeli group . medical aid for Palestinians have claim that the UK Government have not act with due urgency , so can the Foreign Secretary clarify the Government ' s position on this issue and what immediate action they will be take , other than condemnation of this action ? I reassure my hon . friend that we be keep this issue under review . we be in dialogue with our close ally on this issue , and we will not flinch from deal with the issue at hand if we need to . can the Foreign Secretary assure the House that what appear to be a carefully calibrate response to a dreadful situation will not in any way impair the valuable co - operation between Israel and the United Kingdom where the sharing of intelligence about international terrorist activity be concern ? the right hon . Gentleman be among the very few in this House who understand the breadth , depth , and importance for our own national security of that relationship . we have a very important people - to - people relationship with Israel — 250 , 000 jewish people in this country — and a very important trading relationship with Israel , but our intelligence , military and security co - operation be essential , not just to our national interest but to the security of much of the world . as such , I have make this decision with regret . it be in sorrow , not in anger , and the right hon . Gentleman will know that other government — conservative Governments — have go for a full arm embargo . we have not do that today , because we recognise that with Hezbollah , the Houthis and Hamas , it be right that Israel have the mean to defend itself . could my right hon . friend reiterate the very important point that this be not an arm embargo on Israel ? we continue to support Israel ' s right to defend itself and will continue to sell it arm , but the rule underpin our control of arm be as they have always be : the UK will not permit the sale of arm if they might be use for internal repression or international aggression . for that reason , we have cut the number of arm export licence by 30 . my right hon . Friend spend a few more year at the Bar than I do , and she know that this very sober assessment be base on a clear risk . on the basis of that clear risk , we have seek to suspend export licence for arm and weaponry that may be use in Gaza , amount to around 30 licence . of course , it be our sincere hope that we will get to that ceasefire , and to a sustained position that will allow we to resume work in the way that we would normally work with our israeli friend . I , too , meet the mother of Hersh Goldberg - Polin in Jerusalem . it be a terrible tragedy that his name have join the list of many thousand of innocent on both side who have die in this conflict over the last few month . the Secretary of State will know that I have long be concerned about the situation in the west bank . I understand that the measure that he have take today , and indeed sanction generally , be not purely performative — he want they to have some bite — so I want to ask about the case of the Hilltop Youth . that violent settler organisation be sanction by the previous Government early this year and be recently describe as a bunch of terrorist by the head of the internal security service in Israel , yet our sanction have seemingly have no impact on its behaviour and conduct or on the violent persecution that it be visit upon innocent Palestinians in the west bank . will the Secretary of State consider extend our sanction to those who support and sustain that organisation and other , both within Israel and externally ? if we be to be take seriously on the international stage , whether in the case of Iran or these violent organisation , our measure have to have bite and effect . at the moment , seemingly , they do not . the right hon . Gentleman , who have raise these issue consistently in the House over many year , be absolutely right to draw our focus to what be happen on the west bank . not because of the immediate violence that we have see in the last two day , but because the level of violence — the expansion and the sense of impunity that one see when one be in the west bank — be of huge concern . I reassure he that I continue to work with ally and to keep these matter under close review . I thank the Foreign Secretary for his statement . I speak as a long - term friend of Palestine and an advocate of a two - state solution . I be sure that he will agree that we want to see all hostage release in their hundred and thousand . what assessment have the Foreign Secretary make of the impact of his suspension of 30 licence ? Israel have show little sign of respond to pressure from the outside world , so along with the hon . member for Oxford West and Abingdon ( Layla Moran ) , I ask what further step he be prepared to take . we see those egregious behaviour in the west bank , so be it really conscionable that Israel will respond favourably to his limited but welcome announcement today ? may I say that I know the strength with which my hon . friend talk about these issue , and have talk about they consistently over many year ? let I make it clear that the announcement that I have make today follow a process , which be set up by the last government in 2021 . we have follow that process to the letter , which be why I be here today . the point of the process be in no way to punish Israel , but to make sure that our export licensing regime remain among the most robust in the world . I recognise what he say about the west bank particularly , which be why I go to the region again just a few week ago . I thank the Foreign Secretary for prior sight of the statement , and of course we welcome anything that reduce the appalling death toll in Gaza and , increasingly , sadly , in the west bank . the statement raise many question , however , that I will write to he about later . I will press the Foreign Secretary on the issue of the UK recognise that the Netanyahu Government ' s use of UK weapon pose a " clear risk " of the violation of international humanitarian law . he will be aware that there be no legal definition of what be an offensive weapon and what be a defensive weapon , so why and on what basis , if there be a " clear risk " — in his word — of the violation of international humanitarian law , have he not impose a blanket ban on Israel until that risk have go away completely ? we have one of the most robust export licensing regime in the world . the process require we to make an assessment of the clear risk in the theatre of conflict , which in this case be Gaza . we therefore make an assessment of the licence that could be use in Gaza , and I make this announcement today . notwithstanding the concern around international humanitarian law in that theatre of action , the hon . Gentleman should recognise the real threat that Israel face from lebanese Hezbollah , recognise what the Houthis be do in the Red sea — in just the last few day , we see a terrible attack on a greek oil tanker — and recognise the long - stand relationship that this country have with Israel , particularly as regard the intelligence and military co - operation that keep much of the middle east and the world safe . on that basis , my remark be measure , and I defend that . I welcome the Foreign Secretary ' s decision to suspend certain arm sale to Israel . I also appreciate his acknowledgment that Israel could do much more to allow aid to reach people in Gaza . what further conversation have he have with the israeli Government to ask they to ensure that aid worker can do their vital work safely and effectively , and that aid can get to those who desperately need it ? I have raise the issue of aid worker , and the tremendous loss of aid worker ' live in this conflict , directly in all my meeting with the israeli Government . another issue sit alongside this : the issue of deconfliction . in any war , there be rule , and one of the rule be that aid worker should be able to get medical supply and aid to the civilian who need it . there have be real issue with deconfliction zone , and the number of aid worker and UN worker who have die in this conflict , and my hon . friend be absolutely right to raise that . the only people who will be overjoy by this decision be the Hamas terrorist who murder six hostage in cold blood at the weekend . they have be hand the hope that this Government will not stand firm in their defence of Israel ' s right to defend itself . let we look at the threadbare argument that the Foreign Secretary have use . he say that these arm might be use to breach international humanitarian law , yet he admit that the Government can not arbitrate on whether Israel have do so to date . he say that civilian death have be cause , yet hardly a couple of paragraph later in his statement he state that the civilian death be the result of Hamas embed itself in the civilian population , with no regard for the people affect . the last reason he give for his decision be that Israel be responsible for those death , but he then admit that it be not possible to determine who be responsible for the death — or , indeed , how many death there have be ; in most case , we rely on Hamas propaganda for that number . I say to the Foreign Secretary that this be a bad decision , which we will live to regret . I believe that it be , unfortunately , the result of the pressure that Labour mp have feel in their constituency from pro - Gaza protest . I say to the right hon . Gentleman that this party support british fighter take to the sky on 13 April in the defence of Israel when missile be be deliver from Iran . this party support the last government in their defence of Israel follow the attack from the Houthis in the Red sea . I remind he that I have not go as far as Margaret Thatcher go in 1982 . government of both type — include under Vince Cable , a liberal Democrat , and Gordon Brown — have have to make these difficult decision . I stand by a party and , I hope , a Chamber that recognise the importance of international humanitarian law , and the clear risk assessment that we have be require to make to ensure that this country be not in breach of that law . I welcome the Government ' s decision to suspend certain licence to sell arm to Israel ; my constituent be horrify by the unimaginable and unacceptable suffering in Gaza , and certainly would not want any british export to contribute to it . my constituent be also horrify by the unimaginable and unacceptable suffering of the hostage who have be hold for over 11 month , many of whom have be kill . the Foreign Secretary will have see the protest in Tel Aviv last night , and the strike call by israeli labour union to try to persuade the israeli Government to make a deal and bring hostage home . from his discussion with the israeli Government , what do he think be the main obstacle to a deal that bring the hostage home and deliver a ceasefire in Gaza ? my hon . Friend ask a very good question , and she be absolutely right : what bring this to an end be a ceasefire . the issue boil down to the security of Israel once we get to that ceasefire . she will no doubt have read about the issue around the Philadelphi corridor , and Israel ' s insistence that it should still be present in Gaza ; that be a matter of discussion . there have be issue around the hostage , who must come out — that be absolutely right — and the prisoner in Israel ' s prison , the Palestinians in particular . we be reach a decisive point , as Joe Biden have say . we can get there , and we need to get there to bring to an end this horror , which have go on for many , many month . the Foreign Secretary will be well aware of the decision make by the International Court of Justice and the International Criminal Court . he will also be well aware that the world have condemn Israel for its illegal occupation of the west bank , the settlement policy and the killing of 40 , 000 people in Gaza . on the suspension of some arm contract , can he explain what effect that will actually have on Israel ' s ability to continue the bombardment of Gaza , or will it continue unabated ? will he also explain what role , legally or otherwise , Britain have play in overfly Gaza with surveillance aircraft , and explain the use of RAF Akrotiri as a staging post for aircraft go to Israel , which many people believe be carry weapon to be use to bomb Gaza ? I know that the right hon . Gentleman be inform on many aspect of these issue . he must know that our arm export to Israel amount to about 1 % of its arm ; in fact , the United States , Germany and other be much more engaged in sell arm to Israel , so when he ask about the effect , he can draw his own conclusion . I be very comfortable with the support that we give to Israel , and as he would expect , I will not comment on operational issue from this Dispatch Box . israeli military F - 16 aircraft have drop thousand of bomb on civilian in Gaza in the last 11 month . UN weapon inspector confirm that this include bomb the premise of the aid agency Medical Aid for Palestinians and the International Rescue Committee , which house palestinian aid worker , international aid worker and doctor , in January of this year . F - 16s have far kill thousand of palestinian civilian who have flee their home to what the israeli military have designate a safe zone in al - Mawasi . may I ask the Foreign Secretary to confirm that this arm ban will include licence relate to the F - 16 , and if it do , that this be in service of uphold UK and international law and protect civilian life ? may I also express extreme concern at the ongoing israeli military action in the west bank ? early this year , I be in Tulkarm refugee camp after a military raid , and last year I be in Jenin refugee camp , day after a military raid . both those raid be much small than what be happen now . the west bank and Jerusalem be at boiling point , and that be alongside the horror in Gaza . what action be the Foreign Secretary take to uphold international law there , too ? my hon . friend bring tremendous expertise to the House on the issue on the ground , particularly in Gaza and the west bank . I reassure she that we have fully assess the export licensing regime , and weapon that might be use in the conflict — include those that she mention — have be exclude . she be right to raise the issue of deconfliction , and the aid worker who have lose their life . I reassure she that I have raise those issue with the Prime Minister in Israel and other member of the Government , and press they hard . when I come into this role , I know that the former Foreign Secretary have do exactly the same . it be on that basis that we have , sadly and regrettably , come to this assessment today . we have have some very strong word from the Foreign Secretary today about the need for this war to end , and we have hear how important a ceasefire be for that , and I take he at his word . look forward , however , what lever do he have , and when will he pull they ? the hon . Gentleman be new to this House , so I will tread very gently . I urge he to reflect on the fact that to bring about peace , as we see in Northern Ireland , we need partner for peace . the principal partner here be Benjamin Netanyahu and Sinwar . the deal we have on the table could bring about that peace . in my past eight or nine week in office , I have spend more time on this issue , press to get that ceasefire , than any other . we have see the most serious incursion into the west bank for 20 year . it be under cover of the horror happen in Gaza ; otherwise it would be lead the news . town such as Jenin be completely cut off , with the water supply cut and the street plough up . what be the Government ' s specific response to that , which be really a form of collective punishment ? have the Foreign Secretary look at whether arm and equipment be be use specifically in the west bank ? I say to my very good friend that the UK position be clear : settlement be completely unacceptable and illegal under international law . they present an obstacle to peace , and they threaten the physical viability of a two - state solution . that be why we take this matter so seriously , and it be why we condemn the settler violence and remark of incitement , such as those make by Israel ' s National Security Minister Mr Ben - Gvir and Finance Minister Smotrich . we keep all these issue under review , and I discuss they all with our close ally . amid the devastation of the bombardment and the collapse in civilian infrastructure , civilian in Gaza must now contend with polio . as have be mention this afternoon , to be effective , the UN vaccination programme need to attain some 90 % coverage of the population . what be the Foreign Secretary ' s assessment of the initial progress on the scheme ? what step be his Government take to facilitate a swift and hopefully effective roll - out ? I be grateful for the question . it be horrendous that polio have return after two decade of absence in Gaza . we convene and press to get this pause in Gaza to get child vaccinate so that we do not see a new flowering of that horrendous disease and affliction . I hope that the hon . member will commend the leadership that we have show as well as that we see at the UN Security Council to bring about this vaccination programme in the last few day . we be all desperate to see an end to the suffering on all side in this conflict . the iranian regime and their proxy be one of the big barrier to end that conflict and achieve a sustainable ceasefire . do the Secretary of State agree that tackle the threat from Iran be vital ? will he update we on his plan to proscribe the irgc ? I be grateful for the question , and I would not want the House to lose sight of the further sanction on four individual that I announce in the House this afternoon ; member can revisit my statement to be abreast of that . my hon . friend be absolutely right about the danger that the irgc pose . indeed , it have be important for I in these early week in office to engage with my iranian counterpart and to urge de - escalation , particularly in relation to any action that Iran be contemplate . this remain the very big and most important of issue for we in the UK , and it be absolutely right to keep it centre stage . the news about the suspension of some export licence be indeed welcome , and I know that many in my constituency and across the country will be glad to hear it , but I be alarmed that the principle underpin criterion 2C seem to have be inconsistently apply . in particular , the justification that the Foreign Secretary offer for not suspend licence for the F - 35 appear inconsistent . there appear to be clear evidence of risk — I understand that there be online post from the Israel Defence Forces indicate that F - 35s have be use in bomb Gaza — so I urge he to review the case again and to suspend those licence . will he also clarify whether licensing continue for R902 ( W ) Wankel engine , which be involve in the attack on World Central Kitchen humanitarian worker ? the hon . Lady ask important question about the F - 35 . in look at the F - 35 , it be important to understand that there be a global supply chain . she will recognise the very serious threat that exist across much of the globe in other terrible theatre of conflict . I think that , be she in my situation , she too would make the judgment that we should do nothing to equip those who would cause tremendous harm in relation to this decision . that have be important — never mind the ability to distinguish , across those multiple supply chain that involve many nation , the particular bit of armoury that she talk about . the child of Gaza have face an onslaught from above and now face the spread of disease . will the Foreign Secretary consider once again bring those who be most vulnerable to the UK for medical treatment ? Polio have a last impact , and those who have be infect could need a lot more support with lifelong disability . we also see child who need amputation and life - alter operation but have not be able to access the right quality of care because the hospital have not be there . can we look at this again ? other country be do so ; let we be a part of that . my hon . friend raise a very important issue . my right hon . friend the Member for Oxford East ( anneliese Dodds ) and I make statement in our first week in office on support UK - Med and restore the funding to UNRWA , to ensure that those child get the medical aid they need at this time . I be afraid my assessment be that , across Gaza , it be not sufficient , for the reason that I have discuss , but it be important that we put all the aid and money we could into that endeavour , particularly on behalf of those young child . another issue that I be tremendously concerned about be the amount of young people who be not in school . this have go on for month , and young people must be in school . I thank the Foreign Secretary for his answer . I defend the right of Israel to protect all its people , as the United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland do for its own citizen against IRA terrorism , and as Ukraine have do against russian aggression . I be ever mindful of that . our heart ache for those hostage family who have receive the news that they fear and dread for almost a year . that even more forcibly underline the need to ensure that either the hostage or their remain be bring home , and that step be take for peace in the middle east , which be the goal of the Foreign Secretary and everyone in this House . will he outline what further step can be take along with our ally to bring about this much - need peace ? today ' s decision relate to an independent process concern our strategic export licensing criterion . it come on yet another day of tremendous pain for those hostage family — I be acutely aware of that . it be why I have seek to speak to those family — those who have a relationship with our own country , and those beyond as well — and to meet they when I have be in Israel . my heart bleed for they . the pain and suffering that they be go through be torturous . that there be so many left be unbelievable . to have go so many month not know whether their love one be alive or dead be horrific . anyone who look at the front page of the international news can see those beautiful young people who have be take from we in the most horrific of way ; frankly , it bring tear to the eye . I offer my deep condolence — all of we do — to those family who have learn that they have lose their love one over the last few day . the Foreign Secretary announce that 30 of approximately 350 arm export licence will now be suspend . that be still less than 10 % of the total number of arm export licence to Israel . give that over 40 , 000 Palestinians have now be kill , Israel be expand its military operation in the occupy west bank and a Foreign Office official have resign , state that " it ' s actually quite clear … that … Israel be perpetuate war crime in plain sight " , will the UK Government ensure that the UK be not complicit in Israel ' s war crime , and will they suspend all arm sale to Israel ? I have follow the quasi - legal process that we have in this country — one of the most robust regime in the world . I stand by the decision that I have make that approximately 30 export licence to Israel should be suspend at this time . yes , that represent 10 % , because it be the 10 % that could be use in the theatre of conflict that we be concern with . I gently say to the hon . Lady that we might sell many thing , but I do not think anyone would suggest that we should not sell a helmet or goggle to one of our close ally . we make that assessment in a measured and sober way on behalf of the british people , and I be satisfied with the assessment that have be make . I welcome the Foreign Secretary ' s decision to withdraw some arm export licence . I be confident that , even though our arm trade be insignificant , it be bind to have a repercussion on other country that provide arm licence , so I certainly welcome the move . what step can he take , in liaise with his israeli counterpart , in relation to the palestinian child who will now receive polio vaccination and be be move from pillar to post , without a real safe zone ? will the Foreign Secretary seek assurance that they will be give a safe zone and not be blow away after be give their vaccination ? yes . I thank the Foreign Secretary for his statement . I absolutely share his pain , horror and dismay at the number of innocent civilian kill in Gaza . I recently receive a letter from constituent under the banner of Families for a Ceasefire , sign by over 70 family in Monmouthshire , call for a ceasefire and a ban on all arm sale to Israel , so I welcome the suspension of 30 arm licence . will my right hon . friend share with we when a further review of the remain licence will be available ? will he consider encourage other country around the world to do as we have do and suspend their licence to Israel ? I recognise that this be a really big issue for my hon . friend ' s constituent . I recall be in Wales a few month ago and the issue be raise with we both , when I be speak on behalf of the opposition . our regime be our regime ; different country will have different arrangement . it be for they to democratically determine those arrangement , and they will have make a range of different assessment . she will also understand that , as I say , there be really only two or three country that sell substantial amount to Israel and , in truth , we be not one of they . I think the assessment that have regrettably be reach today should satisfy all those who have be concern with any breach of international humanitarian law on the basis of a clear risk , which be the export licensing criterion . as I say in my statement , it be not a judgment . it be not for I , the Government or any of we in this place to act as judge and jury . that be a matter for the appropriate international court and must be determine in the usual way . I emphasise that it be the clear risk judgment of our export licensing criterion that have require I to make this judgment . I welcome the Government ' s statement and I know that many in my constituency will as well . our overwhelming priority must be an immediate ceasefire in Gaza . do the Foreign Secretary agree that both side must come to the table to end the conflict , and will the Foreign Office strain every diplomatic sinew to effect that ? yes . we need a ceasefire now . it be in the hand of the major actor to bring that about , and to get those hostage out and get that hostage deal . so many family in Israel want to see that hostage deal and to bring the suffering of the palestinian people to an end , so the aid can get in in the quantity require . it be within our reach . I will be honest with my hon . friend : I have hope that we would have reach that point by now , but we must still reach to get there over the come day . we have be talk about polio today because , tragically , we have learn that that infectious disease be take a grip in Gaza . however , there be many other communicable disease in Gaza which be spread . therefore , just focus on polio will not be sufficient to save life . what further step can my right hon . friend take to ensure that window of vaccination , treatment and cure can be extend so that more life can be save ? I assure my hon . friend that both the Minister for Development , my right hon . friend the Member for Oxford East ( anneliese Dodds ) , and I be work on these issue , and that our support for all medical aid in Gaza be paramount . of course , sit alongside the medical context be the nutritional context — include the threat of famine and starvation , which lead to so many medical ailment . my hon . friend be right to emphasise these matter , and I can only say to she that we in the UK in particular continue to work on this front . the Foreign Secretary rightly say in his statement that famine be loom ever large in Gaza , and he have just mention the issue of hunger and malnutrition . the World Food Programme have manage to bring in only half the aid need , and , indeed , recently suspend movement of its staff after they come under attack . will the Foreign Secretary expand on the assessment of hunger and malnutrition level in Gaza , and on the specific action that the Government be take to push for unimpeded access to food aid ? it be of tremendous concern that over the last few day the World Food Programme have suspend its activity in Gaza because its own worker have come under attack in connection with issue of deconfliction that have already be raise today . that have prompt tremendous concern on both side of the House about nutrition , about starvation and about famine . we will be redouble our effort over the come day , and work with international partner to see that people do not go without the food that would keep they from famine status . I welcome the Foreign Secretary ' s call for an immediate ceasefire , because that be the route for hostage to be return home and for aid to flow into all corner of Gaza , and I welcome his call for a two - state solution , because that be the only route to a last peace in the region . I also welcome the clarity about the fact that there be no moral equivalence between the israeli Government and the heinous action and intent of Hamas . may I ask the Foreign Secretary what step can be take to stop , or stem , the flow of money , aid and weapon from Iran to its proxy , who be so determined to bring about Israel ' s total destruction ? I be grateful for the tone of my hon . friend ' s remark . he be entirely right to put the spotlight on Iran . that be why I have announce further sanction today , it be why we keep the position of the irgc under close review , and it be why I have speak to the Iranians twice in the last two week and urge de - escalation . it be also why I have be to Lebanon and meet its Prime Minister , its Speaker and other , include those who could convey message to Hezbollah . we have military intelligence capability that be among the good in the world , work with our partner , and these be issue of the utmost importance in relation to global security . violent Disorder before I call the Home Secretary to make her statement , I remind the House that several hundred people have be charge with criminal offence relate to these disturbance . Most of those case be still before the court . public order be a matter of national importance , and Mr Speaker have therefore decide to grant a limited waiver to the House ' s sub judice resolution in the following term . member may make statement of fact about the circumstance of the unrest , about the number of people arrest , charge and sentence , and about the kind of behaviour exhibit during these event . however , they may not refer to specific individual who have be charge and be await trial , or engage in any discussion or speculation about individual case . I call the Home Secretary . before I start , I want to pass our sympathy to the family of Cher Maximen and Mussie Imnetu , who die , sadly , this weekend follow violent incident around the Notting Hill carnival . our thought be with their friend and family at this terrible time , and our thank go to the police , who have move swiftly to charge suspect in both case . there be no place for such appalling , senseless violence on our street , and this Government be determined to stamp out the scourge of serious violence , wherever it be find . with permission , Madam Deputy Speaker , I will now make a statement on the violent disorder that occur early this summer . just before the parliamentary recess , I make a statement to this House on the horrendous attack that take place in Southport on 29 July . five week on , our heart still ache for the three precious little girl who lose their life , for their love one , and for the other child who be injure or endure unspeakable horror that day . the House will know that a suspect have be charge , and the investigation into the attack be ongoing . those grieve family , the Southport community and the country will need answer , but , for that reason , the legal process must now take its course . that day in the House , all of we come together in sorrow and in solidarity with the family and the people of Southport , and I speak of the bravery , compassion and distress of the police , the paramedic and the firefighter I have meet that morning , who be first on the scene . it be truly appal that within hour of that statement , the same Southport police be face the most disgraceful violent attack from criminal and thug . Police officer be pelt with brick and bottle . the local mosque — a place of worship — be subject to violent attack . while million of decent people across the country be pray for bereaved family , a criminal minority of thug and extremist see only an opportunity to hijack a town ' s grief . the Merseyside chief constable , Serena Kennedy , speak at the funeral of Alice da Silva Aguiar , where she say she hope that anyone take part in the violent disorder be " hang their head in shame at the pain " that they have cause the bereaved family . in the day that follow , we see far disgraceful violent disorder in a number of town and city . there be repeat attack on the same police officer whose job it be to keep community safe , and over 100 officer be injure . in Sunderland , a citizen advice branch be set alight . in Liverpool , a library and vital community hub be torch . in Hull , shop be loot and a mosque be target . in Rotherham , a hotel use as asylum accommodation be set alight when people be inside . in Bolton , clash between rival group involve firework and bottle be throw . and we see people target on the street because of the colour of their skin . this disgraceful disorder and racist hatred , include that whip up by a hateful minority online , be an insult to those grieve over Southport . let we be very clear : those violent and criminal attack be not protest . they be not about grievance . they be thuggery , racism and crime . plenty of people across the country have strong view about crime , policing , immigration , asylum , the NHS and more , but they do not pick up brick and throw they at the police . they do not loot shop or attack place of worship , and they do not set building alight know that other human being be inside . there be a lot to debate on all kind of policy issue , but no one should make excuse for violence or thuggery that risk public safety . this be brazen criminality , perpetrate in many case by those with exist criminal conviction . the Prime Minister and I make it clear that criminal would pay the price for their violence , and we mean it . the Prime Minister announce a new national violent disorder programme to bring together the good policing capability and enhance intelligence sharing across force , and Ministers work daily with the police and criminal justice partner to ensure that there be a strong and determined response . the National Police Co - ordination Centre operate a national mobilisation plan to ensure that strategic reserve of public order officer be ready to be deploy in support of different police force . More than 40 , 000 officer shift be work by public order officer over 10 day , with over 6 , 600 public order officer deploy on one day alone . rest day be cancel and additional hour be work . the Crown Prosecution Service deploy over 100 additional prosecutor , boost its 24 - hour charging service with additional advice from the Director of Public Prosecutions so that they could move swiftly to charge . the Ministry of Justice accelerate the work on new cell to bring 500 more prison place on stream early , and the Lord Chancellor make it clear that the court stand ready to hear all the case come through . the Home Office establish a new rapid procedure for security support for mosque to ensure that community feel support and safe . in total , around 1 , 280 people have be arrest , around 800 charge have be make and over 570 individual have be bring before the court for offence such as violent disorder , assault on emergency worker , arson and encourage violent attack online . this robust and swift response from the Government and the criminal justice system have provide a strong deterrent and show our steadfast determination to keep people safe . most importantly , order be restore . I want now to update the House on some of the next step we will take . first , we will take forward positive policing reform to build on the important work do by the National Police Co - ordination Centre this summer . I want to particularly thank the chair of the National Police Chiefs ' Council and the public order lead for the mobilisation work that they do , but the reality be that the co - ordination infrastructure and system that they have to work with be too weak . I be therefore ask his Majesty ' s inspectorate of constabulary and fire and rescue service to work quickly with the NPCC , the College of Policing and the national lead for public order , to review the lesson from this summer ' s event so that we can ensure that strong co - ordination and intelligence system be in place and that there be sufficient public order police for the future . secondly , as well as ensure that there be proper punishment for those responsible for this disorder , we will be press forward at pace with this Government ' s mission to take back the safety of our street and restore respect for the police and the rule of law . we will put thousand more neighbourhood police officer and police community support officer back on the street , reverse the collapse in community police and rebuild the relationship between local community and force . this Government be very clear that wherever and whenever violence and disorder emerge — whether in Hartlepool or Harehills , Sunderland or Stoke — we expect crime to have consequence and perpetrator to face the full force of the law . the criminal violence we see after the Southport attack be not the only violent disorder this summer . we also see disgraceful arson and attack on the police in Harehills . in that case , 32 people have be arrest and in the past week three man have plead guilty to arson and violent disorder after a bus be set alight . thirdly , I have be concern for a long time that not enough be be do to counter extremism — include both islamist extremism and far right extremism — as there have be no proper strategy in place since 2015 . I have order a rapid review of extremism to ensure that we have the strong possible response to the poisonous ideology that corrode community cohesion and fray the fabric of our democracy . alongside that , the Deputy Prime Minister be oversee cross - Government work to consider how we support our community and address issue of cohesion in the long term . fourthly , the Secretary of State for Science , Innovation and Technology will strengthen the requirement for social medium company to take responsibility for the poison be proliferate on their platform with the roll - out of the measure in the Online Safety Act 2023 , and we will continue to be clear that criminal content online result in criminal sanction offline . fifthly , we stand ready to support the police through the special grant for policing , and the Home Office will work with police and crime commissioner to ensure that the Riot Compensation Act 2016 work effectively in the area that be affect . the country recoil in horror at the scene of violence and disorder in some city and town early this summer , but let there be no doubt : the minority of criminal and thug who seek to cause havoc do not represent Britain . instead , across the country we see decent people come together to support each other , to clean up the damage and to rebuild community : the bricklayer who repair the wall of the Southport mosque ; the resident who donate fund and book to restock the Spellow library ; and the volunteer in Sunderland who find a new site to offer community advice . there be many more example , and those small , unassuming act of selflessness should serve as a message to the criminal and extremist that they do not speak for Britain and they never will . I commend this statement to the House . I thank the Secretary of State for the advance copy of her statement . I wish , once again , to pay my respect to the victim of the Southport attack . the murder of three young girl in Southport be horrific , and our thought be with they , their family and friend , and of course the local community . my thought be also with the family and friend of those who be kill at the Notting Hill carnival . the Government and the Mayor of London must do more to end the criminality and violence that too regularly mar this event , and they must bring forward credible plan to improve safety well ahead of next year ' s carnival . I pay tribute to the bravery of our police officer across the country who put themselves in harm ' s way to deal with the violence perpetrate by thug this summer . there be not , and never can be , any excuse , justification or rationale for the violent disorder that we have see . we can not and will not let rioting thug or extremist win . the Government must always back our police officer to do what be necessary to maintain law and order . attack on the police by any group must not be tolerate , and intimidation of the public or the medium can not be allow . do the Home Secretary now see that the comment make by one of her Ministers at the time of the riot , seemingly make excuse for armed thug who intimidate the medium , undermine the Government ' s credibility , reinforce the accusation of bias , and put people , include police officer , at increase risk ? do the Home Secretary now also recognise that the Labour leadership kneel in the immediate aftermath of the black life matter disorder , when violent protestor attack police officer , make it look like her party take some form of violence less seriously than other ? do she accept that any perception whatsoever of treat the same crime differently , base on the race , religion or community of the perpetrator , increase tension rather than reduce it ? do she accept that , at time of heightened tension , Ministers must be , and must be see to be , even - handed and demand even - handedness of other ? do the Home Secretary also recognise that the delay in hold a Cobra meeting until almost a week after these event start be a mistake , that it create a vacuum and that it delay the action that could have bring this disorder to an end more quickly ? at the time of the disorder , the Prime Minister claim that he would create a " stand army " of public order police officer . what progress have be make in the intervene week to make that claim a reality ? after the murder of the three young girl in Southport , the right hon . Lady and I discuss across the Dispatch Box the impact of misinformation and disinformation online . when I be Home Secretary , I travel to the United States to deliver this message directly to the leadership of the tech firm and to make clear what the British Government expect from they in this regard . have the Home Secretary have any similar conversation with the social media platform about their responsibility ? and can she inform the House whether her Department will continue the review into police use of force , institute by the Conservative Government of which I be a member , to ensure that the police be able to take firm action and clamp down on crime with all the force that the law allow , without fear of be string up for year in endless investigation ? in government , we recruit 20 , 000 new police officer , but their work will be hamper if they do not feel support by the Government when they take the firm action need to keep the people of this country safe . violence have absolutely no place on our street . anyone who engage in violent disorder or commit violent crime must face the full force of the law , no matter who they be . we will continue to hold the Government to account to ensure that they deal with disorder swiftly , effectively , fairly and even - handedly . I welcome the shadow Home Secretary ' s word of support for the Southport family and his reassertion that there can be no excuse for violent disorder , but I have to say that the rest of his response sound an awful lot more like a pitch to Tory party member in the middle of a leadership election than a serious response to the scale of the disorder we see and the need for a serious police response . he ask about the strategic reserve — the " stand army " . we set up the strategic reserve and it be in place for the second weekend ; we have thousand of police officer who be ready . we do not use the old arrangement that we inherit from he , where mutual aid have to be on call and stand up in a rush when it be call for . we get the police public order officer ready and deploy at strategic location around the country , so they could move fast and be where they be need . that go to the heart of the problem we inherit from the shadow Home Secretary and his predecessor . the central co - ordination that he have leave in place be far too weak . the chief officer involve in try to get mutual aid in place and to co - ordinate intelligence have very weak infrastructure and system in place . they have not be support over very many year . in fact , some of his predecessor have try to get rid of a lot of the work of the National Police Coordination Centre . instead , our approach be to strengthen it . we believe that we should strengthen central co - ordination and we will work with the police to do so , which be why I have ask the inspectorate to operate . secondly , the shadow Home Secretary refer to the issue around social medium . seriously — his party delay the Online Safety Act 2023 for year . the Secretary of State for Science , Innovation and Technology , my right hon . friend the Member for Hove and Portslade ( Peter Kyle ) , have already be work closely on put more pressure on the social medium company , but the shadow Home Secretary ' s party do nothing for year . it be far too late for member of his party to try to call for action . and the review into police use of force be important and will continue . finally , I have to say that the shadow Home Secretary be play game , undermine the credibility of the police . he be try to blame the Prime Minister for something that happen four year ago — say he be somehow responsible for the violent disorder on our street this summer — and undermine the credibility of police officer . each individual officer take an oath to operate without fear or favour . may I remind the right hon . Gentleman that his predecessor as Home Secretary , the right hon . and learn Member for Fareham and Waterlooville ( Suella Braverman ) , try to undermine and attack the credibility of the police in the run up to Armistice Day ? that be why we end up with a bunch of thug try to get to the Cenotaph to disrupt the service and launch violent attack on the police . the only reason the right hon . Gentleman get the job of Home Secretary in the first place be because everyone condemn his predecessor for her behaviour . I be so sorry that he have decide , in a leadership election , to follow her example — I really think he be well than that . may I compliment the Home Secretary and the Lord Chancellor on the robust response that the whole criminal justice system take to the recent riot and violent disorder ? be my right hon . friend , like I , concern about the number of very young people — pre - teen , in some case — who take part ? what do she think be the solution to rehabilitation and to prevent young people of that age become involve in such disgraceful behaviour in the future ? my hon . friend make an important point about the number of young people involve . some of they have a string of conviction — they have history — but there be also young people who be draw into violence and disorder , sometimes antisocial behaviour and the looting of shop , or sometimes into serious violence as well . there be an important issue about how we prevent young people get draw into violence and antisocial behaviour . that be one of the reason we be so determined to set up the Young Futures programme , and one of the reason we need to look at the online radicalisation of young people as part of the extremism review . I call the liberal Democrat spokesperson . I thank the Home Secretary for advance sight of her statement . I associate myself and my party with her comment of praise for the bravery and professionalism of the police and the other emergency service , which we see throughout these disgraceful episode . this a moment for everyone in this House to make it clear which side they be on . it simply be not credible for people to talk about two - tier policing and then , in the next breath , say that they also support the police . the Home Secretary be correct to call out the disorder we have see for what it be : thuggery , racism and crime . we on the liberal Democrat Benches support the step that she have announce , but do she agree that this render urgent the need to appoint an independent adviser on Islamophobia , a post that have be vacant for the past two year , and to have a formal definition of Islamophobia , in order to underpin and inform Government policy across the board and across all Departments ? I welcome the right hon . member ' s support for the police and the work they do , and for the importance of ensure that these kind of crime be not tolerate and the perpetrator should face consequence . he be right that there be significant attack on mosque , which be why we bring forward the work on mosque security . he be also right that we need to challenge Islamophobia and anti - muslim hate wherever it be find . the Deputy Prime Minister be take forward that work . the Home Secretary rightly start her statement by remember the victim of the horrific attack in my Southport constituency , and I would like to take this opportunity to thank she for that . one of the most appalling aspect of the disorder we see across the country last month be that we continually hear the claim from the thug involve that they have be drive to commit their act of violence by the killing of little bebe , Elise Dot and Alice . that claim be a grotesque lie . no one be more furious about that lie than the people of Southport , who want to just be allow to deal with their grief and anguish in their own way , and to support the family of those who have be kill . it be no surprise to I that some of the target of the violence be place of worship , a citizen advice bureau and a library . these be the place where community go to heal , and when they be drive to improve each other and themselves . the thug who attack those target set their face against community self - improvement , so it be no surprise that those be the target they attack . for those who continue to propagate the lie that the thuggery we see come from justifiable concern or that the action of the mob be somehow justified , will the Home Secretary reiterate that what happen in Southport provide no justification at all for anyone throw brick at the police , attack people in their own car or burn down building with people inside they ? for anyone to pretend otherwise be too horrific for word . I thank my hon . friend for his powerful word on behalf of his constituent . I thank he for stand up for the people of Southport , include those family who have have to endure the most unspeakable horror and who be still have to deal with the consequence of what happen . he be absolutely right that no one should ever use the terrible attack on three little girl as an excuse for the kind of violent disorder we have see . I be so sorry that the family and the community he represent have have to endure not just the original attack , but people claim to be do thing in the name of Southport . clearly , what those people have be do be not that , but simply crime . do the Home Secretary agree that one reason why what might be call her shock and awe policy successfully shut down the violence so quickly be the speed with which the offender be bring before the court and sentence ? and if she do agree with that as a deterrent for the future , how can that model be adapt in other area of justice ? the right hon . Member make an important point . there be no doubt that the swift response from the police , the prosecution and the criminal justice system have a strong impact and be clearly a deterrent and an overwhelming signal to people that if they get involve in disorder they will pay the price . the implicit point in his question be that there be long delay in the criminal justice system at the moment . we have often see long delay in prosecution . we be keen to work closely on that . we want to see well co - operation between policing and the Crown Prosecution Service in order to remove some of the bureaucracy that be in place and to speed up charge . we recognise there have be a lot of damage to the criminal justice system . we need to tackle that and turn it round , because that be fundamental to respect for the rule of law . may I just say what a powerful statement my hon . friend the Member for Southport ( Patrick Hurley ) make ? there be no excuse for be racist or for use the innocent life of Elsie , Alice and Bebe . I thank the Home Secretary for mention Cher Maximen and Mussie Imnetu . it be important that we be all mindful about how we use language in this House , especially when we be refer to immigration and migration . it be also important that we talk not only about thuggery and racism , but about Islamophobia . the rise in racism be frightening , and Love Music Hate Racism be do a lot of work around rage against hate . I hope my right hon . friend will help to encourage it in that work . do she agree that we do need strong regulation around social medium company ? I welcome my hon . friend ' s point . one of the most troubling thing that we see during those day of violent disorder be people feel fearful to be out on the street because of the colour of their skin . that should never happen in our country , which be why we do have to challenge racism and extremism wherever they be find . my right hon . friend the Secretary of State for Science , Innovation and Technology be bring forward measure under the Online Safety Act 2023 that will require social medium company to take action where there be criminal content . there have be considerable concern about criminal content remain online , and we need the social medium company to take responsibility for that . welcome to the Chair , Madam Deputy Speaker . I agree with the Home Secretary ' s condemnation of violence . indeed , I suspect her unwillingness to open up this statement be because she want the voice of this House to be one of condemnation of violence . she be right about that , and she will know that the street of Northern Ireland face the same difficulty as those in England over the course of the summer . almost 20 psni officer be injure on our street . they benefit from the mutual aid support from Police Scotland during that time . the Home Secretary be not responsible for police in Northern Ireland , but she be responsible for immigration policy throughout the United Kingdom . may I ask she at some stage to indicate to this House and to the country what step she will take to repair the damage work by the last government through the Illegal Migration Act 2023 and the Safety of Rwanda ( Asylum and Immigration ) Act 2024 , which , for the first time , specifically do not apply in Northern Ireland , follow court judgment , because of the Windsor framework . we no long have a uniform immigration policy in this country , so may I ask she as Home Secretary to tell we what step she will take to address that ? I join the right hon . member in condemn the appalling violent disorder that we see on the street of Belfast and in Northern Ireland and in welcome the support from Police Scotland and the mutual aid that take place . he raise important issue about immigration policy . I be happy to debate those and to talk to he directly about they as it be important . there be a whole range of area where reform will be need . an important debate need to take place around border security , the asylum system , the way immigration rule operate and so on . those be all reform that this Government want to bring forward , but , quite simply , it be important that no one should excuse the violent disorder that we see as somehow be relate to issue about policy . lot of people have really strong view about immigration policy , but they do not pick up brick and throw they at the police . the violence that take place in my constituency of Hartlepool on 31 July be perpetrate by a minority of violent thug . I would like to place on record my thank to the police , some of whom end up in hospital that evening as a result of defend their town and the people who live there . it be undoubtedly the case that the violence be fuel by the lie and misinformation that be largely , although not exclusively , perpetrate online . what can the Home Secretary do to challenge and prevent the spread of that misinformation , and also to clear the way to allow we to have the wide debate about asylum and immigration that decent hard - work people want to have free from these lie ? my hon . friend be right that there have be continual misinformation about this — often deliberate misinformation . those who make the decision to get involve in violent disorder — attack on the police , attack on shop , the looting and the disgraceful behaviour — have to take responsibility for their own action . they can not blame thing that they see online for that . equally , we have also make it clear that what be criminal offline be also criminal online . there be an important responsibility on those post online and also on the social medium company to make sure that criminal content be take down . my hon . friend be also right : we should be able to have a serious debate about issue around immigration , asylum , and the strong border control that this Government want to introduce , but that be separate from the kind of violent disorder that we see . nobody should use policy issue around crime , policing , or any other issue as be an excuse for violence on our street . what percentage of these case be deal with by district judge rather than lay magistrate , and where be that change make in the CPS ? and will those change be apply to new disorder , for example those commit by Extinction Rebellion or just stop Oil , and will they be apply to the Manchester airport incident ? the hon . Member will know that decision on charge and on which court take the decision be not a matter for Government and rightly so . those be independent matter for the CPS and for the court and the judicial system . I be happy to write to she with detailed information about the number of case that have be deal with in the different court , as I do not have that to hand . I wish to extend my gratitude to the Home Secretary for her statement , and echo her acknowledgment of the remarkable courage and dedication of the police . last month , officer across the country and in my constituency of Blackpool South face significant challenge as they bravely stand against a barrage of projectile , work diligently to protect our local mosque , hotel and town centre from hateful extremist seek to disrupt our community . lancashire police be outstanding . they stand tall and resolute in the face of diversity , just like I have see countless time when I be serve as deputy police and crime commissioner . will the Home Secretary join I in thank the police across our country , especially in Lancashire , and acknowledge that we be fortunate to have such a dedicated , brave and professional group of officer who be at the frontline battle crime and disorder . I welcome my hon . friend ' s point , and put on record my strong gratitude towards police officer across the country . I pay tribute to they . officer give up their rest day and work additional overtime — they be particularly stretch during that period in August — to ensure that we have enough public - order - train police on the street . they do a remarkable job , and all of we should show they our gratitude and support . we in Scotland be grateful that we be spare any of the violence that we see throughout the rest of the United Kingdom . the Home Secretary say that she want a debate . do she accept that the way that immigrant and asylum seeker have be portray by a host of political voice have help to foster , foment and even encourage some of the scene that we witness ? those who have be whip up this type of activity must be hold to account , as must those who peddle misinformation . will the Home Secretary also help that debate by talk a little more positively about immigration ? stop demonise asylum seeker . will she encourage we to have that debate , but for it to be a well debate ? I certainly think that we should have honest and practical debate about issue , rather than debate that end up be lose in rhetoric , and often lose sight of the fact and practical issue . some of what we see be extremism , as well as local criminal and thug . some people who have a violent history of crime in the local area also get involve . to deal with the disorder , we have to deal with all the different aspect and origin of it . I be grateful for the strong leadership that the Home Secretary have show on this . the truth be that these event do not happen in a vacuum . that be why , after three day of distress and panic in Walthamstow because somebody publish a list suggest that thug be go to come to our community , thousand of people take to our street . they stand with member of our local mosque and church , hold hand with they to keep they safe . they help business to board up their property . we even have knitter against Nazis . as much as we be grateful for that solidarity , we in Walthamstow know that the fear endure even after the immediate threat have go . that be the challenge that we have to deal with in this place : those people who promote anger rather than answer to the challenge that we face in our society . the Home Secretary talk about a review . can she set out what she actually mean by far - right extremism and such term , because those detail matter in be able to have these debate and give confidence to the community that be target that we stand with they , as we do in Walthamstow that day , and as we will do every day ? nobody in Britain should ever feel afraid because of the colour of their skin . that be the really troubling thing that we find people say and feeling as a result of the violent disorder early in the summer . I have set up a review around counter extremism . I have have concern for a long time that not enough be be do to counter extremism in this country . that mean far - right extremism , islamist extremism , and some of the other form of change extremism that do not fit necessarily into the clear , more historical , category . there have be a definition that the Home Office have use for a long time around " extreme right - wing " extremism , and some of the issue online , but we also know that there be change pattern , particularly with online radicalisation . that be why the review be so important . the last counter extremism strategy be set out in 2015 . so much have change since then , especially around online radicalisation . we need to tackle all form of extremism and violent hatred . it be so important to our wellbeing as a democracy and who we be as a country . we have always stand against that kind of extremism , and we must continue to do so . the amount of stabbing and death by stabbing in this country be reach shocking level . over the past few week , the Home Secretary and the Prime Minister have fast - track the violent criminal in these riot , and get they into court and in prison within two week . be it not about time that we do the same with these yobboe — these thug — who be carry knife ? I welcome the hon . member ' s support for the speedy response from the police and criminal justice system to the violence that we see on our street . I agree that it be a serious problem that we have inherit such long delay in the criminal justice system and problem get case swiftly to court . Knife crime have substantially increase in recent year , which be why the newly elect Labour Government have make halve knife crime part of our mission for safe street across this country . we want strong action against young people who be catch and get draw into knife crime . we want a strong Young Futures prevention programme , and strong action against online company that continue to make it far too easy to get hold of knife . we have to take strong action across the board to speed up process and ensure that there be consequence for knife crime . the appalling racist riot may be over for now , but the ideology behind they be a grow threat , both here and internationally . in Germany , for example , the far right have just win a state election for the first time since the second world war . do the Home Secretary agree that to prevent more people be win over by the far right , our Government must deliver proper improvement in living standard in order to combat disillusionment , and refuse to march to the beat of the far right ' s drum on immigration and Islamophobia ? clearly , we want to see increase living standard right across the board . that be immensely important . we also need a serious and sensible debate on a range of policy , include on crime , immigration and other issue that the Home Office be responsible for . we have to take much strong action to counter the kind of online radicalisation that we have see , whether we be talk about far - right extremism or islamist extremism . that be why we be set up a new review on counter extremism . we also have to ensure that those commit disorder and violent crime take responsibility , because there be no excuse . no policy issue or living standard can ever excuse the kind of violence , racist attack and disorder that we see . the ugly , racist mob violence in our town and city this summer be incite and organise by far - right group , often use electronic platform include Telegram and X . for example , on Telegram , group have distribute instruction for make petrol bomb . location of hotel housing migrant and office of immigration lawyer be also share . Elon Musk , the proprietor of x , have greatly amplify some account that promote racist violence in our city , while fail to take action to remove other . in the Home Secretary ' s response , will she look at option for prosecute those who own platform that may have enable or commit crime under section 2 of the Terrorism Act 2006 ? the hon . member will be aware that full implementation of the Online Safety Act 2023 have be long delay and be still need . one of the provision of the Act be a requirement on social medium company to remove illegal content . many of the example that she raise be of illegal content that be still available online , which be shocking and irresponsible . that be why we need the speedy implementation of the Act , start with the requirement to remove criminal content . social medium company should also take much broad responsibility for ignore their own term and condition , their responsibility towards community and public safety . they need to take that more seriously . rise — can I encourage member to ask short question and the Home Secretary to make answer shorter , as I would like to get everyone in ? I be grateful to the Home Secretary for her statement . I agree with her point that it be perfectly possible to have a debate in our country about immigration and many other issue without resort to looting shop , attack minority group and throw brick at police . in my constituency , I regularly have conversation with local people who feel that net migration be too high , and who worry about the cost of asylum hotel and the number of people enter our country illegally . in elect I , they have elect an MP who be prepared to raise those issue in Parliament and work with the Government to address they . do the Home Secretary agree that that be how a democratic country like ours should operate , rather than a bunch of hooligan use those subject as an excuse to smash up shop , burn car and attack the police ? my hon . friend be exactly right . we can all have an important debate in this place — the kind of debate that people have in community across the country — about the issue that she raise around net migration and border control . Most of we across the country talk about all those issue and work out what action and policy be need . there be no excuse for take the kind of violent action that we have see , and attack police officer , whose very job be to keep we safe . at the start of the trouble in Northern Ireland , I go to our Deputy First Minister and get she , with the help of the local health trust , to visit our local hospital , where we be able to offer some form of reassurance to people , of whatever background and every country of origin , that they have our total support . do the Home Secretary agree that that be a good , positive way to approach this ? do she also agree that we must identify and speak about the issue that many people have with illegal immigration , and try to ensure that we do not see in this country what we have see in country across the EU ? the hon . member be right that in this country , we have always have people come together and work together to tackle problem and debate issue . the people responsible for this violence and these attack , include on our police officer , do not speak for the United Kingdom — they really do not . they do not speak for any part of the UK , and we should never let they do so . for too long , Muslims have be scapegoate for the failing of the political and economic system by the same type of politic that lead to the hostile environment for migrant . can the Home Secretary outline the step that she will take to ensure that any measure that arise from the rapid review of extremism do not perpetuate or extend harm to the very community — Muslims and migrant — who have be the primary target of the far right ' s violence ? the hon . Member make an important point . the whole purpose of the review on counter extremism be to make sure that we tackle the kind of extremism that we have see grow in this country in recent year . that include far - right extremism , islamist extremism , the violent Islamophobia and attack that we have see , and concern around antisemitic attack . we have to make sure that we do so , and it be immensely important that we work with the community who be often the most affect by extremism and the damage that it can do . I join in the condemnation of the thuggery and violence that we all see and deplore , but can I take the Home Secretary back to the point to which the right hon . member for Belfast East ( Gavin Robinson ) allude ? be she comfortable with the fact that under the Windsor framework , any immigration policy that she devise must pass through the filter of EU law , and be subject to its requirement ? as long as that prevail , how can a Home Secretary implement a national policy ? will she act with this Government to set aside what they inherit from the Tory Government : the loss of sovereignty over immigration — and so many other matter , as far as Northern Ireland be concern ? there will be many opportunity in this House to talk about the detail of immigration policy — I will certainly do that — and I be very happy to discuss far with the hon . gentleman issue such as border security and wide immigration policy , but this statement be about the violent disorder that we see this summer , how we ensure that it can not be repeat , and the reform in place to address that . I welcome the strong leadership that this Government and Home Secretary have show . even though Peterborough avoid the right - wing thuggery that many place see early this summer , despite the good effort of online misinformation and rumour , the event of the summer cast a long shadow on community and constituency like mine . I put on record my thank to Peterborough ' s Joint Mosques Council , Community First and Peterborough ' s community group , as well as the police and council officer who work around the clock to keep business and community safe . can the Home Secretary give confidence and comfort to community like mine that , in the week and month ahead , we will continue to tackle extremism , Islamophobia and anti - muslim hatred ? this be not just about this summer ; those problem have be rise over recent year and be at the source of the issue that we need to tackle . my hon . friend be right . that be why the Deputy Prime Minister be take forward work around community cohesion . we should also recognise that , right across the country , the overwhelming majority of people be truly appal by what we see from a small minority of people . the action that we take be important , because it mean that the small minority involve in disorder face consequence , but they do not speak for Britain , and certainly not for my hon . friend ' s community . I thank the Home Secretary for her statement , her clear , strong leadership and her swift action . well do , Home Secretary . that be what every MP and people across this great nation wish to see . in Northern Ireland , we remain untouched by the unrest see on the mainland , but I will just say this about Newtownards . sometimes it be easy to focus on the negative , but there be positive as well : people of all religion and political persuasion come together as one and stand together against what happen . we have to take some encouragement from that . with regard to community tension , it be essential that everyday people who have legitimate concern about illegal immigration be not draw into situation that become less about the right to display disapproval and protest , and more about violence . how will the Government seek to ensure that those with legitimate concern be hear , and that those whose intent be simply to disrupt and destroy be deal with appropriately ? I welcome the point that the hon . member make and his recognition of the seriousness of , and the damage do by , the violent disorder . he be right that most people in the country want a serious debate about the importance of net migration come down . we have be clear about our view on that , and about why we need strong border security . we also need to recognise that most people across the country want strong border control , and for the UK to continue to do its bit to help those who have flee persecution and conflict , but they want the rule to be properly respect and enforce , and those who do not have a right to be in the UK properly return . there be a whole series of proper issue around immigration that we should debate . Most people want to be part of that debate ; the overwhelming majority do not want to go anywhere near this kind of violence and thuggery , because that be not the kind of country we be . those be not the value that most people in this country have . as the hon . Member say , most of we want to come together to support each other , and to have serious debate , not attack police officer and community . I start by extend my condolence to the family , friend and love one of the three little girl murder in Southport . Liverpool have a very proud history of fight right - wing terrorism on the street of our city . however , the diverse community of my Liverpool Riverside constituency , particularly those who be visibly black and Muslim , be still very anxious about go out , due to the rise in racism and Islamophobia . my right hon . Friend mention the Deputy Prime Minister ' s work on community cohesion . I would be grateful if she confirm whether local authority like mine will receive additional funding to undertake that work . the Deputy Prime Minister will be work with local council across the country on what we need to do to improve cohesion . she and I have discuss many time the importance of these issue and of work alongside each other . the Home Office will lead the work on counter extremism , and her Department — the Ministry of Housing , Communities and Local Government — lead the work on strengthen community cohesion with local council . my hon . friend be exactly right : we can not have a situation where people feel afraid or at risk on the street of this country because of the colour of their skin or their religion . that be why it be so important that the two programme on cohesion and extremism work in parallel . do the Home Secretary agree that those who suggest that this country have some form of two - tier policing serve only to undermine our brave frontline police officer , who put themselves at risk every single day to maintain order , and that anybody who suggest that do not do so in our country ' s name or tradition ? my hon . friend make an important point . police officer in this country take an oath when they become officer to operate without fear or favour . they work immensely hard , right across the country , to uphold that . rightly , we have operational independence for police . those claim have be use by those who want somehow to legitimise attack on the police , who work so hard to keep we safe . it be wrong to make those claim . we should support and work with the police to raise standard across police and to ensure that they can continue to keep our community safe . the scene outside a hotel in Wath over the summer take place just a few mile away from my constituency . a group of rioter set a hotel on fire , know full well that innocent people be inside , include a constituent of mine who be be house there with her child , under the statutory responsibility of the local authority , as she have recently be make homeless . local police officer work 20 - hour shift to keep she safe . the day after the riot , local people attend to clear up the rubble , and in the week after community group , like the Dinnington community box club , organise event to show unity and solidarity in the face of violence . do the Home Secretary agree that that , and not the act of those mindless thug who attack the hotel in Wath , be the true spirit of South Yorkshire ? my hon . friend make an important point and speak powerfully for his constituency . I be so sorry that his constituent be affect by the violence in that way . he be right to talk about the true spirit of South Yorkshire and the community that come together . right across our coalfield community , there be a spirit of solidarity — of really strong community pull together and not stand for such violence and thuggery . my constituent be appal by the criminal disorder that we see on our street at the start of August , which be in no way representative of our city . the contrast between thug who prefer destruction and the decent law - abide majority be clear in our community ' s response — be it Northumbria police officer stand up and protect our community in the face of attack ; the hundred of resident of every race and religion turn up the day after to sweep away not just the shard of glass , but the shard of hatred that have be sow the night before ; or the Sunderland citizen advice bureau refuse to let the arson attack prevent it from provide service . will the Home Secretary join I in praise the response of the people of Sunderland and of similar community across the country , and do she agree that we should build upon their example as we look to strengthen community cohesion in the future ? my hon . friend be exactly right . he speak strongly for the people of Sunderland , who come together . volunteer ensure that the citizen advice bureau could keep work to support local people who be vulnerable and need advice and help . they have work with the police and local community , and they speak not just for Sunderland but for the whole of Britain . I thank the Home Secretary for the statement and for the swift action take during the violent disorder to reassure mosque and muslim community that blatant Islamophobia will not be tolerate . she announce rapid access to the protective security scheme for mosque , which be welcome by mosque across the UK , to help they provide additional security when need . can she confirm how many mosque have access that funding , and what proactive engagement the Home Office have have with mosque and muslim organisation to support they in their funding application ? my hon . friend make an important point about the emergency procedure that we bring in to accelerate support and security provision for mosque . frankly , everybody have the right the feel safe at their place of worship , without fear of attack . I will send he further detail on the precise number , but dozen of mosque come forward and be provide with swift support to ensure that they have security in place under the accelerated procedure . it be important that muslim community feel safe . I be grateful to the Home Secretary for her statement and welcome the range of police reform that she outline . I thank Dorset police for their rapid and proactive work with local resident , community group , mosque , protester and counter - protester to prevent two organise protest in Bournemouth town centre from descend into the type of violent disorder that we see in other part of the country . it will take time to roll out those police reform — I hope they include reform of the funding formula , which currently do not recognise the seasonal challenge that we face every year in Bournemouth — but do she agree that we be lucky to have such dedicated and professional police force on the frontline , prevent crime and disorder with limited resource ? my hon . friend make an important point about the tradition of british policing , of which I think we should feel proud . the idea that the police should operate without fear or favour , that they be operationally independent , and that the police be the public and the public be the police — the tradition of police by consent — stretch back to Peel . that be why the drop in confidence in police over recent year be a real challenge , why the Government be determined to turn it around and work with the police to rebuild confidence in policing , and why we will continue to support the police , include with more neighbourhood policing . we should feel proud of and support the british policing model . I thank the Home Secretary for her statement . she will be aware that the riot , which seek to exploit the Southport killing for a racist and Islamophobic agenda , include one in Middlesbrough that see home , business and vehicle damage in a predominantly asian and muslim area , where thug create roadblock that allow only white british driver to pass . that racist violence cause real fear , result in the postponement of the Middlesbrough Mela , the premier celebration of multiculturalism in the north - east . the community , which so magnificently clean up the mess , refuse to be cow , so the mela will go ahead this coming weekend . will the Home Secretary join I in welcome the restoration of the Middlesbrough Mela , as well as all mela event hold across the country , as important demonstration of working - class community enjoy and celebrate our diversity ? I be glad to hear my hon . friend ' s description of the way in which community come together to celebrate . it be distress to hear about the fear that be create and the community event that be delay because of it . I thank he for continue to champion his constituent throughout the violent disorder that we see in Middlesbrough . he and I have speak about the thing that happen , and I thank he for stand up for his constituent . there have be much discussion of the role that social medium play in fuel the violent disorder that we have see on our street . many of the extremist be swiftly arrest and charge ; do my right hon . friend agree that those who spread pernicious and poisonous online lie should also share responsibility for the disorder that we have see , and that online thug who deliberately stir up hatred and division should have be similarly punish ? if not , what do she think can be do about this increasingly wicked online behaviour ? my hon . friend be right : we have see deliberate attempt to radicalise people or promote extremism online , include on social medium platform , and we have see illegal content not take down . obviously , incitement and encouragement of serious violence and racial hatred offline have be a criminal offence in this country for many year , but what be criminal offline be also criminal online . People need to take responsibility for the crime they commit , which be why we have take this behaviour so seriously , and why we be so clear that the Online Safety Act 2023 need to be implement to make sure that the social medium company take some responsibility for criminal content online . last month , Elon Musk fan the flame of violent disorder . he personally amplify extremist account and , shamefully , even say that he believe our country be head for " civil war " . some 10 month previously , the leader of the conservative party invite Elon Musk to Downing Street , and in a stunt , they even superimpose his new logo on to the front of Downing Street . do my right hon . friend agree that that be a major error of judgment by the Conservative party , and that Elon Musk have no interest in our democracy — only in himself ? there be an important point here , which be that the social medium company and their owner need to take some responsibility for the criminal content that appear on their platform , but also for the way that they operate — for the way that their algorithm operate , and how they can be use and manipulate by extremist . as for misjudgment by the Conservative party , there be too many to list now . I thank the Home Secretary for that statement . infected Blood Compensation Scheme we now come to a statement from the Cabinet Office on the infected blood compensation scheme . I call the Minister . thank you , Madam Deputy Speaker ; I think this be the first time that I have speak with you in the Chair , so I congratulate you on your election . I be grateful for the opportunity to update the House on the Government ' s work on the infected blood compensation scheme , follow my letter to Mr Speaker during the recess . the infected blood scandal be a shameful mark on the british state , and those who have be impact have wait far too long to receive financial redress and true recognition of their suffering . the inquiry ' s report shed light on the trauma inflict on thousand of people across the country . the voice of people who be infect and have be affect have go unheard for far too long , which have compound the trauma . the devastating finding of the report bear repeat : victim be use as object of unethical research , and people be mislead about the treatment they need and receive . as Sir Brian Langstaff KC put it , there be a " cover - up " that be " more subtle , more pervasive and more chilling " than an " orchestrated conspiracy to mislead " . it be a shameful part of our state ' s recent history . on 26 July , I update this House on the engagement exercise be undertake by Sir Robert Francis KC , interim chair of the new Infected Blood Compensation Authority , with the infected blood community on the compensation proposal that be publish on 21 May . as I tell the House , the Government be carefully consider Sir Robert ' s feedback with a view to publish his report and the Government ' s position on it in advance of 24 August , which be the statutory deadline impose by the Victims and Prisoners Act 2024 for establish the infected blood compensation scheme in regulation . I assure the House that this Government uphold that commitment , and I thank all the official who work in the Cabinet Office to ensure that that deadline be meet . on 16 August , the Government publish on gov . uk an update on the infected blood compensation scheme , Sir Robert Francis ' s report on his engagement exercise , and the infected blood inquiry response expert group ' s final report . I meet with some representative of the community and with Health Ministers from the devolved administration , and I make call to parliamentarian on both side of the House so that they be inform of the Government ' s progress prior to publication . I have come to the House today to provide the Government ' s update on next step , but I would like to acknowledge the work and the value contribution of Sir Robert Francis and the expert group appoint by the right hon . member for Salisbury ( John Glen ) at the start of the year . it be the Government ' s intention to deliver a comprehensive compensation scheme at the early possible opportunity , in order to provide justice and closure to the infected blood community , which have historically be neglect and mistreat . I put on record my thank to Sir Robert Francis . through both his compensation framework study in 2022 — which be take into account in the inquiry — and his recent engagement exercise in June with key representative of the community , he have contribute greatly to the development of the infected blood compensation scheme . he listen to the concern of the community , and his most recent report take on board both those concern and other feedback from a diverse group of representative . Sir Robert make 74 recommendation to the Government , cover a wide range of area , include the future of the current infect blood compensation scheme , additional supplementary award for those who be subject to unethical medical research , and amendment to the five key head of loss that inform the total compensation package for victim . the Government accept the vast majority of those recommendation : 69 of the 74 be accept . for the five that the Government have not accept , it be because we believe that a different solution will be more practical and well for the victim . the Government hear the infected blood community ' s concern about the 21 May proposal to phase out the regular infected blood support scheme payment upon delivery of compensation payment . I know that that proposal be cause great anxiety to those in receipt of , and reliant upon , those payment . the Government have listen , and we have change the compensation proposal accordingly . regular support scheme payment for those register before 1 April 2025 will continue for life as part of the compensation package . support scheme payment be not the only thing to change . in the next set of regulation we will enhance the total compensation package to introduce a supplementary additional autonomy award of £ 10 , 000 for those who be subject to unethical medical research , as a specific acknowledgement of the impact on their personal freedom . that award will be uplifted to £ 15 , 000 for those who be subject to research at Treloar ' s college as child , as recommend by Sir Robert . I want to make it clear to the House that those payment will be on top of the comprehensive compensation package currently set out in the regulation that a person will receive . another of the community ' s concern about the 21 May proposal be the social impact award for affected individual . again , follow feedback , we be increase that award for individual who be assume to have live in the same household as an infected person for two year or more . the scheme have be design in line with the principle of the inquiry , have regard for " speed of provision , simplicity of process , accessibility , involvement , proactive support , fairness and efficiency . " we recognise that this mean that the scheme will not cover every circumstance in the way an individual assessment would , so in order to ensure that every applicant be justly compensate , we have introduce a health impact supplementary route for additional compensation . Sir Robert produce a wide - range report follow the engagement exercise and some of his recommendation relate specifically to the delivery of the scheme . although it be for the Government to deliver the design of the scheme and to ensure that the legal framework to deliver it be in place via new regulation — and we remain committed to do that — it be of course the case that the Infected Blood Compensation Authority will be administer the scheme . we welcome the recommendation and we be confident that the authority , of which Sir Robert be the interim chair , will work tirelessly to operationalise and implement the compensation scheme as soon as possible , so that money can be pass to victim at the early opportunity . I would also like to thank the infected blood inquiry response expert group , which have inform the Government ' s development of the infected blood compensation scheme . as Sir Robert recommend , we have publish the expert group ' s final report , which provide more detail on the rationale for decision take on the scheme design . the expert group report include detailed description of each of the head of loss that make up the total compensation package , the clinical marker use to determine severity banding , and the formulae for the care award and financial loss award . as I have reference , the Victims and Prisoners Act 2024 require the Government to establish the infected blood compensation scheme by 24 August . I be pleased to confirm to the House that on 23 August we lay the regulation that will give the Infected Blood Compensation Authority the power necessary to pay compensation through the core route to the infected , both live and deceased . this will allow individual who be infect with HIV , hepatitis C or hepatitis B through the use of contaminate blood or blood product to receive the compensation they so wholly deserve . personal representative of those who have tragically pass away as a result of their infection will be able to apply for compensation on behalf of their love one . the Government be clear that although lay the regulation relate to infected individual take the core route be an essential step to deliver justice , the work be not finish . a second set of regulation will provide for other element of the compensation scheme , include compensation payment to affected individual and for claim under the supplementary route . we be committed to deliver this second set of regulation when parliamentary time allow , to ensure that those apply under these route can start receive payment in 2025 . the Government ' s plan regard that second set of regulation be in the document available on gov . uk . it be an important step to have the compensation scheme enshrine in law , but I know that many people will want to know exactly when they can expect to receive their compensation . the Infected Blood Compensation Authority will deliver the compensation scheme and I know the interim chief executive and his team be work hard to put the operational system in place with the aim of begin payment by the end of this year . that will involve user testing with member of the community who have volunteer to help the authority to ensure that it be design to address the specific need of applicant . those who be register with the infected blood compensation scheme will have their detail share with the Infected Blood Compensation Authority , to deliver on the promise that the Government will endeavour to make the process as user - friendly and free of distress as possible . beneficiary of the infected blood compensation scheme will be contact in due course regard the sharing of their datum with the Infected Blood Compensation Authority . I be grateful for the opportunity to update the House today on this important work . the victim of the infected blood scandal have wait far too long for justice , and I be encourage that we be now begin to deliver this long - await compensation . I undertake to continue to update the House as this work progress . I commend this statement to the House . I thank the Paymaster General not only for early sight of the statement , but for his communication with I over the recess , when he kindly update I and give I advance notice of his intention to make a statement to the House today . the Paymaster General rightly remind the House of the gruesome nature of this part of our state ' s recent history with respect to the infected blood scandal . he point to the fact that people be mislead over treatment they need and receive , and member on both side of the House will need to take ownership of the enormous delay in bring justice to those who have suffer so much over several decade . I be grateful for the Paymaster General ' s update on the work that the previous Government commission . after the infected blood inquiry ' s final report be publish on 20 May , we take swift action to establish the Infected Blood Compensation Authority on 21 May , when we also appoint Sir Robert Francis as interim chair of the authority and ask he to work with Sir Jonathan Montgomery as chair of the expert group to undertake an engagement exercise with the infected and affected community . the right hon . Gentleman kindly update the House on 26 July , when he confirm that he be consider the output of that engagement exercise . those conversation be always intend to be a critical step in ensure that the Government — whichever Government — deliver a final scheme that bring justice to the deserve victim , and be see by they to do so . I welcome the Government ' s determination to continue listen to the concern of the infected and affected community . could the Paymaster General confirm whether thought have be give as to how representative of the infected and affected community will be embed in the organisational structure of the compensation authority ? in my 18 meeting across the UK in May , it be very clear to I that their level of trust in any Government would likely remain low , so determine exactly how their voice will be hear in future be critical . in essence , the statement acknowledge that the Government have meet their obligation under the statutory deadline impose by the Victims and Prisoners Act to lay regulation to enable the scheme to be operationalise by 24 August . I warmly welcome that . the statement make it clear that the Government will accept 69 of the 74 recommendation of Sir Robert ' s June engagement exercise , and they offer a well practical solution for the five that they do not accept . have read they , that seem sensible . as the Paymaster General will know , however — I recognise the pressure that he will feel — what victim want to hear from he be when all the regulation will be lay , when the claim will be process , and when the deserved payment will be transfer into victim ' bank account . the statement do not offer anything specific in that regard . I would welcome any further detail on the timetable for the laying of further regulation pertain to the infected community core route for compensation delivery . as the Paymaster General know , those community have suffer the most and the urgency of their need for the final balance payment remain acute . today ' s statement do not give they clarity on the timetable they can expect . it be my understanding that the Infected Blood Compensation Authority be aim to make the final balancing payment on the core route by the end of 2024 . I think he commit to that , and it would be good if he reconfirm that in his response . I will move on to the supplementary route outline in the statement , which involve a commitment to provide a supplementary additional autonomy award of up to £ 15 , 000 to those subject to unethical medical research . far , a recommendation to increase the social impact award for affected individual have be accept . we on the Opposition side of the House support these new development , but I have a few question about the implication for delivery . I ask the Paymaster General to clarify the additional autonomy award for unethical medical research , especially for the nearly 100 haemophiliac child from Treloar ' s , who the Government have now state will be pay a high £ 15 , 000 award . comment have be report from some in the Treloar ' s community who appear unhappy with these relatively modest supplementary amount . it would be helpful if he reiterate and explain how unethical research can be quantify , grade and add to the head of loss that already take account of loss of autonomy and social impact . furthermore , it continue to trouble I that those who determine that this research should take place in the first place appear unaccountable for those decision . I recognise that be not the Paymaster General ' s personal responsibility , but we need to keep that in focus in the broad response to Sir Brian Langstaff ' s report . may I also ask when the estate of the infect who have die will be pay ? many thousand of individual who have lose family , friend and love one will be entitle under the term of the scheme , and they now need to know a realistic timeline for those payment to be make . equally , when will the work to evaluate the affected community ' individual entitlement begin , and what be the timeframe for when payment will be make to those qualifying individual ? finally , I would like to address the decision of the Government to continue the exist payment of the infected blood support scheme beyond the final payment from the Infected Blood Compensation Authority . there be now surely a risk of administrative complexity whereby victim continue to interact with exist support scheme and the newly enable authority . I urge the Minister to consider the trade - off between efficient speedy delivery of final compensation package with administrative overlap and the confusion arise amid a very troubled and vulnerable group of distinct community that can often disagree with each other . I conclude by thank the right hon . Gentleman sincerely for his openness and clarity about what he be intend to do . however , I urge he to bring more specificity on the timeline for different community to this House as quickly as he be able . I note he acknowledge that the victim have wait too long for justice , and I be encourage that the Government be begin to deliver , but as he use to urge I , speed be of the essence , and granular timetable that some of his official will be reticent for he to specifically commit to be now require if good will be to be generate from the combine effort of all party in this House in 2024 . I be grateful to the right hon . Gentleman not only for his work in Government in seek to deliver this compensation package , but for the constructive tone he have take in respond to the statement . I will try to deal with the issue that he raise . first , he be right to raise the continue importance of engagement with the infected and the affected , which I know be a priority for Sir Robert Francis in how he conduct the business of the Infected Blood Compensation Authority . the right hon . Gentleman ask I about some of the timeline . in respect of the estate of deceased infected person , there will be a further interim payment of £ 100 , 000 , and application for that will be open from this October — next month . I can confirm , as he ask I to , that the timetable for payment to the infected on the core route should start to be make by the end of this year . in relation to the affected , which he also ask I about , I would expect those payment to start to be make next year . the right hon . Gentleman also ask about the payment for unethical medical research . I should say to the House that no amount of money be ever go to make up for the horror we have see as part of this scheme , but the recommendation make to we by Sir Robert Francis be in the sum of £ 10 , 000 for unethical medical research generally , and because of the very specific breach of trust at Treloar ' s , that those payment should be £ 15 , 000 . the Government have accept those figure , and these amount of compensation serve as a marker of those appalling unethical medical practice . however , it should be point out that , give the other head of loss , that will form but a small part of the overall amount I would expect to be pay out under this scheme . on accountability , the shadow Paymaster General will be only too aware that individual prosecutorial decision be quite rightly independent decision for the prosecute authority . however , I can confirm that on 9 August I write to the National Police Chiefs ' Council — I think he have have sight of that letter — to make it clear that the Cabinet Office and , indeed , the Government will co - operate fully and make any evidence within our control and possession available , as appropriate , so that decision can be make about people be hold to account . the final point the shadow Paymaster General make about complexity be a sound one , and I think one of the priority — and I know it be a priority for Sir Robert Francis — be to ensure that the Infected Blood Compensation Authority operate in a way that do give those make claim to it the most appropriate possible experience with appropriate support from caseworker . I think it be absolutely essential that it do that . I call Clive Efford . thank you , Madam Deputy Speaker . I congratulate you on your new position . I be grateful to the Minister for keep in contact and keep I inform of progress on this matter . I have two constituent who be directly affect — one affected and one infect . my constituent ' s husband , who die 30 year ago , be a former Treloar ' s pupil , and she have recently receive a payment , but there be no write explanation of what she have receive . she do not know if it be for she , her son , her husband , or all three of they , and she do not know how it be go to be deliver , include whether it will be through her husband ' s estate and if that will plunge she back into probate . some affected people be still experience issue . my other constituent be a former Treloar ' s pupil , and he be upset about the £ 15 , 000 payment and do not think it be anywhere near enough . I think this show that those people who have be campaign for 40 year want to be more involved in the decision be make about they . I hear what the Minister have say , but I certainly think that they want to hear how they be go to be engage so that they can make their voice hear about the issue . while generally welcome what have be propose , they want to be able to influence thing as they go forwards , and I would like to hear from he how he think that can be achieve . I be very grateful to my hon . friend for his question . on the first point he make about his constituent who have receive a payment but without any clear explanation , one of the thing the Government be commit to do be to try to make this whole process as clear as we possibly can . if he want to write to I about that particular case , I can ensure that the explanation and , indeed , the correspondence be look at appropriately . on my hon . friend ' s second point , he be absolutely right that the voice of victim must continue to be hear . I think the consultation exercise that take place during the general election campaign be hugely important . it be important that the Government listen and make the substantial change to the scheme we have make on that basis . it be hugely important , too , that the voice of victim continue to be hear as the infected blood compensation scheme continue its work , and I know that be a share priority for Sir Robert Francis . on the £ 15 , 000 , can I also say that we accept that recommendation in full from Sir Robert Francis ? it be a marker of the appalling unethical medical research , but as I say in my response to the shadow Paymaster General , the overall award , which appear under five different head of loss , will of course be substantially large , and that be a very small part of they . I call the Liberal Democrats spokesperson . I thank the Paymaster General for his statement , for his update and for confirmation that the establishment of the infected blood compensation scheme have be achieve in regulation on deadline . that be a significant step forward , which I think we should all recognise . it be a significant step forward for the family who feel they have wait far too long , and many of we have such constituent . I do , and I also have a constituent whose family be very close family friend , so we witness what they go through for four decade . an important thing to bear in mind be the trust that be break with those family over what they go through , and we need to continue to work to re - establish that . so I would ask the Paymaster General if he will continue to update this House , but also to recognise that , in set out the timeline , phrase such as " when parliamentary time allow " and " in due course " put doubt in people ' s mind . People have be let down too often before , and they need more reassurance . can he tell we more about the timeline , can he reassure they and can he reassure all of we that he will continue to come to this House regularly with update , when possible ? I be grateful to the hon . Lady for the constructive tone of that contribution and her recognition of the importance of meet that deadline . she be entirely right to raise the issue of trust and I be very conscious of that in all the work I carry out in this area . she be also entirely correct to raise the issue of timetable because it be hugely important to the victim and there be three thing I would say . on the estate of deceased infected people , there will be the opening next month , in October , of interim payment of £ 100 , 000 . the final payment to infected people that go down the core route of this scheme will start by the end of this year . and payment to affected people will start next year . the timetabling of appropriate regulation be do with that timetable in mind , to ensure we get those payment to people as quickly as possible . I thank my right hon . friend for his statement , but will he outline the category of loss that victim can claim against the scheme , and how will this inform the size of the compensation award that they can claim ? I be grateful to my hon . friend . the report set out the five different area of loss : those from injury and the social impact , then the autonomy award for the real effect on people ' s freedom and family life , and also the loss from the care people have receive , and financial loss as well . those be the major head of loss under the scheme and it be important to reflect the very different way in which people be affect . it be also important to accept , as Sir Brian Langstaff set out , that a tariff - base scheme be crucial as well . that be to try to make this process as simple as the Government possibly can and to ensure people receive the justice they deserve . the infected blood scandal be the health service equivalent of the Post Office Horizon disaster , with the add torture that it have go on much long . it take 40 year — over 40 year — before my constituent Lesley Hughes even discover that the blood transfusion she have be give in 1970 have give her hepatitis C and subsequently cirrhosis of the liver and liver cancer . so although the end now appear in sight , I first raise her case in 2015 and I do not think we would still be wait for a resolution nine year later ; I hope the finishing tape really be at last about to be breach . the thought of the whole House will be with the right hon . Gentleman ' s constituent , and I know from my own service in this House in previous Parliaments that he have raise this issue on a number of occasion before . I would say to he , and indeed to this House , that there be no dispute that decade have pass when people should have achieve justice and do not . we have this scandal of infected blood and infect blood product in the 1970 and 1980 , but it be compound by the failure since to recognise what have go wrong and to try to make recompense for it ; there be no doubt about that . the undertaking I give he be that the Government will push this forward as quickly as we possibly can , and I hope finally we will get to where he want , which be the position where compensation have finally be pay to those who so richly deserve it . what progress be make in establish the Infected Blood Compensation Authority ? now that the regulation have be lay , as I indicate , it be operationalise , and I know Sir Robert Francis will now be move as swiftly as he can to be in a position to deliver that final compensation to the infect down the core route and to start those payment by the end of the year . I thank the Paymaster General for his statement , which be testament to the long - fight campaign for victim , include the campaigning do by my constituent Judith Thomas and Ruth Jenkins , whose husband and brother Christopher Thomas die in 1990 . the UK Government have announce that the Infected Blood Compensation Authority will work closely with the devolved Administrations to deliver payment in Wales , and the statement outline meeting that be hold with the devolved Health Ministers . in May , the Senedd hear that the UK Government will bear the cost of the scheme in full . will the Paymaster General today reaffirm that commitment , and assure victim in Wales that they will not face any delay in compensation ? I can reassure the right hon . Lady that in advance of the action I take in the summer , I speak to the Health Ministers in Wales , Scotland and Northern Ireland . I be very committed to work with the devolved administration . I repeat the commitment that this will be fund by the UK Government . I be also happy to give the commitment that there will not be undue delay , whether in England , Scotland , Wales or Northern Ireland . for constituent like Justine Gordon - Smith in Edinburgh North and Leith , of whom my right hon . friend will be aware , the resolution to this scandal can be achieve only when government work together , so I appreciate those reassurance . what action have my right hon . friend and his colleague take to drive forward the result with the Scottish Government ? I entirely agree on the importance of the government across the United Kingdom work together on this issue , and that be exactly the approach that I take in do this work over the summer , and as I indicate to the right hon . member for Dwyfor Meirionnydd ( Liz Saville Roberts ) , I repeat my commitment . I speak to Health Ministers in Scotland , Wales and Northern Ireland before take this action . I welcome the fact that the Minister have come to the House so quickly to give the assurance that he have give , but read the statement , I see quite frequently such phrase as " at the early opportunity " and " if the parliamentary timetable allow . " those who be suspicious will wonder if this will be drag out . may I ask two question on the detail ? the Paymaster General have indicate that those on regular payment can keep they if they so desire , but will that be on top of the compensation package , or will the compensation be adjust to take that into consideration ? secondly , if people go down the health impact supplementary route for additional compensation , will it delay the payment that they be entitle to , or will the comprehensive package be available to they , with the additional compensation add on after more information be give ? on the first point , the Government be say that people can have both a continuation of the support scheme and the lump - sum compensation as well . award be make under five head of loss : injury , social impact , autonomy , care and financial loss . the continuation of the support scheme be take into account for only two of those : the future care element and the future earning element . the other element stand alone . that be one of the big change the Government have make to allow these support scheme to continue . on the health impact supplementary route , the regulation have set up the core route . that health impact special route have be set up because there will be circumstance in which the health impact and condition be not quite capture by the core tariff under the scheme . this route have be put in place to make the package more individualised . again , I undertake to the House that action will be take as swiftly as possible . my right hon . friend will appreciate that injustice be often compound by a brutal , faceless and unnecessarily complicated bureaucracy ; ostensibly establish to right the wrong , it quite often fail to do that . that be certainly what I have hear from my constituent affect by this scandal . what support in get compensation will be available to victim of this huge injustice , and will the Infected Blood Compensation Authority have dedicate caseworker to help people navigate the process ? my hon . friend raise valid point on behalf of her constituent . yes , the Infected Blood Compensation Authority will have dedicate train caseworker available . their purpose be to make this process distress - free and as accessible as possible . that be hugely important for the work of the scheme . I welcome broadly what the Paymaster General have outline , but I have a couple of point to make . one be around those child and adult who be infect . the £ 10 , 000 and £ 15 , 000 seem relatively small sum , compare with the overall package , particularly give what those people be subject to . secondly , and more broadly , the Paymaster General have outline the start date of the process . be there an end date that he can point to , so that we will know when all the financial compensation be deliver to the victim of the infected blood scandal ? on the first point , the Government have accept the figure suggest by Sir Robert Francis in full , and I re - emphasise , because it be so important , that these award be a small part of the overall award . I be sure that the right hon . Gentleman will look at the tariff for the core route to see the amount of money that will be pay out . I be not suggest for a moment that they can make up for what have happen , but that will give a sense of how much £ 10 , 000 or £ 15 , 000 be in the totality of the award . he ask for a bit more information about completion . clearly it be for the Infected Blood Compensation Authority to work as speedily as it can . as I have say , I would expect the infected core route final payment to be make by the end of the year , and payment to the affect to start next year . the communication with representative of the Scottish Government be welcome , but can the Minister reassure we that representative of the infected and affect in Scotland will be listen to as well ? can all payment be exclude , as far as possible , from income when it come to benefit eligibility ? on the administrative point , if people do not respond quickly enough to the data protection query — this be a very big , overwhelming thing to deal with — will they be give support ? can the Minister confirm that they will not be send just one letter , and will not be leave out and not give compensation if they do not respond ? they should be give every encouragement and support in make their application , particularly if they find that difficult . the hon . Lady make a valid point . what she say about encouragement , support , proactive communication and clarity be hugely important . she be entirely right to raise the issue of victim in Scotland , Wales , Northern Ireland , and indeed England . I be sure that she will appreciate that it be crucial for I , in work with the devolved administration , to speak to the Health Ministers in Scotland , Wales and Northern Ireland , but she be entirely right to raise the matter of the voice of victim , too . at least four of my constituent still live with the consequence of this scandal . among they be a resident of Kendal who lose her daughter due to infected blood product . she have since raise her grandson , who have of course grow up without his mother . the lack of urgency , clarity and commitment show by a series of official and government over the past 30 year and more have rob everyone ' s constituent , include mine , of justice . as a result , so many victim tragically lose their life before compensation become available , as we know . will the Secretary of State commit to ensure that this year we will see compensation not just for those who be infect , but for those who be affect by the devastating loss of love one ? many case , include that of the constituent I refer to , be deeply complex . will he personally look at the detail I will send he , and ensure that my constituent be aware of what be available , so that they can get support as soon as possible ? the thought of the whole House will be with the hon . Gentleman ' s constituent on the unimaginable loss of her daughter . if he want to write to I , I be more than happy to look at those detail . I would expect compensation payment to the infect to start by the end of the year , and payment to the affect to start next year . I put on record my thank to the Paymaster General for a most positive statement , and for the clear commitment to get the contaminate blood compensation pay . if I may say so humbly and graciously to the Paymaster General , he have show the compassion and understanding that the people out there want to hear . the word he have put forward be much appreciated by we as elect representative , but also by our constituent , so I thank he for that . the Paymaster General will know my long - hold position on this issue . indeed , in year past , we have both stand up from the Opposition Benches at all time to speak on this issue , so I know he will be in absolute agreement that compensation must be prioritise . he have state that , but realistically when do he believe that the roll - out will be complete ? will member have access to the route to compensation , so we can help ensure that our constituent receive what they have need for far too long from Government — that is , not from the Paymaster General specifically , but from this Government and the government that come before ? I be grateful to the hon . gentleman for his kind remark and , as ever , his constructive tone . he raise an important point about how Members of Parliament can continue to raise concern for their constituent once the Infected Blood Compensation Authority be fully up and run . I be hold a drop - in for member from across the House tomorrow , and I will endeavour to continue to ensure that as much information as possible be make available to Members , so that they can continue to speak up for their constituent effectively . I thank the Minister for that statement , particularly perhaps on behalf of all those who have not speak , but have affect constituent . technology in Public Services I beg to move , that this House have consider technology in public service . it be the first time I have have the privilege of speak under your chairmanship , Madam Deputy Speaker , and I be grateful for it . may I start by welcome the hon . member for Arundel and South Downs ( Andrew Griffith ) to his place ? I have his job , and I realise just what a privilege it be . today , I think we have nine member seek to catch your eye , Madam Deputy Speaker , to make their maiden speech . in advance , I offer they my very good wish in this nervous moment . I look forward to hear they . I be about to perform my maiden speech as a Secretary of State , so we be all in it together . my mum be scan three time in 18 month because of chest pain , and each time the scan come back clear . not one of the scan detect the disease — lung cancer — that without warning would take she away from her family . today , it take an artificial - intelligence - power scanner in Huddersfield hospital just seven second to detect the early sign of lung cancer . seven second be all it take to give somebody back decade with the people they love . I firmly believe that have my mother receive that kind of care , she would still be alive today . I would have celebrate her 80th birthday just this weekend go . it be that belief in the power of technology to change our life for the well that will guide this Government ' s approach . it be all too easy to think of technology such as AI as be impersonal , alienate or distant , but the first thing I think about be people — the teacher in our school who will deliver a personalise lesson to every pupil and help they fulfil their potential , and the patient in our hospital who can access lifesave drug for disease that until recently be untreatable . technology can change our everyday life in way that be both ordinary and extraordinary . the Secretary of State be make a fine maiden speech in his start at the Dispatch Box . as a previously practise doctor , I know that one thing that could really help be use some of the AI we see come forward in the back office . the previous Government commit to a £ 3 . 4 billion NHS productivity plan . be the Government still commit to take that forward , because that investment would have significant benefit for staff and patient ? I be grateful for that intervention and welcome the hon . member to his place , too . the Government take extremely seriously the role that AI and digital technology have in productivity in all public service and , as my speech unfold , I hope that he will hear more detail about the scale of our ambition . to take just one of the scheme that we will be unfold , the fit for the future programme — a £ 480 million commitment in our manifesto — will be responsible for drive innovation through the NHS , with adoption of the very late scan equipment as well as other equipment right across the NHS in England . those be just some of the thing that we be commit to , and I assure he that the Government be wholly committed to this agenda . nothing about change be inevitable . the future of technology be ours to shape , and the opportunity it offer be ours to seize . my ministerial team and I want to see a future where technology enrich the life of every single citizen and a future with safety at its foundation , because only when people be safe and feel safe can they embrace technology and the possibility that it present . today , Britain ' s tech sector be show we what that future might look like , but far too often our public service be simply stick in the past . the contrast could not be clear . much of the century so far have be define by the sheer speed of technological advancement . the digital revolution have transform our life in way that would have be unimaginable just a couple of decade ago . Most of we can access our bank account anywhere , at any time , and transfer money take just second . social medium and video call have give grandparent back precious time with their grandchild , no matter how far away they may live . young people live in a world where they can find thousand of job at the click of a mouse and work for a global brand without have to leave the community they love live in . yet , as innovation have accelerate , the state have fall far behind . our citizen still need to contend with up to 190 different account , with 44 different sign - in method , to access Government service online . each of they be easy to lose or forget . this be obviously a positive debate , as there be so many benefit for we all . I could not remember 191 passcode — I struggle to remember my own to log in every day in Parliament — but of course we have to underpin everything that we be talk about in term of technology with cyber - security . in Cheltenham , we have a 4 , 900 member - strong community speak for our industry in CyNam , and of course we have GCHQ , where thousand of people work every day ; they do not ask for our thank , but they deserve it in bucketload . the Secretary of State may be aware of the golden valley development in Cheltenham , which I recently send he a letter about and which would include the national cyber innovation centre . I wonder whether he might like to find out more about that by send member of his team — or he could come himself — to have a chat with I about it . the hon . Gentleman , who I welcome to his place , spend quite a bit of time on his intervention , but I realise that there be simply so much to talk about in his constituency . I pay tribute to the organisation he reference , include GCHQ and CyNam . the work that they do often go unthanked , but it be absolutely essential to the security , wellbeing and economic welfare of our country . I certainly intend to visit as soon as I can , and it would be great to meet any of his representative at any point ; I be sure that my ministerial team will be willing to do so as well . one of the thing that come up all the time in my constituency be the great difficulty that elderly pensioner have with online commitment . they do not understand they , not because they be silly or anything , but because the process be too technical for they . will the Secretary of State assure I that when it come to ensure that pensioner be look after , nothing will disadvantage they in any way when it come to get their money ? I be grateful for the hon . member ' s intervention , which be his first on I in this Parliament ; I doubt that it will be the last . I will come to digital exclusion a bit later in my speech , which I hope will answer his question . if not , I be happy to return to the point . I will also return to cyber - security — I do hope that the hon . member for Cheltenham ( Max Wilkinson ) learn his parliamentary sign - in code as quickly as possible , as that would be a good start to a secure and safe parliamentary career . I realise that every one of these log - in detail be easy to forget . engage with the state have become a bureaucratic burden on work people — one that they can scarcely afford . unbelievably , UK adult spend 3 billion hour each year deal with government - relate admin ; for the average citizen , that is 1 . 5 working week every single year . that be less time to spend with their kid when they get home after a long day ' s work and less time to get outside or see friend to stay healthy and be happy — put simply , it be less time to do the thing they like and to be with the people they love . I commend my right hon . friend on his excellent , move speech , which be his first from that Dispatch Box . my condolence about his mum . he will be aware that during the pandemic , the evidence review commission by the former Health Secretary expose widespread inequity and racial bias in the use of oximeter — little gadget use to look at oxygen in blood . it also reveal that algorithm use in artificial intelligence — in social security , for example — have inequity potential . how can we ensure that , along with all the benefit that he correctly mention , there be also protection around equity ? I be grateful to my hon . friend for make that incredibly important point . I hope she will see that one of the theme of my speech be indeed tackle inequality and inequity , as well as outline how I believe this be one of the progressive cause of our time . if we be not careful and do not shape this agenda in the right way , with progressive value and safety bake in from the start of everything we do , we will not have the trust of the public , and every citizen will not benefit as they should . my hon . friend reference issue in the life science aspect of the agenda . the Health Secretary and I be join at the hip on this ; we co - develop the life science action plan , which we be jointly roll out , he and I both chair some of the work relate to the life science action plan , and the two of we — work for a Government and a Prime Minister who care so much about tackle the inequity that currently exist in society — will ensure that these issue will be central to the agenda as it unfold . every day , people in Britain be confront with a glaring technology gap between the private sector and public service — a gap that have become impossible to ignore , between the personalised and paper - shuffling , the efficient and the inconvenient , the time - saving and the time - wasting . that gap be not just a policy problem to solve but one of the great progressive cause of our time . the previous Government promise we a small state , but after 14 year all they do be give we a slow one . they give we a state that take away time from those with too few hour to give : parent on low income who be already miss out on time with their family because they be work overtime just to make end meet ; and the people at the margin of our digital world , or exclude from it all together . by close the technology gap , we will restore every citizen ' s belief that the state can work for they . when the previous Government set up the Department for Science , Innovation and Technology , they recognise the transformative power of technology . they be right to do so , but if we want to lay the foundation for a decade of national renewal , we must be much bold . we need to rewire Whitehall , because technology be much more than just another sector to support or a strategic advantage to secure ; it be the foundation for every one of our national mission . from kickstarte economic growth and make Britain a clean energy superpower , to break down barrier to opportunity and build an NHS that be fit for the future , our task be fundamentally different and our approach must be , too . that be why we have make DSIT the digital centre for Government . by bring together digital , datum and technology expert from across Government under one roof , my Department will drive forward the transformation of the state . that transformation will not just save people time ; it will save taxpayer money , too . this Government be under no illusion about the scale of the challenge that we face . could the Secretary of State explain what that mean in reality for the Cabinet Office and the role that DSIT now have ? who have the organisational responsibility and the control over what go on in Whitehall and his Department ? I be grateful for the question . the delivery function of digital transformation have move from the Cabinet Office and other Departments into DSIT . Governance of such service remain share between we , include a powerful role for Treasury oversight . we want to harness the good of Government , and we must do so by work collaboratively . that be the mission - lead approach that the Prime Minister have champion , and it be a belief that I have bake into DSIT and the way that we work . I recognise that the challenge that we be seek to solve with a powerful digital centre of Government can work only if we provide a resource that other government aspire to draw down on and work collaboratively on . that be the target that we have set ourselves and that we be set about try to achieve . as I say , the Government be under no illusion about the scale of the challenge that we face . we promise to mend Britain ' s break public service . now , we must do so with the bad set of economic circumstance since the second world war . with taxis at a 70 - year high and a £ 22 billion black hole in the public finance , we can not afford to duck the difficult decision . the solution be not unchecked spending . it be long - term , sustainable economic growth , deliver in strategic partnership with business . my right hon . friend be make an excellent speech . woman in business could add £ 200 billion to the economy if they be invest in at the same rate as man in business . the female founder community have be in uproar since it be announce that Innovate UK would award only half of the 50 £ 75 , 000 grant from its woman in innovation fund , even though almost 1 , 500 woman apply for they . Innovate UK have since reverse that decision . would the Secretary of State meet those from the community to understand their experience , find out what go wrong and ensure that Innovate UK well support the Government ' s growth mission by well support female founder ? I be extremely grateful for that intervention ; my hon . friend make an incredibly important point . first , on the broad theme of under - represent community in the tech sector , the issue be multifacete . it be not just about some people be exclude from the product that be emerge from the tech sector ; it be also about access to the great job that be be create in the tech sector itself . it be clear that there be regional and socioeconomic imbalance , and that there be other equality issue . I remember very well in the 1990 try to get into university , and the system back then divert people like I away from it . I have to apply four time and go back to secondary school at the age of 25 to get into university . now I see a tech sector that be not dissimilar — sometimes it divert people from certain background away from it or fail to attract into the sector those people with great potential . we need to do well than that . we need to lead from Government . when I see Innovate UK ' s decision , I be unsettled , but I be very pleased that it then come out so rapidly — not only reverse the decision and go back to the full 50 grant but issue a forthright apology for the mistake that lead to the problem in the first place . such issue should not emerge . I know that Innovate UK will learn those lesson , but we need to ensure that the Government be at the forefront of deliver support for the sector and create the job and technology of the future , and make sure that it do so in an equitable way . I be grateful to my hon . friend for give I the opportunity to put that on the record , and I look forward to meet the community she mention . a mission - lead approach to reform our public service will harness the power of technology to make they more productive . let we take artificial intelligence . it be not just doctor and teacher who be use AI to change the life of the public they serve . in Greater Manchester , citizen advice centre be use Caddy , an AI - power co - pilot tool develop with my official to help staff and volunteer provide more helpful advice to the people who need it . digital expert in my Department be think about how we can use AI to connect clean energy project to the grid more quickly . story such as these be just the starting point , but they remain all too rare . why should any citizen be deny cutting - edge healthcare , clean energy or a world - class education ? why should a vulnerable person struggle with eviction or debt struggle to get the help they need ? adopt AI across health , education and policing could boost productivity by almost £ 24 billion a year . if we fail to do so , the benefit of AI could become the preserve of the privileged few . the urgency of our task demand decisive action , because people should not have to wait for well public service . rightly , they expect that we will fix the public finance fast . that be why we will publish the AI action plan , lead by Matt Clifford . the action plan will work out how we can make the very good use of AI to grow the economy and deliver the Government ' s national mission . then we will set up the AI opportunity unit to help make the action plan ' s recommendation a reality . my Department will transform public service for the people who use they , by work with Departments across Whitehall to pioneer safe , new and innovative application for AI . every one of those application will depend on two thing : digital infrastructure and datum . these will be the drive force behind Britain ' s digital transformation , well hospital and school , safe street and transport that work for work people . I welcome the Secretary of State to his position . transform the public sector be something that I think we all , across the House , can get on board with . I wonder whether in any of the pay negotiation that have happen or will happen across Whitehall , the acceptance of technology in the public sector will be part of a quid pro quo for the future . I think the right hon . Gentleman pit productivity - enhance tool against the interest of worker . I do not believe that be the case . if we take my example of Huddersfield hospital , which I have the pleasure of visit , people have be retrain because AI be very good at give all - clear — 20 % of people be give all - clear . therefore , the radiologist be retrain and come back on a high pay scale for do so , and productivity have go from 700 scan a week to 1 , 000 scan a week . it be not only cost - neutral but cost - beneficial for the Department . those be the kind of productivity gain that enhance work and the satisfaction of worker in the workplace . we be the Government . we have some agency in how this technology be use and roll out and how it support people in the workplace . we will ensure that we deliver value for money for the taxpayer and service that be cost - effective for the taxpayer , but we will also aspire to ensure that worker ’ right and satisfaction in the workplace increase . we be a Government who respect the work of the civil service and the value it provide to our country . we want to ensure that these tool sit alongside that ambition to deliver great outcome for the country , while ensure that the civil servant who work so hard for our country take a bit more pleasure from their work , by be assist by some of this technology that we will introduce to the work of Government . will the Secretary of State give way ? it will be a pleasure to give way to the hon . Gentleman , but I do not want to cut into the time for the maiden speech that be come up , so I will not take too many more intervention after this . I thank the Secretary of State for give way , and I look forward to hear the rest of his contribution . as someone who do not have much of a grasp of technology , I understand that many people have a fear . the Post Office Horizon scandal be an example of where the system should have say no but instead say yes — a real problem . when people be travel with British Airways , the system conk out for 24 hour . those be example of thing go wrong . what can the Secretary of State do to give we confidence that the system will work ? I be grateful for the hon . Gentleman ' s intervention . as I will say in a moment , all of this be contingent on one key principle : build trust with the public . we need to do so through action , not just word . we have to take the public with we every step of the way , because otherwise we will not have the permission to deliver the transformation that , ultimately , will be profoundly beneficial for they . I have strive throughout this speech and since I have have the pleasure of this role , in opposition and in government — I thank the Secretary of State for give way ; he be be generous with his time . on that point about the public be confident in any system we roll out , do he agree that we need to ensure guard rail be in place so that organisation and company know what their responsibility be ? I be grateful . the intervention be build up , but I think I can answer both together to satisfy both member . yes , safety have to be build in at the outset and the public need to see that . we have inherit a problem with safety in our country . woman and girl do not feel safe outside after dark . parent do not think their child be safe online . we have an issue with safety that we need to get a grip of . I feel incredibly strongly , as do Ministers and the Department , that we need to reassure people that as we embrace the technological advance that sit before we , we do so in a way that have safety build in from the outset . that be something we will do , and we have high expectation that other will do so too . as I will mention in a moment , we be set statutory obligation on people at the pioneering side of AI . rise — I be afraid that I will not give way a third time , because other have to get in , and otherwise you will give I a glare , Madam Deputy Speaker — if the hon . Gentleman have not yet have one of those , when he do he will understand why I be move forward at pace . to build a smart state , we need to build a state with digital infrastructure that be fast than ever , from the data centre power cutting - edge AI to the broadband connection create opportunity for all our community . we must also manage public sector datum as a national strategic resource . for far too long , public sector datum have be undervalue and underuse . we must replace chaos with co - ordination , and confusion with coherence . that be what the national data library will do . with a coherent datum access policy and a library and exchange service , it will transform the way we manage our public sector datum . it will have a relentless focus on maximise the value of that datum for public good , on grow the economy and create new job , and on deliver the data - drive AI - power public service that they deserve . the digital revolution promise to overhaul the way citizen engage with the state , but as with every technological revolution before it , we know that it bring risk . with those risk come uncertainty , instability and , for some , fear . we do not believe that people should have to choose between those two compete vision of our future : between safety and prosperity , and between security and opportunity . by shape technology in the service of people , we will grow the economy , create job and lie the foundation for an inclusive society in which every citizen can see a place for themselves . my right hon . friend be make a fine speech , but could he say a little bit about the cross - government conversation that should be happen about upskille and the opportunity for worker ? what be cut - edge technology today can be obsolete in six to 12 month ' time . be there a plan for a rolling programme of training and upskille , so that worker who work with technology can keep pace with it as it develop over time ? I be extremely grateful to my hon . friend — it be fantastic to see he back in his seat , and we can see no well reason why when he make such incisive contribution . I be in very close touch with the Education Secretary over the skill agenda , and my Department be in very close touch with the Department for Education , because we can only seize these opportunity and ensure that they be available to everybody from every background if we get skill right . at the moment we be not , but there be some pioneering project that I have visit . we ought to ensure that they be accessible to everybody who need they . I can assure he that be essential to the conversation we will be have . even as we seize every opportunity to build a well future , we will responsibly manage the threat that new technology pose to our security . the first duty of any Government be to keep our nation safe . thank to year of neglect , Britain have be leave catastrophically expose to cyber - attack , with disastrous consequence for public service and work people alike . over 10 , 000 out - patient appointment be postpone follow this year ' s attack on the NHS in London — that be 10 , 000 people force to wait to access the care they need . if we do not act , we know there will be more attack to come , and more hour lose in our hospital and our school . the Prime Minister have be clear that in an ever more volatile world we will do what be necessary to defend our country from those who seek to do we harm . that be why we be introduce the cyber security and resilience Bill , which will shore up our cyber - defence and protect our public service in the decade to come . Supercomputing and artificial intelligence be key driver for make we more cyber - resilient . will the Secretary of State please clarify why £ 1 . 3 billion have be cut from that budget ? I be grateful to the hon . gentleman for his intervention and I welcome he to his place . it be good to see he participate in these debate . it give I the opportunity to respond to his question . he ask why I cut something . can I just point out to he that I can not cut something that do not exist in the first place ? we have a former Prime Minister who announce a scheme but allocate not a single penny towards it . we have a former Chancellor of the Exchequer who at this Dispatch Box in his last Budget announce a scheme , but do not go back to his Department and allocate a single penny towards it . I do not cut anything , because nothing exist in the first place . word matter when you be in government , and they must be follow through with action . I be afraid that the previous Government be all word and no action . that be why we will be bring forward bind regulation on the handful of company that be develop the most powerful AI system of tomorrow . the principle behind both piece of legislation be simple : trust . we will rebuild Britain ' s public service . public trust in technology will be our cornerstone . to earn that trust , we will always put people ' s safety first . we must also show that technology can be a force for good , and that be what we will do . every person who receive the kind of scan my mother do not receive , every family with year long together , every child with an education that give they the opportunity their parent never have — every one of those people be a testament to the power of technology to change life for the well . and yet for each of those people there be so many more who be miss out on an education that could change their life , or on the scan that could save it . by close the technology gap , this Government will ensure that every person benefit from the digital public service that they deserve , and we will give Britain ' s future back . I call the Opposition spokesperson . thank you , Madam Deputy Speaker . on behalf of those of we on the Conservative Benches , I welcome you to your place . I would also like to take this opportunity to welcome the Secretary of State and his Ministers . I congratulate he on a maiden speech that have much in it to commend and congratulate he on his stewardship of what be a fantastic Department . he be fortunate to be support , as I know from my experience , by a team of outstanding official . I pay tribute to their deep knowledge and dedication . our constituent know that innovation and technology be our future . the Secretary of State ' s Department be already at the heart of our mission , support by a record 29 % increase in investment , from 2023 to 2025 , to grow the economy and cement Britain ' s science and technology superpower status . the former Member for Chippenham , my hon . friend the Member for Meriden and Solihull East ( Saqib Bhatti ) and I leave the Department in good shape , with , at that time , an expect underspend in this year ' s budget . it may well be that we be well at fend off the Chancellor than the Secretary of State have be . I note the change to the machinery of government , which see government digital service and the incubator for AI and other function move from the Cabinet Office to his Department . whether or not that be a good idea , time will tell , but what be clear be that it make it even more important that he and his team now deliver — and where they do so , seriously , they will have our support . we could not open this parliamentary term on a more important subject . productivity drain in the public sector take money directly out of taxpayer ' pocket , and that be not fair on hard - work family . we know that the public sector account for roughly 20 % of our national output , and that be often a source of national pride , but the hard truth be that public service productivity be far low than that in the private sector . few Departments — the Secretary of State talk about this — be without opportunity to deliver public service well and at a low cost to the taxpayer . we can , together , transform NHS productivity , and make use of advanced technology and sensor to well secure our border or defend our country — even from new domain such as space . we can introduce driverless train to stop trade union hold passenger to ransom , support farmer and food producer wish to wean themselves off migrant labour through agri - tech and robotic , implement well use of tag and " smart " prison , and improve case flow in the criminal justice system — and a great deal more . there be many brilliant official across the civil service who be help to foster this tech revolution , but I be afraid that their morale be be undermine by this Government ' s early approach to appointment . it be on their behalf that I ask the Secretary of State , " what be it , Secretary of State , about the £ 66 , 000 - donating , labour - support Emily Middleton that first attract you enough to make her one of the senior civil servant in your Department ? " for the truth be that there be real question to answer . what exercise do the Secretary of State go through between announce the new Department on Monday and appoint a new director general later in the very same week to satisfy himself that not one single civil servant across Government be fit to perform that role ? do he disclose the £ 66 , 000 donation to the permanent secretary on his appointment ? do he tell the Civil Service Commission about the £ 66 , 000 donation and the link to Labour ? be be he or someone in his office who tell Emily Middleton to delete her linkedin account ? why , give that the ministerial code be clear about the duty of Ministers to " ensure that no conflict arise , or could reasonably be perceive to arise " , do he not recuse himself from all decision and discussion on this matter ? if the Secretary of State will not use this opportunity to come clean , to answer all these question and to publish the relevant correspondence , I really think it be time for Sir Laurie Magnus , the independent adviser on ministerial interest , to investigate . my hon . friend have raise an important point on a specific issue . this be not a junior appointment , or a private office appointment , or an advice appointment . this be a director general appointment , at the second most senior level of the civil service . I be not aware , and I wonder if my hon . friend be , of any occasion on which such an appointment have be make in such a way in the past . my right hon . friend have make an important point , and he be right : this be a director general - level appointment in the civil service , second only to that of the permanent secretary and one of , I believe , only three director general - level appointment in the entirety of the Secretary of State ' s Department . this be someone with the power to hire and fire and advance and promote civil servant , and someone — [ interruption . ] this be an important point . once this Rubicon have be cross , once the civil service have political — [ interruption . ] order . will member make their remark to the Chamber rather than exchange they across the Benches ? thank you , Madam Deputy Speaker . I will make some progress . I understand that colleague will want to move on to other point , but this be a very important point . once this Rubicon have be cross , it will not be possible to un - bake that cake of an independent civil service . imagine the ambitious civil servant — the director , the director general — who never even have the chance to be consider for this role ! interested as I be in this question of process and the discussion about cronyism , I turn up here to listen to a debate about tech and public service . I be wonder whether the hon . Gentleman have any opinion on that subject . I hope that the hon . Gentleman will have a chance to speak about exactly that subject later . however , it be critical and , I think , a point of commonality across the House that we can deliver change only through professional and competent civil servant , and it be important that the morale of the Secretary of State ' s Department , like that of every other Whitehall Department , be maintain . rise — I have finish make my point on this subject , and I be happy to move on in the interest of the debate . the hon . Gentleman have talk about the morale of the civil service . would he care to tell we how he think that be affect by a former Prime Minister ' s refer to the civil service as " the blob " , and by Cabinet Ministers walk around their office leave passive - aggressive little note ask , " where be you ? " it be very easy to make the snide comment that the hon . Gentleman be make , but it be not very relevant , be it ? I accept that we have stray some way from the important topic that the Secretary of State come here to talk about tonight . much as I would enjoy continue this discussion with the hon . member , I be happy to move on and address more of the Secretary of State ' s point . it be the last government who launch a wide - range public service productivity review to address these issue , and to understand for the first time how technology can transform our economy . it be the last government — this be raise by my hon . friend the Member for Hinckley and Bosworth ( Dr Evans ) — who decide to harness the potential of artificial intelligence in healthcare with the NHS AI lab and a £ 3 . 4 billion investment fund to cut admin and fast - track diagnosis . I be not 100 % clear about this , and I do not want to wilfully misinterpret what be say by the Secretary of State , but I hope that the fund continue and we continue to see that opportunity . the public have benefit directly from the sort of vast improvement that the Secretary of State talk about , thank to the last Government ' s embrace of technology . it now take less than three week to receive a new passport — often much less — thank to the adoption of cloud - base working practice . as of March this year , 99 % of passport application be process within the target timeframe , a performance which , sadly , I do not think many other part of Government achieve . some will have concern about what the implementation of new technology in the public sector will mean for those who work in it . if we be honest , we must recognise — and the Secretary of State well know — that the business case for many new technology have an impact on worker . the Secretary of State must filter out naysayer , even if they happen to be his party ' s union paymaster . whatever those paymaster say , disruptive technology be good for the public and vital to economic growth . the hon . Gentleman claim to support UK technology and science , but he be on the record as oppose solar and wind farm . be he actually a shadow anti - science Secretary ? I could not be happy to debate that topic , but I be very conscious of the number of Members who , I be tell , be try to make their maiden speech , and I think it be the case , Madam Deputy Speaker , that every intervention we take at this stage potentially jeopardise their chance of do so . in short , however , there be a very fine place for solar : it be on the roof of warehouse , car park , supermarket and new home , where appropriate , but it be not on productive farmland . in government , we significantly increase spending on public sector research — by 29 % , to £ 20 billion in the current financial year — and our recent manifesto pledge to increase that by a further 10 % over the life of this Parliament . may I ask the Secretary of State , and the Minister who will wind up the debate , if they can pledge to match that ambition to a sector that be desperate to see such certainty of funding ? the Secretary of State have my sympathy . I can not imagine how difficult his phone call with the University of Edinburgh , which have already invest £ 30 million in the exascale supercomputer , must have be . this be a national facility that would have enable significant advance in AI , medical research , climate science and clean energy innovation . the investment be fully cost , amount over many year to what the NHS burn through in three day . there seem to be confusion at the Treasury : just because semiconductor be become small in size , it do not mean that the Secretary of State ' s Department must follow suit . the shadow Secretary of State say that the exascale project be fully cost . could he confirm that it be fully fund too ? yes . the exascale investment be be deliver through UK Research and Innovation , an enterprise that receive nearly £ 9 billion every single year and that , under our manifesto , would have have a grow level of investment across the entirety of the spending review . there be plan in place to deliver the investment , which be why Edinburgh be so confident that it would be deliver . it be a clear priority in our spending plan and communicate in writing by the Secretary of State ' s predecessor to the chief executive of UKRI . notwithstanding the fact that the Treasury seem to have get his tongue immediately upon take office , a project that the Treasury never love seem to have be mysteriously cancel . the project be be deliver by UKRI , an organisation with significant financial resource that far exceed the £ 1 . 3 billion cost of the supercomputer . it be the wrong decision at the wrong time . I wonder how the shadow Secretary of State feel about the Rosalind Franklin Laboratory in Leamington Spa , which receive over £ 1 billion in Government funding . the last Government put it on Rightmove . the last Government do not do that ; it be an independent institute that have multiple source of funding . as the Secretary of State and his Ministers will discover , funding of that nature be competitive funding that be allot by independent research council . it would not have be within the gift of I or any other Minister to abrogate that competitive funding process . inevitably , there be project that be fund and project that be not fund , but the exascale computer be a very clear priority . it sit within the overall financial resource of UKRI and , under our government , there be an expand level of resource . People should have absolute confidence that the programme would have continue and be deliver in the context of the much large amount of money that be spend through the Department , but by the Government as a whole . that be a good decision , and it would have have huge benefit to the UK . the chief executive of UKRI have talk at length about the benefit , and I think the Government be make the wrong decision . I urge the Secretary of State to go back , lock horn with the Treasury and seek to continue the project before it be too late , before contract be cancel and before technology be not procure . the hon . Gentleman have say quite clearly that it be announce in the Budget , but it be contingent on a manifesto that have not even be write at the time of the Budget , in order to deliver the money promise in the Budget . he be an accountant by trade . could he explain to the House why a Chancellor of the Exchequer stand up and make a commitment for which he have not one penny allocate until potentially win a general election , which have not be call , be irresponsible ? the Secretary of State will understand that at any point in time , a Department may go through a triennial spending review , although actually the triennial spending review have not fully happen . government also make forward - look commitment and declaration of intent , and commission work , whether from arm ' s length body such as UK Research and Investment or from official in the Department , to deliver their priority . I do not think that the Secretary of State dispute that this be a clear priority . look at the aggregated spend through UKRI and the different funding council that be go to deliver the supercomputer project , include the Science and Technology Facilities Council , there be no question but that it would have be deliver . it be not contingent on growth ; a Government of any persuasion , advise by their independent civil servant , would have deliver the programme through organisation such as UKRI . that be why Edinburgh University be so committed to it . it have be announce by the previous Government , and equipment be be procure . as we seek to compete with modern state that be busily invest in exactly this sort of facility , it be important to recognise that it be wrong to simply recoil from the project . it be not something that the Treasury ever love , and the Secretary of State have to push hard , as we do , but it be wrong to allow a step back on that brilliant project , which would unlock so many of the benefit that the Secretary of State talk about this evening . again , I ask he to lock horn with the Treasury , and use every opportunity to see what can be do to revisit the decision . it be a very important project , and part of an ambition that I think we share for the future of this country . in conclusion , the first duty of government should be to do no harm , and we can not afford to get this agenda wrong . we will judge the Government by their action . where they be bold in order to deliver well outcome at a low cost to the taxpayer , they can count on our full support . we will help this progressive Secretary of State to face down the union luddite in his party . we on the Opposition Benches will support effort to place the private sector at the heart of reform of the NHS , but the people of the UK can not afford half - hearted effort , the Treasury curtail the departmental budget to pay for public sector pay rise elsewhere , or the abandonment of real ambition that can unlock the potential of technology to benefit this country for year to come . it be a real pleasure to speak in this debate on technology in public service . many new member be wait to give their maiden speech , so I shall try to be brief on this subject , which be dear to my heart , and on which I be very passionate . the Labour Government understand the importance of technology and its potential to transform our life . in a speech just last week , the Prime Minister promise to harness the full potential of artificial intelligence for the public good . as the Secretary of State lay out , we be already make progress . a few day ago , the Government release a bank of example lesson plan and curriculum to help train generative AI tool — not to undermine teacher or try to replace they with large language model , but to free they up to spend more time teach the next generation . only two month in , that be not bad . it be really important that we have good news story to tell about technology in public service ; indeed , I want to start by praise technology generally . I consider myself a tech evangelist , and I know that many of the new intake consider themselves tech evangelist , too . we can not count how many life have be save by remote medicine ; how many business have be start , enable or grow through technology ; how many marriage have be save by couple not argue about how to get direction ; and how much joy have be share through cat meme . technology can and should be a force for good , which be why I go into engineering — to make the world work well for everyone . as the Secretary of State lay out , the opportunity that technology offer public service be huge . in opposition , I shadow digital , technology and science brief . give the dire mess that 14 year of Tory government have make of our country and our finance , praise for anything that happen under the Tories ' multiple and ever - change regime be rare , but I want to give credit where credit be due . the creation of the Government Digital Service back in 2011 be world - leading . it be a labour idea , and it deliver real benefit to both the public and the civil service . from online tax return to drive licence , the GDS model of user - centre , agile service development reap some big win , which save the Government money and save people time . the report I commission in 2014 , " technology for everyone : the Prize of Digital Government " , highlight the opportunity , as do the " our Digital Future " report , publish in 2020 . but the Conservative Government do not follow through . they do not succeed in drive change through every Whitehall Department , or outside of whitehall into local government , so they squander the promise of GDS . Digital government lose its way between departmental silos , conservative factionalism , a lack of investment , and a focus on woke lanyard , rather than technology adoption , so we have not make the progress that we should have . my constituent spend too much time try to interact with public service in way that be repetitive , time - consume or plain hostile , and I have have constituent in tear in my surgery because they can not make a benefit claim or be put on hold by some service for hour on end . technology be the subject of this discussion , but there be also the issue of connectivity to that technology . be it not the case that in part of the country , connectivity could be a major issue , as well as the technology itself ? I thank the right hon . gentleman for that intervention , and for highlight the lack of progress by the last Conservative Government — and indeed their failure to roll out acceptable digital infrastructure across our country . good news story about technology have be replace by tech horror story — about worker imprison unfairly because of Post Office software failure , and about student be treat unfairly by exam algorithm . this entrench opposition to technology . too many of my constituent feel that they be be track , monitor , surveille and analyse . they do not want to go online without feel safe and secure . work by the Collective Intelligence Project highlight that safety , participation and progress must go hand in hand , because only public confidence in AI will enable we to drive adoption in public service and improve productivity . that be why the Government be so right to emphasise safe deployment . Pre - deployment evaluation of foundation model by our world - lead AI Safety Institute will boost public confidence , and provide transparency about when AI be use in the public sector , and how it will help to maintain trust . I have work in technology deployment for many year , and bitter experience have lead I to the conclusion that whatever the problem might be , technology be not the answer on its own . you can not force technology on people . co - creation be an overused term but an underused reality , so engagement , participation and partnership work need to be part of the plan for adoption . the group connect by Data have great example of this type of participatory decision making . Camden Council , which be lead until recently by the Parliamentary Secretary , Cabinet Office , my hon . friend the Member for Queen ' s Park and Maida Vale ( Georgia Gould ) , have do excellent work in this regard . I be sure that I do not need to tell the House that AI be the subject of hype as well as hope . in partnership with the what work centre , we need to evaluate different use of AI in our hospital and school , for example , so that we can scale up the most cost - effective solution while avoid expensive failure . the private sector have drive the adoption of so many of the technology that have transform our life , but we must build state capacity in tech by recruit more diverse science and technology expert to the civil service , so that Government can innovate . we need fair , open and transparent procurement process that will enable british start - up as well as big tech company to bid for Government contract . give the previous Government ' s response to my parliamentary question , I be concerned that our digital infrastructure may be too dependent on single or dual supplier , or on proprietary system . I hope that the Secretary of State will consider that , and the role of start - up and open source in ensure resilience . Digital inclusion be neglect by the previous Government . Age UK estimate that around a third of over - 75 — that be 1 . 7 million people — do not use the internet . we must tackle the barrier , which include infrastructure availability , cost and the skill gap , but we also need to recognise that some people may never be comfortable with digital access to Government service . finally , we should remember that we too be a public service . I have raise the adoption of technology in this place many time . indeed , I work closely with the House authority during covid to deliver a remote Parliament by introduce Zoom into the Commons . we must lead by example when it come to adopt technology to improve our performance . I be stand to be Chair of the Science , Innovation and Technology Committee because this be so important to all our constituent , but they often feel that technology be something that be do to they , rather than with they and for they . the benefit of technology have not be share fairly . under a Labour Government , this will change , and public service will lead the way . I call the liberal Democrat spokesperson , Layla Moran . it be a pleasure to begin this new parliamentary term debate the role of technology in public service . I start by extend a special welcome to the friend and family in the Gallery eagerly wait for the many maiden speech to be make this evening ; I will be brief . you can start time I if you wish , Madam Deputy Speaker . under the Conservatives , Britain ' s public service have steadily deteriorate , with insufficient investment across the board . school , hospital and prison be literally crumble , and transport project be axe on a ministerial whim . in a cost of living crisis , when people be look desperately to public service for support , tackle the big challenge in our public service be absolutely essential . I be a technophile . I be a former science teacher . I spend most of my childhood bury in science fiction , and you can draw a straight line from " Star Trek " to where I be stand now . that be " Star Trek , the Next Generation " , in case anyone be wonder . so today I will focus primarily on the positive , but if we want buy - in from the public , we need to show the public that this Parliament also understand and legislate for mitigation of the risk of technology . I will touch on that , too . technology have the potential to revolutionise our public service , make they more efficient , accessible and responsive to the need of every citizen . automate routine task can free up staff time , so that staff can deal with more complex issue , and use digital platform can reduce the need for physical infrastructure , which lower cost . Digital service can help we reach those in remote area , and real - time datum or open datum initiative help to make Government process more transparent . there be many example of local council and public service already innovate and use technology to improve service . online gp appointment and digital prescription , where appropriate , can free up GP time , as surgery be under ever - grow pressure . the Secretary of State speak movingly about his mother and the technology that she sadly do not have , but he be right to point out that technology be transform our NHS day to day , and we must welcome that . go back to my heartland of teaching , online learning platform have be use incredibly successfully in the education sector , particularly during the lockdown , and we have learn much about what work , and what do not , when it come to technology in the classroom . but when those deliver public service look at introduce innovation and new technology , there be also significant barrier . despite recent funding increase , council budget be expect to be 18 % low in real term in 2024 - 25 than in the early 2010 , with demand for acute service increase post - pandemic . local service be too often struggle with tight ringfenced budget , which prevent the strategic investment need to upgrade outdated system and implement digital technology . how many people have spend their time in a queue , wait to talk to the local council , and wonder why on earth we still have this old technology ? Digital and technology skill be often also highlight as a big concern for local authority , who face a grow struggle to recruit and retain skilled technologist . public service find it hard to compete with the salary of the private sector , or to invest in training and development . artificial intelligence be by far and away the sexiest and one of the most significant and talk - about area . that technology be develop rapidly , and we risk fall behind . if implement properly , it can improve experience for service user . chatbot and virtual assistant can help with personalise service and addressing query . automate datum analysis can evaluate large quantity of datum in a short timeframe , and where AI be use to support the creation of dataset , accurate pattern and trend in datum can be identify . in my area of Oxfordshire , the county council be pilot the use of generative AI to support administrative task , and the scheme will look at whether AI can speed up routine process in order to reduce cost . the previous Government ' s announcement that £ 110 million of funding will be ringfence for the deployment of AI across the public sector be a welcome development , and I would like to hear from the new Minister whether the Government plan to follow through on this scheme , which I think be well worth invest in . but AI be not without its challenge . it reflect the value and bias of the human who create it , cause campaigner to raise concern . in August 2020 , the Home Office agree to stop use a computer algorithm to help sort visa application after it be claim that the algorithm contain entrenched racism and bias . it essentially create a three - tier system for immigration , with a speedy boarding lane for white people from the country most favour by the system . early this year , it emerge that the Department for Work and Pensions have stop routinely suspend benefit claim flag by its AI - power fraud detector . campaigner have long raise concern that potential bias in the system could lead to unfair delay for legitimate claimant . the campaign group Big Brother Watch say : " DWP ' s overreliance on new technology put the right of people who be often already disadvantaged , marginalise , and vulnerable , in the backseat . " it be vital that the Government be open and transparent with the public about how and why AI and algorithmic model be be use , so I be pleased the Department recently say that the algorithmic transparency recording standard be now mandatory for all Departments , but I would argue that we need to go far . the Liberal Democrats want to see a clear , workable and well - resource , cross - sectoral regulatory framework that promote innovation while create certainty for AI user , developer and investor . my colleague Lord Clement - Jones table a private Member ' s Bill , the Public Authority Algorithm Bill — the liberal Democrats know how to party — in the other place during a previous session . this important Bill would have regulate the use of automated decision making in the public sector by require a public authority to complete an algorithmic impact assessment where it use an automate decision - make system . I urge Ministers to look at the Bill and to work with colleague in both Houses to develop the right regulation . if they have not have a chance to speak to Lord Clement - Jones , a former Chair of the Lords Select Committee on Artificial Intelligence , I would encourage they to do so . technology offer so many opportunity , but we will lose public support if we do not get to grip with the risk . the Liberal Democrats want to embrace these opportunity for innovation and change , and we also want to protect citizen ' right , their identity and their datum . it be vital that we put the right infrastructure and safeguard in place to help our public service make the most of new opportunity while keep our country safe . I hope the Government be ready to think strategically and to invest for the long term by put science and innovation at the heart of their plan for economic growth . if they do , the liberal Democrats will support they and , where appropriate , they can expect we to challenge they too . I call Patricia Ferguson to make her maiden speech . Madam Deputy Speaker , may I thank you , your team and all parliamentary staff for your cheerfulness and support over the last few week ? I promise that I will eventually stop ask how to get to place , but it might not be for a while yet . I be very pleased to follow the hon . member for Oxford West and Abingdon ( Layla Moran ) . I listen carefully to her very interesting speech , from which I learn quite a lot . then again , those who know I will know that give my maiden speech in a technology debate be probably not the good idea there ever be . as I rise to make my first contribution , I be acutely aware of the great honour afford to I by the constituent of Glasgow West , who elect I to represent their interest in this place . I will never allow the allure of politic or the mystique of this place to obscure that big picture . although I be the first Member for the new constituency of Glasgow West , I be conscious , too , of the contribution make by my predecessor in Glasgow North West and Glasgow Anniesland who serve our community so well . Carol Monaghan , my immediate predecessor , champion the condition I and work to give the issue wide prominence , and John Robertson succeed in amend the Welfare Reform Bill 2009 to ensure that people who be register blind or partially sight could claim the high level of disability living allowance . but perhaps my most illustrious predecessor be the late Donald Dewar , who serve in this House for many year and be both a shadow Minister and a Cabinet Minister . Donald be my MP when I join the Labour party and , over the year , he become a good friend . he be , of course , the father of scottish devolution and Scotland ' s first First Minister , which be really quite an accolade — it be also quite difficult to say , to be honest . he be also the man who persuade this working - class woman , bring up in a room and kitchen in Maryhill and on the 21st floor of the Red Road flat , that she could , and indeed should , be Deputy Presiding Officer of the Scottish Parliament — an encouragement for which I will always be grateful . my thank must also go to another Scottish First Minister , Jack McConnell — Lord McConnell , as I suppose we must now call he , as he serve in the other place — who trust I to be the Cabinet Secretary for Parliamentary Business and , subsequently , Cabinet Secretary for Tourism , Culture and Sport . I love both job and have the most amazing experience , not least launch the National Theatre of Scotland and submit Glasgow ' s successful bid for the 2014 Commonwealth game . the experience of work in that Cabinet help I to understand the importance of work across Government and , in our case , work across party , because we be in coalition with the Liberal Democrats , many of whom be still friend to this day . that be the important thing I learn , and I be delighted that this Labour Government understand that principle and be use the benefit of join - up government to make progress . it be also good to see this Government ' s commitment to the open and transparent use of public money . for those who do not know , the Red Road flat be a large development of multi - storey flat in the north of Glasgow . at its peak , the estate house more people than the town of St Andrews , but for many year it have no shop or facility . when we build the house that we so badly need across the country , I sincerely hope we will recognise that people need facility as well as home that be responsible planning and responsible use of public money , and I be delighted to hear the Deputy Prime Minister recognise that necessity in her statement early today . I also want to talk a little about my constituency . I have listen to many maiden speech in this Chamber and hear Members extol the virtue of their constituency , so I now have a bucket list of place I want to visit . I have to say that my constituency be very beautiful , but that be not what intrigue I most about it and it be not the thing of which I be most proud . I be most proud of the many wonderful organisation that support the people and community in my area . the G15 project work so hard with young people in the Drumchapel area to host Drumchapel TV ; many a " Newsnight " presenter could learn something from the station ' s young interviewer . for year , Drumchapel food bank have support some of the most vulnerable people in our community . Kingsway Community Connections support a diverse range of people to achieve the good possible in their community . and , of course , the Yoker resource centre , lead by the indefatigable Sandy Busby , have support the people of Yoker for decade . Drumchapel may now be a working - class Glasgow overspill estate , but it still have trace of the Antonine wall , build to delineate the northernmost limit of the roman empire . Scotstoun , another of our local community , be home to the mighty Glasgow Warriors rugby team , who recently win the united rugby championships title , and Victoria Park , the site of a grove of fossilised tree that have stand in that spot for 330 million year . one issue that have long concern I be the disparity in life expectancy between people in part of my constituency and their more affluent neighbour in other part of Scotland . that difference can be anything up to 12 year . perhaps even more stark be the fact that people in our most deprive area have a healthy life expectancy gap of 23 year for man and 23 . 9 year for woman . many of the reason be obvious : poor housing , low pay , lack of opportunity and poor living condition — all reason why I support the new deal for worker be spearhead by the Deputy Prime Minister , and the pursuit of economic growth be pursue by our first female Chancellor of the Exchequer . that people should have comprehensive right at work and the dignity that come with it be vitally important . Glasgow West be home to some notable company employ large number of people , include Edrington , the maker of the Macallan , Highland Park and the Famous Grouse — other whisky be available — and Mortons Rolls , who make the perfect accompaniment to the Lorne sausage , a delicacy that be a sad omission from Parliament ' s restaurant . it be appropriate in this debate to mention BAE Systems , one of the last Clyde shipbuilder , which recently invest some £ 14 million in a new training academy . I meet some of its 140 new apprentice just a few week ago , and their enthusiasm be infectious . it be also great to see the way in which technology be be incorporate into their training . no long be it necessary for young welder in training to be expose to great heat and noxious gas . the young people be work on weld but do it virtually . it be amazing to watch — so realistic and so clever . indeed , some of the more experienced welder be use that technology to practise and rehearse how they approach the more difficult task that they will encounter . that virtual programme be very impressive . if the Minister or any of his team ever want to visit , they just need to tell I and we can make arrangement . another large employer be , of course , the NHS . Glasgow West be home to Gartnavel hospital and to the Beatson West of Scotland Cancer Centre , fame for its groundbreaking research and treatment since 1886 . the Secretary of State refer to how much well diagnosis can be with the use of AI and other technology . as a cancer survivor myself , I understand just how important the facility be to people across the west of Scotland and beyond . I be also aware that early detection and treatment be vital , and that it be often within our most deprived community that the take - up of screening be at its low — that situation have to change . I very much hope the current Scottish Government be sincere in wish to work with the UK Government to ensure that that problem , and other that beset our NHS , can be eradicate on both side of the border . up until today , when I submit my resignation , I be also a councillor in my constituency . I thank all the community group and organisation that do such great work in ward 14 . Glasgow West be well serve by its councillor , but I have to single out my ward colleague , Councillor Paul Carey BEM , who have represent the Drumchapel / Anniesland ward for more than 20 year with tenacity and dedication . Donald Dewar often speak about the imbalance in the social arithmetic , and the need to rebalance the equation by reduce poverty and by give all our child the good possible start in life and the opportunity to fulfil their potential . that will only be achieve by work across Government , which be why I welcome the establishment of the poverty taskforce and why its mission be so important to all our constituent and to the work of this Government . People across this country have put their belief and trust in we . it be up to we now to make sure we deliver for they . I call Alex Brewer to make her maiden speech . thank you , Madam Deputy Speaker . it be a pleasure to follow the hon . member for Glasgow West ( Patricia Ferguson ) . I congratulate she on a move maiden speech , and I hope to add another place on her bucket list . I be honour to have be elect as the first Liberal Democrat MP for North East Hampshire , a constituency that have have only two previous mps : James Arbuthnot — now Lord Arbuthnot in the other place — who be know for his important role in support Jo Hamilton and other sub - postmaster and postmistress ; and Ranil Jayawardena , who likewise want the good for our community and campaign for well infrastructure locally , alongside carry out his ministerial role . boundary change mean that those in Lychpit and Old Basing , who be warmly welcome into North East Hampshire , be previously represent by Dame Maria Miller in the Basingstoke constituency . she be a strong advocate for woman in Parliament and encourage those of all party . I be only the second woman to stand for Parliament in North East Hampshire , and only about 15 have stand before I in any of the constituency now cover by the current boundary , so it give I great pride to be in the Parliament with the high number of woman ever . that achievement would not have be possible without the support of my dad , my late mum , and my husband and child . North East Hampshire be a place that people often travel through : by train between London and the west country , or by road on the A30 or the M3 , stop perhaps at Fleet service . those who live there , however , enjoy good school , good transport link , low crime and plenty of countryside — all the reason , in fact , why the place often top the list of the good place to live in the UK , and why my family and I choose to move there 10 year ago . I encourage Members , the next time a journey take they that way , to stop and visit . if they wish to indulge their interest in political history , they could choose to stay at the Four Seasons . the hotel be situate in the former home of Sir Henry St John - Mildmay , the fifth Baronet of the Dogmersfield estate , who be also , coincidentally , a liberal political candidate in 1865 . or they might choose Highfield Park , where Neville Chamberlain spend his final month . once a visitor have arrive , there be plenty to experience . history enthusiast should visit Odiham castle , Basing House and the roman city wall at Silchester . those with a military interest will not be disappoint with a constituency that boast RAF Odiham ; Stratfield Saye House , the home of the Dukes of Wellington ; and Blackbushe airport , create as an airfield during the second world war . for nature lover , there be so much to choose from : the Hazeley Heath nature reserve , or a sturdy walk up Beacon hill to look out over Caesar ' s camp . if they like their nature by the water , there be Fleet pond , the Basingstoke canal and our two chalk stream , the Loddon and the Whitewater . after all that , perhaps they might be in need of refreshment . North East Hampshire be home to dozen of village pub , caf é s and bakery . from the award - win Street Bakery in Old Basing to the Heron on the Lake at Fleet Pond , look out over the water , there be something for everyone . we even have a local gin distil at Upton Grey . one of the joy of the area be that each town and village have its own personality , with a high number of independent business that make each one unique . a walk through Bramley be entirely different from a stroll along Hartley Wintney High Street or a meander through Yately . what unite all of these place be the people . each unique town or village have a strong sense of community , and the people of North East Hampshire be unfailingly generous with their time and energy in pursuit of this goal . this community spirit be see most recently when Hook infant school and local home and business be victim to a summer flash flood . People rally around , help clean up , raise fund , donate item , hosted friend whose home be damage and offer sympathy . it be in this way that all the community within North East Hampshire be connect . but this place that I love to call home be not without its challenge too . connect our town and village take more than good will . our road , particularly our small road , be in a terrible state , public transport leave a lot to be desire , and bus route be sparse at well . it be also surprising that North East Hampshire be behind the national average in the adoption of 5 g mobile service , especially when we consider the above - average employment in the technology sector — one that will be vital for the modernisation of both Government and our public service . the investment that be need to ensure join - up and efficient public service process be as vital as the investment need in North East Hampshire ' s transport . the UK have a proud history of research and innovation , but when nurse be still take patient note with pen and paper , it be clear that action be need . indeed , the National Audit Office ' s report only last year state that " outdated IT system … be a key source of inefficiency " in government . we can not be a country need to catch up , and I hope that the Government will draw on the expertise of those in the technology sector to quickly implement the good possible solution , while ensure that individual ' personal information be hold with the high possible security . I also encourage the Government , in their review of technology in public service , to consider the role that charity play in support the sector . the tireless work of organisation such as Citizens Advice and the Trussell Trust , as well as countless local and regional charity , be the bedrock of our community . such organisation support the public sector to deliver many vital service across health , education , housing , criminal justice and more . in my view , it be essential that those organisation be also invest in , and integrate into , the new system that will be create . I look forward to work with those local organisation , those business and the people in North East Hampshire , and I thank they for put their trust in I . I call Dr Allison Gardner to make her maiden speech . thank you , Madam Deputy Speaker . I congratulate the hon . member who have make their maiden speech tonight . I , too , be honour to make my maiden speech during this debate on the use of technology in public service , come as I have from my previous role in the NHS AI and digital regulation service . mine be a new constituency , with the majority of the old Stoke - on - Trent South and the northern part of the Stone constituency within its boundary . the new Stoke - on - Trent South be hence a diverse area , combine a great industrial heritage of mining and ceramic with the agricultural and rural community of Stoke - on - Trent and north Staffordshire . our urban area centre around one of the six Staffordshire pottery town of Longton , which proudly boast the large number of our iconic bottle oven , include those of the Gladstone Pottery Museum , where " the Great Pottery throw down " be film . naturally , ceramic and tableware be a major part of our history and culture . indeed , you can spot a Stokie anywhere in the world , for they will be turn over any cup or plate to see whether it come from Stoke - on - Trent — you know it ! I invite member present to join the " turnover club " and investigate the provenance of pottery and china right here in the Palace of Westminster . of course , our industrial strength extend beyond ceramic and include innovative firm such as Goodwin , with high - tech mechanical and refractory engineering division , which I have the pleasure of speak to last week . goodwin , along with other excellent business , include Trentham ' s Minuteman Press , offer dozen of high - skilled apprenticeship , give our worker award - win opportunity to develop key skill for the future . indeed , within north Staffordshire we have Keele and Staffordshire Universities , a medical and veterinary school , and excellent further education college offer great course and apprenticeship . the rural part of the constituency include Blythe Bridge and Barlaston , and extend to Tean , Swynnerton , Yarnfield and Oulton , with many village in between . it be where my partner Jim ' s family have live and run their sawmill for generation . walk anywhere in our countryside and you will see public footpath signpost make by Jim himself . history , land , family and a love for our north Staffordshire home — I be go to get emotional — be embody in those sign . indulge I too as I mention my daughter , Chrissie and Lucy , and my sister Siobhan , and thank they , alongside Jim and his child , William and Sophie , for put up with I in my passion to build a well future for everyone ' s child in my constituency . thank be also due to the great team that support I throughout . with this new combined constituency , I must acknowledge the hard work of the two former conservative Members , Jack Brereton and Bill Cash . Jack be MP for Stoke - on - Trent South from 2017 . I commend he for his work in tackle the scourge of monkey dust , and for his ambition for well transport across Stoke and north Staffordshire . I commit to continue that important work , and welcome the move be make by this Government to rebuild our transport service to be run for the people , benefit our economy , opportunity and the environment . Bill Cash have have a parliamentary career span 40 year . indeed , Bill be an MP before Jack be bear . I wish Bill well in his retirement . in Stoke - on - Trent South , Jack be precede by the Labour mps Rob Flello and George Stevenson . I thank George for his no - nonsense advice and support . I should also mention another MP call Jack : Jack Ashley , a Labour MP who I have the honour of be compare to . this be a formidable challenge to meet . Jack be elect in 1966 , the year I be bear and the year that we win the world cup , in which the great Stoke City player Gordon Banks play a key role . his statue stand proudly outside the bet365 stadium in my constituency . so 1966 be a good year all round , by my reckoning , as we can now add I to its accomplishment as the first female MP for Stoke - on - Trent South . Jack Ashley become profoundly deaf while he be an MP and be reportedly the first deaf Member of any elect assembly . although he initially think that he would need to resign , he turn to technology , use a Palantype transcription system . Jack ' s visit to the BBC ' s Ceefax department even inspire a project to develop a computer program to convert stenographic output to tv subtitle . as a hard - of - hear MP who wear AI - enable hearing aid , it be fitting that I remember Jack Ashley in today ' s debate . it be the norm for mp to claim in their maiden speech that their constituency be the most beautiful . I could , of course , argue that , describe our quintessential countryside , pretty village and farm , the canal and of course the River Trent , or I could talk of the beauty I find in our industrial landscape — I be go to get emotional again . however , I want to talk about the people , because it be in their spirit , their friendliness and their sense of community that true beauty lie — in the heart of the people . from Tracey , who run Meir Watch , and Arfan , who own Sizzlers pizza , come together to feed and clothe child in need , with no expectation of thank or profit ; to the fantastic pegis — the Parent Engagement Group in Stoke — who I have the pleasure to meet at their summer picnic , work to support SEND family , with no - nonsense woman such as Michelle and Keeley crack on and get stuff sort ; or Jason , passionately fight to clean up our waterway ; Craig , battle grief from the loss of a friend to campaign for safe road ; and the village who reach out to I , worry about asylum seeker , not because they have give in to the politic of division and hate , but because they be worried that the child be not get any schooling . when I attend their summer f ê te , they have reach out and invite the refugee to come and join in the fun — and come they do . this be the heart of the people of my constituency , reach out and care for those in need without judgment , with friendly , no - nonsense , practical support , and believe in the power of community action . this be true beauty . I pledge to all the people in my constituency that I carry they in my heart and mind at all time . I be acutely aware of the trust they have place in I . I will get some thing wrong , no doubt , but know this : I will always do my good . I will work hard , I will always hold the vision of a well life for they and I will always fight for the place that be my home . before I turn back to the topic of this debate , technology in our public service , I will take one more little trip into history , if I may . in Barlaston we have the World of Wedgwood , where I like to treat myself to a genteel cream tea , drink out of Wedgwood china and pretend I be posh . I heartily recommend visit . the founder , Josiah Wedgwood , be a great innovator and entrepreneur who invent creamware and green glaze , to name just two . he understand that science — in his case , chemistry — practically apply in an industrial context turbocharge innovation and development . he be also a master marketeer , apparently , pioneer money - back guarantee , illustrate catalogue and buy one , get one free . if he be alive today , we can only imagine what his innovative and entrepreneurial spirit would make of this digital world . Josiah be a polymath , and that be something worth note . it be important that we recognise that in consider technological innovation , we must take a multidisciplinary approach , with the full participation of those who will implement , use , govern and be impact by the technology day to day . technology in the public service offer huge potential , but there be also risk if it be not properly develop and deploy , as we have see with biased risk assessment model for child welfare and benefit fraud model . in my previous career with the NHS , I see the great potential that diagnostic technology can offer , particularly in radiology , which I see in action when I visit the radiology department at the Royal Stoke , for example . such technology can be transformative , streamline pathway and save hour of work , but they do not and should not replace human oversight . proper governance and regulation be require , and always with a " safety first " principle . it must be transparent and accountable . I hope we get it right ; in fact , we must . in deliver transformative change in our public service , we must develop the governance and regulation that will maximise the benefit and mitigate the risk — not just for the people of my constituency or the country , but because by move forward to a bright new age with modern and innovative public service , as they once be and will be again , we can be an example to the world . I call Chris Coghlan to make his maiden speech . thank you , Madam Deputy Speaker , for the opportunity to make my maiden speech in this debate . I be move by the maiden speech of the hon . member for Stoke - on - Trent South ( Dr Gardner ) — particularly her devotion to her constituent . I already have some Stoke - on - trent pottery in my kitchen , and I be always open to more . I pay tribute to my predecessor , Sir Paul Beresford . he significantly tighten the legislation around child protection , and I — a father of three little girl — and parent across the country be grateful to he for it . I be hugely honour to be the first Liberal MP for Dorking and Horley in over 100 year . it be my home : I grow up in Peaslake , just half a mile outside the constituency . grow up , I be astound by the beauty of our Surrey hill — from Leith hill to Box hill — and I still be . when I visit place across my constituency , I often think about my mum . she visit those place , too , and I know that they buy her great joy . she die of ovarian cancer three month after I be bear . that be why the Liberal Democrat 62 - day cancer treatment guarantee be so important to I . grow up , I develop a passion for public service , which help I to move beyond the pain of her loss . it be why , when I see that ISIS be murder people , I join the Foreign Office and Army Reserve , and serve in Iraq . it be why I leave my job in a hedge fund to start a charity train african entrepreneur with Violet Busingye , a rwandan refugee from the genocide . it be why I be here now . statistic show that one of the bad place in the country for the special need crisis be Surrey . a headteacher in Horley write to I to say that she have to take special need child even though she do not have the specially train staff to support they , as be their right . one mum write to I to say that her son have be out of school for two year , with no tuition and no placement in between , and that she be now have the same struggle with her daughter . they be just one of hundred of such family across Surrey . imagine the impact of miss two year of school on that little boy ' s life chance . imagine if he have instead be in a nurture educational environment — one that be integrate with employer who cater to the unique talent of autistic people , such as above - average analytical capability , attention to detail and conscientiousness . indeed , perhaps we should consider the contribution that autistic people could make to the technology that we need in public service — the topic of today ' s debate . sadly , the outcome can all too often be very different , as I discover some year ago when I go back to my old house in Peaslake . Fiona , who have buy it off my dad — she be in the Public Gallery today with her daughter , Cara — show I every room in the house , except my old bedroom , which , strangely , have my name , Christopher , write above the door . on my next visit , Fiona tell I what have happen to her autistic son , Christopher . as a young man live alone in Leeds , he have be unable to get the support that be his right . horrifically , he be exploit and murder by a man who have just be release from jail . of the many thing that go terribly wrong in Christopher ' s case , one be that the Mental Capacity Act 2005 provide for a presumption of capacity , which can prevent the NHS and social service from intervene when they should . in fact , in a post - legislative scrutiny report , a 2014 House of Lords Select Committee find that the Act be fail those who it be design to protect and empower . ever since Christopher ' s death , Fiona have be campaign to change this law , and it be my intention that she will succeed in do so . I be proud that Fiona ' s MP , the right hon . member for Godalming and Ash ( Jeremy Hunt ) , and I be work on this together . Christopher ' s MP be the right hon . member for Leeds South ( Hilary Benn ) , who of course be a Cabinet Minister and as such be bind by collective responsibility , but Fiona have be full of praise for the support that he have give she and her family . I believe it would be right and honourable for Labour , Conservative and Liberal Democrat mps to change this law together , because that change would bring comfort to Fiona and console Cara . it would mean that in 10 , 20 or 30 year ' time , if another little boy or girl be bear in Christopher ' s circumstance , they might avoid Christopher ' s fate . that be why I come to this place — for those who need to move beyond pain to peace . hear , hear . I call Natasha iron to make her maiden speech . I thank the hon . member for Dorking and Horley ( Chris Coghlan ) for his move and powerful word . it be an extraordinary thing to become a Member of Parliament , and become a Labour Member of Parliament who get to sit on the Government Benches be even more extraordinary . I share the sense of pride and urgency that we have hear from my hon . friend the Members for Glasgow West ( Patricia Ferguson ) and for Stoke - on - Trent South ( Dr Gardner ) and from the hon . member for North East Hampshire ( Alex Brewer ) in their maiden speech , and I congratulate they on their contribution to this debate . it be the honour of my life to represent Croydon East in this place , so I thank the people of this new constituency for put their faith in I . I will never forget what a privilege it be to be their voice in Parliament , and I will do all I can to fight for Croydon ' s future . as south London ' s most iconic borough , Croydon be a place so big that it need four member of Parliament to represent it . like the reunion tour of a much - love ' 90s band , my constituency have be reform under an old name with new boundary , so I pay tribute to my predecessor , start with the right hon . member for Croydon South ( Chris Philp ) for his work for the people of Selsdon and his commitment to public service . while I can not apologise for campaign against he in the election , I can attest to the number of constituent who speak highly of he and his contribution to their community when I meet they on the doorstep . I also pay tribute to my hon . friend the Member for Croydon West ( Sarah Jones ) , who be not only Croydon ' s first female MP , the founder and chair of the all - party parliamentary group on knife crime and violence reduction and now a Minister in this government , but the kind of MP where everybody know someone who have be help by she . I thank she for her kindness , advice and encouragement over the past few month , and hope to build on her legacy and continue to stand up for Croydon in the way that she have always do . I be thrill to join those member and my right hon . friend the Member for Streatham and Croydon North ( Steve Reed ) , someone who continue to work tirelessly for his constituent and who , as Secretary of State , be now take on the urgent fight to clean up our water . I look forward to we work together in the good interest of Croydon . Croydon East represent so much of what be great about our city . whether it be the bustling life of South Norwood , the close - knit community of Addiscombe and New Addington , or the stunning view from Shirley Hills , Croydon East be a place fill with diversity , ambition and strong value . however , even in this vibrant corner of south London , the shadow of inequality persist . whether it be the fact that a child in Croydon East be twice as likely to live in poverty as one just a few mile away in Croydon South , or that a man live in New Addington North have a life expectancy a decade short than a woman live in Shirley South , these stark disparity remind we that too many remain trap in a cycle of inequality . when we talk about technology in public service , we must not get lose in grand plan and digital transformation : we must remember those who use these service , and how they will be put to use . what do they mean for the community leader at the coalface of the cost of live crisis — those who run service such as the Food Stop , Pathfinders and the Community Family Project in New Addington that often step up when there be no one else to step in ? what do they mean to group such as the Friends of Shirley Library , which be fight to keep the library open — a place that not just tackle loneliness and isolation , but play a critical role in close the digital divide ? what do they mean to my constituent Michael Lyons , a veteran who have campaign to ensure that the memory of servicepeople from the first world war live on ? how will we ensure that digital public service remain as accessible to he as they be to the rest of we ? with a consider application of technology , we have an opportunity to break down barrier instead of create new one , to bring people close to democracy instead of drive they far away , and to rebuild our public service so they work well for the people who need they most . as someone who grow up in south London in a family that be always political but do not think that politic be for people like we , I know that the decision that we make in this place have the power to change life for the well . choice that have be make in this room take my family from sleep on our living room floor to decent social housing . they enable my mother to go back to university to retrain and to get a well job . and they give I the opportunity to go to university , to get a career in public service broadcasting , to serve my community as a local councillor and to make my way to these Benches . as an MP in London ' s young borough , I want to spend my time here put the wellbeing of our young people back on the political agenda . there be no long - term plan than ensure that our young people have the opportunity they deserve , so that they can go on to live the successful life that we want they to . we need a national plan for what it be to be a young person in this country , and I look forward to show how Croydon stand ready to lead that vital work . finally , every Member of the House will have those people in their life who have support they to get here , and I would like to take this opportunity to thank mine . I thank my hon . friend the Member for Mitcham and Morden ( Dame Siobhain McDonagh ) , who allow I to see that there be room for people like I in place like this . without her encouragement and advice , I simply would not be here . I can only hope to be half the MP that she be . I thank my mum and dad for their support and unwavering belief in I . it be their hard work and determination that change our life , and I be so proud to continue our family ' s track record of serve our country . to my spectacular husband , who encourage I to get involve in politic because he be sick of I shout at the tv : thank you for your patience and your endless support , and for be the great dad imaginable to our lad . it be really an extraordinary thing to be a Member of Parliament . I hope that in our time here , we make choice in this room that change the life of the people outside of it for the well . I call Caroline Voaden to make her maiden speech . thank you , Madam Deputy Speaker , for give I the opportunity to make my maiden speech . I congratulate all the other member who have make their maiden speech this evening , from the whisky and sausage of Glasgow West to the pottery of Stoke - on - Trent South , the young people of Croydon East , and the beautiful tour of North East Hampshire , which I have drive through many time . I pay particular tribute to my hon . friend the Member for Dorking and Horley ( Chris Coghlan ) for deliver an incredibly powerful and move maiden speech with no note — very impressive . it be very relevant to join in this debate on the role of technology in public service follow several conversation that I have during recess about the challenge of connect Devon and , in particular , the South Hams and Dartmoor to high speed internet . it be something that I will be come back to with the Minister . if we be go to support rural community , small business , the self - employ and those study online , we have to get they connected . we must also be aware of the danger of digital exclusion . for all those who can not use computer , particularly old people , we must ensure that there be always a decent work offline alternative to app and qr code . I be very proud to say that I be the first non - Conservative MP to be elect in my large rural constituency for over 100 year . it have a very short flirtation with Liberalism in 1923 when Henry Vivian be elect . sadly , he last only 10 month before be replace by another Conservative . Vivian be the founder of the co - operative housing movement , and it be a real shame that he do not last a bit long , because we could really do with his legacy in South Devon . it be a spectacular part of the UK , from the art deco hotel sit atop Burgh Island to the eastern slope of Dartmoor , the Rivers Dart and Avon that meander south to the sea , the headland at Berry Head where you can spot dolphin play in the water , and the roll hill and hedge of the South Hams . it be the place I make home 17 year ago , after leave London . I take my two small daughter to Devon to be near family after the death of my husband from cancer in 2003 , and it be great that they be both with we today . be widow at 34 with very young child be a brutal experience , but it teach I many thing — the power of community , the value of friendship and family , the strength of support from kindre spirit . here I pay tribute to the Widowed and young organisation , which I chair for a couple of year . hang out with a bunch of widow may not sound like much fun , but be with people who understand what you be go through at a difficult time , and who can truly empathise , be transformational . I will always champion community and support group who bring people together . leave London for a rural community be a bit of a gamble . busy London play park be replace by empty field , and I be almost the only single parent in the school . I do feel like an outsider . we have no internet connection , and have to dial in through a satellite dish on the roof , which drive I completely insane ; but we get some battery hen and watch in awe as their feather grow back and they begin lay egg again . I learn to manage a septic tank and oil - fire central heating . I navigate the complete lack of bus and the absence of breakfast and after - school club , which be not easy for a single work mother . rural life pose many extra challenge , so three year later we move to Totnes , I meet my lovely second husband , and this special town become home . it be often describe as alternative , but I prefer to say that it be a place that know the meaning of the word " community " . it be a place where it be quite normal to question the idea that a planet with finite resource can support infinite growth , a place where the seriously wealthy question why they be not be tax more to support those who have less , and a place where radical thinking be see as a really important thing to do . my constituency be where Agatha Christie live by the River Dart , and far downstream , naval recruit be train at Britannia royal naval college . we have wild camping on Dartmoor — long may it continue — paddleboarde in the bay , surf on the south coast and the world ' s big pirate festival in Brixham , as well as ancient family farm , stunning beach and thousand of mile of hedgerow . we also have the revival of the cirl bunting , a success story champion by my predecessor but one , Sarah Wollaston , who sit on several Benches in this House . once near extinction , there be now over 1 , 000 cirl bunting pair singe from the farmland of South Devon and Cornwall because of the environmental work do by farmer in my constituency . it be proof that farm for food and restore nature can go hand in hand . we have one of the country ' s large fish market at Brixham , as well as shell fisherman , oyster farm and scallop diver . an energetic conversation about sustainability and the long - term future of the fishing industry be be have , and I will work with fisher and scientist , so that we can create policy here that ensure that we can continue to fish while protect stock for the future . I pay tribute to my predecessor , Anthony Mangnall , who work hard to establish the National Independent Lifeboat Association . together with the Royal National Lifeboat Institution , it provide an incredible emergency service for all those who work or play on the water . on land , we have hundred of hospitality business that offer a brilliant experience — I recommend hon . member all come and try they out — but they have take a massive hit over the past few year , and they really need our support now to survive . however , there be so much more to South Devon that do not make it on to the postcard or the chocolate box . we have Britain ' s most expensive seaside town in Salcombe , where an average house cost £ 970 , 000 , but not far away we have leave - behind neighbourhood where people struggle to make end meet on low - pay seasonal work and live in poor - quality housing . this disparity of wealth can be hard to get your head around . I would like we to think really hard and creatively in this place about how we can help even out our society , so that no one be raise a disabled child in a mould - fill home within sight of a millionaire ' s yacht in the harbour below . the lack of public transport lead to loneliness and isolation , and add to the lack of opportunity for our young people for work and socialise . we must invest in it as a public good . our school in Devon be hugely underfunde compare with school across the UK , which impact the life chance of our child . we have community that have be hollow out by second home to the extent that school be close , village shop have long go and the last pub be close . family be be evict so that landlord can turn their home into short - term holiday let , and second home register as business be cause our council to lose out on million of pound a year of desperately need resource . we must close this loophole . we have business struggle to get staff because no one can afford to live nearby and there be no social housing , yet developer build and build to support the immigration of wealthy retired people from other area of the country . we have more than meet our housing target , but we be still in a desperate housing crisis . the solution be not just build , build , build ; it be about land price , what we build and where , and who buy those home . what we need be social housing , more community land trust scheme , innovation and idea for break out of the developer - lead disaster we be in . we be the home of innovation and good idea , and I would like to quickly highlight one organisation , LandWorks . I declare an interest , as I work there for six month in 2018 . LandWorks be an inspirational prisoner rehabilitation charity that I hope the new prison Minister will soon visit , give the crisis we be in nationally . its amazing work have be show to cut reoffende rate and reintegrate prisoner into society . we also have a grow cluster of high - tech photonic company attract talent from home and abroad and provide highly skilled job . that be exactly the kind of modern manufacturing that this country desperately need , so it be disappointing to hear last week that these company be miss out on partnership , funding and investment because of Brexit . one company be weigh up whether it will move its headquarters out of the UK into the EU . member will not be surprised to hear that as a former Member of the European Parliament for the south - west who get involve in politic in June 2016 , I will continue to try to find way to mitigate and lessen the damage Brexit have cause , particularly to my shellfish exporter , my food and wine importer , our musician , and all those sector that be struggle to find staff . South Devon be a constituency of many part , and it be right at the top of the list of the most challenging constituency in which to deliver Lib Dem leaflet — [ interruption . ] well , maybe my hon . friend the Member for Caithness , Sutherland and Easter Ross ( Jamie Stone ) beat I on that . I want to finish by express my heartfelt thank to an incredible group of volunteer who support my campaign , many of whom be not Liberal Democrats , and who be lend their vote and their time and their shoe leather because they want to be represent by a different kind of voice . I would also like to thank my dad , with we today , who never tired of campaign to help I get here — and I would just like to say that I be really sorry I didn ' t campaign hard for you in 1983 , when you come quite close to sit on these Benches . I could not have do it without they all , and it be the honour of my life to represent they and all the resident of South Devon . I will work hard every day for they , for our environment , for our planet , and for a different kind of politic . I call Alice Macdonald to make her maiden speech . it be a privilege to make my maiden speech today , and to follow the hon . member for South Devon ( Caroline Voaden ) and my hon . friend the Member for Croydon East ( Natasha Irons ) ; I congratulate they on their move maiden speech . they bring their constituency to life vividly , and I hope I can do the same . I be proud to be the Labour and Co - operative Member of Parliament for Norwich North , and my first message be one of thank to the people of Norwich North for put their faith in I ; however you vote , I be here to serve you . I pay tribute to my predecessor , Chloe Smith , who serve Norwich North for 15 year as a Minister and Secretary of State , include for science and innovation , and of course as a constituency MP . like I , Chloe be a Norfolk girl ; we go to nearby secondary school , and I know that one of her passion be open up opportunity for young people , which be something else we share . the last Labour Member of Parliament for Norwich North be Dr Ian Gibson , a fierce advocate for our community . it be apt that I be make my maiden speech in this debate , give his passion for science and innovation , and I be pleased to say that a new fellowship be be set up in his name at the Quadram Institute in Norwich : the Invest in ME Research Ian Gibson fellowship . I also follow in the footstep of Dorothy Jewson , elect in 1923 to represent Norwich , and one of the first three labour woman mps . she be know for action to tackle poverty , and be key to the creation of many of Norwich ' s beautiful park . she be also note for refuse to wear a hat in the Chamber . I fully agree with she when she say that woman be not in Parliament to discuss dress or millinery , but to do something . do something be what I intend to do . my priority be shape by what I have hear from my constituent . that be why I will fight for well health , well home , good education and decent job , and fight to tackle the big crisis we face : the cost of living and the climate crisis . I could not be prouder to come from Norfolk . I grow up in a rural Norfolk village and have make my home in Norwich North . the constituency spread from the northern reach of the city — from the estate of Mile Cross and Heartsease , the pub of NR3 and our amazing green space , such as Mousehold Heath and Waterloo Park — and into the Broadland area , comprise Sprowston , Thorpe St Andrew , Old Catton , Hellesdon and Drayton , each of which have their own unique identity . as many other member have say , our strength come from our active and vibrant community . local organisation , volunteer and parish and town council bring so much to our area — organisation such as the Hellesdon dementia support group , which I visit just last week , the Sprowston youth engagement project , the many food bank and community hub , and the environmental organisation work to protect nature . the well - know landmark in Norwich , from the magnificent cathedral to the castle , may be in the constituency of my hon . friend the Member for Norwich South ( Clive Lewis ) , but Norwich North have many unique attribute , and many thing that can provide inspiration to our government , and I will touch on just a few today . we be home to Norwich airport , from which I fly this summer . that be convenient , but the airport be also a key driver of economic growth . it be pioneer green aviation , with the first all - electric pleasure flight launch last year from Norwich airport . we be also home to one of the first large - scale social housing estate in the country , Mile Cross , which mark its centenary just last year . when it be build , there be a desperate need for home , and that remain the case today , when we need social and affordable housing in particular . on the many industrial estate , we can find example after example of small and medium - sized business harness creativity , innovation and provide much - need job . beyond the boundary of Norwich North , there be a huge life science cluster at Norwich research park , which be relevant to this debate . to give just one example , scientist from the park be work closely with the UK Health Security Agency and the Food Standards Agency to harness the power of microbiology to protect our food supply . the same technology be use during the pandemic to identify covid variant for the Government . I thank the Secretary of State for visit Norwich just this year with Wikipedia founder Jimmy Wales to meet student and staff from Norwich University of the Arts , which be provide so much inspiration to many of the innovator of the future . we be also home to the Canaries — Norwich City — and reportedly the old football chant in the world , " on the ball , City " . my hon . friend the Member for Ipswich ( Jack Abbott ) be sadly not in the Chamber today , but I want to remind he that while we do not make it to the premier league , in the time it take oasis to break up and reform , Ipswich have still not beat the Canaries . I will remind he of that when I see he . I will also mention the great woman ' s football we have in Norfolk and Norwich . in fact , just a few week ago I go to the opening of the Lauren Hemp community pitch in Broadland constituency . for all its advantage , Norwich North face many challenge . three in 10 kid live in poverty , thousand be on the housing waiting list , we be a dental desert and too many child , particularly those with special educational need and disability , do not receive the education that they deserve . that must change . as important as what I intend to fight for be how I do it . time and again , people tell I that they be sick of we shout at each other , and of adversarial politic . Norfolk be now a rainbow county ; anyone who see the election result will know that we have practically every single party represent . I promise to work with everyone and anyone who want to get the good for our area . I also note Norwich ' s long history as a place of refuge . it be officially a city of sanctuary and a tolerant , welcome place , and I know that will continue . after the event of this summer , that be more important than ever . I be proud to stand here as a Labour and Co - operative woman MP . my path into politic be inspire by many woman , start with my mother , who be still persevere in the Gallery up there , and I thank she for that , as well as for the inspiration she provide to I as a local councillor ; she show I the difference that politic can make . I want to thank my family , my dad , my twin sister , my friend and my partner for all their support . I be privileged to have work for the former Member of Parliament for Camberwell and Peckham , Harriet Harman , who teach I so much about politic — about stick to one ' s principle , take on the most difficult of challenge and always , always say thank you . I join this House after year of work in international development , have work in some of the poor country of the world , and also year of serve community as a councillor . in everything I have do , from the local to the global , I have focus on fight inequality and injustice , open up opportunity , bring people together to find solution and work through difference . that be the approach that I will continue to take : to stand up for opportunity , to stand against inequality in Norwich North , nationally and internationally , and always to focus on what unite we . in conclusion , I want to finish as I begin , with a message for the people of Norwich North : your home be my home , and I pledge to give it my all — to stand up for you , for our fine city and for our great county . rise — Order . I be go to call the Front Benchers at 9 . 40 pm , so that give probably our last Back - Bench speaker 10 minute . I call Mike Martin . thank you , Madam Deputy Speaker , for call I to speak ; I be particularly delighted to be call in a debate on technology and public service — of which more later . I congratulate all the other maiden speaker today . it be clear that we be go to have not just a good Parliament but a great Parliament . I come to this place from Tunbridge Wells , which be famous for a few thing — not least the ability of its resident in write to newspaper ' letter page . of course , I be speak of the phrase " disgusted of Tunbridge Wells " , and as someone who have spend the last two month peruse the inbox of the MP for Tunbridge Wells , I can assure hon . member that my constituent have lose none of their ability for forceful expression with the pen . the phrase " disgusted of Tunbridge Wells " do confuse I , though . why be it that they be disgusted , for they live in the good constituency in the country ? I invite hon . member who do not believe I to come to Tunbridge Wells later this month , when we will be host the world cup for Subbuteo . this be a big deal — it be previously in Rome and it be now in Tunbridge Wells . hon . member may not know that Subbuteo be actually from Tunbridge Wells : we invent it and have the factory that create the kit that be send out to everyone . I can see recognition in some hon . member ' face ; perhaps there be some Subbuteo aficionado in the House today . because of this fact , we in Tunbridge Wells be particularly proud to be able to say that this September , football will be come home to Tunbridge Wells . at this late hour — I can see that I have eight minute leave to go , Madam Deputy Speaker — hon . member may be pleased to hear that I will not provide a long geographical survey of my entire constituency , suffice it to say that the village that make up the great part of my constituency be the most beautiful anywhere and the town , of which we have three — Southborough , Paddock Wood and Tunbridge Wells — have for century have visitor for sport and recreation . in the case of Paddock Wood , that be hop pick , and of course in Royal Tunbridge Wells people come to take the water . perhaps the most famous visitor who come to take the water be Henrietta Maria , who be Queen of England and wife of King Charles I . henrietta — if I can call she that — be pass through a period of infertility , so it be say , so she come to Tunbridge Wells to take the water and shortly after fall pregnant with King Charles II . we know that King Charles II be restore to the monarchy and shortly thereafter we have the Bill of Rights and the glorious revolution — so if you will forgive I for a slight bit of hyperbole , Madam Deputy Speaker , I think we can safely say that Tunbridge Wells be the source of modern british democracy . it be of course right that I speak of my immediate predecessor , Greg Clark , who I know be a good friend of yours , Madam Deputy Speaker . in addition to serve the Crown as a Minister , Greg be Chair of a Select Committee and be the epitome of the constituency MP . many of we have spend the last couple of year knock on door around our constituency and speak to future constituent . as hon . member know , when knock on door , we tend to hear the same thing and theme seem to come out , and the theme in Tunbridge Wells be that Greg Clark be a good bloke . I would knock on a door , and people would tell I , " well , we have this big family problem , and he speak to the relevant Government Department and his office go above and beyond . " I would feel a bit deflate . I would then go to the next door , and they would say , " he be wonderful . not only do he solve the problem ; he come to see we personally to explain what he have do . " I can tell the House that it be utterly dishearten to campaign over the last two year , and I be utterly delighted when he step down ! I wish he the very good of luck — he be go to run a technology innovation cluster at the University of Warwick , so perhaps the Secretary of State would like to reach out to he ; he be a good guy to know . I would like to finish on a serious topic : the defence of his Majesty ' s realm . it have be say so much that it fade into the background , but the world that we live in today be more unpredictable and dangerous than it have be for the last 80 year . of course , there be the geopolitic that we understand — a relative decline in western power , and previously middle power jockey for space and seek to rewrite the international order ; I do not need to name country for hon . member to know who I be talk about — but overlay across it be a number of global trend , include climate change , demography , migration and technology regulation . as geopolitic pull we apart , all those challenge require that we work together . it be quite a difficult needle to thread . with this go on , the state of the UK military be dire . we have an Army that can not deploy a division , an Air Force that can not defend its own airfield and a Navy that can not crew its own ship , and sit above that concern situation be a hole where british strategy should sit . I stand here as someone who spend two year at the sharp end of british strategy in Afghanistan , and I can tell you , Madam Deputy Speaker , that when you be fight a war at that level and bullet be fly and people be die , it break you when the country that have send you there do not have a strategy . this be a non - partisan point because all three main party , include my own , sit in government during the period that we be in Afghanistan . what happen in Afghanistan be not unique in british foreign policy . we have not really have a clear strategy for 30 year . it be a very good thing that the Government be initiate a strategic defence review , but previous defence review have maintain the illusion that Britain be a global power without give sufficient resource to back up those idea and policy goal . I have a piece of advice for the Government : in the review , before they start talk about plane , tank and ship — technology in public service — they must have a clear idea of what british strategy be . by clear , I mean realistic . realistic mean match their goal and aim to the resource that they be willing to put in . that be quite a difficult question to ask , which be why successive government have fudge it for the last few decade . there be an easy question that the Government can answer , and if they can answer it , the rest of the review will flow smoothly : in military term , be Britain a global expeditionary military power , or be it a power dedicate to ensure regional security in the Euro - Atlantic area — the area from the Arctic to the Mediterranean , and from Greenland to Suez ? it can not do both . it can only do one . if the Government can answer that question accurately and clearly , then all the other subsidiary question , like who our friend and ally be , will follow on . order . I say I would call the Front Benchers at 9 . 40 pm . I would like to start by pay tribute to all the Members who make their maiden speech . I congratulate each and every one of they on that nerve - rack experience . we may not always agree on many thing or we may agree on a lot , but clearly they will all be formidable contributor to this House . I would also like to welcome the ministerial team to their place — and the new Secretary of State . as the shadow Secretary of State , my hon . friend the Member for Arundel and South Downs ( Andrew Griffith ) say in his opening remark , the Front Bench have my utmost respect for serve in public office . be a Minister be a great privilege and we know that it also place burden on those close around we , so I genuinely wish they well . the civil servant I work with in the Department , include those in my private office , be hard - work , dynamic and top notch . I be sure Ministers will have the same experience . as his Majesty ' s opposition , we will of course hold the Government to account . we will challenge they where challenge be require , but let I be clear : our sole intention be only to ensure that the United Kingdom remain at the forefront of global innovation and technological advancement . minister may not believe I when I say it , but I do want they to be successful because their success be the nation ' s success . it be in that spirit that I welcome some of the announcement on enhance technological use in the public sector , because , as have be say , productivity in the public sector lag behind that of the private sector . the private sector have largely recover from the pandemic , but the public sector remain less efficient than it be before . that be important for two reason . first , the public sector — our service that we be so privileged to have , whether the national health service or our police , to name just two — represent 20 % of the national output . improve technology in our service mean improve the very service that the british public rely on . secondly , public service be fund by taxpayer ' money . it be not our money or the Labour party ' s money . hard - work british people pay their taxis for these service , so it be morally right that we all do all we can to make our public service fit for purpose and as efficient as possible . that be why the previous Conservative Government launch the comprehensive public service productivity review to address low level of public sector productivity . in our national health service , we utilise AI to cut administration to keep more staff on the frontline and increase the speed of diagnosis , include well diagnosis of stroke , and lung and breast cancer . our police officer be keep on the street , rather than push pen , with the use of technology to speed up simple administrative task , which mean that crime fall in every part of the UK — except , of course , in Labour - run London . we see and welcome the value of well technological use in the public sector . I have some question for the Minister and for the Secretary of State , which I hope the Minister will be able to answer on his behalf . first , over the summer we be all appal by the riot that grip the nation and the role that social medium play . digital accessibility for our most vulnerable people matter , and part of that must be that the public have trust in use social medium and online platform . antisemitism and anti - muslim incident have see a huge rise online . minister will have meet social medium company , include x . will the Minister please clarify what action will now be take , as we move forward , to ensure that social media be not use to perpetuate and amplify antisemitic and anti - muslim hatred ? secondly , one of my last act as Minister for Tech and the Digital Economy be to instruct official in the Department to start review and refresh the Government ' s digital inclusion strategy , and to present option . the timing of the general election prevent that work from make progress , but there be no reason why it can not continue now . will the Minister confirm that she will continue that work ? will she commit to ensure that the necessary fund be put aside , so our public service be more digitally inclusive ? conservative recognise the importance of make our public service truly accessible . as the last review occur 10 year ago , will she commit to ensure that the review be carry out in a timely manner ? if our public service be to be truly inclusive , they must be digitally inclusive , and I look forward to hear the Minister ' s response . I be also keen to know what happen to the AI Bill , the legislation that the Secretary of State promise so often when he be in opposition , and what he intend to do about AI regulation . perhaps the Minister can tell we what assessment she have make of the number of AI company that will be create as a result of his plan , how much investment will be generate , and how many new job there will be . why be the AI Bill not ready for the King ' s Speech ? let I now turn to the Secretary of State . he have have a very busy summer , but whether it be productive be another question . country across the world be brim with ambition , invest in some of the most exciting and transformative technology , such as artificial intelligence , and ensure that they be at the forefront of global technological innovation . let there be no doubt that this be a global race , and I fear that in its first few month in office the Labour party may already have do enough to ensure that this great nation of ours never come close to win that race . the previous Conservative Government set out an ambition to be a science and tech superpower by 2030 . I note that the Secretary of State have not share that ambition , so imagine my surprise when I see that in one of the Government ' s first big moment , one of their first big act be to cut £ 1 . 3 billion of investment in supercomputer capability and related research funding . the Secretary of State talk about be a partner to the tech industry . well , on hear the news of the cutting of exascale funding , one tech entrepreneur say to I , " with friend like these , who need enemy ? " perhaps the Secretary of State — or the Minister , on his behalf — could clarify whether he fight against that decision or endorse it . be he able to stand up to the Chancellor , or be he so intimidate by she that he lose his voice ? we know that the Prime Minister be unsettle by that portrait of Margaret Thatcher , so perhaps the Secretary of State be similarly unsettle by the Chancellor . do he even bother to fight for Britain ' s AI and tech entrepreneur , or be the trapping of ministerial office so entice that he forget to defend the single most important investment that would have ensure that we maintain our top position in the global AI race for decade to come ? but let I offer the hand of friendship . [ laughter . ] I assure the Secretary of State that the hand of friendship exist . if he be worried about stand up to the Chancellor , we on this side of the House will of course support he . he do not need to be afraid . we believe in economic growth , so we will help he to stand up to the Chancellor . after all , his success will be the nation ' s success , and that be our priority . let I move on from exascale . over the summer , it become clear that the Labour Government have capitulate to the junior doctor and give they inflation - bust pay rise without ask for any modernisation or efficiency improvement in return . before that decision , do the Secretary of State meet the Health Secretary and insist on efficiency improvement or well use of technology , or be give in to labour ' s trade union paymaster more important ? he do say that they be join at the hip , so perhaps he will be able to show what he do to fight for the tech entrepreneur of this country . I note that my right hon . friend the Member for Basildon and Billericay ( Mr Holden ) ask he a question that he do not answer . I also note that the Government have be silent on the NHS productivity review , which be back by more than £ 3 . 4 billion . again , he do not answer a question , ask on this occasion by my hon . friend the Member for Hinckley and Bosworth ( Dr Evans ) . can the Minister now confirm that that funding be safe , or be it part of the Chancellor ' s " black hole " calculation ? our plan and our review be back by the NHS and would have save 13 million clinician hour . what , actually , be the Labour party ' s plan ? when the Transport Secretary capitulate to the transport union , do this Secretary of State meet she ? do he insist on well use of technology to improve our transport system , so that he could benefit consumer and protect taxpayer , or do he just watch from the sideline and drink the Kool - Aid ? this may have pass he by , but so far , in its first two month in office , the Labour party have already hand out £ 14 billion to its trade union paymaster in no - string - attach public sector pay deal . so it be all well and good for the Secretary of State to grandstand at the Dispatch Box , but the fact be paint a different picture . I just hope that he can find his voice and stand up for the tech sector before it be too late . let I explain why this be so important . we have already hear the Secretary of State repeat the farcical claim about the Chancellor ' s " black hole " , have inherit a tech economy that be the third most valuable in the world ; a tech economy that be be recognise across the world for its ability to nurture more tech unicorn — that is , more company value at £ 1 billion — than France , Germany and Sweden combine ; a tech economy that be grow and create million of job annually , and attract billion of pound - worth of investment . if the Secretary of State do make the decision to cut the £ 1 . 3 billion of exascale funding and now talk down that same tech economy , and in do so undermine those very tech entrepreneur who will help to fund our public service for decade to come and make it less attractive for investor to invest , he can not sincerely stand at the Dispatch Box and argue that he believe in economic growth — not if his first major economic act be one of economic mutilation . I implore he to go back to the Chancellor and challenge this decision . he should not let the Chancellor ' s political game undermine he or the tech industry , which have so much potential . it be in his power to ensure that we nurture tech innovation so that the tech start - up of today can become the tech giant of tomorrow . I say to the Secretary of State that he should not squander this opportunity . otherwise , his legacy will be define by what he do not do , rather than what he do do . I be honour to close the debate tonight , and not only because I be speak from the Government Dispatch Box for the first time , but because I have hear so many truly wonderful maiden speech . I particularly thank the hon . member for Dorking and Horley ( Chris Coghlan ) for speak so movingly about Christopher . I thank Fiona and her daughter for join we in the Gallery , and I pay tribute to Fiona for her continue work in Christopher ' s memory . member of all party have talk about safety , fairness and the economic opportunity offer by technology in public service . member , especially those on the Government Benches , have speak with passion and conviction about the need for change and to make true on our manifesto promise , which be what this Government will deliver . we can all agree on the importance of ensure that the technology of tomorrow deliver benefit for people in community across the country . the question , of course , be how . the Government must work with the incredible university , of which we be so proud , and with the innovative start - up that many hon . member have speak about this evening , but we must also lead by example by harness the power of technology in our public service to improve people ' s life . I congratulate those on the Front Bench on their speech tonight . do the Minister agree that council be very important in this area ? when I be the cabinet member for health , my council sign an agreement with the Open University to become the first dementia - friendly city , which involve not only medical technology , AI and the first robot that can identify when somebody with dementia have not drunk enough and bring they a bottle of water , but social innovation around use colour in wayfinding — whether it be in our shopping centre or play park . do the Minister agree that the partnership need to expand to include business , start - up , council and the Government , as well as our other public sector partner , in order to create the behaviour change , innovation and advancement that we be all look for ? I thank my hon . friend for her contribution . as someone who serve in local government for a very long time , I recognise the innovation in our local authority . the work we be do within our Department include work very closely with our local government partner , so I thank she for her intervention . one of the first place I visit in my new brief be Hammersmith hospital , where I meet doctor who be use a new AI tool that can spot sign of age in the heart that be invisible to the human eye . the tool promise to calculate a person ' s " heart age " from an MRI scan and , for the first time , pinpoint the gene that could make the heart age fast . in the process , it could transform the way we diagnose and treat heart failure . that be just one of the project I see in Hammersmith hospital that be focus on the safe , ethical and responsible development of AI . such project will be a crucial part of our mission to build an nhs that be fit for the future — a mission to which this Government be completely committed . we want to seize every opportunity that technology offer to improve life for our people — whether that mean life - save healthcare in our hospital or a world - class education in our classroom . if use rightly , technology such as AI can transform the productivity of Britain ' s broken service . with a £ 22 billion black hole in the public finance and taxis at a 70 - year high , save taxpayer ' money be more important than ever . do the Minister agree that it be important to use AI to save taxpayer ' money by do the basic , such as set up an automate online booking system for hospital appointment rather than send out letter that we all fail to respond to ? the hon . member be absolutely right . that be why the digital centre for Government will be work with Departments across Government to ensure that we be put those innovation and improvement in place . lead by Matt Clifford , the AI opportunitie action plan will identify the big opportunity to leverage AI to accelerate growth and deliver on the Government ' s five mission . we will ensure that this be back by funded commitment , include those on compute , which will be take in the round . AI will be at the heart of DSIT as the new digital centre for Government . we have bring together datum , digital and tech expert from across Government under one roof to drive forward the digital transformation of our public service . a key part of that be ensure that the centre have the very good leader , all appoint in line with civil service recruitment . will the Minister give way ? I be sorry , but I want to make some progress . we do not have very much time . as the hon . member for Oxford West and Abingdon ( Layla Moran ) highlight , we need to ensure that the civil service have the digital and data skill need for today ' s challenge and tomorrow ' s . we be committed to reduce the Government ' s reliance on contingent labour , reduce cost and grow capability for the long term . we have set standard for the digital and data skill that all senior civil servant will need to have and deliver a digital excellence programme that have upskille more than 1 , 300 senior civil servant against the criterion . we have also launch a new at - scale digital apprenticeship programme , TechTrack , and roll out training on AI for all civil servant to build their confidence . safety will be at the heart of this . many hon . member have rightly express their concern about the risk of discrimination and bias in AI system . that be why datum and AI practitioner across Government use tool such as the algorithmic transparency recording standard , which be develop by my official to support the safe , fair and transparent use of algorithm in the public sector . my hon . friend the Member for Stoke - on - Trent South ( Dr Gardner ) have highlight the importance of the safe development of AI . safety will also be embed in our new AI Bill , which I can assure the hon . member for Meriden and Solihull East ( Saqib Bhatti ) will introduce bind regulation on the handful of company that be develop the most powerful AI system of tomorrow . it will also be the foundational principle behind the cyber security and resilience Bill , which will shore up Britain ' s cyber - defence and protect our public service in the decade to come . the digital revolution must be safe , and its benefit must also be accessible to everyone , include the vulnerable community that my hon . friend the Member for Glasgow West ( Patricia Ferguson ) talk so movingly about in her speech . that be why we be committed to tackle the connectivity issue mention by my hon . friend the Member for Newcastle upon Tyne Central and West ( Chi Onwurah ) and by the hon . member for North East Hampshire ( Alex Brewer ) and for South Devon ( Caroline Voaden ) this evening . that include the 5 g innovation region programme , which have invest over £ 36 million in 10 region across the UK . my hon . friend the Member for Croydon East ( Natasha Irons ) have speak about the importance of close the digital divide . we have spend the summer talk and listen to digital inclusion expert , local authority and many other who be work on the frontline of digital inclusion , but this be just the start of the conversation . we want to tackle the important issue together , include through inclusive digital platform such as gov . uk one Login , which offer a straightforward and secure way to access a range of Government digital service . the Government programme will soon expand the route for prove identity to include those without photo documentation . that will benefit pensioner , student and minor , who be too often exclude . motion lapse ( Standing Order no . 9 ( 3 ) ) . Banking Services : Rural Northumberland Motion make , and question propose , that this House do now adjourn . — ( Anna McMorrin . ) I thank Mr Speaker for grant this debate . the Minister will know as well as I do , and as well as member on both side of the House do , that there be bank desert across the country , with many people shut off from access very basic face - to - face service . the figure merely hint at the crisis in my constituency . Northumberland have lose more than half of its bank branch since 2015 , and figure from which ? show that Hexham have lose over 70 % of its branch , with only five branch remain in the constituency . five bank branch would sound almost luxurious to many colleague , but Hexham be the large constituency in England , reach from Throckley on Newcastle ' s western edge to Gilsland in Cumbria , and from Blanchland on our border with County Durham to Byrness , which be a stone ' s throw from Scotland . these bank branch closure do not just mean an inconvenience to my constituent ; they present a toxic cocktail that both damage quality of life and hold back the growth of our rural economy . the service that bank branch provide to our constituent be wide - range and impactful , and many rely on these service during life ' s big moment . obvious example include help with large payment and support with mortgage , but there be also help during life event such as bereavement or secure power of attorney . the compassion , expert support and guidance that bank branch provide to our constituent can not be allow to disappear as an inevitable consequence of have well digital service . closure let down our young people who want to start business but find it hard to do so due to their inability to have face - to - face discussion , as well as our old people who find access to cash hard to come by ; in some case , they have to trek across rural Northumberland on public transport to reach their close branch . I commend the hon . gentleman for secure this debate . he be absolutely right that everyone in the House tonight will have experience bank closure . I have lose 11 branch in my constituency . do he agree that before a bank decide to close a branch , it should have an alternative in place , such as a banking hub , an ATM or alternative service through a post office ? I very much agree that before a bank branch close , we need to mitigate the consequence . we need to make sure that the rural economy have space to grow , so that people like my constituent do not face such long journey , which be particularly hard to navigate on public transport . I congratulate my hon . friend on secure this important debate . northumberland be a wonderful county , but do he agree that it be not just rural Northumberland that be suffer ? we have bank desert in Bedlington , Blyth , Ashington , Newbiggin and other area . vulnerable people be suffer greatly where the bank have just up and leave without any accountability . do he agree that we must take immediate action to look after these vulnerable people ? my hon . friend be absolutely right . I know how hard he fight for his constituent across Blyth and Ashington , and I know how much bank closure have impact his part of the world , and more urban part of Northumberland . I completely agree that we need to fight for these service in all our constituency . I be remind of a 74 - year - old constituent who be force to travel from Wark to Morpeth on three separate occasion in order to have a face - to - face conversation . I thank my hon . friend for secure this incredibly important debate , and for the powerful argument he have make . in my constituency , the impact of bank closure be feel acutely in the Seaton Valley area . People from village such as Seghill , Seaton Delaval , Seaton Sluice and Hartley have to travel on several bus to find the banking service to which they so desperately need ready access . do my right hon . friend agree that it be unacceptable that the vulnerable and elderly resident he describe have to travel , sometimes for hour on multiple bus , to access such service ? I agree with my hon . friend , and I thank she for give I an unintended promotion . it may seem like we be just say name on a map , but consider the vast scale of my constituency in our wonderful county of Northumberland . these place be separate by huge distance , and have a public transport system that do not always seem to work as it should . it be simply not fair that vulnerable people in my constituency be force to travel for as long as an hour by car or 90 minute by public transport , either way . it be unfair to expect our constituent to put up with a second - class service because they live rurally . unfortunately that have be the case in large part of our county . it be incredibly important that we address these issue . we all recognise that many of these community , particularly in my constituency and in that of my hon . friend the Member for North Northumberland ( David Smith ) , have historically vote conservative , but they put their faith in the Labour party for the first time at the last election . we be elect to deliver meaningful change for our constituency . I apply for this debate have spend my time as a candidate listen to the concern of people across the constituency , but there be one area I wish to highlight . in Haltwhistle , and the town and village around it , the loss of Barclays last year be still damage the local economy . I have be in touch with the chair of Haltwhistle chamber of trade , Ian Dommett , who tell I directly that the loss of banking facility in rural town such as Haltwhistle have have a negative effect on every business . his member have be affect ; most have account at Barclays because of its presence in the town . the replacement of an active branch with a peripatetic community hub have remove the relationship between business and branch . many business deal in cash — ian ' s business be a bed and breakfast , with many guest pay in cash , and a lot of Haltwhistle ' s pass trade be from tourist spend on Hadrian ' s wall — but they have lose the ability to pay directly into the bank , with the near Barclays ' branch be 20 mile away . haltwhistle business say that the bank have simply tell they to use the post office , a separate business over which it have no control . I thank my hon . friend for secure the debate on an issue that be important in both his constituency and mine . I draw attention to the correlated issue of post office . in Wooler in North Northumberland , where there be no bank branch , the post office , which provide the only banking service for that community , be also at risk of closure . thankfully , an incredible community response , lead by the Glendale Gateway Trust , be fight to retain it . I will do everything in my power , too . do my hon . friend agree that banking hub more generally , and the Post Office specifically , must be part of the solution to the lack of access to banking service in Northumberland ? I completely agree with my hon . friend . for many business and constituent , the post office represent a lifeline , albeit one that unfortunately for many business be access far too infrequently to operate with security . the decision to close rural branch be take in head office , with little or no understanding of the rural economy and the impact that such decision have on our constituent , their business and their daily life . I thank my hon . friend secure this important Adjournment debate . whitehaven in my constituency , not dissimilarly from Haltwhistle , be on the brink of become a banking desert . do my hon . friend agree that we should not have to wait for town to become bank desert before banking hub become an option ? a well system would be to change the rule for banking hub , so that they be a " last plus one " , rather than there have to be a complete banking desert before the option become available . I very much agree with my hon . friend . we have see far too many rural town and rural economy face a precipice when a bank close . business be leave to deal with uncertainty and a deprivation of banking service , which have an ongoing effect on the economy , before anything else come in . I hope that we can consider take any step necessary to mitigate the impact of those closure , and I agree that a move to a " last but one " system may be a more efficient way of deal with thing . whitehaven on the Tyne Valley line be a town that share many of the challenge that I be talk about , and that demonstrate the incredibly important nature of this debate . in constituency such as mine and those of my hon . friend , many resident and business already travel out of town for banking . when they be there , they do other shopping . they shop in the major town or the city , where they have access to other shop or service . that have a massive impact on the pass trade in Haltwhistle and other town across the Tyne Valley . Ian Dommett , the chair of the chamber of trade , say : " for Haltwhistle , this have mean that every shop in the town have lose this trade and everyone of the Chamber of Commerce member who be retailer say they have see a decline in business as it be now do in town with function bank . " I would argue that Haltwhistle as a town have be and continue to be let down by the Conservatives . this be a stunning indictment of policy failure . the business that want to drive economic growth be be hamstring . in some case , shop have step up by offer some element of consumer banking , such as cashback service and have atm in store , but they should not need to do so . business should not be deprive of business banking when , ultimately , it be they who be the engine of our rural economy . we need to move away from the significant economic disruption that town such as Haltwhistle have experience for 12 month , since August 2023 . I be incredibly proud this summer to be ask to become a patron of the Northumberland Domestic Abuse Services . speak with the staff there , I mention that I have secure this debate and be tell that access to in - person banking service can be a lifeline for victim of domestic abuse . in a rural setting in particular , this can be absolutely vital . I urge the Minister to consider introduce plan for banking hub in Haltwhistle in my constituency to ensure that resident can access in - person banking service , and to work with organisation to explore the impact that banking desert can have on acute domestic violence . I be proud to stand for election on a manifesto prioritise roll out banking hub to banking desert , but banking hub should not be see as a replacement for bank branch . they should not be see as an opportunity for bank branch to be shut down , leave other to pick up the piece in our community . when decision be make far from the community that they impact , those decision be inevitably bad . one of the most meaningful way that we can support town to grow economy , and provide opportunity for young people and security for elderly resident , be to make sure that , at the very least , they have a banking hub in place — one that do not just serve one town , but that serve community across the rural hinterland . I ask the Minister to ensure that the Treasury strongly consider and prioritise Haltwhistle as a location for a future banking hub , to reflect the opportunity and investment that that could bring , and to provide the opportunity for business to grow . I represent a thriving market town in Somerset call Frome , and even there it be announce in May that we would lose our last bank . give that bank play such an important role in our community and our business , do the hon . Member agree that there should be some obligation place on bank to ensure adequate provision across community in any give constituency ? we can see from the discussion this evening that it be critical to so many aspect of our public life that we have proper banking provision . I agree with the hon . Lady . it be important that bank recognise the almost unique role that they play on our high street as anchor institution ; they need to be far more responsible when condition dictate that bank branch need to close . this be not about ask they to play a charitable role ; it be about ask they to play a responsible role in our economy and our society . as an MP for many picturesque market town , I recognise the problem that the hon . Lady be have in her constituency . it be important that we represent the impact that the infrequent availability of post office service have have on individual in my constituency , and in particular on elderly customer , who now have to use the post office as their primary banking facility . it would be great if the Minister could join I in encourage the Post Office to expand its participation , particularly as I know that the Government be look to expand the pension credit take - up campaign . finally , will she comment on how the Government be work already , and will work in future , with our fantastic North East Mayor Kim McGuinness to improve economic prosperity across some of the most rural and remote area of our incredibly proud region ? I commend my hon . friend the Member for Hexham ( Joe Morris ) for secure this important debate , which I think be his first Adjournment debate . I also congratulate he on be the first Labour MP for Hexham . his Wikipedia entry famously boast that he break a 100 - year streak of conservative mp to be in this place . if that be not an accolade , I do not know what be . just before I come to this debate , I be have dinner with my hon . friend the Member for Warwick and Leamington ( Matt Western ) . I mention to he that I be answer a debate call by our hon . friend the Member for Hexham ; our hon . friend will be pleased to know that he say that Hexham be the most beautiful place he have ever be to in his life — I would say other than Hampstead and Highgate , obviously . I thank all hon . member who have contribute to this important debate . the fact that they have stay behind at a quarter past 10 on a Monday , on their first day back to Parliament on a one - line Whip , demonstrate their commitment . I know that this issue affect many of our constituent , and hon . member be absolutely right to champion it . I thank my hon . friend the Member for Hexham ( Joe Morris ) for secure the debate . do the Minister agree that the condition in rural area make it particularly difficult for people to take up the alternative give by bank , such as digital access ? despite the fantastic work of Broadband for the Rural North in my constituency , many of my constituent do not have access to broadband , and access to digital banking be simply out of reach for many . I thank my hon . friend for her intervention . I know that she be a doughty champion for her constituent . I hear what she say about her rural constituency . mine be not a rural constituency , but I speak to people across the country who be really struggle with digital connectivity , as she outline . it be something that the Government be take very seriously , and we be aware of the obstacle in the way of people try to access service online . I be pleased that this be my first parliamentary debate as the Economic Secretary to the Treasury , because this be an issue that be close to my heart , and one that I be determined to try to address . it be a privilege to be able to use this office to tackle some of the country ' s most important issue , as my hon . friend just say . ensure access to banking and support financial inclusion feature very highly in our manifesto , which all Labour Members be elect on . we want to ensure that our constituent manage to access the service that they deserve . before I get on to the meat of the topic , I will briefly provide the context . although many people have benefit from change to the UK ' s banking landscape , such as the ease and convenience for some people of remote banking , it be clear to I that other have find it a lot more challenging . accord to the consumer organisation which ? over 600 branch in the UK have close since 2015 . bank branch closure have significantly impact those in community who need access to in - person banking service . I be really sorry to hear about some of the specific case that have be raise . my hon . friend the Member for Hexham talk about his 74 - year - old constituent who have to travel so far . that example particularly stand out to I , because that should not be the case . I assure my hon . friend that the Government understand the importance of face - to - face banking , and banking access , to our community . not only be it be key to the health and vibrancy of those community , but as he point out , it help they to drive forward and benefit from our country ' s economic growth , and the rural economy . to anyone listen to the debate , please be in no doubt that the Government share the objective of enhance access to banking service , and we will be prioritise the delivery of that accordingly . work have already start . obviously , we have not be in Government for very long , but even before the election we commit to work closely with bank to roll out at least 350 banking hub , which will provide individual and business up and down the country with critical cash and banking service . banking hub be in many way very helpful . however , will the Minister consider review the criterion ? I have an issue in my constituency where the distance of the near bank be one tenth of a mile too short to get a banking hub . because of that , they be consider not put a banking hub in place . be there potential to review the criterion , to support the most vulnerable people in our community ? I absolutely hear what my hon . Friend say about protect vulnerable people in our constituency . that be why a lot of we stand for the Labour party : because we want to protect the most vulnerable . I will come on to LINK , which provide the banking hub , but if he do not mind write to I and lay out exactly what the issue be , I can write to he about the topic and about the criterion , because it sound as if there be a very small matter that need look at and I be happy to do so . I will talk later about LINK , but I ask he to make representation as well . I congratulate the Minister on attain her office and wish she well in it . I think she refer to 350 banking hub , which I presume mean across the whole of the United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland — I hope so . if not , I ask she to confirm that the same progression and the enthusiasm that she be show will also happen in Northern Ireland . I ask her one other thing , about which I speak to the hon . member for Hexham ( Joe Morris ) beforehand . set up banking hub seem to take forever . we all want they in place . be that something that the Minister can help we with ? no Adjournment debate would be complete without an intervention from the hon . member , so I be glad he intervene ; I be wait for he to do so . I share his frustration about the slowness of the roll - out — I push for it when I be in opposition and ask why it be take so long . I will address this point in my speech , but I can reassure he that with as much influence as I have in our office , we have be ask for the banking hub to be set up and ready . we be hope to achieve 100 banking hub by the end of this year , but I be conscious that they take a long time to set up . it be to do with the planning process , but that be not an excuse . I would like to speed up the roll - out , because I feel it have be drag on for a long time . I absolutely share his frustration . as the hon . Member might know , 60 banking hub have already open . as I say , we anticipate that 100 will be open at the end of this year , but I agree that it be frustrating to have to wait and watch . we want they to be up and run so that our constituent can make good use of they . we want to ensure that the hub mean that people and business can withdraw and deposit cash , because we know that people still use it . they will deposit cheque , pay bill and make balance inquiry . they will also contain dedicated community banker from the large bank in the area on a rotate basis , to help people and business carry out wide banking service . the decision on the location of future banking hub will be make by LINK , which be the banking industry ' s cash co - ordinating body . it will consider criterion such as population size , the number of retailer in the community and the availability of alternative bank branch . community can ask LINK to carry out an assessment of the local area ; I urge my hon . friend the Members for Blyth and Ashington ( Ian Lavery ) and for Hexham to make to link the case that have so convincingly be make to I . at the end of the day , we have ask it to make the decision , but I can help in the process as well . look forward , I expect the bank to consider carefully whether the need of a local community be be adequately serve when think be give to where the banking hub should be roll out . however , I also want the industry to ensure that the range and quality of banking service provide in hub be deliver for customer up and down the country . there be no point in have a banking hub if it do not meet the specific requirement of the town . I welcome the Minister to her place . if you will indulge I , Madam Deputy Speaker , I suspect that the Minister will want to note , as I do , the passing of Nicky Gavron , who be a Deputy Mayor of London , a very good friend of mine and a constituent of the Minister ' s . she die on 30 August , and I want to ensure that it be acknowledge in the House . I congratulate my hon . friend the Member for Hexham ( Joe Morris ) on secure this important debate , in which I have two quick question to put to the Minister . first , will she outline what conversation she have have with the bank to ensure that they put people over profit ? I be very proud to represent Newcastle - under - Lyme . I know that she have not visit ; if she have , she would agree that it be the most beautiful place in our country . secondly , how can we ensure that the importance of accessibility be acknowledge not just in word but in deed ? I thank my hon . friend for his intervention and associate myself with his comment about Nicky Gavron , who be my constituent and a great friend . she work with we in London Labour when my hon . friend be — dare I say it — a very young man . we work with she for many year , and it be very sad to see she go . I can assure my hon . friend that I speak to the bank every day to ensure that they know what our value be and how we want they deliver . beyond banking hub , I be say to they that community need key banking service to ensure that they have accessibility , cash withdrawal and deposit service — particularly our local business and charity , which often deal in cash and need convenient way to deposit their taking , but also everyone who use cash to make everyday purchase . accord to UK Finance , cash remain the second most popular payment method last year , so it be not right to dismiss and question the idea that people still use cash . overall data show that cash coverage in the UK remain good . accord to Financial Conduct Authority analysis , over 99 % of the UK urban population be within one mile of a free withdrawal cashpoint , and over 98 % of the UK rural population be within three mile of one . I hope that that reassure hon . member . however , it be important that coverage be maintain , so I welcome the FCA ' s forthcoming rule on access to cash , under which designate bank and building society will be require to assess the impact of a closure on a community ' s ability to access cash . if a closure result in a gap in provision , firm will be require to put in place a new service that meet the community ' s need . that could mean a new ATM deposit service or a banking hub . where a new service be recommend , firm will need to ensure that it be place before they be able to close the exist service , to avoid gap emerge in access to cash . those rule will come into force on 18 September , which I be sure will be welcome by member across the House . we recognise that banking have change through a shift towards online and mobile access , which mean that customer have more way to access banking service conveniently and securely . banking user have clearly take up those opportunity ; recent FCA datum show that almost nine in 10 adult bank online . however , that do not mean that everyone have the mean , confidence and skill to use those service , as many hon . friend have say . we recognise that although we live in an increasingly online world , part of the population , include in my constituency , remain digitally exclude . as a Government , we be commit to improve connectivity and digital access for all constituent . we will continue to support the roll - out of a modernised broadband infrastructure through Project Gigabit , close the digital divide for remote area of Britain . the Government have already start the renew push to reach full gigabit coverage by 2030 . this month we have announce funding of £ 800 million to improve broadband for over 300 , 000 rural home and business . Thinkbroadband report in August of this year that approximately 84 % of the UK can now access a gigabit - capable connection . although the majority of premise will be cover by commercial activity or Project Gigabit , the Government be consider alternative way to improve connectivity for the part of the UK where that be not possible . if constituent or member write to I , we will bear their area in mind . I thank everyone for their thoughtful contribution , but this will not be my last speech on this matter . I want to take my hon . friend the Member for Hexham , and other member who have speak , along with I on my journey , work together with the financial service sector and the public to deliver financial service . I want to mention quickly the post office network — [ interruption . ] I don ' t have time , do I , Madam Deputy Speaker ? you be look at I . I will just say that the Government be commit to look for way to strengthen the post office network . the Secretary of State meet the chair of the Post Office to discuss that and other important issue , and the Government protect the post office network by set minimum access criterion to ensure that 99 % of the UK population live within three mile of a post office , with around 11 , 000 branch in the UK . Madam Deputy Speaker , you have be very kind and allow I a bit more time , so I will finish by thank my hon . friend once again — House adjourn without question put ( Standing Order no . 9 ( 7 ) ) .