Oral Answers to Questions Northern Ireland the Secretary of State be ask — Aerospace Sector what step he be take to support the aerospace sector in Northern Ireland . what progress his Department have make on secure the future of Spirit AeroSystems in Northern Ireland . the Government be work with the Northern Ireland Executive to help to ensure the good outcome for Spirit ' s aerospace production and its skilled and hard - work staff in the current commercial negotiation . it be welcome that the Secretary of State have visit the Spirit AeroSystems site a number of time . he will know of its importance to advanced manufacturing , and of its aeronautical history in Northern Ireland — it originate in 1908 as Short Brothers — and he will also know that at this stage there be a purchaser for about a third of the facility and a third of the staff . the current plan fail to recognise not only the integration of the unit within Spirit AeroSystems , but its importance to the Northern Ireland supply chain . will the Secretary of State join Unite and GMB in their call for the Government to support a one - sale solution , so that the integration of staff , work flow and supply chain continue to benefit for decade to come ? I agree with everything the right hon . Gentleman have say about the importance of the site and its history , but in the end there will be a commercial outcome . Airbus want to buy the bit that make the a220 wing , because it want the site to produce more of they , and Boeing be seek a buyer for the rest of the production . the right hon . Gentleman will be well aware of what else be produce on site . I continue to engage with all those involve , but , as I have say , in the end this will be a commercial decision . we do , of course , want to see the production and the job remain . the Secretary of State will know that the facility would not be there have it not be for Government investment and support . guarantee be give not just to the people of Belfast , but to the staff directly employ at Spirit AeroSystems . the Government have also engage in discussion about Harland and Wolff and Navantia , and the fleet solid support ship . the Secretary of State will share the concern that I feel yesterday about the news that the four Harland and Woolf shipyard across the United Kingdom would be go into administration , and he will know of the countless business throughout the UK that be owe ten of million of pound in respect of the work on those fleet solid support ship . we want their viability to continue , and we know of individual business that have be family - own for generation and have succeed . can the Secretary of State indicate his endeavour to ensure that that viability will be at the forefront of his mind , so that we can deliver the fleet solid support ship in Belfast and Devon ? the administration announcement , which involve the other side of the runway , be part of a process to ensure that the takeover by Navantia go ahead , because it be very good news . the right hon . Gentleman and I be present to celebrate that announcement , which provide security for the future . ultimately the question of how to relate to those supplier be a commercial matter for Navantia , but I be sure that it want to build a good relationship with firm that will help Harland and Wolff to build the three fleet solid support ship . while the contract with Airbus be welcome , there be concern about the split of the Spirit plant in Belfast . can the Secretary of State reassure I that wide defence and aerospace contract with company such as Skyrora in my constituency that be hold in Belfast by the non - Airbus part of Spirit will not be put at risk because of that ? I understand my hon . friend ' s concern . we will know the answer to these question when the commercial negotiation be conclude , but I will draw the attention of my right hon . friend the Secretary of State for Scotland to the specific issue that she have raise in relation to her constituency . I call the Chair of the Northern Ireland Affairs Committee . the Government have a visibly strong relationship with Airbus in respect of its presence in north Wales . what representation be the Secretary of State make to ensure that there be equivalent investment for the Spirit AeroSystems worker in Belfast ? the fact that Airbus want to acquire the a220 wing production and want more a220 wing to be build in Belfast be , I think , a sign of its willingness to invest and to see that production grow and prosper . Public Services what recent discussion he have have with the Northern Ireland Executive on improve public service . public service in Northern Ireland continue to fall behind , and the people of Northern Ireland deserve well . I raise this regularly with Northern Ireland Ministers include the Education and Health Ministers , and the Government be fully commit to help the Executive to make the urgent reform that be need . integrated education be an essential part of reconciliation , so do the Minister share my disappointment at the Northern Ireland Education Minister ' s decision last week to reject the bid by Bangor academy and Rathmore primary to become integrate school , which have the support of a majority of parent at both school ? yes , I do . integrated education be a devolved matter for the Executive , but this Government be unapologetically supportive of integrated education . I have speak to the headteacher of Bangor academy and Rathmore primary school this week , and they , as well as parent and pupil at the school , be shock by the decision . I hope that the Education Minister will work with they to resolve his concern and listen to parent , who overwhelmingly want their child to benefit from integrated education . the Minister talk of transformation . when the Executive be restore at this time last year , the Government put a pot of £ 235 million into transformation . a senior Northern Ireland Office official sit on the board . to date , not one penny have be spend on support the transformation of either the health service or the education service . can the Minister update the House on what the hold - up be in regard to spend that money ? I thank the hon . member for raise the issue of the Public Service Transformation Board . as he say , the interim board have a £ 235 million budget for transformation . several major project — on health , special educational need and justice — be now be send to the Northern Ireland Minister of Finance for agreement , and I have push for the full board to be set up by the end of this financial year . I agree that it need to move ahead and get those project do . I call the shadow Minister . the Executive have warn of very serious pressure face the NHS in Northern Ireland , which have the bad waiting time in the United Kingdom — more than six year for some surgery . labour ' s manifesto commit to improve public service in Northern Ireland , and it be clear that money alone be unlikely to solve the problem . what other tangible support will the Government offer the Executive to reduce waiting time for people in Northern Ireland , or will they just devolve and forget ? the hon . Member be correct to raise the issue of public service , especially health service . the winter pressure on hospital care and other area have be shocking to see , and I be grateful to health worker for their work on the frontline at the moment . this week , I meet the UK Government ' s Health Minister to talk about how we can provide tangible support , and we have already do so . as the hon . Member say , funding be not the only answer ; it be also about share good practice and expertise . this Government have commit to do that through the Public Service Transformation Board , but there be other practical way in which we can work together on the good way to reform . I call the liberal Democrat spokesperson . a & E waiting time in Northern Ireland now exceed 12 hour in some hospital , patient be be treat in the back of ambulance because of a lack of bed , and Dr Alan Stout , the chair of the British Medical Association ' s Northern Ireland council , have tell the Northern Ireland Committee today that Northern Ireland be in a particularly bad place when it come to health service . what conversation have the Secretary of State and Minister have with the Northern Ireland Executive to ensure that they have the resource that they need to cope with this immediate crisis ? be Ministers convince that the 124 % fiscal floor be adequate for address this issue in the long term ? I have meet the Minister for Health , and I have be round and visit many of the healthcare provision service , all of which be feel pressure at this time as a result of successive executive not tackle reform and be absent along the way . that be why we set up the Public Service Transformation Board . the Executive face huge challenge , and this Government ' s priority be to work with they . the funding be there , the Executive be commit , and they need to work together to deliver change urgently . Legacy discussion what progress his Department have make on reform the Independent Commission for Reconciliation and Information Recovery . what discussion he have have with stakeholder group on Northern Ireland ' s legacy . as I set out on 4 December , the Government have now begin the process of repeal and replace the Northern Ireland Troubles ( Legacy and Reconciliation ) Act 2023 through a propose remedial order , and we will bring forward primary legislation , include to reform the Independent Commission for Reconciliation and Information Recovery . in prepare for that , I will continue to talk to all interested party . Nobel laureate Seamus Heaney describe Sean Brown as a man of " goodwill and integrity " who represent something well than we have grow use to . we meet the day before his family be force back to court , and in the week of the anniversary of the Kingsmill massacre ; the sole survivor , brave Alan Black , be wait for a long - overdue ombudsman report . those two incident be among the most nakedly sectarian in a squalid conflict , but decade on , those in and out of uniform who create victim — rather than the victim themselves , who have live with the consequence for decade — be still drive the process . will the Secretary of State commit to ensure that his forthcoming proposal , which I know he be work on intensively , remove the NIO veto under the guise of national security ? will he commit to root - and - branch reform of ICRIR and to expose collusive behaviour , and will he hold to the standard agree by all party in both government at Stormont House ? I have meet both the Brown family and Alan Black , the sole survivor of the Kingsmill massacre . the trauma they have be through be hard for anyone else to appreciate . we all look forward to the publication of the ombudsman ' s report on the Kingsmill massacre . I want to see a full investigation into the murder of Sean Brown , but there be an appeal on wide matter and I can not comment far . I be commit to fundamental reform of the independent commission . my first full - time job in the early 2000 be set up and run a peacemaking programme for young people in Northern Ireland , so I be pleased that the Independent Commission for Reconciliation and Information Recovery be salvage from the remain of the Northern Ireland Troubles ( Legacy and Reconciliation ) Act 2023 . however , I be concerned that in the discussion around legacy the goal of cross - community reconciliation be be treat as secondary to information recovery for individual , important as that be . how will my right hon . friend ensure that ICRIR work with key stakeholder to foster cross - community reconciliation in Northern Ireland ? my hon . friend raise a really important point . enable family who have suffer for so long and who have not find answer to what happen be a fundamental part of facilitate the process of reconciliation in Northern Ireland . the truth be that we have to work on both aspect . the Secretary of State know that I agree with many aspect of the repeal of the legacy Act , but the Policy Exchange report this week , as the newspaper have report this morning , raise significant concern about the repeal of section 46 and 47 . may I urge he to return to the previous cross - party position that we have to block compensation payment to terrorist such as Gerry Adams ? I have indeed see that report . the problem be that the approach set out in the legacy Act have be find , in that respect and many other , to be unlawful . of course we will continue , as the previous Government do , to see whether we can find a lawful way of deal with the issue that the right hon . Gentleman have identify . that work will continue . do the Secretary of State agree that the job of the commission in help people to deal with the past be make much more difficult when we have reprehensible incident such as Sinn F é in First Minister Michelle o ' neill attend and speak at a commemoration of three IRA terrorist who die when the bomb they be transport through County Londonderry in 1971 explode prematurely , kill they rather than the innocent people they intend to murder , and when we now have the possibility that the former Sinn F é in leader and terrorist Gerry Adams may be about to receive compensation ? as I say a moment ago , the process of reconciliation and come to term with the past be a difficult and itself a troubled process . lot of people have be on a journey and we need to continue to see that journey follow . People will express their view about the stance that different people have take , but since the hon . Gentleman have mention the First Minister , I welcome the fact that , for the first time , she attend the Remembrance Sunday commemoration . I call the shadow Secretary of State . I would like to return to the question that have just be raise by the former Secretary of State for Northern Ireland , my right hon . friend the Member for Skipton and Ripon ( Sir Julian Smith ) . when the previous Government pass their legislation , the Labour party be in favour of the amendment make in another place that rule out compensation to people such as Gerry Adams and other similarly detain in the 1970 . why have the Government now change their position ? the court have find those clause to be unlawful . the last Government pass legislation to enable terrorist to get immunity . the last Government pass legislation to deny people in Northern Ireland the right to bring civil claim , include against terrorist . the conservative party have never apologise for do both of those thing . it be about time that it do . let we return to the matter of Gerry Adams . I be sorry to say that I must correct the Secretary of State . the High Court find that those provision of the legacy Act be unlawful , but it be well within the Secretary of State ' s power to appeal that judgment . he have drop that appeal . I do not wish to teach the Secretary of State to suck constitutional egg , but he will know full well that it be also within the sovereign power of this Parliament to give legal basis to the Carltona doctrine , which have be in place since the 1940 . or would he rather pay compensation to Gerry Adams and people like he ? nobody want to see that . the Supreme Court judgment that rule that the interim custody order follow internment be not lawfully put in place , in which the Carltona principle be much discuss , be in 2020 . the last Government do nothing about that for three year , until they belatedly accept an amendment in the House of Lords that have now be find to be unlawful . it be a complex and difficult question — the last Government find it difficult — but we will continue to follow the same path to see whether it be possible to discover a legal mean of deal with the problem that the hon . Gentleman have identify . economic Growth what step his Department be take to help grow the economy in Northern Ireland . what step his Department be take to help grow the economy in Northern Ireland . what step his Department be take to help grow the economy in Northern Ireland . what step his Department be take to help grow the economy in Northern Ireland . the Government ' s mission be to encourage growth in Northern Ireland through increase investment , job creation and high living standard . the Government be work closely with the Northern Ireland Executive to develop Invest 2035 , the UK ' s modern industrial strategy . Northern Ireland ' s economy have strong and dynamic sector , from agrifood to aerospace , and from shipbuilde to cyber - security . do the Secretary of State agree that Northern Ireland have a vital part to play in the industrial strategy ? it certainly do . my hon . friend allude to a number of the great strength of the Northern Ireland economy . the deal with Harland and Wolff , which I mention early , be another sign of the Government ' s commitment . of course , the Northern Ireland economy have access to both the EU and the UK market . do the Secretary of State share my optimism that UK Government funding for all four of Northern Ireland ' s city and growth deal , confirm in the autumn , provide a great basis for all of Northern Ireland to generate growth and opportunity ? I certainly do , and I have be greatly impress by the commitment of those involve in develop the growth deal to invest in boost economic growth in their area . could the Secretary of State update the House on what recent discussion he have have with the Executive about step to increase revenue , in order to help to deliver long - term financial sustainability and grow the economy in Northern Ireland ? I have have a number of discussion with the Executive on that subject , and I be pleased to see that the draft budget for next year contain a plan to raise further revenue to meet the £ 113 million requirement that be part of the budget restoration agreement . it be really important that the Executive raise additional fund to meet the challenge of improve public service . there be many dynamic tech and digital company at the vanguard of the mission for economic growth in Northern Ireland . do the Secretary of State agree that these industry be critical to Northern Ireland ' s economic future ? what step be the Government take to support these industry in grow to their full potential ? there have already be discussion with business in Northern Ireland about the part they can play in the industrial strategy . Cyber - security be a really good example of the huge strength of the Northern Ireland economy ; many company , include from the United States of America , be invest in Northern Ireland because of the skill and expertise to be find . I thank the Secretary of State and the Minister for their response so far . one response highlight Northern Ireland as have dual market access . on that basis , do they agree that initiative such as the Dublin - Belfast economic corridor in my constituency need support so that we can make the most of our economic opportunity ? I do indeed think that the Belfast economic corridor be a really good thing . we support it , and I look forward to see it develop and succeed . agriculture be really important to the economy of Northern Ireland . in Scotland , we breed excellent bull , but it be very hard to sell they and get they into Northern Ireland because of the regulation and red tape , and vice versa for irish bull come to Scotland . will the Secretary of State see if we can make it easy for farmer on both side ? I will look into the matter that the hon . Gentleman raise and I will come back to he . this week , the Prime Minister have speak of the unbridled economic opportunity from develop artificial intelligence . it be not an unbridled opportunity for Northern Ireland , because instead of live under british regulation on AI , we live under much more restrictive EU regulation . when will the Secretary of State move to release Northern Ireland from the restriction , under the EU , of foreign jurisdiction ? the substantive provision of the EU AI Act do not currently apply in Northern Ireland , and they would apply only follow agreement by the withdrawal agreement joint committee . any decision would be subject to the democratic safeguard mechanism in schedule 6b to the Northern Ireland Act 1998 . in his Union connectivity review , Lord Hendy , now a Minister in the Government , identify that upgrade the A75 would have significant economic benefit , not just for Northern Ireland but for the whole of the United Kingdom . there be another fatal accident on that road in my constituency last week . will the Secretary of State join the Secretary of State for Scotland in put pressure on the Scottish Government to finally move on upgrade that vital economic route ? it be indeed a vital economic route , and like the hon . member , I look forward to see it improve , not least in the interest of safety , as quickly as possible . supply of Goods : EU Regulations what step he have take with Cabinet colleague to prevent disruption to the supply of good to Northern Ireland from Great Britain since the introduction of the EU general product safety regulation . the update EU general product safety regulation largely formalise how business already operate in the UK , and the majority of business have adapt to continue trade within the UK and with the EU . in December , the Government publish guidance for business on the application of the regulation in Northern Ireland . the Secretary of State have this week meet ministerial colleague , and will keep this under review . as a result of those EU regulation , thousand of consumer in Northern Ireland be deny good from Great Britain , and rather than adapt , business in GB have simply abandon the Northern Ireland market . at the same time , this week , the Department for Environment , Food and Rural Affairs have ban the import of meat from Germany , where there have be a foot and mouth disease outbreak , but have not extend that ban to Northern Ireland because of the Northern Ireland protocol . while the EU protect its market , the UK appear to have abandon the internal market of its own country . what will the Minister do to redress that ? the Government be absolutely committed to ensure a smooth flow of good across the UK internal market . we understand that many company have adapt easily to GPSR , while for some it be more difficult . the Secretary of State have meet the Minister for business this week to discuss further guidance and assurance , and will continue to have such discussion . Employer National Insurance Contributions : Job Creation what assessment he have make of the potential impact of propose increase in employer ' national insurance contribution on job creation in Northern Ireland . there be many pressure on business that we be constantly assess and talk to business about . the hon . member be right to raise the subject of job creation in Northern Ireland ; it be a priority for this Government . we be support business in many way , include through Invest Northern Ireland ' s fund for small business , and by directly support jobseeker through our funding for employment support scheme . I call Sir Ashley Fox . [ interruption . ] I be grateful for the warm welcome . how do the Minister expect business in Northern Ireland to grow and invest in their community , give that they have to pay the enormous tax increase impose by the Chancellor ? even after account for employer national insurance contribution impact , the Office for Budget Responsibility expect real wage to rise by 3 % . raise the revenue to fill the £ 22 billion black hole require we to take difficult decision , but they will result in improved public service , which be good for all people in Northern Ireland . Harland and Wolff what progress his Department have make on secure the future of Harland and Wolff in Northern Ireland . I welcome the industry - lead deal that will see Navantia UK purchase Harland and Wolff ' s four shipyard in the UK , include that in Belfast . the Government have work closely with Navantia UK to secure the future of the yard , the fleet solid support ship programme , and around 1 , 000 job across the UK . do my right hon . friend share my optimism that now that the future of the Harland and Wolff yard have be secure , the yard will be able to secure future order ? I certainly do . that be one of the great benefit of the commercial agreement that have be reach with Navantia on buy Harland and Wolff , and the adjustment make to the contract to ensure that the fleet solid support ship could go ahead . this be a great facility , and it be open for business , include for other order . a company in my constituency of Strangford be among those that will suffer because of Harland and Wolff be in administration . this small family firm — I will not put its name in Hansard — will lose half a million pound . the impact on that company and other be quite catastrophic . what can be do to help those company that , through Harland and Wolff be in administration , will either not be able to trade , or risk lose out entirely ? I recognise the hon . Gentleman ' s concern . this be a product of the failure of the old Harland and Wolff . it now fall to Navantia to decide which of the invoice it wish to pay , but it will want to secure a relationship with supplier contribute to the fleet solid support ship programme . before we come to Prime Minister ' s question , may I welcome the Speaker of the Assembly of the Republic of Albania , Elisa Spiropali , who be in the Public Gallery ? Prime Minister the Prime Minister be ask — Engagements if he will list his official engagement for Wednesday 15 January . I know that member across the House will want to extend our thank to President Biden for his steadfast leadership , and to warmly congratulate President - elect Trump ahead of his inauguration . in my conversation with President - elect Trump , we have underline our share commitment to the special relationship in the year to come . this week , we launch our AI opportunity action plan , which , as part of our plan for change , will ensure that we seize the opportunity of AI to benefit work people . this will boost productivity , transform public service and deliver £ 39 billion of investment and more than 13 , 000 job . this morning , I have meeting with ministerial colleague . in addition to my duty in this House , I shall have further such meeting later today . with almost 4 . 5 million entry and exit over the past year , Maidenhead train station be a busy transport hub , but with crowd gateline , flood underpass and a drop - off facility that be not fit for purpose , the station need major upgrade to give Maidenhead commuter what they deserve . do the Prime Minister understand what Maidenhead resident face at the station , and will he commit his government to fix these issue in this Parliament ? I thank the hon . member for his question . I be pleased that his constituent be benefit from upgrade at the station , include , I think , new lift to make the station fully accessible . the issue that he raise be face by passenger right across the country . that be why we be bring rail service back into public ownership , set up great British Railways , and make ticket simple and fair to ensure a well service for all passenger , include those in his constituency . I recently visit MidKent college , which serve my constituency of Gillingham and Rainham . it teach valuable construction skill to young people , but I have be inform that it face significant challenge in recruit teacher to deliver those course . do the Prime Minister agree that proper skill training and have the teacher necessary to deliver it be absolutely vital to grow our economy and build the home that we need for the future ? will he agree to set up a meeting with the relevant Minister to discuss the recruitment challenge that some college face ? skille up the next generation be vital to kick - start economic growth . our plan for change will rebuild Britain by deliver 1 . 5 million new home . that be why we have establish Skills England , and be reform our planning system and train the workforce . I will ensure that my hon . friend get the meeting that she want with the relevant Minister . I call the Leader of the Opposition . on Friday , while borrowing cost hit level not see since Labour be last in government , I meet business owner and their employee in Chesterfield . one of they tell I that his business will not exist in four year ' time because of this Government ' s policy . it might not even exist next year . the Prime Minister may try to blame his inheritance , or blame global factor , but why should anyone trust a word he say over what business be say again and again — that his Budget mean few job , low growth and high borrowing cost ? as the Leader of the Opposition know , the global economy be experience volatility and high borrowing cost . that be why it be vital that we take the tough and right decision in the Budget to get our finance back in order . we have to deal with the £ 22 billion black hole that the Conservatives leave . we make difficult cut and raise taxis to invest in health , public service and housing — vital to stability , and vital to growth . we have an iron - clothe commitment to our fiscal rule , and she will no doubt welcome the inflation figure this morning . contrast that with the Conservatives . they be not brave enough in government to take those difficult decision . they have oppose all our measure to stabilise the economy and promote growth . they be back to the magic money tree . the Leader of the Opposition want all the benefit of the Budget but can not say how she would pay for they . they have not change ; they be still economic vandal and fantasist . imagine where we would be if they be still in charge . just today , the British Retail Consortium have say that two third of business will have to raise price to cope with the Prime Minister ' s tax hike . his Chancellor ignore all the warning and plough ahead with an unprecedented borrowing spree , leave all of we more vulnerable . now we have business say that they will raise price to cover his job tax . we have an energy policy that will drive up bill , and all the while we be spend more day to day on debt interest than we do on school and university . the Prime Minister refuse to repeat his Chancellor ' s promise that she would not " come back for more " . will he now rule out any new tax rise this year ? we take the right and difficult decision in the Budget — decision that the Conservatives do not have the courage to take , which leave we in the mess in the first place . when it come to tax , the Leader of the Opposition know very well the limit of what I can say from this Dispatch Box , but we have an iron - clothe commitment to our fiscal rule . we can not just tax our way out of the problem that they leave we , which be why we have put in place tough — [ interruption . ] they be howl at the spending decision . they would not take they , but we will stick to those spending decision . our focus be absolutely on growth , but their record — [ interruption . ] they flatline the economy . their record be a mini - Budget that crash the economy , the bad cost of live crisis in live memory , and leave a £ 22 billion black hole . I be not take lesson from they on the economy . the Prime Minister know very well that the Office for Budget Responsibility find no such black hole . he talk about a mini - Budget three year ago . borrowing cost last week be at a 27 - year high for 30 - year gilt . the Chancellor be apparently promise to be ruthless in reduce spending . let I suggest something that he should cut . there be no way that we should be give up british territory in Chagos . he be rush a deal that will be disastrous and that will land taxpayer with a multibillion - pound bill . why do the Prime Minister think that british people should pay to surrender something that be already ours ? we inherit a situation where the long - term operation of a vital military base be under threat because of legal challenge . the negotiation be start under the last government . the then Foreign Secretary come to this House to say why he be start negotiation and what he want to achieve . he say that the aim be to " ensure the continue effective operation " — [ Official Report , 13 December 2022 ; Vol . 724 , c . 865 . ] of the base . that be precisely what this deal have deliver . there be no one the Prime Minister can blame for this dud deal except himself . at the Budget , Labour be congratulate itself for have the first female Chancellor , instead of ensure that the country have someone actually qualified to do the job . [ interruption . ] order . I want to hear the Leader of the Opposition . the Prime Minister claim he have full confidence in the Chancellor , but the market clearly do not . yesterday , the Chancellor repeat her promise to have " just one Budget per year " to provide business with certainty . the talk in the City be that she can not meet her fiscal rule , and that there will need to be an emergency Budget . do the Prime Minister stand by the Chancellor ' s commitment that there will be only one Budget this year ? the Leader of the Opposition will be pleased to know that the Chancellor will be in place for many , many year to come . she will outstrip they . if we all think that politic be about cheap point , I could criticise their chancellor , but I do not have enough time to go through all the Chancellors they have . we have one budget ; that be what we be commit to . we have strong fiscal rule , and we will stick to they , unlike the Conservatives . at a time of turmoil in the market , the Prime Minister be distract by the crisis around the former City Minister , the hon . member for Hampstead and Highgate ( Tulip Siddiq ) . what do it tell we about his judgment that yesterday he say he be sadden that his close friend have resign ? this be an anti - corruption Minister under criminal investigation for corruption . Muhammad Yunus , the Nobel prize winner advise Bangladesh , say that London property gift to the former City Minister may be the proceed of robbery . will the Prime Minister offer Bangladesh the full support of our National Crime Agency in ensure that any property buy with steal fund be properly investigate ? the former City Minister refer herself to the independent adviser . he find , as the Leader of the Opposition well know , that there be no breach of the code . she know that he find there be no wrongdoing , and the former Minister fully co - operate . she refer herself a week ago on Monday ; I get the report yesterday ; and she resign yesterday afternoon . compare that with the shadow Foreign Secretary , the right hon . member for Witham ( Priti Patel ) , who breach the ministerial code . the Leader of the Opposition ' s predecessor but two ignore it . it be the adviser who then have to resign because he be not take seriously , and the right hon . member be now serve the Leader of the Opposition . what a contrast . thank God the british public chuck they out . the Prime Minister do not answer the question about the National Crime Agency — no answer on investigate dodgy Labour Ministers , just as last week he do not want an inquiry that might expose dodgy Labour council . he knowingly appoint a convict fraudster as his Transport Secretary . the anti - corruption Minister who he have full confidence in only day ago resign yesterday in disgrace . he be negotiate a secret deal to surrender british territory , and taxpayer in this country will pay for the humiliation . now it turn out that his Government may write a cheque to compensate Gerry Adams . that be shameful . we leave the Prime Minister the fast grow economy in the G7 . in just six month under his leadership , it have be taxis up , borrow up , and mortgage rate up — and that be not all : business confidence be down , job be down , and growth be down . can the country afford four more year of his terrible judgment ? among that barrage of complete nonsense , there be one point that I need to address : the Northern Ireland Troubles ( Legacy and Reconciliation ) Act 2023 , which will have be of real interest across the House . that Act be unfit , not least because it give immunity to hundred of terrorist and be not support by victim in Northern Ireland — nor , I believe , by any of the political party in Northern Ireland . the Court find it unlawful . we will put in place — [ interruption . ] this be a serious point . we will put in place a well framework . we be work on a draft remedial order and replacement legislation , and we will look at every conceivable way to prevent these type of case from claim damage — it be important that I say that on the record . as for the Leader of the Opposition ' s claim and her nonsense , the Conservatives crash the economy . I get a letter this week from a Tory voter in a labour seat . I hope that they do not mind I say who it be — it be Liz Truss . it be not write in green ink , but it might as well have be . she be complain that say she have crash the economy be damage her reputation . it be actually crash the economy that damage her reputation . what have we hear ? all the Tories have be complain . they have no defence for their sorry record — they do not even acknowledge it . they have no idea , no policy . they be like a blank piece of paper , blow hopelessly in the wind . no wonder the country put they in the bin . patient in Kent be experience a winter crisis as a result of year of under - investment in our NHS . many be have to be treat on trollie in corridor for case of winter flu and other virus , create a significant challenge for local health service . what assurance can the Prime Minister offer resident in Dartford that the reform and extra investment set out by the Secretary of State for Health and Social Care will make that inadequate care a thing of the past , and will he visit Dare nt Valley hospital in Dartford with I ? I thank my hon . friend for raise that matter and I be deeply sorry for those receive inadequate care in his constituency . the previous Government leave the NHS in a critical condition . we can not deliver growth with record waiting list and 2 . 8 million economically inactive people . through our plan for change we will invest in NHS diagnostic centre . I will , of course , consider his invitation . I call the leader of the Liberal Democrats . may I echo the word of the Prime Minister about President Biden ? I hope that his team and the team of President - elect Trump can work together to bring the peace in Gaza that we so desperately need so that the hostage can be release , we can get aid in , and the killing can stop . as the hon . member for Dartford ( Jim Dickson ) just say , patient be suffer through the bad NHS winter crisis on record . last month alone , 54 , 000 people wait more than 12 hour in A & e . over 63 , 000 be stick in ambulance for over an hour before they could even get into hospital . there be no doubt that the flu season have make the winter crisis bad , but we see these winter crisis year after year , follow year of neglect of the NHS by the Conservatives . nhs leader say that we will never put an end to these winter crisis unless we fix the crisis in social care . I ask the Prime Minister this question last week , and I be disappoint by his reply , so I will try again . will he scrap the three - year timetable that he have give the Casey commission so that we can fix social care this year , implement reform by the end of this year at the late ? we be encourage by the talk towards a ceasefire . I think the whole House would urge all to come to an agreement and have the hostage release . we all understand the absolute torture that their family be go through every single minute of every single day that this continue . we hope that there can be progress there . in relation to the NHS , the right hon . Gentleman be absolutely right : the conservative party leave it on its knee — [ interruption . ] there be no point groaning . it be absolutely disgraceful that the NHS be leave in the state that it be — absolutely disgraceful . we be invest to turn that around ; we be reform to turn that around . we be , within that reform , deal with social care . I set out the timetable to he last week and he know how it be set out . I continue to be disappoint by the Prime Minister ' s position on social care , and I be go to keep come back to this issue , because unless we fix it , we will not fix the NHS . turn to the economy , though , I have an idea for the Chancellor to grow the economy . as President - elect Trump prepare to take office next week , there be report that a number of wealthy , high - skilled Americans be look to come to the UK for fear of what he will do to their country . however , because the Conservatives so break the immigration system , many of they be find that there be no visa they can apply for . I know that the Prime Minister be rightly seek to reduce immigration from the record high of the Conservatives , but do he agree that if people like this want to come to our country — to bring their money and their skill , so that we can grow our economy and pay for our public service — they should be able to ? we welcome all investment into the United Kingdom . I be very pleased to have have record investment in the time we have be in office , and continue to welcome investor and investment to this country . the right hon . member be absolutely right that the last Government lose control of immigration , as they lose control of health , the economy , the border and everything else . of course , it be the Leader of the opposition who be champion the driving up of the number . we will bring those number down , get immigration back under control and encourage investment . dental desert mean that routine dental check - up and treatment be often unavailable in local community . in my constituency , we have have a dedicated space for a dental practice in the Blackburn partnership centre since 2018 , but NHS Lothian have be unable to secure a dental practice . what step will the Prime Minister take to work with devolved government to improve access to local NHS dentist across the UK ? I thank my hon . friend for raise that issue , which show the state of public service under the SNP . if you can believe it , Mr Speaker , a third of scot struggle to access dentistry , and a quarter of scottish child start primary school with tooth decay — that be really shocking . clearly , there be much more that the SNP should be do . [ interruption . ] the SNP should be ashamed . when a quarter of child be start school with tooth decay , that be nothing to crow about ; it be something to be ashamed of . here , we be deliver an additional 700 , 000 appointment and reform the contract , and of course we will work with the Scottish Government to improve the health of child in Scotland . give President Trump ' s antipathy to the EU , how do the Prime Minister hope to obtain a trade deal for the whole United Kingdom in circumstance where the trade law affect part of the United Kingdom — namely Northern Ireland — be the EU ' s trade law , and where the law govern good and standard for what can be import be EU law ? in those circumstance , how can a deal be obtain for the whole United Kingdom , or be the Prime Minister only interested in a deal that would apply to GB , thereby far ostracise Northern Ireland from the Union ? the hon . and learn Member know that control apply only to EU good move into Great Britain . the overwhelming majority of good move between Northern Ireland and Great Britain will continue to enjoy unfettered access to Great Britain indefinitely . the hon . and learn Member have make much of mutual enforcement ; the reality be that this be mutual agreement . I know that he have his proposal , but I think his proposal would lead in the end to a hard border — something that have be reject across this House on many , many occasion , and for good reason . in the general election campaign , Labour leadership promise that if we win , we would step in and save the Grangemouth refinery , retain those job and invest in the refinery ' s future . six month later , that have not happen yet . if the refinery close , thousand of job will be lose and Scotland ' s national security will become massively weak . now that we be in power , I know that the Government should use that power to intervene and save the refinery job , protect Scotland and deliver on the promise to build Grangemouth for the future . will the Prime Minister do that ? this be a really important point , because before July there be no plan at all to support the worker at Grangemouth . within week , and importantly , we announce £ 100 million for a growth deal , and we be jointly fund Project Willow to find a viable long - term future . it be a really serious point , I take it very seriously and we will do everything we can to make sure that viable long - term future be there for the worker , their community and all who rely on it . the russian invasion of Ukraine have lead to the emergence of bacteria that be severely resistant to multiple antibiotic , and this be now seriously delay the return of injure soldier to the frontline . we know that , just like Mr Putin , these superbug do not respect national border . it be only a matter of time until we start to detect they in our NHS hospital , and we know that antimicrobial resistance be a huge challenge face we at the moment . will the Prime Minister consider support the ukrainian war effort by provide rapid diagnostic test that can be use in the field and in civilian hospital , which would not only enable we to diagnose and treat these resistant infection more quickly , return soldier back to the frontline more quickly , but provide valuable surveillance datum to help global public health and protect our NHS from these dangerous bacteria ? I thank the hon . member for raise this , and he know our support for Ukraine be ironclad . we be fund NHS doctor and nurse to work closely with their ukrainian counterpart to share good practice , include how to prevent the spread of infection and AMR . through the World Health Organisation , we be also strengthen Ukraine ' s health system to provide well care , and we will continue to do so . the Employment Rights Bill be urgently need , especially give the exploitation of gig worker such as retail assistant employ through app , with vital right deny and staff be charge a premium should they want to be pay on time . insecure work deny worker their right , but the TUC have say it also cost the economy around £ 10 billion a year . so will the Prime Minister agree with I that have a single status of worker will help end such abusive practice , give worker security and significantly benefit the economy ? I thank my hon . friend for raise this . I believe everyone be entitle to fair , flexible and secure working . that be why we introduce our Employment Rights Bill , which be the big upgrade to worker ' right in a generation . it include measure that will end the scandal of fire and rehire , prevent exploitative zero - hour contract and introduce basic right for more worker from day one — secure wage , secure job and ensure worker have the right that they deserve at work . Age UK Leicestershire have do a sterling job over the last few month in support pensioner who have lose the winter fuel payment as a result of the Government ' s Budget . it now face a staggering £ 400 , 000 increase in its cost as a result of the increase in national insurance . what advice can the Prime Minister give to charity such as Age UK that now have to decide whether to cut job or slash service to some of the most vulnerable in society ? the advantage , I suppose , of the Leader of the Opposition have no policy be that Opposition Members can say completely contradictory thing without breach their policy . they want the benefit of the Budget , but none of the tough measure to support the Budget . we have take the decision in relation to pension credit and pension allowance , but because of our commitment to the triple lock , there will be an upgrade in April of this year of £ 460 for everyone . what I notice be that before Christmas , the shadow Chancellor say that the triple lock be " unsustainable " — unsustainable — so that be their position . pension be go up under this government because we be commit to the triple lock ; the triple lock be unsustainable be their argument . later this month , my constituency will mark the anniversary of the tragic murder of Holly Newton . will the Prime Minister and the Home Secretary look urgently at the call from Holly ' s mother Micala Trussler to lower the age at which a person can be recognise as a victim of domestic abuse ? I thank my hon . friend for raise that tragic case ; it be a really important issue . we have see an increase in violence in teenage relationship in the last decade , and I have be continually shock by research that show there be abuse in relationship at a young and young age . we do need to look at the early opportunity at how we properly protect girl . since become the labour leader , have the Prime Minister ever discuss or communicate with Philippe Sands KC about the Chagos island ? no . York be an incredible city , but demand on tourist destination such as York , which receive over 9 million visitor and 1 . 7 million overnight stay , place significant pressure on local public service and housing use as short - term holiday let . what step will the Prime Minister take to equip local authority to well balance the benefit of tourism against the additional cost to our community ? tourism be vital to our economy , particularly in city like York . place can already choose to introduce a voluntary levy on overnight stay . our focus be on support industry , include by provide a 40 % relief for retail , hospitality and leisure property and permanently lower their rate from next April . Margaret from Stockton be furious . Stockton ' s Labour council be axe her weekly bin collection , scrap free high - street parking and close her local recycling centre , all the while employ a ridiculous number of people on £ 100 , 000 salary . but she be even more furious because it be take on another one : behind closed door — probably in a darken room — it have create a new interim role for the manage director ' s good mate on 900 quid a day . it have never be approve by the council and it have never be advertise as a job . Margaret be right to be angry , isn ' t she ? I be sure that Margaret would be pleased to see the incredible investment go into the area and the 4 , 000 job that be grow the economy . the state of our local council be leave completely damage by the last government . she know that , and everybody know that . I call Grahame Morris . you can never have too many Morrises , Mr Speaker . to their credit , in their first Budget the Labour Government transfer the mineworker ' pension scheme investment reserve fund , benefit nearly 4 , 000 former miner and miner ' widow in my constituency . however , almost 700 british Coal staff superannuation scheme pensioner in my constituency be exclude . will the Prime Minister correct that injustice and ensure that BCSSS beneficiary — many of they be now elderly and in very poor health — be treat equally to their co - worker in the MPS ? I thank my hon . friend for his dedicated campaigning on this issue . I be proud that the Government have overturn a historic injustice , boost the pension of over 100 , 000 former mineworker . we be work closely with the coal staff scheme trustee to consider the proposal , and I will ensure that the Industry Minister keep he fully update . my constituent on the Isle of Wight be entirely reliant on foreign - own , debt - laden , unregulated ferry company for essential travel , but public transport in the United Kingdom , such as bus train and scottish ferry , be regulate and subsidise . do the Prime Minister agree that the Isle of Wight anomaly must come to an end ? will the Government intervene to protect passenger from excessive ferry price and bad service ? the hon . member be right that the ferry service for his constituent have simply not be good enough . I know that both he and my hon . friend the Member for Isle of Wight West ( Mr Quigley ) share a commitment to ensure that their constituent receive a well service . the Maritime Minister , my hon . friend the Member for Wythenshawe and Sale East ( Mike Kane ) , have meet the ferry and hovercraft operator , the leader of the council and other stakeholder . there will be further meeting , and I will ensure that the hon . Member be fully inform by the Minister on progress on this issue for his constituent . this year mark the 850th anniversary of my home city of Glasgow . one of the key aim of the celebration be to speed up ambition around the city council ' s grand challenge of tackle poverty and inequality and increase prosperity and opportunity — theme that chime clearly with this Government ' s agenda . will the Prime Minister join I in congratulate Glasgow on this milestone , and do he agree that people make Glasgow ? I thank my hon . friend for raise this issue . Glasgow be a great city , and I be very happy to join she in congratulate the people of Glasgow on the 850th anniversary . they have make , and will continue to make , a huge contribution to this country . today mark 467 day in captivity for Avinatan or , just one of the more than 100 hostage that Hamas still cruelly hold . Avinatan be my age and have his whole life ahead of he . I feel the raw pain of his family when his mum Ditza , a british citizen , share her story with I as part of the " twin with a hostage " campaign . will the Prime Minister assure I that he be do everything in his power to ensure that all the hostage be return , so that Avinatan can be at home where he belong with Ditza and his girlfriend Noa ? I thank the hon . gentleman for raise this case . it be appal that Hamas continue to detain Avinatan and other hostage , include Emily Damari . I know that the hon . Gentleman have spend time with the family — it be nothing short of torture what they be go through . we will do absolutely everything in our power to ensure that we make progress to bring these hostage home — I be sure that I speak for everybody in the House . we will do everything to try to make sure that we get those hostage home . my constituent Richard Lee have wait over 43 year for answer about the disappearance of his daughter Katrice from a military base in Germany in 1981 . she be just two year old . the Royal Military Police , the Ministry of Defence and successive government have fail to get the answer that he deserve , throw up barrier after barrier to justice . will the Prime Minister meet Richard and I to finally give this Hartlepool veteran a way forward to uncover the truth about the disappearance of his daughter ? I thank my hon . friend for raise this deeply distressing case . our thought and sympathy be with Richard Lee and his family . the Defence Serious Crime Unit continue to appeal for new evidence in this case , and I will make sure that he have a meeting with the appropriate Minister to discuss progress . foot and Mouth Disease ( Urgent Question ) : to ask the Secretary of State for Environment , Food and Rural Affairs if he will make a statement on the Government ' s emergency contingency response to the recent confirmation of foot and mouth disease in Germany ? the whole House will be aware of the concern across rural community about the potential threat of foot and mouth disease . it be a severe , highly contagious viral disease of livestock that can have a significant economic impact , and a truly devastating effect on farming and rural community when outbreak occur , as we know from history . I assure the House that the UK be currently free of foot and mouth disease , and have be since 2007 . but follow confirmation on 10 January , foot and mouth disease in the german state of Brandenburg , the Department for Environment , Food and Rural Affairs have take rapid action to protect the UK , include suspend the commercial import of susceptible animal from Germany and restrict personal import of animal product from across the European Union . I assure the House that the Government will do whatever it take to protect our nation ' s farmer from the risk pose by foot and mouth . we have increase risk level in the UK to medium . last night , the chief veterinary officer and I speak directly with the german Federal Minister and his official . the Government have take decisive and immediate action . the import of cattle , pig and sheep from Germany have be stop to protect farmer and their livelihood . we will not hesitate to add additional country to the list if the disease spread . I can inform the House that this morning the chief veterinary officer have confirm that while Germany ' s surveillance continue to be ongoing , it have not as yet detect any further case . foot and mouth disease guidance be available on gov . uk and livestock farmer be urge to be extra - vigilant and report any suspect disease to the Animal and Plant Health Agency immediately . the UK chief veterinary officer be also urge livestock keeper to remain vigilant to the clinical sign of FMD . I reiterate that there be no case in the UK currently . I also reassure the House that FMD pose no risk to human or food safety but it be a highly contagious viral disease in cattle , sheep , pig and other cloven - hoof animal . livestock keeper should therefore be absolutely rigorous about their biosecurity . the Government be absolutely focused on respond to the animal disease threat we face , protect animal health and welfare . uphold high biosecurity standard be paramount for protect and promote food production and food safety , both animal and human , and support our economy and trade . that be why we have invest a furth £ 200 million in the UK ' s main research laboratory testing facility at Weybridge to bolster protection against animal disease . while we stand ready to protect our livestock from the threat of foot and mouth and other exotic disease , we also offer our support to our european neighbour as they face this threat to their livestock , farming and rural community . I can assure the House that the Government will be decisive and take the necessary action to protect our farmer from foot and mouth disease . thank you for grant this urgent question , Mr Speaker . I declare a strong personal and professional interest . as a veterinary surgeon I supervise some of the animal cull in the 2001 outbreak , witness sight I never want to see again . the confirmation on 10 January of foot and mouth disease in Germany , with subsequent slaughter and movement restriction , be send shockwave around Europe and the UK . we have request this urgent question as no statement be provide to the House on Monday or Tuesday . the shadow DEFRA Secretary , my right hon . friend the Member for Louth and Horncastle ( Victoria Atkins ) , be unable to be with we today as she be at the LAMMA show in Birmingham speak to agricultural manufacturer and farmer . in 2001 , the foot and mouth outbreak result in more than 6 million animal be cull and cost £ 12 . 8 billion in today ' s price . it devastate the farming community , and farmer want reassurance that action be be take to protect our border , their livestock and their livelihood . the mental health impact of foot and mouth can not be overstate . can the Minister reassure we that the announce movement restriction be fully in place for animal and product come to the UK from the affected area ? will the Government think about extend the ban to personal import of meat and milk product unless accompany by veterinary documentation ? can the Minister update we on the work trace possible movement of product from Germany ? what advice be there about movement of people and vehicle from the area in term of fomite transmission of the virus ? and , heaven forbid , if foot and mouth ever enter the United Kingdom , what be the situation regard vaccine supply and potential deployment ? finally , I pay tribute to the chief vet and the veterinary and animal officer and scientist and official at the Animal and Plant Health Agency , who do so much to keep our country biosecure . this foot and mouth disease wake - up call be yet more evidence that the Government must now commit to fully fund the redevelopment of the APHA HQ in Weybridge . I urge the Government from the bottom of my heart to fully fund that redevelopment , to make sure that the burn pyre of slaughter animal , as well as the economic and mental health devastation of foot and mouth disease , remain resolutely confine to the history book . I fully appreciate the expertise and passion the hon . Gentleman bring to this subject ; he know of what he speak . I hope I make it clear in my initial reply just how seriously the Government take these issue . I speak to he early this morning ahead of a Delegated Legislation Committee to make it clear that we would work on a cross - party basis to tackle this , should it come to our shore . I will try to address the hon . member ' s question , particularly those around vaccination , because that be always raise and be always of concern . we be absolutely ready in case that be a control that we need to implement . accord to the general advice with regard to control measure , if an outbreak be to occur in the UK , vaccination be a control option that would be consider by DEFRA and devolve administration at the outset , in addition to cull and immediate movement control . I can assure the shadow Minister that the UK vaccine bank hold vaccine for a range of foot and mouth disease serotype . I can also assure he that there be good , close work with the devolved administration on this matter and that we be work in harmony . on the movement of personally carry good , I remind the shadow Minister that this Government strengthen those control at the border . I be confident that we be do everything possible at the moment to ensure that we be follow the right procedure , give the risk assessment that have be carry out . our sincere hope be obviously that this do not extend beyond the Brandenburg area , but we be absolutely ready to deal with those issue . on the investment at Weybridge , as I have say , we have commit an initial £ 200 million . this be a debate we have be have for some time , and I be afraid that we be work with the resource we have now . however , I be confident that we have a very good set of procedure in place to tackle any potential incursion . I thank the hon . member for Epping Forest ( Dr Hudson ) for his concern and passion on this subject . like he , I know only too well the devastation that be cause in 2001 . of course , he previously have the privilege of represent a large part of what be now the Carlisle constituency . Cumbria be the worst affected part of the country in 2001 , with 30 % of the culled cattle be from cumbrian farm . will the Minister elaborate on the step that be be take to ensure that our farmer and their livestock be protect ahead — God forbid — of any potential outbreak ? I thank my hon . friend for her question and for the concern she have rightly show . as I say at the outset , we be well aware of the concern that people feel . however , they should be reassure that we have very good trace facility these day ; the technology have improve . what be particularly important be that we be in close contact with our german colleague , who be share advice regularly . everything that can be do be be do , but I absolutely recognise people ' s concern . I call the liberal Democrat spokesperson . I confess that all of we in Westmorland and across rural Britain feel a sense of terror at this news , as we recall the devastation and horror of the 2001 outbreak . I will never forget the loom sense of dread and threat as the disease get close to our farm , or the dread when the disease be diagnose and whole herd and flock be slaughter by those who have care for they ; nor will I forget the burn fire on the hillside of the body of slaughter animal , or the deep trauma that affect all our community , but especially our child . we must do everything to avoid a repeat . can the Minister explain why this outbreak be notify on Friday , yet DEFRA issue instruction to prevent import from the affected area only yesterday , when country such as Mexico and South Korea be able to act over the weekend ? do he now acknowledge the urgent need to invest in the apha and the new laboratory , and undo the delay of the previous Government ? do he accept that the failure of the previous Government — and , so far , of his government — to sign a veterinary and phytosanitary agreement with the EU increase the risk to biosecurity and to british farmer , and will he act swiftly to put that right ? finally , will he meet urgently the noble Lord Curry , who head the inquiry after the 2001 outbreak , so that we be ready and have learn all the lesson of previous failure , and so that our farm , rural community and animal welfare be protect at all cost ? order . this matter be very important . my area have the first case of foot and mouth detect in that year , so I know all about it . however , we must stick to the time that have be allocate . I be always happy to speak to Lord Curry , who bring huge expertise and knowledge . I will just say to the hon . Gentleman that there be no delay — essentially , as soon as we be inform , we put the appropriate process in place , and staff at border control point be issue instruction to hold good at the border . everything be do as quickly as possible . I hear the hon . Gentleman ' s point about our relationship with the german Government . I know the german Minister personally , and I speak to he yesterday . I can assure the hon . Gentleman that we be get every co - operation need from the german Government . in 2001 , I live in north Cumbria and I will never , ever forget the sight of burn livestock in my friend ' field . can the Minister assure I that my farmer in Morecambe and Lunesdale , who by and large be livestock farmer , will never have to face that terrible scene again and that we will do everything we possibly can to ensure that foot and mouth do not spread to our country ? I be grateful to my hon . friend for her comment and for her account of the effect the disease have on her constituent . the purpose of my response to the question today be to give reassurance to people that we have very , very high quality official work very , very hard to make sure we do everything we can to prevent such an outbreak happen again . I call the Chair of the Select Committee . as well as note my own entry in the Register of Members ' Financial Interests , I should tell the House that my wife be a practise veterinary surgeon who be occasionally contract to provide local veterinary official service to the APHA . I , too , remember the event of 2001 and I remember , have just be elect , the debate we have in this House . we say that we must always learn the lesson and never forget , but in truth , frankly , we have . the extent to which we be expose today be something for which responsibility be share across the party . the state of the APHA headquarters in Weybridge be a disgrace and it be now an urgent disgrace . hopefully , this be a bullet that we will dodge , but if we do , we know there be also the risk of african swine fever , bluetongue and avian influenza all come . be this the point where , across the House , we can all agree on the importance of biosecurity and the importance of fund it ? I thank the Chair of the Select Committee for his point . I think we all know how important biosecurity be , and that be why the Government commit a furth £ 200 million for that very important facility in Weybridge . will the Minister confirm what mitigation funding have be make available for farm that may be affect ? will he commit to look urgently at the provision of an abattoir on the Isle of Wight , because we do not currently have one ? I thank my hon . friend for his question — good try . at the moment , we be talk about an outbreak in Germany . should there be — obviously , we be do everything we can to prevent it — an outbreak in the UK , we will come back with further proposal , but at the moment we be work hard to make sure that that do not happen . could the Minister confirm , give the seriousness of the issue , that when in doubt the precautionary principle will come to the fore , there will be urgency and the proper decision will be take ? he mention work with the devolved administration . give the share land border on the island of Ireland and the trade there , can he confirm what conversation he have have or may be plan to have with the Government in Dublin ? the hon . Gentleman be absolutely right . we will , of course , take every precaution and apply the precautionary principle . we treat Northern Ireland in the same way as the other devolve administration . the Under - Secretary of State for Environment , Food and Rural Affairs , my hon . friend the Member for Coventry East ( Mary Creagh ) will be have conversation later today . I welcome the urgent question , as the news be a worry to farmer in my constituency . be the Minister able to share with the House more detail about the funding available from his Department to help prevent new animal disease ? I thank my hon . friend for her point and her concern . we have an extensive set of facility and agency who be task with protect our country on these issue . I have every confidence in the chief veterinary officer and her official in the apha , subject to the issue that have be raise around long - term funding . we have good protection in place and people should have confidence in they . yet again , we rely on the fantastic people at the Animal and Plant Health Agency , which be base in New Haw in my constituency , despite its slightly confusing name . will the Minister join I in thank the people who work there , and do he agree that it urgently need investment to improve the facility ? I do not think he have visit the APHA . will he join I on a tour as soon as we can arrange it to see for himself the state it be in and what improvement be urgently need ? I be always grateful for invitation from hon . member and feel that I be permanently on tour , but the hon . Gentleman be right that I have not yet have the opportunity to visit , although the Secretary of State have . last week , when I be at a conference in York , very senior official from the APHA give I a very detailed briefing on the work they do . I share in the thank to those people who play a huge role in keep our country safe . as a child , I distinctly remember the creep fear on my family ' s farm as foot and mouth move ever close . I realise that even as a child , and I feel sick just think that we could ever go back there . many farmer in my constituency have repeatedly raise their concern over infectious disease enter the UK . please can the Minister assure I , and they , that we be do everything to take this very seriously , and that we have contingency plan in place ? I be grateful to my hon . friend for reflect on the awful experience of 20 year ago . I assure she that we have excellent people , to whom I have just refer , who be work extremely hard to minimise the risk of any further outbreak . we be do everything we can to prevent that from happen . do the Minister not agree that it be preposterous that Northern Ireland have be exclude from the UK ban on import from Germany because of the outbreak of foot and mouth ? do he agree that that be the tip of the iceberg in respect of the impact the Windsor framework and the protocol continue to have on our agrifood industry in Northern Ireland ? since he think — and rightly so — that it be essential to protect GB farm from potentially devastating impact , why do he believe that Northern Ireland farm be not as important ? Northern Ireland farm be just as important . in Northern Ireland , the control will apply to meat and live animal move from a 3 km protection zone and a 10 km surveillance zone surround the affected premise in Germany . those product can not be move to Northern Ireland . will the Minister outline what measure be be take to ensure that no animal infect in the outbreak in Germany end up in this country ? this be an unusual outbreak , in a sense . it be a very small herd of 20 water buffalo . what be unknown to the german authority at the moment be how they get infect in the first place . extensive work be go on in Germany to try to understand that . the difference from 20 year ago be that we now have much well science to be able to trace where it may have come from . extensive work be go on across Europe , because it be a threat to the entire continent . I can assure my hon . friend that every avenue be be explore to try to make sure that we understand how this have happen and that it go no far . as a farmer ' s daughter , I fully remember the sicken impact of the last foot and mouth outbreak across Somerset and Dorset , particularly on farmer ' mental health . the cull restriction result in 73 % of farmer experience depression and anxiety follow the last outbreak . now , almost one half of the farming community be already experience anxiety . what plan do the Government have to support farmer who may be impact by this disease or any other biosecurity risk ? I thank the hon . Lady for her question . I know she take these issue very seriously and we have discuss they before . let I be clear : this be an outbreak in Germany at the moment . we be do everything we can to ensure it do not extend into our country . of course people be concern and worried . should it develop far , which we be absolutely determined to make sure do not happen , then we will look at further measure to help and support people , but we be not at that stage . I thank the Minister for his response . it be very reassuring that the seriousness of the situation be feel across the House and across the country . he talk about work with the devolved administration . will he say more about how he will work with the Welsh Government in particular to address this issue ? I can assure my hon . friend that we have an extremely close relationship with the Welsh Government . the Rural Affairs Minister , Huw Irranca - Davies , and I speak frequently — indeed , we speak to each other only a few day ago , at the Oxford farming conference — and we be in regular contact to discuss issue such as these . in anything that we do , we will be work together on an " entire United Kingdom " basis . with some of the most productive grassland in the UK , Dumfries and Galloway be not worried but terrify by this outbreak . I be reassure to know that we be do what we can , but it be a very difficult problem to solve . can the Minister reassure I that the Republic of Ireland will not be the unlocked back door through which this dread disease return to this country ? I welcome the hon . Gentleman ' s appreciation of the complexity that we face , but it be in everyone ' s interest to ensure that we stop this , and we be all co - operate closely . the veterinary official have a very good network , and they be work closely together . no one want this to extend far . as the son of a farmer , I remember only too well wake up in the early morning and go downstairs to listen to Radio 4 in silence with my family as we hear about more and more animal be cull during the crisis in the early 2000 . what step be be take to engage the National Farmers Union and other trade body to prepare for any outbreak here in the UK ? I thank my hon . friend for his concern and his recollection . yesterday we hold a roundtable to discuss the threat pose by bluetongue , and we be in constant dialogue with all those who have direct interest and expertise . we will be work in lockstep . in his initial answer , the Minister talk about protect the UK and speak about our nation ' s farmer . he also advise farmer to consult gov . uk , which give advice to Scottish , English and Welsh farmer but not to Northern Ireland farmer . may I ask he why he have abandon they , give that the last outbreak , in 2001 , cost the Northern Ireland economy £ 24 . 2 million ? one small region in Germany can not export to Northern Ireland . do the Minister not agree that there should be a complete ban on the import of german product to Northern Ireland as well as the rest of the United Kingdom ? we stand with farmer throughout the United Kingdom . the circumstance be slightly different , for reason that the hon . Gentleman will understand , which be why we have to provide appropriate advice , but we be work in tandem and lockstep with colleague across Europe to beat this horrible disease . it be the critical work of the Animal and Plant Health Agency in Weybridge , which I visit recently , that will prevent foot and mouth from reach our shore . the £ 200 million for the agency that the Government have announce be welcome , but will my hon . friend commit himself to review its funding , particularly in the event of multiple concurrent disease ? we constantly keep under review the resource that be available to enable we to tackle all these issue . on the basis of a number of question today , I shall be happy to visit Weybridge at the early opportunity . unfortunately , as the Minister will know , foot and mouth disease loom large in the memory of many Shropshire farmer . talk of visit — this be a genuine point — I wonder whether the Minister , and indeed the Secretary of State , would consider visit Harper Adams University in my constituency , which , as he will also know , be the top agricultural university in Europe . I mention that because it have veterinary expert with specific expertise in this disease and other . as we hear from the shadow Minister , my hon . friend the Member for Epping Forest ( Dr Hudson ) , more than 6 million pig , cattle and sheep be lose in 2001 and 2007 . the Minister mention biodiversity . can he update the House on illegal meat import and check at the border , and the implementation of the border target operating model ? I thank the hon . gentleman for his invitation ; I shall add he to my list . the border check involve a complicated set of issue , but one of the Brexit benefit , if you like , be the existence of those check , and I be satisfied that they be provide a level of security that should give people confidence . as I say in an early answer , we have strengthen the control on personal import . it be always a challenge to protect any area , but we be in a well position than colleague in mainland Europe . it be good to see cross - party support for increase investment in Weybridge , which have long be need , but my right hon . friend the Member for Orkney and Shetland ( Mr Carmichael ) mention biosecurity , and we know that a great deal of illegally import meat be come through our port . that be a huge biosecurity risk , and an even great risk if there be foot and mouth on the continent . as well as invest in Weybridge and improve those facility , can we look at how we can resource the port authority properly to catch all this illegally import meat ? that be an important point . we will try to do all that we can to ensure that illegal import be intercept and stop . I be delighted to observe the outbreak of cross - party consensus on the need for more investment , and I hope there will also be an outbreak of consensus on how to fund it . my constituency be one of the most significantly impact by the 2001 outbreak . virtually every hoof animal in Dumfriesshire be slaughter , and the smoke from the pyre hang over the Annan valley in particular for day . a large part of the market in livestock in my constituency come from Longtown market , in the constituency of the hon . member for Carlisle ( Ms Minns ) , which be a source of the previous outbreak . will the Minister ensure that we work closely with the Scottish Government , give that there be a significant amount of cross - border movement of animal that need to be properly identify and regulate ? the right hon . Gentleman speak with passion and paint a vivid picture of that dismal period , which , sadly , I remember well . I can give he an absolute assurance that — as he will know from his time in government — the veterinary officer work very closely together , particularly on an official level . this be an entirely share endeavour , and we will do everything we can to ensure that that there be the close co - operation that be need . I be a dairy farmer , and the devastating outbreak of foot and mouth more than 20 year ago be on my doorstep . we be lucky , as a family farm , but sadly other within my farming community in Wales be not . the outbreak be also a food security issue , as it be understand to have derive from food waste feed to pig . what lesson have the UK Government learn from that outbreak to enable they to secure our food chain well and keep our livestock and food supply safe ? I recognise the hurt that the hon . Lady recollect from that dreadful time . a great deal of work be do in the light of those event , and lesson have be learn ; for instance , technology have change and improve . I will not go into all those lesson , which be probably worthy of a long debate , but it be important for we to act on they , because we do not want a repeat of what happen in 2001 . like many other member , I clearly remember the event of 2001 , not least because all the cattle and sheep on our family farm — my father ' s farm in Berwickshire — be slaughter . the emotional trauma will stay with farming community for many year to come . I be reassure that this Government be engage with the Scottish Government , but be the Minister also speak to NFU Scotland and to local authority , to ensure that they be able to support farming community in the good way possible ? the hon . Gentleman have speak with passion and conviction about that dreadful time , and I fully respect that . we be notify of the outbreak on Friday ; today be Wednesday . of course we be ready to move to the next stage should it be necessary , but at this point the key priority must be ensure that we keep the disease out of our country , and that be where the attention be currently focus . in the dismal eventuality that we have to move to measure within our country , we will of course work very closely with everyone who need to be involve . I be sure that my farmer , like I , will be hugely grateful to know that the ban will operate with cross - party support ; our farmer be more important than party politic . back in 2001 , I be the liberal Democrat candidate for the Totnes constituency . the amount of communication with farmer before the outbreak be the only thing that make it easy for they to understand what be go on , because one could not go on a farm once it have start . may I encourage the Minister to communicate with farmer as much as he can during this very difficult time ? I be grateful to the hon . Lady for her recollection of that time . I reiterate that we be try to ensure that foot and mouth disease do not arrive on our shore . should that happen , we will move to another phase . we be not at that point yet , and it be important to reassure people that we have excellent measure and excellent people in place . they be work very hard to ensure that we do not get to that point . I welcome the Government ' s effort in bring we up to speed today , but also in impose the import ban . I recognise that the ban apply to product from Germany , but do it capture product that may originate there but for which the point of import be outside Germany ? what step be the Government take to proactively increase spot testing or screening across the country , so that we can get ahead of any possible outbreak ? we be apply all the rule that we can to ensure that we exclude german product at the moment , but there be quite a complex set of supply chain within the European Union . the key priority be live animal . there be nothing fortuitous about bluetongue , but there have be restriction on movement for some time , so we be probably well protect than we might have be . we can not say for sure that nothing will move across the continent and come into the country , which be why it be very important that people be vigilant . should foot and mouth disease cross the channel , speed will be of the essence to ensure that we shut it down . however , from talk to the chief vet and her official and my conversation with german colleague , I be confident that everything that can be do be be do . I hope that reassure the hon . Lady . I be sure that nobody in Devon will forget the horror of 2001 , when half the farm in the county be affect by foot and mouth . do the situation in Germany provide an impetus for the Minister to move forward with secure a veterinary deal with the European Union ? we do not need any extra impetus ; the Government have commit to get a well deal . what I can say to the hon . Lady be that the relationship with our german colleague be excellent at the moment , and they be give we the full co - operation that we need . the outbreak of foot and mouth disease in Germany be a timely reminder of the livestock disease that threaten the UK every day . the Minister have say that he will take every precaution available to he , so will he use this opportunity to permanently ban all personal import of meat , and to ensure that both the public health authority and Border Force be resource to tackle illegal meat importation ? the hon . Gentleman and I speak frequently when he be in his previous role and I be in opposition , and he know of what he speak . we have strong measure in place . we strengthen they a few month ago , and I be confident that they be at the right level at the moment . of course , there be always a case for further investment , and I be sure that the hon . Gentleman will support any measure that we bring forward . do the Minister accept that the reason why he can not provide national protection for Northern Ireland be that this House have surrender the right to make such regulation ? they can not even be make in Stormont , because only a foreign Parliament be now entitle to make they . therefore , we in Northern Ireland do not have the same protection for our farmer and their livelihood that be afford elsewhere . the ban be restrict to product come from the affect area in Germany . give that context , will we see the absurdity that we have see in response to bluetongue , whereby cattle and livestock from mainland Europe can transit through GB to Northern Ireland and , indeed , anywhere in the island of Ireland , despite the ban ? be that same loophole go to apply in this case ? I be grateful to the hon . and learn Gentleman for continue our dialogue on this issue . I do not recognise that loophole , and I can assure he that Northern Ireland will be fully protect , because that be what we be determined to do . farmer in my constituency be very concerned by this news , as Powys be one of the hard - hit region in the 2001 outbreak and the trauma remain for the 2 , 000 livestock farmer affect . can the Minister provide we with some further detail on the conversation that he have have with the Welsh Government , and will he confirm that the Welsh Government will commit to work with local authority ? I thank the hon . Gentleman not just for his question , but for the concern he express about his constituent , who suffer so grievously . the detailed conversation on these issue be conduct between the veterinary officer , who have a very close network . however , any political decision that need to be make will be make by Ministers , and I have a very close relationship with Minister Irranca - Davies . if further action be need , we will work together to stop any further incursion . in Shropshire , dairy and other livestock farmer have be have a torrid time recently , and they will have read this news with a sense of dread . I be also an officer of the all - party parliamentary group on food security , and we recently hear some eye - water evidence from the border authority at Dover about illegal meat import and the threat that they pose to UK biosecurity . can the Minister explain to the House what assessment he have make of the problem with that process , and what he intend to do to ensure that disease such as foot and mouth do not arrive in the UK ? I thank the hon . Lady for express her concern . I reiterate the point I make early about the border control that we have in place . I be afraid this have be a long - run issue , but we have much strong border control in place than we would have do in previous time . we be work hard with the port health authority to make sure that we crack down on illegal import of meat . I declare an interest as a member of the Ulster Farmers Union . indeed , I live on a farm on the Ards peninsula , where dairy farming and sheepman surround I , and the impact on they would be great . for that reason , I want to ask the Minister a question . I can well remember the pile of dead animal and the traumatise farmer , who be all concerned , as they always be , about their animal — that be over 20 year ago , in 2001 . the lesson be hard and well learn . three other Northern Ireland mp have ask similar question , and I be the fourth . we need to clarify for farmer , my neighbour in Northern Ireland and all those who farm that there will be zero tolerance of product from Germany . will the Minister confirm that a full , UK - wide report , include on Northern Ireland , will come to this House before any ban be lift ? the hon . Gentleman speak with passion on these issue . I can absolutely assure he that the measure in place to protect farmer in Northern Ireland be strong and will be good enough to make sure that we can protect people properly . clearly , there be a slightly different set of arrangement in Northern Ireland , as he will be well aware . we have to respect that , but we be get absolute and total co - operation from our german colleague . there will be no meat come from affected part of Germany to Northern Ireland . local Government Reorganisation ( Urgent Question ) : to ask the Minister to make a statement on plan for local government reorganisation . the english devolution White Paper set out how this Government plan to deliver on our manifesto pledge to transfer power out of Westminster through devolution and to fix the foundation of local government . this government ' s long - term vision be for simple structure , make it clear for resident who they should look to on local issue , with more strategic decision to unlock growth and to deliver well service for local community . on 16 December 2024 , I write to all council in the remain two - tier area and neighbour small unitarie to set out plan for a joint programme of devolution couple with local government reorganisation . we acknowledge that for some area the timing of election affect their planning for devolution , particularly alongside reorganisation . to help to manage these demand , we will consider request to postpone local election , as have be the case in previous round . where local election be postpone , we will work with local area to move election to a new shadow unitary council as soon as possible . this be a very high bar , and rightly so . the deadline for such request be Friday 10 January . today , my Department have publish a list of all county and unitary council who have make request , include those who want to delay election from 2025 to 2026 . for the avoidance of doubt , this be the list of request ; it be not the final list that will be approve . we will consider these request carefully and postpone election only where there be a clear commitment to deliver both reorganisation and devolution to the ambitious timetable set out . while not all area list will go forward to be part of the devolution priority programme , we be grateful for the local leadership show in submit these request , and a decision will be make in due course as soon as possible . we welcome the large number of area that have come forward seek to join the devolution priority programme , reflect our own ambition for great coverage across England . this Labour Government be elect on a manifesto to push power out of Westminster and to relight the fire of our region , and I be delighted that local leader across England be share that ambition . although it be not a manifesto commitment , the Government publish their agenda for reorganise council structure in England before Christmas , and we support our local government colleague who be clearly require to respond to that call from Government . with local election schedule to take place in May this year and council already incur significant cost arrange polling station and electoral canvassing , and prepare to receive nomination and issue postal ballot , it be not surprising that many council have accede to the Government ' s expectation of a delay in these poll . after all , why incur million in cost to local council tax payer for elect people to council that be to be abolish shortly afterwards ? however , there remain significant uncertainty about where and if those election will be delay . with deadline loom for key point in the organisation of those election , that uncertainty risk some waste cost for council tax payer , so we on the conservative Benches have a series of question . we know that many of those council be conservative - run , and with conservative council charge on average £ 80 less per household than labour one and £ 21 less on average than Lib Dem one , voter will want to understand the impact of the Government ' s reorganisation on their council tax and on their back pocket . may I ask the Minister , first , what assessment have he make of the Boundary Commission ' s capacity to undertake the necessary review to ensure equal distribution of elector across the new local authority ? can he give an indication to the House of when he will make decision , so that local authority will know whether they be prepare to organise election and be willing to incur those cost or not ? we know that a number of other announcement be in train , particularly the indication from the Deputy Prime Minister that area currently set a low level of council tax will be punish through revision to the funding formula , so when can local authority expect to know what impact such revision to the funding formula will have ? I look forward to informative answer from the Minister . I thank the hon . gentleman for those question , and I be genuinely grateful for the spirit of consensus around the broad issue . I accept that there may be difference of opinion on pace , but we do not shy away from our ambition to see devolution experience by the whole of England . I give a degree of credit to the previous Government for build out devolution in the north of England and the midland , but surely we have to demonstrate that this project be not reserve for the north of England and the midland . this be a project for the whole of England , and we be on with that . our determination to ensure that we deal with these structural change early in the Parliament be clear , but that be share by local government . it be important to say that although of course we will set the timetable and provide support on both the devolution priority programme and local reorganisation , it be for local area to self - organise and to agree to be part of the programme . we be not mandate this ; we be not force it . all the request that we have have since Friday have be from area who share our ambition . the hon . Gentleman will know that it be sensible to take the approach that , if reorganisation be a genuine proposal — and the bar have to be high for that test — it be nonsense to have election to body that simply will not exist . it be far well that we move at pace and create the new unitary council and then hold election at the early opportunity . I be not go to get into the subject of council tax , partly because it be outside the scope of the hon . Gentleman ' s urgent question . also , he be slightly mischievous in the way that he frame his remark . on the point about capacity , however , it might be helpful if I lay out what the process will be . local area will make the request . we will issue statutory invitation at the end of the month , and area will need to self - organise . it be not for the Boundary Commission or the Government to lay down which plan come forward . it be for local area to submit proposal to we , and at that point the Government will decide on the right proposal among what could be a number of option that come forward from local area . again , it will be for local area to self - organise and make those proposal to we . I call the Chair of the Housing , Communities and Local Government Committee . I thank the shadow Minister for secure this important question ; he have highlight some key issue . sadly , we know that our council be at break point . the Select Committee ' s first major inquiry be to look at local government finance , and we look forward to engage with the Minister on it . it be report that local authority in England be face £ 77 . 5 billion - worth of debt by the end of last year . much of that be debt to central Government or from borrow . sadly , because of that , vital frontline service such as housing and social care be at break point . resident can not afford to be catch up in buck - passing or discussion about accountability if this reorganisation go through , so can the Minister assure the House that resident will still have the same level of power and scrutiny over vital service during the reorganisation ? I thank the Chair of the Select Committee for those question . what I hear from resident and even from councillor in two - tier area be that , more often than not , local resident have no idea which council to go to in order to get the answer they need on local service . reorganisation will provide efficiency saving in organisational cost that can be direct towards frontline service , which we believe be the priority for taxpayer . there should not simply be the cost , in many case , of such service exist . we also believe that it be right , from a democratic accountability point of view , that resident have a clear line of sight on which body to hold to account for local decision . on the point about local government finance , which we absolutely understand and accept , we have work hard and I would say we have be relatively successful on rebalance the funding crisis in local government . we have do that by provide £ 5 billion of new money , take the total allocation to £ 69 billion . we can not undo 14 year of damage in six month — it have be damage over the 14 year — but we be now bridge to that multi - year settlement where we can really begin to repair the foundation . I think we have make progress on that . I call the liberal Democrat spokesperson . there be no doubt that local government need significant reform , and Lib Dems be passionate about put power into the hand of local community , but we be concerned that rather than produce true devolution , these plan will end up as a top - down diktat from Whitehall . mps and district councillor from area include Devon , Surrey and the midland have tell I that submission appear to have be make without their district council be involve or consult , and without the opportunity to undertake consultation with resident and business . what step be the Government take to ensure that they engage meaningfully with every level of council ? council such as Bournemouth , Christchurch and Poole , which I use to lead , face Hobson ' s choice . tonight , councillor will be vote on whether to join proposal to their east or their west , neither of which reflect their urban need or their distinct character . or do they sit it out and hope for the good ? what plan do the Government have to ensure that resident will have the democratic ability to decide on the right devolution plan for they ? can the Minister confirm , give that these plan will take more than a year to implement , that all the election due in May 2025 will go ahead ? I do not want to disregard the good work of district council in this conversation about reorganisation , and about redirect money to operational cost on the frontline , so that taxpayer get well value for money and see the benefit in their local public service . I pay tribute to council official , frontline worker and councillor , whether they be in unitarie , county or district , for their work . I just set out the view that the good way to achieve efficiency be by have more streamlined local government structure that enable money to go to the frontline . on whether district council will have a voice in the process , it be a fact that we have receive request for reorganisation , and statutory invitation go out at the end of the month , but it would be usual for the Government to be face with a number of option for what those new boundary might look like . the county might have a view about how many council should be include in the reorganisation , and I suspect that district might have a very different view . it would be quite usual for a number of different proposal to come forward for a county . it be for the Government to try to strike a balance that take into consideration identity , efficiency and have an anchor to the area that make sense . we genuinely want this to be a collaborative process , so that we get the right outcome for local people . as the Minister be aware , I be a district council leader in Lancashire until 5 July , when I get the Avanti train down to Westminster . as I have say for many year , the challenge we face be that the two - tier system do not work . it confuse our resident . the Local Government Association ' s map of the different structure of local government in England be a mishmash , and it do not work . West Lancashire and South Ribble borough council have put forward detailed proposal for local government reorganisation to the Minister , but the Conservative - run county council have not . my concern be that some election will be cancel and some will not . on the priority programme , will the Minister please consider enforce the cancellation of all election in place where he be move forward quickly with reorganisation ? when my hon . friend say he get the Avanti train down on 5 July , I think the Chamber be half expect he to say that he have only just arrive , but he have be here for some time . I know there be different view in Lancashire on what a good outcome look like , and there be certainly different view on what a good process look like , but I think there be a shared view that the time have come for devolution in Lancashire . when people look to Greater Manchester and the Liverpool city region , and see that Cumbria and Cheshire be organise to be part of the next stage , of course they want to be part of that . Lancashire be unique , in that we be already in discussion with it about its timetable and process . the level 2 agreement that be in place of course come with investment , funding and other power . Lancashire have agree that by autumn , it will submit proposal to the Government that reconcile its organisational status ; it will also bring forward a plan to move forward with a mayoral combine authority . Lancashire take the view that give that the timetable be already in place , it do not need to request that the election be cancel . to be clear , we absolutely see Lancashire as part of our priority work . it be critical . the prize for the north of England be complete the work on Cheshire , Lancashire and Cumbria , so that the whole north of England have mayoral devolution . that will be game - change . I draw member ' attention to my entry in the Register of Members ' Financial Interests . in the devolution White Paper , the Government set half a million people as the appropriate size for these new council . can the Minister therefore rule out create big super - council that represent more than a million people ? will he meet I to discuss devolution and local government reorganisation in Hertfordshire ? it be important that the Government set out the framework . we be very directive in the White Paper about our view on reorganisation and devolution . in every conversation we have with the LGA , the County Councils Network , the District Councils Network and other , we hear that the bad outcome would be the White Paper speak to an issue without go close to clarify what outcome we want . the response to the priority programme have be reflective of that clear direction . we be up front in say that , for efficiency , new unitary authority should have a population of around 500 , 000 , but we also make it clear that if the reorganisation go hand in hand with devolution , a degree of flexibility would be need to make sure we balance strategic oversight of the combined or strategic authority with the local identity and sense of belong that people need . I also make it clear that it do not matter whether we be talk about council go through reorganisation , or about exist council and metropolitan authority , be they in London or the north of England . wherever they be , we expect council to organise their neighbourhood and community , local public service and democratic engagement so that people feel more power in the place where they live . my resident in Crayford , in the London borough of Bexley , have their service provide by one council , but in many case , resident on the same road have their service provide by two council — by Kent county council and Dartford borough council — which cause confusion , as the Minister say . do he agree that the change introduce in the english devolution Bill will make local government more effective and save money for those taxpayer ? that be exactly what this be about . this be the most ambitious reorganisation in England for at least 50 year , maybe long . we need to avoid the sense that this be just rearrange the local government deckchair . it be not about that . the devolution White Paper be ambitious , and that ambition be about wrest power from Westminster and Parliament and put it in the hand of community up and down the country . for far too long , power have be hold in a very narrow way by a handful of people , at the exclusion of million of people in this country . frankly , people have have enough , so we have to find a different route . I be fortunate to work with two local authority , Basingstoke and Deane borough council and Test Valley borough council , which , after many decade of careful stewardship , be debt - free and have significant asset on their balance sheet , to the benefit of their resident . what will the Minister do in this local government reorganisation to protect that legacy ? would it not be profoundly unfair if those many year of careful stewardship be wipe out by amalgamation with more profligate neighbouring council ? it be not my intention to set one council against another . when area begin to look at what new unitary boundary might look like , they will need a view on identity , scale and achieve efficiency , and , ultimately , what construct will deliver good public service , be it adult social care , child ' s service or those neighbourhood service that , in many place , have be erode to the point where people wonder if they exist at all . we have to rebuild from the ground up . this process , regardless of a council ' s debt or financial status , be part of that rebuilding . let we be honest : nobody in this Chamber , or in this government , can put a number or this . we do not know what the outcome will be . if this be genuinely about local area self - organise and present to Government their view of what a good outcome would be , we need to be open about that . local government reorganisation and full devolution be long overdue , and I believe it will bring many benefit to Norfolk and Norwich . in Norwich North , just as my hon . friend the Member for Bexleyheath and Crayford ( Daniel Francis ) say , one council might collect the bin on one side of the street , and another collect they on the other side . build on the question from Opposition Members , can the Minister reassure we that city like Norwich will have a strong voice in this process , and will have their voice hear on the key economic driver ? that be a very important point , and I pay tribute to mps in Suffolk and Norfolk for the work that they have do in make the case for great devolution of power . I also pay tribute to county and district council for the cross - party political leadership that they have show in pursuit of devolution . member will know that the original agreement for both Norfolk and Suffolk be not one to which the Government could agree , for a number of reason that have be identify . however , the commitment from leader in the area to find a way through be appreciate and value , and we will honour that in the next step . we absolutely believe that in large part of the country — I see it in Exeter , Lincoln , Ipswich and Norwich — we have important economic anchor in city that previously have not have a seat at the devolution table because they have be district council . we have to deal with that as we go forward . will the Minister update the House on the capacity in his Department to manage these reorganisation ? he speak about the deadline have pass , and have receive expression of interest . how many can his Department manage at any one time ? what will be the determine factor in which one be choose to progress now ? the Department stand ready to support local area , both on devolution and on local government reorganisation , and will make sure that there be a genuine partnership when it come to ensure that capacity . we will not just rely on local area to find it ; we will work together on that . we will have to present the information the hon . member refer to on another date , not today . until we know what the final programme be , we will not know what be require to deliver it . there be no arbitrary upper limit . nevertheless , we need to be realistic that there be a high bar on devolution and reorganisation , and we can only allow forward plan that have a credible proposal for devolution . if plan be less develop when it come to devolution , then even if other part of they be compelling , and do thing that we would want to see come about , politically , I be afraid that can not stand . they have to be credible plan that ultimately lead to fulfil the ambition for devolution , and that will be the priority . the historical bankruptcy in Thurrock , from which my constituent be still suffer , be symptomatic of a system of local government that be let people down badly . devolution and reorganisation represent a once - in - a - generation opportunity to capitalise on grow opportunity in Essex , deliver well value and improve service . do the Minister agree that reorganisation be the right step , and this be the right time ? it will allow we to move on from the broken system and deliver more power and opportunity to community in place such as Thurrock . my hon . friend will know that there be particular issue in Thurrock , relate to historical decision take in that local authority . we believe that efficiency can be garner through reorganisation , and that if we redirect money to neighbourhood service that people can see and feel , their satisfaction with local government and local public service will increase . we also accept , though , that some systemic problem be not address by reorganisation alone ; in the end , the multi - year settlement and the funding reform that be take place will have to be the foundation for that . the people of Gloucestershire be expect election this May to their county council . if that be not to happen , will the Minister tell we precisely when the date will be decide , for all the reason so excellently set out by my hon . friend the Member for Ruislip , Northwood and Pinner ( David Simmonds ) ? the hon . Gentleman make a fair point . clarity be important for area ; they need to know whether they will go ahead with election so that they can organise . we seek to give clarity by the end of the month , so in a couple of week at most . I associate myself with the excellent remark of my Lancashire colleague , my hon . friend the Member for South Ribble ( Mr Foster ) , and I thank the Minister for recognise the massive opportunity that reorganisation and devolution present for Lancashire . it have be hold back for many year by our inability to come together and move forward . give that we now have an ongoing devolution process , and genuine proposal for reorganisation that be support by a majority of council across the county and by mp , and give the significant cost of hold local election — £ 3 million in the case of Lancashire , which could fill an awful lot of pothole — it feel like Lancashire county council ' s refusal to put forward a proposal to cancel the upcoming May election be about self - interest and short - term political imperative be put ahead of the need of resident . do the Minister agree that it be regrettable , to say the least , that the request have not come forward , and that we should not hold those election , but put the need of resident first ? I will be careful . when we come into government six month ago , I be clear that we need to reset the relationship between central and local government . for many year in opposition , I observe government parade around instance of council that be in disagreement in a very public way , and I think that undermine the system as a whole . while it might not always be possible , where there be difference of view , they should probably be air in private and not in Parliament , from a ministerial point of view . even though there be difference in Lancashire about pace , potentially , and about what a good outcome might be , there be at least agreement that devolution be the right thing for the county , and that have the same power as Greater Manchester and the Liverpool city region could be game change for Lancashire ' s economy and local job . when I say " local job " , I mean skilled , decent work that give people pride of place ; that be absolutely central to this Government . let we focus on agreement , and put some of the disagreement to one side . however , I take on board my hon . friend ' s local perspective entirely . I be pleased to see that Staffordshire be not on the list and that we will have our county election this May . the Minister will know , however , that my constituent do not want to be subsume into great Stoke - on - Trent . will he give they some reassurance — any at all — that they will have the choice and can say no if they do not want to be part of great Stoke - on - Trent ? I quite like Stoke - on - Trent ; I be not sure what the local dispute be there . maybe that be something not to go into . focus instead on process , that change would require consultation , and every area that have have a devolution agreement and eventually a mayoral election have have that consultation take place . there be some recent polling that say that the public be more likely to be supportive of the mayoral model of government if they have a mayor already in place , because they could see the benefit . in the end , how we reconcile the situation England will require compromise in some place . I say that because England be unique , it be diverse and , from an identity point of view , there be much that different area have in common but there be some contradiction too . it be our job , through the course of build this out , to work at a local level to try and find the right solution . that commitment be firm . rise — order . the House will see that we have a lot of member to try and get in , and I need to finish this urgent question by 2 . 15 pm . will the Minister and other member keep that in mind when answer and ask question ? the reason I be in this place and my absolute priority be to ensure that we deliver good public service to the people of North East Derbyshire , through well - run government with representative who be invest in their local community and hold to account . will the Minister assure I that any discussion over reorganisation will include local borough and district , and that any agreement reach will make sure that we reflect both those priority ? the request can come in for reorganisation , but the Government ' s role from the point at which we start the statutory invitation process become quasi - judicial . we therefore need to make sure we steer well clear of define what outcome we want because we be , in effect , neutral in that process . it be our job to receive proposal as they come forward , and it could well be that the county and district council put forward entirely different proposal . it be our job to make sure we consider both on an equal basis . as the Minister know , the former administration at Woking borough council rack up debt of £ 2 . 1 billion . that money will never be fully repay to the Government , but surround local authority be anxious that as part of reorganisation they might have to share that debt . will the Minister confirm how the Government will handle debt in Woking , Surrey and elsewhere as part of the reorganisation ? also , will he agree to write off Woking ' s unsustainable debt to ensure that reorganisation happen sensibly ? agree to write off £ 2 billion of debt at the Dispatch Box would be quite career - limiting , I would say . I can say , however , that the scale of the financial challenge in some area be absolutely understand and we will work to try and find a solution . we be not yet at the point of announce that , however . in Hartlepool , 75 % of every penny spend by the council be spend on social care . that be contribute to a burden on council taxpayer in Hartlepool that be far too high . do the Minister agree that in the wide local government reorganisation , consideration need to be give to regional collaboration on social care or , indeed , remove social care from local government altogether to ease the burden on council tax payer ? my hon . friend will be aware that Dame Louise Casey be conduct a broad review of adult social care for reason that be well understand by the House . on whether the matter should or should not sit with local government , I will say that where local government really excel be in be local and rooted in the community , in be the deliverer of a public service and in be able to organise at a place level . that do make a difference , and we should not underestimate the impact when do well . we need to make sure that social service be adequately fund for the work they have to do to provide a good level of service for local people . across Basildon and Billericay , my resident be concerned about the idea of two year of delay while massive reorganisation go on locally . will the Minister provide reassurance that the local plan for 27 , 000 new house across the area , which have just be consult on , will not suddenly be rush through by a local council that will not exist in future , with resident have to live with the consequence for year to come ? I would say that , give our housing crisis , 27 , 000 new home seem like good news to I , and we need to see more of that . council need to operate in a business as usual way , make sure that they get their business do . the bad outcome would be for council go through a reorganisation to press pause on important item of business . that would be a complete absence of leadership . one effect of create more strategic authority appear to be the splitting of transport and highway power in more area . will the Minister provide assurance that this will not slow down the delivery of capital project that be necessary to achieve economic growth ? no , that be certainly right . our ambition be for acceleration , not for lag behind , and we will make sure that no scheme be delay as a result of reorganisation . the Minister have quite rightly point out that resident across the country expect councillor to take a more strategic approach to deliver well service . my resident across Bromsgrove and its village share that ambition . however , the big elephant in the room be the role of adult social care in the local government sector . can the Minister outline to the House what decision and what conversation be take place across Government to address this so that future new council , post reform , get off on the very good foot to improve their area ? I feel that we have go a long way to do that , although we do accept that this be a bridging position to get we to the multi - year settlement . none the less , £ 3 . 7 billion of new money for adult social care in the settlement be a commitment lay out in pound and penny in the way that local government have be ask for . we accept that there be a long way to go , and that council need more support , but the Government be absolutely committed to rebuild the foundation of local government and put it on an even keel . I thank the Minister for his statement . many of we across the House will have campaign in district election , as I have in Harlow . the no . 1 thing that come up on the doorstep in district election be pothole , even though they be not the responsibility of district council . do the Minister agree that this english devolution Bill will not just simplify local government but be more cost - effective and bring more value back to the taxpayer ? my hon . friend make a very good case for reorganisation , and I agree with he . as the Minister will know , in Lincolnshire , where there be two unitarie as well as the county council , the three top - tier authority have agree on a package to go unitary . there be complication , because there be a ward boundary review go on in north - east Lincolnshire at the moment . would the Minister consider cancel that , as it seem a complete waste of resource ? in the county council area , which cover roughly two third of the county , a mayoral election be take place , and a new combine authority be be establish this May . give that , do he agree that it be important that election go ahead to give the county a new mandate for what lie ahead ? from our perspective , we can not allow the cancellation — or postponement , I would say — of election to be drive by any political view . we be clear that this be an administrative process and it be about whether area satisfy criterion that meet our devolution priority programme . where area be already in the programme because they have mayoral election this year , it would be reasonable of I to say that we would need to see where the benefit be of election be cancel , give that devolution be take place . but as I have say , we have only just receive the proposal . we be take time to review they , and we will make sure that be do in a fair way . I refer the House to my entry in the Register of Members ' Financial Interests as a serve district councillor for 13 year . I broadly welcome the thrust of this document . my question be on a matter that the Minister have already refer to — area that be service by a number of different local authority , which mine be . I have a county council , two district council , any number of parish council , and Banbury town council — labour - run for the first time ever . in those area , there will be a wide variety of view as to what a local government reorganisation should look like , because different community have different view . can the Minister assure I that the fast - tracking and the speed of this process , which I acknowledge the reason for , will not lead to rush proposal that do not take into account what community actually feel and look like ? I can absolutely assure my hon . friend of that . let I just say that in 2019 , 11 district council election be cancel to allow reorganisation to take place , and so be seven in 2020 . in 2021 , the election of three county council and three district council be cancel to allow reorganisation . I say that because we can not allow people to think that this be , in any sense , something new that have come out of nowhere . this be the day - to - day business of reorganisation do in the right place , in the right way , with full public consultation . give the abject failure of devolution in both Scotland and Wales and the fact that the Americans fight a war of independence on the slogan " no taxation without representation " , my constituent of Great Yarmouth would like an answer to two question . first , why should they continue to pay their council tax beyond May , when they will not be represent by elect people ? and secondly , by what name do they call these unelected councillor after May ? we need to be clear that the member who will discharge the function of the council and the executive have be elect . the idea that they be not elect be not accurate , and we need to be careful about the language that we use . I believe — I be sure the hon . Member believe — that most councillor be good public servant and go into local government for the right reason to represent their community , and we should not be target they unnecessarily . to be clear , they be elect , and we might take the view that , if they meet the criterion , their period of office should be extend to allow election to a new shadow unitary authority . on that basis , I hope that local people will support it . I thank the Minister for the level of engagement that he have give both I and my colleague on this process since the english devolution White Paper be publish . he will know that I have a high level of enthusiasm for local community be give the ability to take more control of service in their area . do he agree that devolution and reorganisation offer city such as Exeter , Lincoln and elsewhere — the key economic driver of this country — the opportunity to grow and invest sustainably in partnership with strategic authority ? can he shed a bit more light on the process when a county council and a district council potentially disagree on the way forward ? it be quite usual for a county council and a district council to disagree on the way forward . from a Government point of view , we will consider proposal on an equal basis wherever they have come from — from a county council , a district council or a unitary authority that might change its boundary . it be important that that be clear , because we want to make sure that , in the end , it be the right deal for local people , it be the right deal for taxpayer and it deliver good public service . I refer the House to my entry in the Register of Members ' Financial Interests . how will the Minister avoid a fire sale of district and borough council asset once they be merge with county council , which be cripple by the soar cost of adult social care ? do he therefore agree with I that 2028 be too late ? we can only go as fast as the process allow . we can start the process early , and we have do that . we can give clarity early , and we be do that . what we can not do be to shortcut a legal process that require adequate consultation , the development of proposal and a transfer of workforce and asset to a new unitary council . that must be do in the right way , which take time . we absolutely understand the point about local community asset , which be why community asset protection and the community right to buy be so central to our agenda go forward . the Minister will recall , I hope , the concern that I outline the last time he be before the House . efficiency , as he put it , and improve service be of course important , but so too be local identity and exist community . with that in mind — I have ask he this before — how will we ensure that local identity be protect ? will he meet I to discuss the impact that these proposal might have on the ancient and loyal borough of Newcastle - under - Lyme ? the point that my hon . friend make about balance identity be as much about culture and approach as it be about where boundary for council be draw . sometimes , the identity of a council will match closely with the identity of a place , but often it do not . in urban , rural or coastal area , many community be far more nuanced or localise , and there can be some quite tense local neighbourhood dispute as a result . any reorganisation have to respect the historic locally feel identity of every part of the new area , not just the area in which its headquarters might be base or that its council might be name after , and hold firm on that have to be part of the approach . the Government ' s timetable be wholly inadequate . give that the previous deal that Norfolk negotiate be scrap without any consultation , how will the public be consult on any change go forward , and do the Minister accept that a minimum population of half a million may not be appropriate in rural area , to avoid council be very remote from the people they serve ? we tackle that head on in the White Paper , which say that , for efficiency , the minimum population will be 500 , 000 , but be clear in the same paragraph that — this be where devolution go hand in hand with reorganisation — there need to be some flexibility for the reason that the hon . member set out . that be our firm commitment . Kent county council have opt to go on the priority programme and cancel election this May ; I guess turkey do not vote for Christmas . the timetable go forward be a little confused . we will have mayoral in 2027 , unitarie in 2028 , and then it stand up later on . could the Minister give some more detail on that ? if the process be stretch out like that , Conservative Kent county councillor will be in power for seven year . judge by my inbox , the people of Kent be absolutely appal by that . I would be grateful for more detail . from the Government ' s point of view , act in a legal , quasi - judicial way , we have to take such decision on the value of the evidence and the proposal . it be not our job to get involve in the politic of whether the Liberal Democrats want to see the back of the Tories but the Tories want to avoid an election , or vice versa . it be our job to play with a straight bat , and look at the benefit of the proposal . Kent have apply , but we be go through the process of screen application to ensure that they be realistic proposal for devolution and LGR that hold together . if they meet those criterion , we will support they . if they do not , we will not . despite what senior county councillor be tell Ministers , there be absolutely no clamour in Essex for devolution — quite the reverse . nor do the public support the Government ' s proposal to cancel the local election ; that be anti - democratic . if the Government do press ahead , why do we not take the opportunity to have a county - wide referendum in Essex to see whether the public — the council tax payer — really support this ? they can vote for massive change or to remain as they be . if there be such a referendum — I never think these word would pass my lip — I will gladly vote remain . I think the right hon . member be get at the fact that there will be a range of view on this issue , but it be the Government ' s job to give direction , and we believe that efficiency can be draw out . when ask , I think local people would say that they would much rather that local neighbourhood service be maintain and grow , rather than bear the overhead cost of organisation that exist for the sake of it . it be for the consultation , and the proposal , to draw out the good outcome in the process . I welcome the theory of simplify local government , but I be concern about the pace at which the Government be try to move . Devon have a very complicated landscape , with Labour - run city , a Conservative - run county and many liberal Democrat district . conflicting proposal have already be submit to the Government by the district and the county , so can the Minister explain how the Government will adjudicate between those conflict proposal and decide which one will come out on top ? we will see what come forward from local area . in some area , there may well be a general consensus on the number of unitary authority , but vary view on the boundary line . in other area , we can perhaps expect there to be entire disagreement on both the number of council that should follow from the proposal and the boundary that would be draw as a result . at this stage , all we can say be let we see what come forward . we will try to make the right decision by balance identity , efficiency and the relationship to devolution go forward . we already know that the Government want to abolish our local district and borough council in Leicestershire without consult local people . we now know that the proposal will involve a significant expansion of the boundary of the city of Leicester — something demand by the Mayor of Leicester that would lead to significantly high council tax for my resident . within day , thousand of local people have sign a petition start by I and other local mp who be against the proposal , include my hon . friend the Member for Rutland and Stamford ( Alicia Kearns ) , who can not be here today . my local district and borough be against it , so will the Government at least agree to hold a local referendum in Leicestershire before impose this proposal from London that local people do not want ? a theme be develop of campaign for election to body that some wish will not exist in the future — that sound familiar — and for referendum be the answer to some of this . it be about local leader show leadership . I understand completely that there be different view , but I be impress by the leadership be show by Labour , the Conservatives , the Liberal Democrats and other , because local leader believe in their place and want the good outcome for it . I will leave the local politic to they . it be our job to ensure that we assess the proposal that come forward on a fair basis . my constituent be well serve by the fiscal stewardship of their district council of Elmbridge , and be rightly concerned that they will be force to take on the debt of neighbouring council such as Woking . equally , they be look forward to the May election , and kick Conservative Surrey out . do the Minister not agree that leader take devolution forward should have a democratic mandate , and will he reassure my constituent that any unitary move will be pause until the question of debt be sort out ? we certainly accept , particularly in the case of Woking , where the debt be significant , stand at over £ 2 billion , that the question of debt have to be address through the process , but it be for the process to address it . we can not say up front how we will treat debt in different area , because every area be different . I do not think that any Member would expect we to do that . I draw attention to my entry in the Register of Members ' Financial Interests . resident of the Isle of Wight be expect full election this May . the no - overall - control unitary authority have ask the Government to be part of a priority devolution deal with Hampshire , but not local authority reorganisation , which be not on the table . we be not be ask to do that because we be already a unitary . do the Minister agree , therefore , that there be no good reason to delay election when the Isle of Wight council ' s future and viability be not under discussion ? that be an accepted point . why should a democracy have to have election when the council will continue ? I think that be a fair point , and I will take it away . Somerset , Dorset and Wiltshire be work together collaboratively on the Heart of Wessex devolution deal and hope to be on the devolution priority programme , but there be still some uncertainty over what decision Bournemouth , Christchurch and Poole will make . can the Minister confirm that the decision to include the Wessex proposal will not be hold back , depend on the BCP decision ? we have to stick to the principle of the White Paper , because that inform the legislation that will come later this year . we be very clear in the criterion that we will not , and can not , agree to any devolution proposal that create orphan that can not be resolve . we expect that local leader will come together and do what be right , give the geography of their place , to deliver devolution as soon as possible . Cheltenham have have a voice since Victoria be on the throne , and we need to be reassure by the Minister that we will retain that voice as part of any devolution and local government reorganisation . otherwise , power will simply be take away from my community and give either to Gloucester or as far away as Bristol , with a new regional mayor . can the Minister reassure I that localism will be part of his agenda too ? the hon . Member make a fair point . we be clear in the White Paper that we want to see devolution roll out at an ambitious pace . we be do that , and be pleased with the response that we have have . we want to see local government reorganisation because we believe that efficiency can be draw out and reinveste back into frontline service that people see , feel and value . we also accept that that can not be at the cost of local people feel connected and empower in the place where they live . local empowerment and power for the local community be central to the White Paper , and to our agenda go forward . my constituent in Harrogate and Knaresborough recently undergo local government reorganisation . as part of that , the North Yorkshire ( Structural Changes ) order 2022 grant five year to develop a new North Yorkshire council - wide local plan . work on local district plan halt to prioritise that new plan , which have now be compromise by the introduction of new housing target under the national planning policy framework . will council undergo new round of local government reorganisation receive transitional arrangement , or will they fall into the same trap as Harrogate and Knaresborough and North Yorkshire , where speculative planning application will see endless concreting over the green belt and issue with get housing where we actually need it , rather than where we want it ? will the Minister meet I to discuss the legacy issue of that local government reorganisation , and outline what lesson have be learn from previous reorganisation ? the hon . Member be conflate two separate issue . one be the process of reorganisation , and his area of Harrogate have be through that process , include the postponement of election to facilitate it . on housing development , if he want to stop speculative development and to have control of what be build in local community in Harrogate , the good way to achieve that be to have a plan in place where developer can be hold to account . I draw attention to my entry in the Register of Members ' Financial Interests . talk of localism , district council provide a useful amount of local accountability . how will the Minister ensure that local accountability continue when the regional identity may be different ? may I also ask about the future of town and parish , which be not mention at all , and neither be national park authority ? how will those be empower to have more local responsibility ? the White Paper be directive on this issue . I can only assume the hon . Gentleman have not read it , or he get bore and give up halfway through — I will leave he to answer that . over quite a long period of time , councillor have be relegate to the back bench if they be not in the cabinet , and we do not believe that be right go forward . we want local councillor to be frontline councillor , community conveyor , lead in their local community and get thing do . however we marshal the system — regardless of the size of the council , where it be , whether it be a unitary council in a meet area or a reorganise council in a shire county — localism have to be at its heart . I thank the Minister for his answer to this urgent question . he be outline a clear policy and strategy for the way forward , and we welcome that . the paper today be full of call for debt cancellation for english council , which do not provide much relief to those council that have seek to stretch money and resource to make end meet , rather than ramp up debt with vanity project . how can the Minister ensure that reorganisation assist council to prioritise people over policy ? I think I be go to get a request to reorganise Newtownards — I have get enough on my plate with England ! the point the hon . Gentleman make about the treatment of debt be important , and we understand there be pressure . in most place , the treatment of accrue debt be manageable within the geography , but we accept there be outlier — Woking and Thurrock have be mention — where the debt that have be build up be significant and that we need to take a view on that . we be not at that stage yet until we see what proposal will be develop far . I refer the House to my entry in the Register of Members ' Financial Interests . there be a strong case for devolution in Norfolk . however , can the Minister confirm that hold election in May do not prevent devolution for Norfolk , and would he agree that Norfolk ' s voter should be allow to have their say on who be take forward our devolution negotiation ? we need to separate out that the devolution priority programme be one stream and the local government reorganisation programme be another . we be try to bring those stream alongside each other , recognise that they be to a degree separate process , so that at key point in the decision - make process , they come together to ensure transparency and clarity and so people know what timetable we be work to . I accept to a point that they can be decouple , but the two be link . if we be go to reorganise and move towards mayoral combine authority , we have to bring they in line to ensure that it be a programme that make sense in the round . People in North East Hampshire have tell I loud and clear that they want their democratic right to vote in May . give that councillor up for re - election be elect in May 2021 , do the Minister think they still have a mandate to make decision for their local community ? if we decide to postpone the election base on a credible plan that move devolution and reorganisation along , the councillor who have their term extend be legitimate and have the power and right of any other councillor . as I have say , we need to be careful that we do not undermine the democratic process by try to portray councillor who believe in their community and who by and large be do a good job , regardless of party politic , as somehow not there by right . they have be elect ; it just so happen that in some place their term will be extend by a short period . resident in Surrey Heath face the prospect of cancel election , force unitarisation and then force amalgamation into a new western Surrey unitary authority , if the leader of Surrey county council get his way . that western unitary authority would inherit £ 5 billion of debt . I be sure the Minister will agree that in seek a new sense of identity for west surrey , a shared sense of bankruptcy be not what we be look for , but that be the prospect we face . what would the Minister say to my resident , who play no part in accumulate that debt but who may in the future play a part in pay it off ? we have cover the hon . member ' s point about debt . perhaps he have scar from coalition of the past , but I suggest that now be a time to come together and put party interest to one side . Health and Social Care : Winter update with permission , Madam Deputy Speaker , I would like to make a statement on winter pressure . I start by say that my thought , and I be sure the thought of the whole House , be with the nurse who be stab in a horrific attack at Royal Oldham hospital on Saturday . nurse be the backbone of our NHS . they should be able to care for their patient without fear of abuse or violence . as she go through treatment for her injury , we pray for her speedy and full recovery and that she will be leave to recover in peace . I want to thank our NHS and social care staff for their remarkable effort , stamina and care in the most challenging of circumstance . over the past few week , I have see at first hand that staff be do their level well in hospital and care home across our country — in the south - west , Essex , London , South Yorkshire and the north - west . even when patient be leave wait far long than they should be , and in condition they should never be make to endure , they be still at pain to stress that the staff be do their good . I say on day one in this job that I would never gloss over problem in the health service and I would not pretend that everything be go well when it be not . the experience of patient this winter be unacceptable . I visit one A & E department over Christmas where I be tell on the way in that I be lucky as I have come on a quiet day . yet , as I walk through the hospital , I see patient on trolley line the corridor where they be be treat , without the dignity or safety they should expect as a minimum . I see frail elderly people on bed in the emergency department , many with dementia , cry out in pain and confusion because , ultimately , they be in the wrong place for their care need . that be supposedly a good day . the King ' s Fund have say : " the NHS be face a toxic cocktail of pressure this winter " , and it be right . fourteen year of under - investment and a lack of effective reform have combine with a tidal wave of rise pressure . this have be the busy year on record for our ambulance and accident and emergency service . we have have severe cold snap , with temperature as low as minus 15 ° in some part of England . there be 5 , 100 patient in hospital bed with flu — more than three time the number at this point last year . alongside the impact on patient , the rise in respiratory infection see 53 , 000 nhs staff force off work sick in the first week of the year . the result have be patient let down by ambulance that do not arrive on time , a & E department that leave they wait 12 hour or more , and the continued normalisation of corridor care . this be not the level of care staff want for their patient , and it be not the level of care this Government will ever accept for patient . I say come into this winter that 14 year of failure can not be turn around in six month . it will take time to fix our break NHS . since July , we have do everything we can to prepare the NHS for winter . follow four month of silence from the previous Government , I call the British Medical Association on day one , meet it in week one , and within three week negotiate a deal to end the junior doctor ' strike with a new deal for resident doctor . for the first winter in three year , staff be on the frontline , not the picket line . the Chancellor make immediate in - year investment in the NHS to fill the black hole we inherit and prevent we from have to cut back on service . we have introduce the respiratory syncytial virus vaccine , and more than a million people and counting be protect against that virus . in total , 29 million vaccine have be deliver for flu , covid - 19 and RSV , and more patient be protect against flu than at this stage last winter . if anyone be yet to get themselves vaccinate , it be not too late to protect themselves , their family and the NHS . they can check if they be eligible and book through their local gp or pharmacy . we be work hand in hand with NHS England and care leader , and I continue to meet regularly with senior leader in social care , NHS England and the UK Health Security Agency . we have an excellent national operation centre run seven day a week . its datum allow we to zoom in — not just on individual hospital but on individual patient wait time — to respond in real time to spike in pressure , and to manage threat as they emerge . the NHS be now use critical incident proactively to focus mind and get the system respond to de - escalate and steer back to safe water . I be happy to report that there be currently one live critical incident , down from 24 last week . however , I do not pretend that that be good enough . it will take time to get back to the standard that patient deserve , but it can be do . that will require a big shift in the focus of healthcare — out of the hospital and into the community — to free up bed for emergency patient and to prevent people from have to call an ambulance or go to A & E in the first place . that be the reform agenda that the Government be enact . in recent week , we have announce step to begin rebuild general practice , and immediate and long - term action in social care . when we come into office , we inherit a situation in which qualified GPs could not get a job , while patient could not get a gp . that be why , within week , I find just shy of £ 100 million to recruit 1 , 000 more gps by April . we have recruit hundred of GPs to the frontline already , and we will recruit hundred more in the month to come . we have announce an extra £ 889 million in funding for general practice , which be the big funding uplift in year , alongside a package of reform to bust bureaucracy , slash unnecessary target and give GPs more time to spend with their patient — our first step towards bring back the family doctor . ten day ago , I visit a care home in Carlisle that be offer intermediate step - down care for NHS hospital . it be able to give patient en suite bathroom facility in care home , with rehab , all at half the price it be cost the taxpayer to keep patient in a hospital bed up the road . that be well for patient and less expensive for taxpayer . yet there be 12 , 000 patient in hospital bed today who do not need to be there but can not be discharge because appropriate care be not available . that be why the Government be make up to £ 3 . 7 billion of extra funding available for local authority that provide social care . it be why we be deliver an extra 7 , 800 home adaptation through the disabled facility grant this year and next year . it be why we have deliver the big increase in carer ' s allowance since the 1970 , worth an extra £ 2 , 300 to family carer . it be why be introduce fair - pay agreement to tackle the 131 , 000 vacancy in social care . and it be why we have appoint Baroness Louise Casey to help build a national consensus on the long - term solution for social care . from visit emergency department , monitor the performance of the NHS over this winter and note the variation in performance across the country , I know that we can clearly get our ambulance and A & E service work well . before the spring , we will set out the lesson learn from this winter and the improvement that we will put in place ahead of next winter . finally , let I be clear on corridor care , which become normalise in NHS hospital under the previous government : I will never accept or tolerate patient be treat in corridor . it be unsafe , undignified and a cruel consequence of 14 year of failure on the NHS , and I be determined to consign it to the history book . I can not and will not promise that patient will not be treat in corridor next year . it will take time to undo the damage that have be do to our NHS , but that be this Government ' s ambition . annual winter pressure should not automatically lead to an annual winter crisis — indeed , there be no annual winter crisis by the end of the previous Labour Government . that be why this Government be invest an extra £ 26 billion in our health and care service , and undertake the fundamental reform that both service need . that will take time , but we will deliver an NHS and a national care service that provide people with care where and when they need it . I commend this statement to the House . I call the shadow Secretary of State . as ever , I be grateful to the Secretary of State for his typical courtesy in give I advance sight of his statement . may I join he in say that our thought be with the nurse in Oldham who be so viciously attack ? like he , we wish she a full and speedy recovery . may I also echo his word of gratitude to NHS and social care staff for all they do to help and support patient and our constituent ? we last hear from Ministers on winter pressure just before Christmas . yet , as the Secretary of State have set out , the situation have continue to grow more severe . we have all hear about those pressure in the medium and from patient , constituent and staff . indeed , I will take this opportunity to acknowledge the work of the hon . member for Tooting ( Dr Allin - Khan ) , who I know have be on the frontline and have , I suspect , see those pressure — the unacceptably long wait in A & Es for ambulance , and corridor care and its impact on patient — at first hand . when someone call an ambulance , they need to know that it will come , but it can not if it be sit in a hospital car park . at my local hospital in Leicester , for example , over 36 % of ambulance hand over have a one hour - plus wait , and I be sure that that be replicate around the country . the Secretary of State highlight that the number of patient in hospital with flu be triple what it be a year ago , yet it appear that the rate of flu vaccine uptake for over - 65 , at - risk group and healthcare worker be low than last year . he want more people to be vaccinate , and I share that view , but will he set out in more detail what he be do to far drive vaccine rate and ensure that vaccine be available for all those who need and want they ? as the Secretary of State say , more than two dozen hospital declare critical incident last week . although I welcome the fact that the vast bulk of those incident have be stand down , will he set out what support and additional resource be be offer not only to hospital that have reach the point of declare critical incident , but to other that continue to face pressure ? last year , the Government provide additional funding for hospital and social care to boost capacity and , vitally , the number of bed in hospital , as well as to tackle delay discharge . will the Secretary of State set out in more detail what he be do in a similar vein ? will he update the House on how many people currently in acute setting be fit for discharge but have not be discharge for a variety of reason ? the Secretary of State mention pay , and say that he have negotiate a deal . I say gently to he that what he do be not negotiation but capitulation to an inflation - bust pay rise . none of these pressure come as a surprise to I or to the Secretary of State . he be open and candid , as he often be , in acknowledge that there would be a winter crisis this year . NHS England director be warn that they do not have the resource need to surge capacity or increase social care package now , which the Conservative Government provide in previous year . the royal college say that nothing have be do to mitigate a winter crisis , and NHS organisation say that they need more support to prevent ambulance delay , overcrowd A & Es and people be stick in hospital bed because of a lack of community and social care . he know — we have speak about it before — the importance of flow from ambulance to A & E , and from a & E to a bed or to discharge . what extra step be he take to increase the number of care package now rather than in the future , and will he consider allow community hospital , such as mine in Melton Mowbray , to play a great role in provide care to local community in order to ease pressure on acute setting ? those concern be all raise in September and October . my predecessor as shadow Secretary of State , my right hon . friend the Member for Louth and Horncastle ( Victoria Atkins ) , ask about they , yet the Secretary of State fail to provide an update to the House until Ministers come to the House just before Christmas . indeed , I recently ask a name day question about when the Secretary of State start chair his weekly winter preparedness meeting . despite , one hope , a quick look at his diary give the answer , I receive a hold answer . I only get the correct answer after that holding answer have be send to I , state that it be in December . can he say on which date in December the first of those meeting be hold ? before Christmas , I and the Conservatives call for a winter - specific bed increase plan . we still have not have one . will the Secretary of State set out what he be do to increase the number of bed and the amount of capacity now ? while the Secretary of State talk the talk , he have not do the work ahead of this winter . will he now reassure patient and staff that he will urgently boost capacity , resource and support to ensure our constituent get the care they need when they need it ? where to begin , Madam Deputy Speaker ? the shadow Health Secretary do a really good line in diagnose the problem as if these be somehow new fact to he , or to the country . in fact , one do not have to be a Minister of long service in this House , or indeed a Member of long service , to remember that only a short matter of month ago , the shadow Secretary of State be a Minister in the Department . time and again , he ask question about the state of the crisis and the challenge in the NHS without show a shred of responsibility for that crisis , which he play a part in create . it be not just the shadow Secretary of State but every one of his predecessor who have a hand in create the situation that Lord Darzi spell out : underinvestment and botched reform . it be the situation we see today , with pretty much every part of our health and care service — be it primary care , community care , mental health service , secondary care or social care — under extraordinary and historic pressure . it be all very well criticise from the Opposition Benches , but the shadow Secretary of State demonstrate the same pattern of behaviour as his predecessor : act like the arsonist criticise the fire brigade for not do enough , quickly enough , to put out the fire they start . it be truly shameful . I turn to the question raise by the shadow Secretary of State . on delay discharge , in December — the late datum we have — 12 , 000 on average per day be medically fit for discharge but unable to be discharge . bed number be broadly the same as they be this time last year : 102 , 546 , versus 102 , 226 under the previous Government . that actually say something about what we have experience in our weekly update : the work that be take place between health and social care service to improve the flow of patient be have some effect when we take into account our ability to flex bed number up and down against the backdrop of high occupancy from flu , the add challenge of noroviru , and the other seasonal condition that we see at this time of year . the shadow Secretary of State ask about vaccination uptake . as I say in my statement , there have be more flu vaccination this year than there be last year , but he raise the important issue of vaccination rate among NHS staff . those rate be low than we would like or expect , and we have to do some work with staff to understand why that be the case and how we can encourage further uptake . as I say , if staff be suffer with flu have not be vaccinate , not only be that a really unpleasant experience for they , it be an unpleasant experience for their colleague if staff be off sick , and indeed for patient who be wait long . on critical incident , the shadow Secretary of State ask about the support that be be provide to NHS organisation . NHS England regional team be work closely with integrate care board to ensure appropriate response be in place to address and mitigate the issue identify within each declare critical incident , all of which will have variation . we have also see NHS England — rightly , in my view — use the critical incident tool proactively to ensure we can provide wide system support to emergency department that be under particular pressure . the shadow Secretary of State ask about additional funding for winter . when I be shadow Health and Social Care Secretary , I be very clear about my cynicism regard the pattern of behaviour we see from our predecessor . year after year , they would arrive in the middle of winter — often after the winter peak — with a gimmicky package of last - minute funding that deliver too little , too late without make any real difference on the frontline , all to give the impression that they be do something to mitigate the crisis in the NHS , in which they play a serious part . I say that we would not do that , and we be not do it . as soon as we come into office , look at the book and see the black hole , the Chancellor release additional funding for the NHS in - year to ensure that it have the resource it need not to cut back . thank to the decision take by the Chancellor , the NHS have receive more than £ 2 billion more in - year than it would have receive if the Conservatives have remain in power , so we do not need any lecture on funding . indeed , they continue to oppose the £ 26 billion we provide for the NHS . finally , the shadow Secretary of State accuse we of capitulation to frontline doctor who be out on strike because of the way they be treat by our conservative predecessor . I just say to resident doctor who be follow these proceeding , and to patient who can see the state of the NHS today and wish it be well , that we be now leave in no doubt . have the country keep the Conservatives in power , doctor would have be on the picket line instead of the frontline this winter ; taxpayer would have continue to pay a heavy price for failure ; and patient would continue to pay the price through delay , rearrange or cancel operation , appointment and procedure . it be proof positive that even after it be boot out of office , the conservative party have not listen , have not learn , and be not fit to govern . for year , like many in this House , I have see a regular stream of local people in my surgery and inbox who have be wait far too long for nhs treatment . what shock I the most , though , be when I see the same local people turn up in A & E when I be do my shift , have deteriorate and in even bad pain than before . locally , there be 66 , 000 case of people who have have to wait over 18 week for treatment , so do my colleague the Secretary of State agree that we need an urgent and emergency care plan to deliver much - need year - on - year improvement ? I wholeheartedly agree with my hon . friend , and thank she for the work she have be do this winter on the NHS frontline , provide support to her colleague at her local hospital — literally roll her sleeve up and look after people . she be absolutely right that we need an urgent and emergency care plan to make sure we see continued year - on - year improvement . I can reassure my hon . friend that that plan be already be write ; we be learn the lesson from this winter in order to apply they next winter . as I should have say to the shadow Secretary of State , the right hon . member for Melton and Syston ( Edward Argar ) , I take the same approach when I be shadow Secretary of State : the very first meeting I hold on winter planning be ahead of the general election in access talk with the Department . the first briefing I receive on winter preparation be on my first day in office . throughout the past six month head into winter , I continue to talk to staff in the Department , NHS England and social care leader to ensure that we be as well prepared for this winter as we could be . right now , we be learn the lesson to prepare for next winter . I call the liberal Democrat spokesperson . I associate myself with the comment of the Secretary of State and the shadow Secretary of State regard the abhorrent attack in Oldham . the pressure on our hospital this winter brutally demonstrate the scale of action need after year of conservative neglect of the NHS . across England last month , 71 % of A & E patient be see within four hour , but that statistic vary wildly depend on where one happen to live . at Shrewsbury and Telford emergency department last month , ambulance have to wait an average of over two hour to hand over their patient . just 50 % of patient be see within four hour , and nearly 1 , 500 patient be leave stuck on a trolley for more than 12 hour . statistic like these often fail to have much impact now , because we have hear they so regularly — particularly since winter crisis have become normalise — but it be very important that we consider who be behind they . it be patient such as my constituent Emma , who have be diagnose with sepsis spend 48 hour in a fit - to - sit area and then 12 hour on a trolley in an x - ray corridor before finally be admit , alongside a horrifying delay in the medication require to deal with her life - threaten condition . yet we often have to wait week for datum that fully explain what be happen in our hospital , and no official datum be collect about the number of critical incident . this leave patient potentially ill - informed , and it make scrutiny and support in this place , in particular , difficult to provide . will the Secretary of State commit to introduce fast and more detailed reporting about the live state of play in our emergency department , include the number of critical incident and the temporary escalation space , and give a timeline for report that information ? will he publish information that show the impact that delay be have — for example , by look at the number of death in emergency department — and will he act on the long - term liberal Democrat request to publish localise datum on ambulance delay so that support be provide in area , such as Shropshire , where it be most need ? I thank the liberal Democrat spokesperson for her usual constructive contribution to proceeding . she be absolutely right to raise the issue of variation in performance across different part of the country . it be not acceptable , and one thing we will be do as a Government be to ensure that , as well as create a rise tide that lift all ship , we raise the floor in performance so that we see far less unwarranted and unwanted regional variation . she talk about the Shrewsbury and Telford trust , which have have a number of challenge over many year . we have see some sign of improvement as recently as this week , and we continue to support local leader as they strive to improve the performance of their system overall . the hon . member raise some good and interesting question about the frequency with which we publish datum . it be right that we ensure that datum be properly validate so that accurate datum be put into the public domain , even as NHS England ' s control room monitor live report into the centre . I will take into account what she say about her request both for more live datum — collect and publish datum — about critical incident and for more localise datum in individual trust , include ambulance service , to monitor variation in response time within a region . although the point she have raise be interesting , I add the caveat that we would not want to burden the system with more reporting requirement if that cause a distraction from improvement . I tend to lean towards more transparency in datum and reporting , however , and I will take into account the representation she have make as we put together our urgent and emergency care plan . at the Victoria hospital in Kirkcaldy , paramedic have have to establish a makeshift ward outside as ambulance queue up outside A & E . the number of people present in December 2024 be roughly the same as in December 2019 , but there have be an increase of almost 300 % in those wait over four hour at A & E . do the Secretary of State agree that this be a dreadful indictment of 18 year of SNP rule in Scotland , and that the SNP Government must use some of the additional £ 4 . 9 billion from the UK Labour Budget to get a grip ? my constituent deserve so much well than this . I thank my hon . friend for that question . the condition she describe at her local hospital be truly shocking . as I have say , and this be often quote by the SNP , all road lead to Westminster , and I be happy to report that up that road from Westminster to Holyrood lie a record uplift in funding for the Scottish Government . they have no excuse for inaction . they need to grip the crisis in the NHS in Scotland , as we be here . the difference , as my hon . friend state , be that they have a record of 18 year that they can not defend , and I hope people will consider that record very carefully when they decide who should govern in Scotland at the next set of scottish election . I call the Chair of the Health and Social Care Committee . may I press the Secretary of State on that datum point ? it be not just the Liberal Democrats make these representation ; the Royal College of Nursing , the Royal College of Physicians , the Royal College of Emergency Medicine , HealthWatch , the British Medical Association , Age UK and many other also want the datum . this matter , because the situation cause moral injury to staff and compromise patient safety — and the problem be not just corridor care ; it encroach on to other ward . will the Secretary of State commit to release that datum before the NHS England board meeting on 4 February ? in addition , what assessment have he make of the impact of this winter on less urgent care , and on elective waiting list ? I be grateful to the Chair of the Select Committee for her question . I can not give she a commitment to publish those statistic ahead of the next NHS England board , but I can give she an undertaking to go away and look carefully at the rhythm and pace at which we publish performance datum , to make sure that we be be as transparent as we can , as fast as we can . that , I think , should be the principle that underpin our approach to the publication of datum . she be right to talk about wide system pressure as a result of what we see in emergency department . we will wait to review the performance of the NHS overall until we exit winter . I think we have see some effective protection of elective activity throughout this winter , but that will of course vary from provider to provider . the hon . Member mention a whole number of organisation call for more datum transparency . I , too , welcome the very public representation that we have hear from the Royal College of Emergency Medicine and other about the need to tackle corridor care . let I assure she and all those who have make representation that we be absolutely determined to turn this situation around , and not just improve the performance of urgent and emergency care , but get a well system work . ultimately , it be through ensure well patient flow , and ensure that people get the right care in the right place at the right time , that we will finally get this country out of the cycle , create by our conservative predecessor , of winter crisis . rise — order . member will be aware that we have pressure on time today , so I will finish this statement at around 3 . 15 pm . triage patient into virtual ward will not only protect the front door of the NHS , but be far well for patient . what be the Secretary of State do to hold integrate care board to account and ensure that they be put money into primary care , as oppose to where everyone always look , which be secondary care ? that be an excellent question from my hon . friend . this government have be walk the talk on primary care since we come into office . there be an immediate release of funding , within week , for 1 , 000 GPs , who be to be employ on the frontline by this April , and an £ 889 million uplift in funding for general practice that we announce prior to Christmas . I think that care in the home and care close to home will be how we not only get the NHS back on its foot , but make sure it be fit for the future . that shift from hospital to community be one of the three big shift that will lie at the heart of our 10 - year plan for the national health service . the Secretary of State refer to social care in his update on winter pressure , and he be of course right that social care have an important role to play in take pressure off hospital . however , surely he can understand the frustration that the sector and those in receipt of social care feel about his push the issue into a three - year review , which Sir Andrew Dilnot say be an inappropriately long time . why will it take so long ? please can he put pressure on the review ? I be sure that Baroness Casey be well capable of do it in a short time . I be happy to report that people will not have to wait three year for action on social care . in fact , we have see lot of it in the last six month . we have have the big expansion of carer ' s allowance since the 1970 ; the legislation for fair pay agreement in the Employment Rights Bill , bring in within the first 100 day of this government ; the uplift in funding provide by the Chancellor through her Budget ; and the expansion of the disabled facility grant . there will be more for we to do this year , include reform to make the well care fund more effective . Baroness Casey ' s first report will in fact be next year . it will set out the action require on social care throughout this Parliament . I hope that reassure people right across the House and , more importantly , right across the country that social care be a priority for this Government . we will seek to do well than our predecessor of all party — I have make this point before — because we have to tackle this generational challenge face our country . I be shock when a young man come to my last constituency surgery to ask I as his MP to help he get a GP appointment . morning after morning , he have spend hour queue on the phone , and he be desperate . if my constituent can not see a gp , they end up in A & E instead . how be the Secretary of State continue to work to undo the Conservatives ' abject failure to fix the GP crisis , which be fuel winter pressure on hospital ? my hon . friend be absolutely right about the challenge cause by the Conservatives ' failure on general practice , which have place pressure not just on stretch GPs , of whom there be thousand few when the Conservatives leave office than in 2015 , but on other part of the system . that be not just bad for patient — it be certainly not a pleasant experience at the moment to be sit wait in A & E for treatment — but more expensive for the taxpayer , because while it cost £ 40 for a doctor ' s appointment , it can cost £ 400 for accident and emergency attendance . that be the legacy of the Conservative Government : thing be bad for patient and more expensive for taxpayer . that be the rotten legacy that we be seek to overturn . last week , the UK Health Security Agency warn of elderly people suffer from heart attack , stroke and chest infection as a result of the recent severe cold weather . be the Secretary of State any close to admit that take away the winter fuel payment from some of our most vulnerable pensioner be not just cruel , but life threaten ? it be irresponsible , as well as inaccurate , to suggest that the Government have take winter fuel payment away from vulnerable pensioner . in fact , it be thank to the decision take by the Chancellor that winter fuel payment be protect for the poor pensioner . they continue to be worth £ 200 to eligible household , or £ 300 to eligible household in which there be someone age 80 or over . we also continue to stand behind vulnerable household by deliver the £ 150 warm home discount for low - income household and provide £ 742 million to enable the extension of the household support fund . of course , over 12 million pensioner will see their basic or new state pension increase by 4 . 1 % , thank to the Government ' s commitment to the triple lock . this be a run theme from Conservative Members . they seem to welcome the investment in health and social care that the Government be provide at the same time as oppose it . they can not have it both way . if they do not support the decision take by the Chancellor , they have to admit that have the Conservatives remain in power , this winter , they would have be cut the health and social care service that pensioner really rely on . rise — may I ask member to keep their question and answer sharp , please ? under the last Conservative Government , strike cost the taxpayer million of pound and 1 . 5 million appointment be cancel , so may I thank the Secretary of State sincerely for make it his day one priority to sort that out ? he call the junior doctor and find a deal within three week , end the strike . all of we across the House thank he for sort that out . for the first winter in three year , staff will be on the frontline , not the picket line , as the Secretary of State so rightly say . do he agree that that be just one example of what Labour government do in office ? we always have a laser focus on make the nhs well , unlike the Conservatives , who seem to have a laser focus on make it fail . I strongly agree with my hon . friend . the way that Conservative Members continue to behave should send a message to every resident doctor , and indeed every member of health and social care staff , in the country . every single one of they will know that thank to the decision the country take back in July , we have a Government who be commit to the NHS and social care . have the Conservatives remain in power , we would be go even deep into the already deep hole that they leave the country in . we must never go back there again . I accept that the Government be clearly not the architect of the current unacceptable state of affair . however , may I encourage the Secretary of State to reflect again on our exchange at the Health and Social Care Committee just a month ago , when he resist the recommendation of the president of the Royal College of Emergency Medicine that we invest in more bed to accommodate additional admission to hospital ? that would ease a return to normality , reduce the need for corridor care , and ease the pressure in emergency department . throughout the winter , NHS provider have continue to flex bed capacity to meet demand . the important thing be that our approach to investment and reform deliver the system - wide improvement that help we to break out of the annual cycle of winter crisis . there have be criticism of the Government ' s focus on elective recovery — for example , people have ask if that be at the expense of urgent and emergency care — but I will not allow a status quo to settle in which the NHS be in effect reduce to a blue - light , emergency service . the Government will improve urgent and emergency care , elective recovery , primary care , community service and social care , because that be what we need to meet the health and care need of people in this century , and that be what we will deliver . winter pressure have cause the cancellation of thousand of operation , include many of my own list . do the Secretary of State agree that the opening of the dedicated Clare Marx surgical centre in Colchester , serve patient in Essex and Suffolk , be an extremely welcome development ? I thank my hon . friend for his question , and for the expertise and experience that he bring to the House . we absolutely need to ensure that we be innovate in our service provision , and be shift the centre of gravity out of hospital and towards care and treatment close to home — indeed , in people ' s home . as we have set out in recent week , since the investment announce in the Budget and particularly in the elective reform plan , this Government will continue to innovate , in order to provide service that deliver not only great value for the taxpayer but , even more importantly , great outcome for patient . research show that ambulance response time in Haverhill in my constituency be twice those in Cambridge . we would like a new , co - locate and purpose - build blue - light facility ; the police and the ambulance service could use it to serve the town effectively , and it would hopefully save money . may I invite a Minister from the Department to come to Haverhill to meet I , the East of England ambulance service , Suffolk police and local councillor to discuss those plan ? I confirm that we be absolutely up for look at co - location of different public service , to deliver both well integration and co - operation between different service — particularly the blue - light service that the hon . Gentleman mention — and well value for taxpayer . I will ensure that one of my ministerial colleague make contact with he . the Health Secretary will know that University Hospitals Birmingham in my constituency recently declare a critical incident , which I be pleased have now be step down . do he share my view that shift the focus of healthcare from hospital to community as we rebuild our NHS would have a consequential impact on the number of people in hospital , which be under immense pressure ? my hon . friend be absolutely right . may I , through she , thank health and care staff in her city for the work they be do to get the people of Birmingham through this particularly challenging winter ? what we really need to do to make our health and care system more effective and more sustainable be shift the centre of gravity out of hospital and into the community . we need well and fast access to diagnostic and treatment , as well as a big focus on prevention — primary prevention to keep we all healthy and active , and secondary prevention so that few people need to call on health service , and particularly emergency department , which be stretch at this time of year . I be pleased to hear what the Secretary of State say about vaccine roll - out , particularly of the RSV vaccine . I be even more pleased that my constituent in Richmond Park be diligent in take up all vaccine , but they have be puzzle to find that the RSV vaccine be limit to those between 75 and 79 year of age . what plan be there be to extend the roll - out to those age 80 and above ? I be grateful to the hon . member for her question and for show off her constituent ' uptake — that be exactly what we want . perhaps ahead of next winter , we should launch a parliamentary competition : who can boost uptake most in their constituency ? we will think about the prize . more seriously , I be always glad when the pressure be to expand access to vaccine — that be exactly the sort of pressure that we want . we follow advice from the Joint Committee on Vaccination and Immunisation . we will review the experience this winter , and the JCVI will review evidence and datum this winter and make recommendation , which we will take into account . the dire state that the last Government leave the NHS in be all too apparent , tragically , to many of my constituent who need it last winter . my 85 - year - old constituent admit with breathing difficulty have to wait over 30 hour in a chair because there be no bed available , and they be far from alone in that indignity and prolonged suffering . they should not have to tolerate it , and I certainly will not as their MP . I welcome this Government ' s action and leadership on end the doctor ' strike and invest in more appointment , but what more will the Secretary of State do to ensure that , next winter , many more of my constituent be not suffer from the same challenge ? I be extremely grateful to my hon . friend for the spirit of his question . that be exactly how this Government be approach plan for next winter . I want year - on - year improvement in NHS performance , particularly our response to winter pressure . of course , there be seasonal variation in infectious disease , inclement weather and all sort of other pressure that can impact on NHS service , but the system should be resilient enough to withstand pressure in any give winter . it will take time to get back there , but that be why the Government be already plan for next winter , learn from experience — what have work well and what have not — so that we can continue to deliver for the people of this country and improve the national health service and social care service . one thing we could do to improve the situation in Maidenhead be to reopen the walk - in urgent care centre at St Mark ' s hospital so that we can keep people out of the big hospital and A & E and , as the Secretary of State say , help people get care close to home . will he meet I to discuss how we can work together to get the walk - in urgent care centre at St Mark ' s back open ? I welcome the hon . member ' s question , and I agree with the thrust of his question that we need healthcare to shift from hospital into the community , with care close to , and in , people ' s home . the configuration of service locally be a matter for local NHS leader . I encourage he in the first instance to be in touch with his local integrate care board . if he get a particularly unsatisfactory or unreasonable answer , he should feel free to raise it with Ministers . I associate myself with the comment about the nursing colleague who be so brutally attack in Oldham . I be think of she and her team at this time . I have be think back to when I be start out as a junior nurse . we face the same problem — it be just after Labour have take over from a Conservative Government , and the backwash of winter crisis cause by that fail Government be very similar in the first few year . improve staff pay and the NHS plan make a difference . what else have my right hon . Gentleman learn from the success of his forebear about tackle this winter crisis now and tackle such crisis in future ? my hon . friend bring expertise and experience to the House , and I be particularly grateful for his support and concern for the colleague of the nurse who be so brutally attack in Oldham , because I know that they will be acutely affect . in fact , the NHS workforce right across the country will have feel the shiver down the spine that I feel when I read about that horrific case . my hon . friend be right that I be fortunate to be able to call on every single one of my labour predecessor , from Alan Milburn to Andy Burnham , to ask for their advice , experience and insight . as our great late friend John Prescott say , we need " traditional value in a modern setting " . I be bring that modernise tradition to our approach to investment and reform , because the combination of both deliver result . that be how the last Labour Government deliver the short waiting time and the high patient satisfaction in history . the Secretary of State will know that Stepping Hill hospital in Hazel Grove have a repair backlog report to be £ 130 million . that mean that local team at Stepping Hill be under even more pressure to tackle the winter crisis . his colleague the Minister for Secondary Care , the hon . member for Bristol South ( Karin Smyth ) , write to I and my constituency neighbour , my hon . friend the Member for Cheadle ( Mr Morrison ) , in October to agree that she be deeply concerned about the condition of healthcare infrastructure at the hospital . follow the Budget , when should we expect clarity on funding per hospital so that my constituent and Stepping Hill patient get the hospital that they deserve ? I be grateful to the hon . member for raise those concern on the Floor of the House . thank to the decision that the Chancellor take in the Budget , the Department have an additional £ 26 billion available for investment in our health and social care service , include estate . I can not promise to fix the backlog that have build up over the past 14 year in a single budget year , but I can confirm that we will publish our mandate for NHS England and , follow that , plan guidance and financial allocation , very shortly . under the Tories ' watch , our NHS become in danger of normalising failure , with patient treat in corridor , horrendous A & e wait and hospital at risk of be gridlocke as they struggle to discharge patient . will the Secretary of State continue to be up front and open about the challenge , and ensure that the NHS recover year on year under his watch ? when I be sit on the Opposition Benches at the tail end of the last Parliament , I see my predecessor at this Dispatch Box tell we all the wonderful thing that she think the Government be do and achieve . it be like hear about a completely different national health service and social care system in another country . I arrive in July and be honest on day one that the NHS be break but not beat , and that these be crisis of historic proportion that we will never sweep under the carpet , nor will we hide problem to spare political blush . in the come month and year , I will continue to be honest about where we have not yet fix problem , and clear about the action that we be take to get the NHS back on its foot and fit for the future and to build a national care service worthy of the name . I think we all share the Secretary of State ' s aspiration to move healthcare out of hospital and into the community . however , the two GP surgery that I visit in Skegness just before Christmas be concerned that the impact of the national insurance increase on their staffing budget will be around £ 100 , 000 per surgery , which will force they to reduce staffing capacity and , therefore , appointment capacity . what will the Secretary of State do to help those GP surgery in that situation ? there seem to be a conflict between the sensible aspiration and the practical reality . there be 889 million reason why GPs should be reassure about their financial sustainability for the year ahead — the £ 889 million allocation for general practice that I spell out before Christmas , to provide reassurance to GPs when plan for the financial year ahead . I have be hearten by the response from GPs to that announcement , and I gently say to people who criticise the mean of raise it that without the decision that the Chancellor take in the Budget , we would not be able to invest £ 26 billion in our health and care service . we can not have people welcome the investment but criticise the mean of raise it . if people do not support the Chancellor ' s decision — a perfectly reasonable political position to take — they will have to spell out what service they would cut or what taxis they would raise . I echo the Secretary of State ' s comment and those of my hon . friend the Member for Birmingham Edgbaston ( Preet Kaur Gill ) on recognise the endeavour of health and care staff during last week ' s extremely difficult critical incident , and I also recognise the effect of contingency planning that have take place , include the provision of additional bed at West Heath hospital in my constituency . with respect to the central support the Secretary of State refer to , be he willing to make summary of the support provide by NHS England to local trust this year and in previous year ? I would be very happy to write to my hon . friend to set out the support provide by NHS England to health and care service for his community , and I would be delighted to receive via he feedback from his health and care provider about what government support they would like next winter and in future year . I declare my interest as a governor of the Royal Berkshire hospital , and I have a family member who have share in a medical company . the Secretary of State have a really tough job of clear up the mess leave in the NHS by the Conservatives , but some of the Royal Berkshire hospital estate be not fit for purpose and especially not fit to cope with the winter crisis . can he confirm that a proper level of funding will be available to rebuild the Royal Berkshire hospital and that there will be no increase in the seven - year delay announce by the Conservatives in April this year ? that will help with future winter crisis . I will take that as another representation from the hon . gentleman on the new hospital programme , and I reassure he we will be set out our review and its conclusion shortly . as part of make the NHS fit for the future , move some patient care from hospital to the community will be pivotal . in Doncaster , mayor Ros Jones and the council be already well on the way with this and they be set up " Health on the High Street " , which be good not just for patient but for footfall in the city centre . will my right hon . friend set out what his Department be do to support area such as Doncaster in deliver on this strategy ? I be delighted to hear of the work Ros be do as mayor to support health and care service and to take health and care to where people be . I hate hear that there be hard - to - reach community ; there be no hard - to - reach community . there be underserved community and , in our determination to tackle health inequality , to get care close to people ' s home and indeed in people ' s home , to do early diagnosis and to provide fast access to treatment , we need to make sure that we take health and care service to where people be rather than expect people to always come to we . I fear that corridor care have already become normalise and , as the Secretary of State say , it will be some time before we get back on the right path . this week there have be report of a north London hospital advertising for dedicated corridor care nurse . I also think about my constituent who be a doctor at the Royal Sussex beg x - ray team to give she a consultation room so she do not have to do intimate exam out in the corridor . what reassurance can the Secretary of State give the NHS workforce that thing be go to get well ? I be really grateful to the hon . member for raise that question and for the example she give of the Whittington advertisement for staff specifically to deliver corridor care . I make no criticism of the trust itself in try to make sure it have the right staff in place to deliver the good care possible in the present circumstance . it be not the fault of the Whittington that there be corridor care ; it be a legacy of 14 year of conservative failure . I would also say that my reaction to see that advertisement be the same as her : it be proof that corridor care have be normalise . I want to reassure she , the House and patient across the country that this Government will not accept corridor care as normal care . we will not tolerate it as be acceptable care . we will do everything we can as fast as we can to consign corridor care to the history book and I reassure the staff work in the NHS in these intolerable condition that we will work with they to deliver the investment and the reform need to get the NHS back on its foot and make it fit for the future . despite the conservative party ' s good effort to ruin our NHS , will the Secretary of State join I in pay tribute to the hard - work NHS and social care staff in my constituency who , despite enormous winter pressure , be do their good to go above and beyond to provide exceptional care and keep the NHS on its foot ? I thank staff on the Isle of Wight for everything they be do to support community across the island against a challenging backdrop . since my hon . friend arrive in the House he have be an extremely strong , loud and effective voice for the people of his constituency and across the Isle of Wight , and I look forward to work with he and health and care leader on the Isle of Wight to make sure that they see their health and care service improve as a result of their decision to send a Labour Member of Parliament and a Labour Government here to serve our NHS and his community . high Education Regulatory Approach 3 . 16 pm with permission , I shall make a statement on the Higher Education ( Freedom of Speech ) Act 2023 . in July 2024 I pause further commencement of the Act in response to concern raise by a cross - section of voice . I take that decision because it be vital that we get this right . our university be one of this country ' s great strength , and I know member across the House share my pride in a truly world - lead sector . at the centre of that excellence sit academic freedom and freedom of speech . the ability of our academic to explore and express new idea through teaching and research be precious and we must protect it . these fundamental freedom be more important — much more important — than the wish of some student not to be offend . university be a place for idea to be expose and debate , to be try and test . for young people , it be a space for horizon to be broaden , perspective to be challenge and idea to be examine . it be not a place for student to shut down any view with which they disagree . here be our starting point : academic freedom matter and freedom of speech matter , and we will preserve those two pillar of national strength , but we will proceed in a way that actually work . that be why we have carry out extensive engagement cover all corner of the debate : academic , university , student ; those for the Act and those against . all voice be hear . I be especially keen to consider the view of minority group , to learn how the Act might affect they , particularly give the shocking rise in antisemitism on campus . stand here in this great Chamber of debate , I remain resolute about the importance of free speech , but our engagement on the Act have raise concern that any responsible Government must take seriously . what be be propose simply do not rise to the challenge : unworkable duty on student union , a tort clog up the court system , and the Office for student oblige to consider a vast number of complex complaint . there be also serious concern over the Act ' s potential impact on the welfare of minority group . many be worried that it could lead to increase harassment and discrimination on campus , and that the Act could push provider to overlook their safety . I share their concern . I reiterate that I be appal by the rise in antisemitism on campus . in my view , rise antisemitism be well tackle through education , which be why I have confirm £ 7 million in funding to tackle antisemitism in school , college and university . I have reach a way forward that I believe be effective and proportionate , deliver an Act that be fair and workable . my decision , subject to agreement from Parliament , will ensure that our high education sector and the Office for student continue to protect academic freedom and freedom of speech while ensure the safety of minority group . I propose implement key element of the Act and return other to Parliament for decision on their amendment or repeal . I propose shortly commence the following requirement currently in the Act : the duty on high education provider to take reasonably practicable step to secure and promote freedom of speech within the law ; the duty on high education provider to put in place a code of conduct on freedom of speech ; and the ban on non - disclosure agreement for staff and student at high education provider in case of bullying , harassment and sexual misconduct . I also plan to commence the duty on the ofs to promote freedom of speech and the power to give advice and share good practice . I will retain the director for free speech and academic freedom role , and I be pleased that Dr Ahmed will be stay on . I have complete confidence in Dr Ahmed . however , in my view , it be not right for this position to be a political appointee . the director should , of course , hold a deep belief in free speech and academic freedom , but their independence matter , and therefore their appointment must be free from any suspicion of political bias . Sir David Behan ' s review of the OfS , commence under the previous Government , recommend we reconsider how all ofs executive and board appointment should be make . I will decide on that shortly . while there be much in the Act that be valuable , there be provision that I do not believe to be proportionate or necessary , and which will drain resource from provider and distract from the other important issue they face . it be therefore my intention to return to Parliament to seek the repeal of two provision . the first be the duty on student union in the Act . student union be neither equipped nor fund to navigate such a complex regulatory environment , and they be already regulate by the Charity Commission . however , I fully expect student union to protect lawful free speech , whether they agree with the view express or not . I also expect HE provider to work closely with they to ensure that that happen and to act decisively to ensure their student union comply with their free speech code of conduct . the second provision I will seek to repeal be the tort . I have hear the view in favour of the tort , and understand the argument be make . however , it would create costly litigation that would risk divert resource away from student at a time when university finance be already strained . member can be assure that the remain route of redress have plenty of tooth — the Office for Students will have power to take tough regulatory action where university and college do not meet their duty . ultimately , an Act need to be workable for its tooth to bite . how would Conservative Members rather our university spend their time and resource : by lawyere up , or by focus on high - quality teaching and groundbreake research ? in fact , the fear of litigation could hurt rather than help free speech , as university may decide against invite challenge speaker to avoid end up in court , and nobody want that . I have a message for vice - chancellor who fail to take this seriously : protect free speech on your campus or face the consequence . for too long , too many university have be too relaxed about these issue , and too few take they seriously enough — and that must change . there be other element of the Act that I be plan to retain , but , with parliamentary agreement , to amend . I propose keep a complaint scheme in place with the ofs . it be an important route of redress for anyone whose academic freedom or free speech have not be protect , and there must be a route for right wrong . however , it must be proportionate : the OfS should have the power to consider complaint , rather than a duty to assess every single complaint it receive , include those that be poorly put together or nonsensical . this way , the ofs will be free up to prioritise the most serious complaint . I also want to remove the confusing duplication of complaint scheme for student . the Office of the Independent Adjudicator can already consider student complaint on free speech , and will continue to do so . the OfS complaint scheme will focus on complaint from staff , external speaker and university member . I will also amend the OfS ' s mandatory condition of registration to give it flexibility in how it apply this condition to different type of provider . the ofs should have room to determine the good way to regulate on a case - by - case basis . that be the only way to deliver a sensible system that actually work . finally , I will take more time to consider implementation of the overseas funding measure . I remain fully committed to tackle case of interference by overseas government , and the wide measure in the Act will far strengthen our protection . however , I want to ensure that any new reporting requirement for provider add value without be overly burdensome . we continue to work at pace with the sector on the wide implementation of the foreign influence registration scheme . my official be work across Government and with the sector to review our response , and I will confirm my final decision in due course . I intend to draft a policy paper to set out these proposal in more detail and will return to the House when it be ready . where I be return matter to Parliament , I will keep they under review in the meantime . our university be lead light of learning . they be space for vigorous discussion where people of all age , faith and background can come together to debate new idea . I call on university to promote a culture of disagree well . there be already excellent work go on across the sector , but we must see more . let I be clear that student have a duty as well : to embody that spirit of debate that make our university great , and not to simply try to cancel any view with which they disagree . this government will secure freedom of speech in legislation that be practical , proportionate and workable , but legislation alone will never be enough . freedom of speech be not easy . it be not just a right , but a responsibility . if we want a culture of debate that be robust yet respectful , challenge yet considerate , and strong yet civil , we must all do our part to nurture it . the freedom of speech Act provide a legal framework , but it be up to all of we every day to build a culture of truly free speech . I commend this statement to the House . I call the shadow Secretary of State . I thank the Secretary of State for advance sight of her statement . the Higher Education ( Freedom of Speech ) Act 2023 be pass by Parliament prior to the election . by the end of the Act ' s passage through both Houses , the Labour party have agree in principle with the need for it ; indeed , there be positive signal come from those on the Front Bench today . however , immediately after the election , Government source say the Act be a Tory " hate speech charter " , and pause its implementation . I ask the Secretary of State : what have change ? do she still stand by her characterisation of the Act ? it should have be obvious straightaway to anyone with even a basic sympathy for the norm of liberal education that pause the Act be a mistake . it should have be clear again , when more than 650 academic sign a letter to the Times decry the decision , that pause the Act be a mistake , but the Secretary of State still do not budge from her position . it should have be undeniable that the Government have make the wrong choice when , act together , no less than seven Nobel prize winner and a Fields medallist later add their name to that letter , but still Labour be happy to roll out the old trope about hate speech . literary luminary like Sir Stephen Fry , Tom Holland and Ian McEwan be force to intervene . those with natural sympathy for the Secretary of State ' s own political position be compel to tell she that she be wrong . it be only now , after all that humiliation , that she have finally change her footing . I pay tribute to the academic who lead that fightback outside Parliament . much like they have do with academy in the Children ' s Wellbeing and Schools Bill , this Government take a wreck ball to policy without a thought for the consequence . they be much more interested in virtue signal than in what be right for the country , more interested in listen to student union adviser than to woman hound out of their job . since the Secretary of State decide to pause the legislation , gender - critical woman , among other , have , in the process of vindicate their right , rack up enormous legal fee that have cause some to remortgage their house . Professor Jo Phoenix say publicly that if the Act have be enforce , it would have save she from that very ordeal . will the Secretary of State now apologise to those who have suffer because of her inaction ? we have upcoming legal action in the judicial review bring by the Free Speech Union against the Government ' s decision . consider that a concern about expense be one of the reason give by the Government to justify their decision , how much have that litigation cost to defend ? what be the financial cost of the Secretary of State ' s inaction ? how much taxpayer money have be spend on a partisan play - up - to - your - own - gallery move that be about to fall flat of its face in the court ? do the Secretary of State receive legal advice before she make her decision to suspend the Act ? will she release it , so that member can see the basis on which she act ? if she do not , how can she possibly claim to have act responsibly in this matter ? despite the Secretary of State ' s statement , we now have confusion about what be actually happen . it seem that the Government can not even do a much - need u - turn properly . without the tort , what consequence will university face if they do not protect free speech ? why be the Secretary of State unable to set out a clear decision on overseas funding ? why be six month not enough time ? can she spell out the change the Government be think about make to the overseas funding measure ? can she confirm that none of those be discuss during the Chancellor ' s recent visit to China ? can she confirm that there be no deal do to amend that section ? that be very important . it be extremely poor timing at well and invidious at bad to consider change to the overseas funding element of the Act so soon after that trip to China . it be always obvious that the Education Secretary make a mistake in pause the Act , but rather than commence a little more of the Act to try to cover up the mistaken delay , she need to get up and perform the u - turn in full . the Act contain much - need protection and she must not abolish they just because they come from the conservative side of the House . finally , while we be at it , the Secretary of State should perform a u - turn on academy freedom too . the Government must not take six month to realise their mistake on that one . what we inherit from the previous Government be not a genuine attempt to solve a genuine problem ; it be a mess design to put party ahead of country . we see a misplace fascination with headline for themselves , rather than a serious attempt to safeguard freedom of speech and academic freedom . it be precisely because this Government care about academic freedom and freedom of speech that we be determined to get this right , unlike the conservative party . we be not content to leave it to vice - chancellor , who have do too little for too long . university must be place of robust discussion , where student ' view be challenge and academic freedom be central . one of my many predecessor in the previous Government , the former Member for Chippenham , be unable to set out how the then Government ' s proposal would prevent Holocaust denier come on to campus . let I be clear : holocaust denial have no place on campus or anywhere else in our society . the legislation would have embolden Holocaust denial , and show a shameful disregard for the welfare of jewish student . on the legal proceeding the right hon . Lady mention , she be a member of the previous Government and know very well that I be unable to comment on any aspect of that . I say I would consider all option . I have do precisely that and have return to the House , as I intend , to provide an update . if Conservative member want to know what a u - turn on free speech look like , I suggest they turn their attention to Liz Truss , who for so long extoll the virtue of free speech and be now on some bizarre quest to cancel the Prime Minister for say that she and the conservative party crash the economy . freedom of speech cut both way . what a bunch of snowflake ! I call the Chair of the Select Committee . I thank the Secretary of State for confirm the Government ' s approach to the implementation of the Higher Education ( Freedom of Speech ) Act 2023 , and I welcome the clarity that she have provide today . the implementation of the Act will present some challenge for university and for student . the Secretary of State will know that there can sometimes be a fine line between free speech and hate speech , and between statement of view and opinion and incitement or encouragement to violence or intimidation in the real world . can she assure the House that she will ensure that university and student be absolutely clear about the limit to free speech , which be already enshrine in law , and that support will be provide on the interpretation of that when it be need ? Professor Shitij Kapur , vice - chancellor and president of King ' s College London , have say : " university be not there to function as a Speakers ' Corner where anyone can stand up and express an opinion not necessarily support by fact . if academic freedom be to mean anything , it must be accompany by the academic obligation for idea and claim to be accompany by evidence and reason . proponent have an obligation to engage and respond to those question their assertion and conduct that debate and discourse in a civil manner . " how will the Secretary of State ensure — particularly as the erosion of fact - checking and moderation on social medium be take place before our very eye — that the implementation of the Act result in a high quality of evidence - base discourse conduct in a culture of civility ? I be grateful to my hon . friend for her question and her approach , and I look forward to discuss these issue with the Select Committee in due course should its member so wish . my hon . friend ' s point about disagreement be important . free speech should be robust and we should be able to express our view , but all of we , especially those in public life , have a duty to ensure that we do so in a way that be responsible . as for the tort — this be at the heart of the issue that she have identify — I be concerned that the potential impact of legal proceeding and the financial consequence for provider of breach their duty under the Act might have lead to some provider unduly prioritise free speech that be hateful or degrade over the interest of those who feel harass and intimidate . these issue can be finely balanced . we will provide further clarity through the Office for Students , but let I make it clear that academic freedom and freedom of speech be crucial tenet of our country ' s history . I call the liberal Democrat spokesperson . I thank the Secretary of State for advance sight of her statement . the Liberal Democrats fully support free speech , which , as several member have point out , be at the heart of academic freedom , but it be clear from the start that this piece of legislation be not base on evidence , be not proportionate , and be fundamentally flawed . we welcome the pausing of its implementation last year , and I welcome now the acknowledgement of its flaw and the Secretary of State ' s move to repeal the provision on the tort and on student union in particular . I must , however , press she on the fundamental question of why the Act be necessary . high education institution already operate within a legal framework to ensure that freedom of speech within the law be secure for academic staff , student , employee and visit speaker , and university have already take action to improve their policy and process relate to freedom of speech . university UK , which represent over 140 university , have reissue and expand its guidance in this area , as well as have regular discussion with university leader to support they with these challenge . would the Secretary of State consider take a more meaningful step to ensure that student be safe , welcome and protect at university by give high education institution a statutory duty of care for their student ? the Secretary of State also refer to the well - document fear of minority group , particularly those in jewish community , that the Act in its previous form would allow a platform for extremist view , and she mention Holocaust denial . we have some indication of this in her statement , but will she provide more detail of her plan to protect those from minority group and community on our university campus ? I be grateful to the hon . gentleman for raise those question . I will start where we agree , and then move on to where I might disagree with he . I agree that freedom of speech and academic freedom be essential , but , sadly , we have see too many example of their not be uphold in the way that they should be by university . the right hon . member for Sevenoaks ( Laura Trott ) raise a number of case in which we have see unacceptable practice , and some individual have have to seek recourse through employment law when it should have be possible for they to seek redress soon . that be precisely what we be seek to deal with in ensure that the Office for Students be able to focus on the most serious case without be catch up in complex case that could be less well found or even nonsensical . I want to be clear that we have engage with people with a range of view on these topic , include those who hold gender - critical view , those who be in favour of the legislation and those who have concern . that careful process of engagement with the sector , stakeholder and people with a range of view have enable I to come to the House today and set out our approach . I call Mark Sewards , a member of the Education Committee . I welcome the Secretary of State ' s statement . it be good to see that our university will no long be a battleground in which political party seek to make headline — unsuccessfully , I might add . do she agree that now that she have take decisive action on this issue , it be time to talk about the financial situation face many of our university , which threaten their very existence ? we know that student be pay far more for far less at university , and we need to end that ridiculous cycle . I agree with my hon . friend that , across the board , there be big challenge in the university sector . that be why I take the difficult but necessary decision last year to increase the fee that they be able to charge . this year , we will engage in reform right across the sector to provide the long - term financial sustainability that be require . as my hon . friend recognise , we on the Government Benches be clear that our university be a central part of our local and regional economy , and a beacon of excellence around the world . that be why so many student from around the globe seek to come to our world - lead university . I call Dr Caroline Johnson , a member of the Education Committee . I respect the Secretary of State ' s wish to ensure that she have consider the Act thoroughly . I regret that it have take she so long to come to the conclusion that free speech be important , but I be glad that she have decide to bring into force many of the measure in the Act , which be introduce by the Conservatives . however , she have choose to exclude student union from the legislation . can she say a bit more about how they will be hold to account if they fail to keep in line with her desire to promote free speech ? on the timescale , this be a complex area , but in a little over six month we have consult a wide range of stakeholder and consider all view , which be why I be able to return to the House today to update member . the hon . Lady be right to say that we have decide not to commence provision that will impose new duty on student union . that be because some small provider have only a handful of member and do not have the resource or funding necessary to handle such claim , and they be already regulate by the Charity Commission . however , we fully expect student union to protect freedom of speech , and provider to ensure that their student union do so as well . I welcome the careful and consider approach that the Secretary of State have take to this issue ; it stand in stark contrast to when the Act be first bring forward . I refer the shadow Secretary of State , and indeed the House , to my comment in Hansard on 13 May 2021 , when the previous Secretary of State explicitly confirm on Radio 4 that Holocaust denial would be protect speech . in that vein , do my right hon . friend share the concern of group such as the Union of jewish Students and the Antisemitism Policy Trust that the draft guideline produce by the Office for student risk undermine exist good practice in tackle antisemitism ? will she give an assurance that the ofs will meet jewish representative organisation to ensure that such mistake can not be repeat ? I be confident that the OfS , as the regulator , and its director for freedom of speech will seek to engage with a range of view , include those of jewish student and community organisation , as they take forward this important work . that be certainly something that I have do to understand the concern and the potential impact on minority student , include jewish student , at a time when we all sadly know that antisemitism on our campus and street have be rise . as a country , we must do everything in our power to tackle that . this screech u - turn be welcome and I hope that , as the shadow Secretary of State say , it herald a new period of humility and further change by the Government . the Secretary of State say that university must protect free speech or " face the consequence " , but as far as I can see , she have remove those consequence . could she please lay they out for we ? I know that the right hon . Gentleman be probably use to his party engage in these discussion on quite difficult and sensitive issue in a rather reckless and irresponsible way , but we on these Benches take our time to do this seriously and properly to make sure that we get it right , because this be such an important area . he will have hear from my speech — I will set out further detail — the requirement that will be in place through registration condition , the fact that the Office for Students will be able to impose penalty on institution , and the requirement that we expect of all high education provider . my message to vice - chancellor and institution today be that they need to do more , and they need to do it well . I call Select Committee member Darren Paffey . I thank my right hon . friend for her statement and for the measured , practical and common - sense approach that it take , which be in sharp contrast to what we be hear on the Opposition Benches at the moment . although we will always defend their right to their opinion , a right to their own fact be rather regrettable and their revisionism be quite astounding . I know at first hand the value of a university education . it be about have our view challenge . it be about critical thinking base on evidence and fact and have our horizon open . do the Minister agree that this foundation and the measure announce today be the right way to secure academic freedom in the future ? my hon . friend , through his background in high education , know all too well how essential it be that young people and student from a range of different background be expose to view that they might not previously have hear or that they might find difficult or challenging . that be what a university education be all about , and that be what we be determined to secure and protect through the statement that I be make today . rise — we have substantial business to get through today before the House rise , so if question be short I can get everybody in ; if they be not , people be go to be disappoint . I thank the Secretary of State for come to the House and set out the revise position of the Government . I be particularly concerned about the removal of the tort , because it effectively remove the real consequence for people who disregard free speech and the consequence that could be impose on an institution or organisation . if that be go to be the case , can she set out to the House what resource will be dedicate to the director of free speech ? let we hope this be not just a one - person fig leaf . how many people be go to be work for they ? what resource will there be to ensure that free speech be protect ? I be grateful to the former Secretary of State for his question . he will appreciate that this will be an independent regulator , and that there be a limit to what I can set out on their behalf . on the key issue of the tort , there will be consequence , even follow the removal of the tort , for those provider who do not fulfil their duty under the Act . the ofs can already regulate provider in relation to free speech . it will be able to take regulatory action where there be breach of the duty under the Act , include monetary penalty if need , and the complaint scheme will enable the ofs to make recommendation to provider that they will be expect to follow . exist route of redress through judicial review and employment tribunal will remain open , but we want the OfS to focus on make sure that there be a system in place that be workable so that complaint can be deal with swiftly . I thank the Secretary of State for this statement . I think freedom of speech be really important , but it should be do in an environment of share respect , as it be most of the time in this place . I welcome this pragmatic approach to the process . will she confirm that the previous unworkable legislation would have add additional financial stress to institution ? it be important that any legislation in this area be fair , proportionate and workable , and that be what we have seek to achieve through the wide engagement and consultation that have take place since July , when I pause commencement . it be vital that we get it right . it be incredibly important , and today we have give clarity to the sector around expectation into the future . I welcome the word from the Secretary of State around freedom of speech today — she know that I have ask about this in the House previously — and I also welcome the partial u - turn . will she join I , though , in thank the academic who have really put pressure on the Government to get to this position , and also the work of the Free Speech Union ? will she encourage all academic institution to sign up to the Chicago principle ? can she give we a brief timeline on when the foreign influence registration scheme could come forward ? finally , I will be set up the all - party parliamentary group on freedom of speech in the come week . will the Secretary of State agree to come along and speak to we about this at some point ? I be afraid I do not quite catch the very last part of the right hon . Gentleman ' s question , but I will happily look in Hansard and return to he on that point . I think he just want to hear a yes to attend a meeting . I be afraid I be not go to do that without have review exactly what the right hon . Gentleman say , Madam Deputy Speaker . I know he quite well . the Department for Education and the Home Office be look jointly at some of these area , and I want to be clear that national security be our no . 1 priority as a Government . I be grateful to all those who have engage in good faith with the Department in this conversation . they hold a wide range of view : there be those who be for the Act and those who be against , as well as those with view somewhere in the middle and those with some new one . I be grateful for their contribution to this discussion . I hope they can all see that we have take this seriously and that we now have a workable plan to ensure that freedom of speech and academic freedom in our institution be protect into the future . Frank Field be a very good friend of mine . he believe deeply in seek out disagreement with other people for a rich conversation , and in the importance of listen in good faith to argument make in good faith . do my right hon . friend agree that we should see that spirit across university campus ? how will her measure ensure that that be a reality ? I think we can all learn from Frank Field , who bring wisdom to a range of area . we can all reflect on the need to keep our view under constant review to ensure that we challenge ourselves . the chance to be educate , whether at school , college or university , be a crucial part of challenge ourselves and understand the world in all its many form . these measure will allow university student to have precisely that experience . I thank the Secretary of State for her statement . I particularly welcome the emphasis on reduce burden for university , which will mean a lot to small institution such as the small research - intensive institution like Reading University in my constituency . will she commit the Department to continue to work with small research - intensive institution ? yes . one of the many brilliant aspect of our country ' s high education sector be its diversity — small institution , large one and those that bring a wealth of difference , have evolve and change in different way . we will continue to listen to and work with provider and institution of all shape and size across our country . I congratulate the shadow Secretary of State on the sheer audacity of come to this place and pretend that her be the party of free speech . it be her party that introduce the Transparency of Lobbying , Non - Party Campaigning and Trade Union Administration Act 2014 , the single large restriction on free speech in the charity and voluntary sector , purely because the sector be say thing the then Government do not want to hear . I encourage the Secretary of State to ignore the whine and the whinge , the gripe and the groan , of the Conservative party and carry on with what she be do , because she be absolutely right . university be where people can challenge new idea and hear thing with which they may disagree . what advice be she give to university about the support they put in place so that student can explore these new idea and have their own view challenge in a way that be safe and secure ? my hon . friend be absolutely right that freedom of speech cut both way , and Conservative Members would sometimes do well to reflect on that , too . sometimes , student can be expose to view they find challenging or difficult , especially young student who be newly away from home , and it be right that we put in place the right support . institution have invest a lot in mental health support and other provision . I think this also underline the need to turn around the provision in the national health service , because I be concerned about the extent to which provider be have to put in place additional support , above and beyond what should be a statutory requirement for every person in our country . I thank the Secretary of State for her statement , and I particularly welcome the funding for tackle antisemitism on campus , which be a well - document problem . when the original guidance on the Act be publish , it take an approach to free speech that do not take account of the limitation on freedom of expression for minority group that arise from hate speech . as chair of the all - party parliamentary group against antisemitism , I be particularly concerned about the risk of give that hate implicit protection and amplification on campus . can the Secretary of State assure I and minority community representative who have raise this issue with we that any future guidance will more carefully outline the importance of expression for all , include minority group that be sometimes crowd out by loud , hateful voice ? I will ensure that my hon . friend ' s point be take up . many have raise very serious concern about antisemitism on campus and its impact on jewish student , and I can see no good reason why any university would invite a Holocaust denier on to campus to deny the overwhelming evidence . holocaust denial be an appalling form of antisemitism . yesterday , I join the Holocaust Educational Trust in Parliament to make sure that , as we come to the 80th anniversary of the liberation of Auschwitz - Birkenau , we redouble our effort to fight hatred and prejudice , include antisemitism , wherever we find it in our country . I declare an interest , not only as someone who have work in the sector , but as a member of the freedom of expression organisation English PEN , which condemn the approach of the previous Government because it feel it would restrict academic freedom . far , my constituent , who be a well - regard economist , lose his job after publish research into the impact of migration on coalfield community . will the Secretary of State assure my constituent that this Government be commit to academic freedom and to ensure the stability of academic institution ? I give my hon . friend that assurance . that be also why , as one of the measure that I intend to return to , we must look again at the board and executive appointment to the Office for Students . it be right that concern have be raise that there could be the suspicion of political interference give that , rather unusually for that kind of appointment , it involve a political appointee . People might regard that as fine if they agree with the view of the Government of the day , but I do not think that be a good principle on which we enshrine in law very important position that be central to how we uphold academic freedom and freedom of speech in this country . I thank the Secretary of State for her statement and particularly in regard to the removal of the tort from the exist legislation . that will allow our university to ensure that fund get spend on student and not on complex legal issue . as the Secretary of State have say repeatedly today , the Government take the need to expose student to a wide range of issue seriously . as a former academic , may I ask my right hon . friend whether she agree with I that our university must remain centre of robust , rigorous debate always ? yes , that be crucial . we know that the chance to study at university be life change for so many student . that be of course the case for young student — those who have what might be consider the more traditional experience of go to university at 18 — but it be also about have the chance throughout life to return to education and training . that be what I have see across so many institution in our country . they put in place fantastic opportunity for upskille and retrain later on in life , as people think again about how they want to go about thing . I praise those institution ' fantastic work in drive growth and innovation , and in the month to come , we will work with they to ensure they can do more . may I invite the Secretary of State to respond to the follow statement that be share by the Union of jewish Students while she be on her foot ? " we support the change bring forward by the Secretary of State . she have listen to the concern we and other raise and have take action . the result be that the Act will now be less likely to damage effort to tackle anti - jewish racism on campus . that should be welcome by everyone . " I be grateful to my hon . friend for share those comment . I pay tribute to the Union of jewish Students for the amazing work it do every day to support jewish student on campus and to ensure that their voice be hear , include at the high level of Government . I give my commitment to UJS that I will continue to work with it and other student group to make sure their voice be always hear . we as a Government be resolutely behind they in the fight against antisemitism in our country . for the final question , I call Dr Scott Arthur . as someone who be an academic until about 5 am on 5 July last year , I thank the Secretary of State for her statement and for the leadership she have show on this issue . I will ask a question in the context of my entry in the Register of Members ' Financial Interests . I be proud of all the university in Edinburgh and how they attract student from all over the world , but last year when I visit the Edinburgh Hebrew Congregation , which be the main synagogue in Edinburgh , I be ashamed to hear of the intimidation that jewish student be face in university . I be pleased to hear that university be take that seriously and I know that the Edinburgh Interfaith Association be too . freedom of speech be an important right , but that should never extend to bigotry and hate . do the Secretary of State agree that student should be free to practise their faith , always , and able to display their faith publicly , no matter what it be , without fear of intimidation ? that be absolutely essential . the same be true for jewish student and other from minority group as they go about their business at school and college . sadly , I have hear too many example of abuse and intimidation of the sort that my hon . friend describe . university must be robust place of intellectual challenge and rigour ; there be no good reason why student should feel intimidate or harass in a place where they should find comfort , challenge and support . point of order on a point of order , Madam Deputy Speaker . I wish to raise an all - party parliamentary matter that be cause international ruction . before Christmas , a report surface in the name of the all - party parliamentary group for the Commonwealth . basically , to the annoyance of appg officer and many member of the public , it be a hatchet job on the interim Government of Bangladesh . on a delegation to the high commission in London during recess , I be pick up on this . even when I go to Bangladesh , the interim leader , Professor Yunus , a Nobel prize winner , also say , " what be your Government do issue these falsity in the name of Parliament ? " I wish to seek your advice on this , Madam Deputy Speaker . can I get clarification on the significance of such thing be issue ? when I inquire into this , I be tell that a pressure group have put out this report without final sign - off . so do these thing constitute policy in any way , and be it right that a partisan organisation can hijack an APPG and then besmirch the name of our Parliament and our government ? I be grateful to the hon . member for give notice of her point of order . she have put her point on the record . I be happy to confirm for the benefit of the House that all - party parliamentary group represent a wide range of view across both Houses and their report do not necessarily reflect the view of his Majesty ' s Government or indeed of the wide membership of this House . I now have to announce the result of today ' s defer Divisions . on the draft Electricity Capacity Mechanism ( Amendment ) Regulations 2024 — [ interruption . ] I can see that the right hon . member for East Hampshire ( Damian Hinds ) be incredibly excited by this . as I be say , the Ayes be 418 and the Noes be 78 , so the Ayes have it . on the draft official Controls ( Amendment ) Regulations 2024 , the Ayes be 423 and the Noes be 77 , so the Ayes have it . on the draft Clean Heat Market Mechanism Regulations 2024 , the Ayes be 424 and the Noes be 109 , so the Ayes have it . [ the Division list be publish at the end of today ' s debate . ] Bill present Outdoor Education Presentation and First Reading ( Standing Order no . 57 ) Tim Farron present a Bill to require that every child be offer at least one outdoor education experience during primary school year and at least one such experience during secondary school year ; and for connected purpose . Bill read the first time ; to be read a second time on Friday 11 July , and to be print ( Bill 161 ) . Youth Mobility Scheme ( EU Countries ) Motion for leave to bring in a Bill ( Standing Order no . 23 ) I beg to move , that leave be give to bring in a Bill to require the Secretary of State to enter into negotiation with country which be member of the European Union for the purpose of extend the Youth Mobility Scheme to applicant from those country on a reciprocal basis ; and for connected purpose . the immense damage cause by the Conservatives ' botch Brexit deal be clear for all to see . few think that young people would be able to go for two year to live and work all the way over in Japan , but not be able to hop across the channel to do the same in France . I be not sure that anyone vote for that kind of increase bureaucracy back in 2016 . this Bill give we the chance to send a different message to a generation of young people who have be deny the opportunity that so many of we in this Chamber take for grant when we be grow up . if we want to take a job or to study in an EU country , we could just go and do so . opportunity and hope for the future have rarely be in such short supply in this country , and this be how we can provide some of both . what I be propose be a pragmatic , define scheme that will once again allow young people across the UK to be able to spend time with our near neighbour without have to navigate a tangle of Brexit red tape . it be a youth mobility scheme with the EU that would open up opportunity for british young people to learn new skill , language and culture and bring all of that back with they to benefit our economy and our society . this would not be the UK ' s only reciprocal youth mobility scheme . we have such arrangement in place already with Australia , Japan , New Zealand and Canada . they be familiar and try and test , allow those age 18 to 30 to live , work and study in the country involve for a set period . the Government have make much of their so - call mission . Mission no . 1 , we be tell , be economic growth , yet any proposal that might involve our european neighbour and contribute to boost growth be dismiss . the UK be face acute labour shortage , particularly in key sector such as hospitality . these be exactly the kind of job that young people visit the UK for a few year might take on , whether while study , immerse themselves in our culture or improve their grasp of our language . the situation suggest that this be a Government who be not serious about make the practical , hard - head choice that would greatly benefit the UK economy and labour market in the long term , stimulate growth and improve the life of british people . the Government also talk up their reset with the EU , which , so far at least , seem to involve little more than warm word and a continuation of the previous Government ' s attitude of see close co - operation with the EU as a threat , rather than as a considerable opportunity to make Britain more secure and prosperous . indeed , the Government have stick so closely to the conservative party ' s script — or be it Reform UK ' s script ? — that minister have even mischaracterise , repeatedly in fact , a youth mobility scheme with the EU as a return to freedom of movement . that be categorically not what be be propose here . any scheme would be time limited and involve a restricted cohort of eligible people . I truly hope that the Government will seriously reconsider their short - sighted and self - defeat position on the issue . a number of hon . member from across the House have rightly ask Ministers directly for an explanation of their refusal to explore such a scheme , yet no one have give a response that make any sense . meanwhile , the Government have tie themselves up in unnecessary red line on Europe that do nothing to boost growth or support british business and young people . even that can not be use as an excuse , as this proposal do not breach any of those red line . the situation be have a real impact on young people grow up in this country today . let I share Alex ' s story . a bright and ambitious 25 - year - old from Taunton , Alex leave university last year with the aim of work in a german fintech start - up . he have plan to move to Germany for a few year , then return home with a well understanding of the german language , and with the knowledge and skill to launch his own start - up here in the UK , but the hurdle prove insurmountable . he tell I : " I didn ' t want to move there forever , I just want a year , maybe two , to earn invaluable experience , polish my language skill and get to know german culture . " with no simple mobility arrangement in place between the UK and the EU , Alex end up shelve his plan . not only do Alex lose out , our economy lose out too . the Government ' s failure to act risk close the world to a whole generation of Alexes across the UK . it be also hold back british growth and prosperity . let we take the UK ' s £ 82 . 5 billion tourism sector as an example . it have be grapple with the impact of the last government ' s failure to address youth mobility with the EU . ABTA , a trade body represent the sector , report a 69 % drop in UK national work in european tourism role in the five year after the EU referendum . business that once offer transformative opportunity to young Britons now face rise cost and critical staffing shortage . I have hear from one UK - base tourism company that once employ more than 400 young Britons a year . mobility restriction have force it to drastically scale back its operation , undermine year of competitive advantage , and slash training and employment opportunity for young UK worker . European Pubs , which run bar and restaurant in France , previously rely on UK staff for most seasonal role . today , only 50 % of its workforce be british . a youth mobility scheme , which recent polling show be back by a clear majority of british voter , could ease labour shortage , provide essential career pathway and help to safeguard our tourism sector ' s future vitality . meanwhile , our small and medium - sized business be really struggle , especially in sector where staff shortage have become acute . sector from hospitality to the art , entertainment and retail be desperately short of staff . with the UK ' s age population , that be unlikely to improve in the future . a youth mobility scheme would offer british business an excellent opportunity to address staffing shortage by welcome young people from EU country for a limited period , bring fresh talent and energy to our workforce . with the threat of tariff from the incoming President of the United States , it have never be more important for our Government to break down barrier to opportunity elsewhere . when speak with counterpart in Brussels in my capacity as the Liberal Democrat Europe spokesperson , I have be strike by a clear message . after year of attempt to cherry - pick , the UK now need to show that it be once again a trusted and reliable partner . by take the lead on a youth mobility scheme , we have an opportunity to build that trust with our european ally that would allow we to explore our other priority . Britain ' s ability to strike new deal on defence , agriculture and trade would falter if we send the signal that we be unwilling to move on a pragmatic , mutually beneficial scheme like this one . a carefully design youth mobility scheme would give the british people control . it would ensure that participant could come here only under a clearly define category and a tightly control time limit , while also signal that we value cultural exchange , business growth and an ongoing partnership with our near neighbour . let we be honest : we can not afford to keep let down young people like Alex , nor can we keep small business in limbo , force they to cope with staff shortage , when a scheme like this could do so much to help . young people in this country already face unprecedented challenge : a housing crisis , low salary growth , a rise cost of living and high taxis on income . the very least the Government could do be to remove barrier prevent young people in the UK from live and work in the rest of Europe . it sadden I that the Government have so far rule out such a scheme . I call on the Government to give the young people of this country a proper explanation . many of they have put their faith in the Labour party to reverse the damage do by the previous Government but remain disappointed and frustrated . the Bill call for a solution that would restore vital opportunity for our young people who have be leave high and dry by the Conservatives ' botch Brexit deal . by embrace a well structured and control youth mobility scheme , we would send the powerful message that this country be serious about support our young people and back british business with the labour force it need to grow . this be a moment to bring opportunity and renew good will back into the heart of UK - EU relation — a real reset . the issue will not go away and , as a liberal Democrat , I be proud to have sponsor from the Green party , SNP , Plaid Cymru and the Alliance party of Northern Ireland . many on the Labour and conservative Benches know that a youth mobility scheme with the EU be the right thing to do . it be time to rebuild our relationship with Europe and set our young people free . I commend this Bill to the House . question put and agree to . order , that James MacCleary , Tom Gordon , Si â n Berry , Caroline Voaden , Stephen Gethins , Sorcha Eastwood , Sarah Olney , Liz Saville Roberts , Mr Joshua Reynolds , Richard Foord , Helen Maguire and Liz Jarvis present the Bill . James MacCleary accordingly present the Bill . Bill read the first time ; to be read a second time on Friday 25 July 2025 , and to be print ( Bill 160 ) . Non - Domestic Rating ( Multipliers and Private Schools ) Bill Consideration of Bill , not amend in the Public Bill Committee New Clause 1 - Review of impact on business , high street and economic growth " ( 1 ) the Secretary of State must review the impact of section 1 to 4 of this Act on — ( a ) business , ( b ) high street , and ( c ) economic growth . ( 2 ) the review must consider — ( a ) the impact on different type of business , include small business , ( b ) the impact on business operate mainly or solely on high street , ( c ) whether the provision have have a measurable impact on economic growth , and if so what that impact have be . ( 3 ) the Secretary of State must lay a report of the review before Parliament within six month of those section come into effect . " — ( Vikki Slade . ) this new clause would require a review of the impact of clause 1 to 4 of the Act on business ( include small business ) , high street and economic growth . bring up , and read the first time . I beg to move , that the clause be read a second time . with this it will be convenient to discuss the following : new clause 2 — Review of impact of new multiplier — " ( 1 ) within eighteen month of the day on which section 1 to 4 of this Act be commence , the Secretary of State must conduct a review of the impact of those section . ( 2 ) the review must consider — ( a ) the impact of the introduction of the low multipli on qualify retail , hospitality and leisure hereditament , ( b ) the impact of the introduction of high multiplier in relation to a hereditament for which the value be £ 500 , 000 or more . ( 3 ) the Secretary of State must , as soon as be reasonably practicable , publish the review and lie a copy of that review before Parliament . ( 4 ) as part of the review the Secretary of State must consult with such party as they see fit include — ( a ) business , ( b ) the Valuation Office Agency ; and ( c ) Billing Authorities . " this new clause would require the Secretary of State , within 18 month of section 1 to 4 of the Act be commence , to review and consult on the impact of new multiplier . new clause 3 — section 1 to 4 : impact assessment — " ( 1 ) the Secretary of State must , within six month of this Act be pass , conduct an assessment of the expect impact of section 1 to 4 of this Act on relevant business . ( 2 ) the assessment must compare the amount of non - domestic rate expect to be pay by relevant business once section 1 to 4 come into force with the amount pay in each financial year between 1 April 2020 and 31 March 2026 . ( 3 ) the assessment must consider how the impact be expect to differ depend on the number of hereditament a business occupie . ( 4 ) the Secretary of State must lay before Parliament a report set out the finding of the assessment . ( 5 ) in this section , a " relevant business " be a business occupy a qualifying retail , hospitality or leisure hereditament . " this new clause would require the Secretary of State to examine the effect of the introduction of retail , hospitality and leisure multiplier on the amount of business rate pay by business occupy a single site compare with those occupy multiple site . amendment 9 , in clause 1 , page 2 , line 5 , at end insert — " ( 1A ) regulation under sub - paragraph ( 1 ) ( a ) must provide discretion for billing authority with regard to the application of the high multipli . " Amendment 1 , in clause 3 , page 3 , line 29 , after " hospitality " insert " , manufacture " . this amendment would add manufacturing business to the type of business that could qualify for use of the low multipli . amendment 2 , page 3 , line 33 , after " hospitality " insert " , manufacture " . this amendment be consequential on Amendment 1 . amendment 3 , page 4 , line 9 , after " hospitality " insert " , manufacture " . this amendment be consequential on Amendment 1 . amendment 4 , page 4 , line 13 , after " hospitality " insert " , manufacture " . this amendment be consequential on Amendment 1 . amendment 5 , page 4 , line 31 , after " hospitality " insert " , manufacture " . this amendment be consequential on Amendment 1 . amendment 6 , page 4 , line 35 , after " hospitality " insert " , manufacture " . this amendment be consequential on Amendment 1 . amendment 7 , in clause 5 , page 5 , line 37 , leave out from " person " to end of line 38 and insert — " who have special educational need . " ( 5A ) in subsection ( 5 ) " special educational need " have the same meaning as in section 20 ( when a child or young person have special educational need ) of the Children and Families Act 2014 . " this amendment would mean that a school that be wholly or mainly concerned with provide education to person with special educational need would not be a private school for the purpose of the Act , and as a result would retain charitable relief from non - domestic rate . amendment 8 , page 5 , line 38 , at end insert — " , or ( b ) have a religious character or other special character and there be no maintained school or academy of the same character within the specify distance from that school . ( 5A ) in sub - paragraph ( 5 ) ( b ) — " religious character " have the meaning give under section 69 ( duty to secure provision of religious education ) of the School Standards and Framework Act 1998 , " other special character " have the meaning as define by the Secretary of State by regulation , " specify distance " be the distance specify under section 445 ( 5 ) ( offence : failure to secure regular attendance at school of register pupil ) of the Education Act 1996 . ( 5B ) regulation under this section be to be make by statutory instrument . ( 5c ) a statutory instrument contain regulation under this section may not be make unless a draft instrument have be lay before and approve by resolution of each House of Parliament . " this amendment would provide that charitable rate relief would continue to apply to a school with a religious or other special character , if no maintain school or academy with the same character be within the statutory walking distance ( as set in the Education Act 1996 ) from that school . amendment 10 , in clause 6 , page 6 , line 22 , leave out " 2025 " and insert " 2026 " . business rate reform be long overdue . it be frequently cite by my constituent as the big concern for their business ' survival and one of the most direct inhibitor to their growth . I be contact this week by a constituent from a local business in Three Legged Cross , right on the edge of my constituency . he have be run it for over 40 year , and the cliff edge create by the small business rate relief mean that his rate bill will go from £ 2 , 800 to £ 8 , 500 per year . the only thing that will save this microbusiness be systemic change as propose by the Lib Dems in our manifesto , not a tax base on an arbitrary valuation that bear no relationship to the activity take place inside his building . high street be try to redefine themselves , move from the heart of good purchase to literal shop window as they struggle to compete against online competitor that do not have their overhead . it would be wrong to think that the solution be to try to return to the perfect high street of the past , as if such a thing exist . I be old enough to remember C & A be the place I and my friend browse for the late fashion , and there be a Blockbuster video store and pic ' n ' mix from Woolies . where be they now ? it be dangerous and self - defeat to be catch up in toxic nostalgia , try to reclaim the past as some kind of perfect place . Parliament must enact legislation that support the society of tomorrow and town that will work for a technological and multicultural age — indeed , an age in which people can no long afford the stuff that we use to buy on a Saturday afternoon , or be choose , as I do now , to buy their stuff from second - hand store . the dangerous gap between the slashing of retail hospitality and leisure relief by almost half , and a regime that bring in as yet undefined new multiplier , bring real risk . our new clause 1 would require a review of the impact of clause 1 to 4 on business , on high street and on the real prize of economic growth that the Government mention so often . there have be a lot of talk in recent month about decision be make without clear impact assessment . as we move through a period of reform , enshrine such an assessment in law , rather than question later whether it have be do , would save we all a lot of trouble and demonstrate that the Government genuinely want to make improvement . one issue that the hon . Lady have not yet mention be the impact of the Employment Rights Bill , which will create further red tape for our high street business when it come into play . do the Liberal Democrats think that the Government should consider that ? change taxis and rate be one thing , but create red tape at the very same time , constrain business growth , be another . I agree that this be a difficult time for small business , with so many thing change at the same time — not least the increase national insurance rate . to return to the role of the high street , the most successful high street be move quickly to reinvent themselves . since my election , I have be try to find a high street location for my constituency office . I have decide to base myself in the historic market town of Wimborne , where my mum live and my child go to school . it be the fast - grow community in Mid Dorset and North Poole — Ministers have hear I talk about its housing problem many time — and it have great bus route . I think it would be a great place to find a small unit easily . I be wrong , however . the strength of the sense of place , the innovation of its business and the hard work of its business improvement district and its town council be such that when a business close down , other be wait to move in . I have finally find my new home , which will open by the end of the month when we have fit it out , but the experience prove what I already know : the high street can survive , but only when the business community be prepared to give people what they want . retailer such as Tickles and Co . trade alongside the hospice shop , and old business such as Bartletts , which have for 120 year sell smart clothe for all season , be able to sustain themselves despite change in the market . the Lib Dems welcome the proposal to permanently reduce business rate for retail , hospitality and leisure , and we acknowledge that the financial situation the Government be leave by the previous Government make the 75 % discount difficult to maintain , but any discount be worthless if business that be try to stabilise follow the covid pandemic , the energy crisis and the shift to online cashless purchasing do not even make it through the next year . as I have say before , that be not the reform that business need . the Minister have already say that this be just phase 1 , but we be incredibly frustrated that he have not take the opportunity to take thing far . new clause 3 , in the name of my hon . friend the Member for St Albans ( Daisy Cooper ) , focus our proposal far on the retail , hospitality and leisure sector , and raise valid point about the risk to individual business compare with those that have multiple branch . there must be an assessment of that risk alongside a broad impact assessment . my hon . friend be give an impassioned speech about the importance of business rate reform . do she agree that there be a risk of unintended consequence in what the Government be propose ? at the moment , the 75 % relief be cap at £ 110 , 000 , but when the relief go to zero in two year ' time , that cap will not exist . House of Commons Library research show that the net effect could be that small business end up be 80 % bad off , while big chain such as Starbucks could be 40 % well off . although it be important that we get a review of the impact of business rate , it be also important that we get the differential assessment set out in new clause 3 . I completely agree with my hon . friend . one problem be the same law of unintended consequence that we have see with thing like the national insurance increase — which , as we repeat over and over again , be impact small business , hospice , doctor ' surgery and thing like that — when quite understandably , an attempt be make to raise fund from elsewhere . I want to share the view of Anthony Woodhouse , the chair of Hall and Woodhouse brewery and pub chain , found and base in Dorset but with a branch just across the way from this place — unfortunately , I be not able to be at its event in Portcullis House because of the timing of today ' s debate . Anthony tell I that the revaluing of property when a huge amount of money have just be invest to make it fit for a change market , and before you have even have a chance to benefit from that market , be completely crazy and discourage business investment . as such , it be important that as we look to reform business rate , we examine that issue as well . despite our failure to do that , business such as Anthony ' s be respond to the market . pub such as the Olive Branch in Wimborne and the Old Granary on Wareham quay be now place where muddy boot , child and dog be welcome , and where they sell as many cup of coffee as pint of local beer . the high street need to morph as business have — to be ready and willing to change — but while business rate reform rightly start with the high street , it be important that it do not end there . as such , I turn to our amendment 1 to 6 , which would add manufacturing business to the low multipli . the UK have a rich history of manufacturing excellence , and Barclays ' " make in Britain " report find that a product be make in Britain hold an important influence over consumer ’ decision to purchase it , with customer perceive such product to be high quality , reliable and internationally respected . the " make in Britain " tag be find to be worth an addition £ 3 . 5 billion a year to our UK exporter , which be why we believe that the low multipli should also apply to manufacturing business . we need to give those business a shot in the arm to ensure they can compete on the world stage . the threat by incoming President Trump to put tariff on UK product , our continued isolation from our neighbour through an inadequate Brexit deal , and the rapid growth of economy such as China and India represent a real threat to local manufacturing . Poole Bay Holdings , base in my constituency , stand ready to produce its innovative Koolpak here in the UK . anybody who have child will know the brand Koolpak — it be that ice pack that be not even ice — and that business have be modify its equipment so that it can make the product here , in Dorset , to compete with China . it stand ready to drive up those sale . recognition of such business through a low multipli , or at least the potential to include they in a low multipli if the market become more tricky , be the intent behind our amendment . turn to amendment 7 and 8 , which stand in the name of the shadow Minister , the hon . member for Ruislip , Northwood and Pinner ( David Simmonds ) , the Liberal Democrats simply do not believe in the taxation of education . alongside the change to vat , the removal of the special status for school be really disappointing . therefore , those amendment — which seek to recognise the value of school for child whose need be difficult to meet elsewhere , whether those be special educational need and disability or whether people be choose to educate in a faith school — seem reasonable . in summary , this Bill be a fair start , and some business will feel it be well than the abyss that might otherwise have be . however , the Government could and should have take different decision to protect business that will face additional cost in just a few week ' time . we be often ask how we would pay for it ; I welcome that discussion , as there be many proposal in our manifesto , from tax big bank to ask gambling company to pay their fair share . on behalf of the Liberal Democrats , I recognise that the Government have work quickly to bring this Bill forward , but the risk of lose business en route to something well be just too great . we need proper reform , so that the business of the mid - 21st century can weather the storm ahead . I be grateful for the opportunity to speak again on this Bill , have be part of the scrutiny process in Committee . the Committee hear representation from a wide variety of expert in related field , and I be hearten by the news that many expert feel that this Bill would have a positive impact on 98 % of the retail store that make up our community . in particular , small convenience store such as the local Co - op or the great british corner shop will see great benefit to their capacity to support staffing , security and other operational function . our incredible independent shopkeeper , such as those who populate the high street of Ilkeston and Long Eaton in my constituency , will have more fund to take on additional staff , improve their security set - up and gain long - term confidence in their ability to serve our community . these measure represent a simple , common - sense approach to rebalance the scale in favour of local retailer and away from the online giant , and increase taxis on the big player while relieve the burden on local retailer . the hon . Member may have hear my early intervention . he be absolutely right , and I agree with he wholeheartedly , that we have to shift the burden away from small business on to big online retailer . however , that could be undermine if all we do be shift the burden on to the big chain . House of Commons Library research say that small independent business be go to end up subsidise the big chain . do he share my concern that this could be an unintended consequence and that the Government must look at it ? I refer to Hansard for the discussion we have in Committee , but that do not come through in the evidence we hear . however , I respect the fact that the hon . Member have make that point , and I thank she for do so . as we hear from the hon . member for Mid Dorset and North Poole ( Vikki Slade ) , another sector to benefit significantly from these measure be our local pub . the fine folk frequent the Sawley Junction in Long Eaton or the Bulls Head in Breaston in my constituency can rest easy that their local be in safe hand . more generally , the measure we be bring forward will reduce the tax burden on the hospitality sector , which be consider by many to be overtax . I be very glad that the Government have be able to offer something positive to the sector , which have be broadly forget for many year . some of the Bill ' s opponent have suggest that the removal of charitable relief from non - domestic rate for private school will have a negative impact on the parent of privately educate child , so I be strongly hearten to hear from one of our expert during the scrutiny process in Committee . Professor Francis Greene , professor of work and education economic at the University College London institute of education , note that this Bill will have a " marginal " effect on the education sector , and that the policy be fair and would generally not have a great deal of impact on the proportion of child in private school , which have remain broadly constant over the past 20 year , despite a cash - term double in fee . would the hon . gentleman like to reflect on what he have just say , which be that the proportion of child go to private school have stay constant ? even the Government ' s own analysis do not say that . it say that the number have stay broadly constant , and in fact the proportion have come down . if I be incorrect , I stand correct . my understanding from speak to the expert be that the proportion have remain broadly consistent , but my apology if that be incorrect . I thank the right hon . member for his intervention . the Committee stage reaffirm what many of we on the Government Benches already know , which be that this Bill represent a common - sense modification of our tax policy that will support local small business . the Bill represent a core pillar of this Government ' s goal to rebalance the scale away from large online giant in favour of local independent and towards the 94 % of child educate in the state sector . I know that trader and family in Ilkeston , Long Eaton and the surround village in my constituency will broadly benefit from these measure , and I be proud to support this Bill through its remain stage unamende . I intend to confine my remark to two specific amendment — amendment 3 and 10 , on private school and special educational need and disability — that would delay the introduction of this tax hike so school have more time to plan financially . school in my constituency have be punish by a series of tax rise since this Labour Government take office in July . by add vat to private school fee , and now by end their charitable business rate relief status , Labour be attack aspiration . these tax hike will not hurt the wealthy . it be the people who have scrimp and save to send their child to a school of their choice who will be hit the bad . labour seem to believe people should not have a choice over where they send their child to school , as be evident in their similarly misguided child ' s Wellbeing and Schools Bill , which be make its way through this place . school will close because of this tax hike , and I know this because it be happen in my constituency of South Northamptonshire . carrdus school , found in 1957 , survive the cold war , the winter of discontent , the global financial crisis and three Labour Governments , yet it could not withstand the tax onslaught from this Chancellor and it will close its door at the end of the summer term . that will mean 120 pupil flooding back into the state system , which be already struggle with capacity issue , at a huge cost to the taxpayer . will the hon . member reflect on my comment a few moment ago about how the expert suggest that the Bill would have a marginal , negligible impact on the education sector ? that may be the evidence that you have receive in this instance , but I be give the real - life proof . when I speak to the headteacher about this , she say that the increase in national insurance on teacher cost , which be about 80 % of outgoing , in combination with all the other thing , have have a huge impact and the school will have to shut . it will be close its door at the end of July , which be a travesty . order . you say the word " you " , but I do not ask the question . my apology , Madam Deputy Speaker ; I would not dare say that about you . if the Government be intent on punish my constituent ' aspiration for the future of their child , the least they could do be grant the concession that the Conservatives be ask for in all our amendment , and specifically those in amendment 7 and 10 . amendment 7 would exempt private school that wholly or partially provide education for child with special educational need and disability who have not yet obtain an education , health and care plan , or whose need be establish but not so severe as to require one . SEND support in school help pupil with a level of need below that of an EHC plan . restrict relief only to those setting that provide for the most severe need be out of step with the rest of our education system . many family , on not be successful in apply for an EHC plan , or indeed endure huge waiting time for the local authority to put one in place , opt to send their child to a private school . we should not punish family who choose to do what be in the good interest of their child . amendment 10 would delay the introduction of this tax hike for a further year to allow school to plan their finance accordingly . that be just plain common sense . it would mean few school like Carrdus have to make the unenviable choice to close their door . my hon . friend have hit the nail on the head : there be a timing issue . the Labour Government be explicit and up front on this tax rise in their manifesto , but they claim that they care about child ' s education and welfare . if so , why would they implement the change halfway through an academic year ? the hon . member for Erewash ( Adam Thompson ) just turn around and say , " well , it doesn ' t matter because it ' s 120 kid in the Member ' s constituency . " actually , it really do matter , because every single child ' s education matter . do my hon . friend agree that even if those be small amount at the margin , it be completely justifiable to delay the measure as the school , the expert and the parent have ask for ? I totally concur with my hon . friend , who make the point powerfully . the impact go beyond the 120 individual student to their parent ' arrangement and how they work . the headteacher of the school have a husband who be also a teacher , and they face a huge impact in respect of what they will do with their child and whether they can manage to make new school place arrangement . this policy be terribly misguided . we really need to think about what we be do . it be a travesty that we will lose a school . will the hon . member give way ? no , I will keep go if the hon . member do not mind . I do not want to see any other school close or any other child suffer as a result of this plan . I hope that colleague across the House will join Conservative Members in support our amendment . I be pleased to speak in favour of the Bill , which be a significant piece of legislation that aim to reform the non - domestic rating system in England . I welcome the Bill ' s primary objective of create a fair and more balanced approach to non - domestic rating . by increase the multiplier for large business , we will ensure that those entity contribute their fair share to the local economy . that change be particularly important as it address the disparity between large corporation and small business , which often struggle to compete under the current system . the introduction of low multiplier for retail , hospitality and leisure property be a much need relief for those sector , which have face significant challenge , especially in the wake of the covid - 19 pandemic . by reduce the tax burden , the Bill aim to support recovery and growth , ultimately benefit local community and economy such as the hospitality and retail sector in my constituency . one of the most notable aspect of the Bill be the removal of charitable relief for private school . although private school play a role in our education system , it be essential to recognise that they operate as business and should be tax accordingly . this change will generate additional revenue that can be invest in public service , include state school . the Bill represent a step towards a more equitable and balanced tax system . it address the need of various sector , support local economy and ensure that all entity contribute fairly to the public good . there be problem with all taxis , which be why we end up with a blend of taxis . for business , there be tax on payroll , sale , profit and property . however , business rate be a particularly difficult and unpopular tax because they represent a fix cost on the business that do not vary when the economy go up or down , or accord to the particular company ' s success or growth , or a contraction in its sale or profit . over the year , I have hear many time from business in Alton , Petersfield , Horndean , Clanfield , Liss and elsewhere in East Hampshire about a desire for business rate reform . I be sure that a lot of small business owner be very attracted to what they hear from the Labour party — that it would to scrap business rate altogether . the Labour Government do not say that any more , but they still want we to believe that they be undertake some great reform and cut rate for our high street business . I be afraid it be all smoke and mirror , because for those business , include the one name - check by the hon . member for Erewash ( Adam Thompson ) , the big effect that they feel right now be the cut in the relief for retail and hospitality business — not a small one , but from 75 % to 40 % . it would be bad enough if that be all business face , but it be not . they have to cope with all sort of difficulty the whole time . we have rise labour cost — we support the increase in the national living wage over time , but not a hike in employer national insurance contribution at the same time . because of what be happen to the threshold , there will be a massive effect on part - time worker . that will be very difficult for retail and hospitality business to swallow . in and of themselves , the cut to the multipli for high street business be welcome , but we must remember that they be balance by increase elsewhere in the system . sometimes , Government member talk about big business and corporation as some unwelcome part of our economy , but they be the big employer in the country and be fundamental to our economy . in the Red Book , these change involve increase of hundred of million of pound in business rate . who will the increase rate affect ? they will affect large supermarket — a sector that be one of the big employer in the country — and hotel , which be a really important employer , as well as be fundamental to travel and tourism . will the Minister also say a word about the expect effect on the national health service ? the blurb on the Budget say , " we be go to attack distribution centre , include those use by online retailer . " the word " include " do a lot of work in that sentence , because high street retailer also have distribution centre , and the change will add to their cost , fuel inflation on food and everyday consumer good . my right hon . friend be make an excellent observation on the impact of these cost . we know from the survey that 75 % of business will pass on the cost to the very people who use they . they will have an inflationary impact on the public . do he agree that it be imperative that we think about that ? as ever , my hon . friend be spot on . in the end , there be no such thing as a tax on business — you can not tax a business ; you can only tax people . any tax on business be ultimately a tax on its employee , its customer or its owner . before somebody jump up and start talk about the owner , the owner be often pension fund who be then pay out the pension for our mum and dad . my point be that these business rate increase will mean high cost for brick - and - mortar company as well , which come on top of all the other change , in particular the hike in employer national insurance contribution . and this from a government who yet again this week keep talk about their growth agenda . it make I wonder what be actually write in that growth agenda . overall , the effect of all these change — we need only look at the Budget Red Book — be that the revenue from business rate be project to increase from £ 32 billion this financial year to almost £ 40 billion in five year ' time . it be a massive further tax raid on business , and a brake on employment and economic growth . the right hon . Gentleman be give an impassioned speech about the case for an overhaul of the business rate system . why do the previous Conservative Government never get around to do that ? well , I do refer at the start of my speech to the call over the year for reform . I also say that there be problem with all taxis we levy on individual or on business and that be why we end up with a blend . what I be talk about now be the fact that this Government be hike up the total amount that will be take in business rate , which will fall on major employer and then be feel in our unemployment rate . the Government be try to do this thing of say , " we be cut stuff , " but they be not , because for all of the company we have hear name - check , reduce the relief will outweigh the effect of the multipli . on top of that , we have a revaluation come up in the near future . that be probably go to mean an increase in rateable value that will compound those high multiple . for all those reason , new clause 2 be both important and a reasonable ask . it say that after a period of time , we should review the real - life effect of these change and give the government an opportunity to change course and get back to something that look a bit like a growth agenda . I turn briefly to the effect of these change on independent school . we have debate in the Chamber on a number of occasion the Government ' s overall approach to independent school . let I say again that we object in principle to tax education . it make we almost unique in the world that we would do such a thing and it will be the first time in our national history that we have do so — it have never be do before by any Labour Government , or any other Government . the tax change we be debate today on rate be not the only tax change or transfer of money from independent school to the Treasury . they be already face a big increase — 5 % , I think — in employer contribution to the teacher ' pension scheme . like all organisation — public sector , private sector , charitable and voluntary sector — they also have employer national insurance contribution to deal with . and then there be the enormous vat change . specifically on this tax change , it be a fix cost , as I mention at the start of my speech , at a time when there be all this uncertainty around the independent education sector and child will be move . I will let member into a secret : no one know what the ultimate effect will be . we can line up as many expert as we like , but no one know how many child will be move , but we know it will be a non - trivial number great than zero — there will be child move out of that sector and there be a lot of uncertainty . it therefore seem to be a very unwise time to add , on top of all those other tax change , a significant change to a fix - cost tax . the amendment put forward by the official Opposition be therefore very well worth support ; my hon . friend the Member for South Northamptonshire ( Sarah Bool ) make that case very strongly . on faith school , we know that whatever the impact assessment say , people of faith , and particularly of small faith , will be disproportionately impact by this Government ' s change to education . we also know that child with SEND feature particularly prominently in the independent sector . many of those school have an awful lot of child who have special need , but not necessarily — or not yet — an education , health and care plan . special consideration should be give to both those type of school : faith school — if we want to narrow it down far , we could say small faith charge low fee to parent — and those cater to child with special educational need and disability . on amendment 10 , with all else that be go on in the independent sector , it be at the very least an exceptionally reasonable ask of the Government that we delay these change by a year to give the sector a chance to be able to cope and plan . thank you for allow I to take part in this debate , Madam Deputy Speaker . have be a member of the Bill Committee — my first Bill Committee in this place — I appreciate be able to contribute on Report in the Chamber . Southall town centre be well know the world over as a great place to shop for an asian wedding , with stunning lehengas , saris and sherwani on sale all down the Broadway , King Street and South Road . during the election campaign , I vividly recall see two clothe shop worker eat their lunchtime rotis behind the counter . when I comment that business must be good , they both say no . they say that a few year ago , they would never have have time for lunch , and would have work right up until close as they be so busy . they tell I that they be suffer from be undercut by online retailer because they be pay through the nose for business rate , face blitz robbery with no police around to respond , and constantly have to chase big business for payment . it be ironic that the previous Government have suddenly decide they back local business after 14 year of ignore their plea . in fact , the only business they support be the rail company that could not run the train , the water company that could not keep our water clean , and , of course , the private sector mate they hand out dodgy covid contract to . indeed , the former Prime Minister and former Member for Uxbridge and South Ruislip , Boris Johnson , reportedly use a four - letter word begin with f when make it clear how little he care about business . in contrast , this Labour Government be back local business . we be already ensure that supplier pay small business within 30 day , and we be crack down on retail crime , too . the Bill will deliver on our promise to ensure a fair system of business rate that will help brick and mortar shop like those in Southall to compete with online company . finally , we will have a permanently rebalance system that will stop local shop be undercut and stop the slow death of our high street and town centre . new clause 1 to 3 and amendment 9 be all thing that be already happen . we be already publish a review of these measure as part of next year ' s Budget , and there be already discretion for local authority to look at the high multipli rate . amendment 1 to 6 would add manufacturing to the Bill , which would , in my belief , dilute its effect . we have already prioritise manufacturing as part of the Budget , invest £ 3 billion into aerospace , automotive and the life science industry . we make no apology for use this Bill to prioritise town centre . amendment 7 , 8 and 10 all seek to either dilute or delay the change in the Bill . the Bill already exempt all private school that be wholly or mainly focus on educate child with special educational need — that be already in the Bill . we know , however , that 93 % of child in this country go to state school . politic be about priority . just as we be prioritise town centre in the Bill , we be also prioritise those 93 % of child . unless the Conservatives think it be okay to have child in state school teach math and science by unqualified teacher , they need to say where they would get the money from otherwise . although the Bill be about a fair system of business rate that will help local business , many on the Opposition Benches have raise the issue of employer national insurance . some 93 % of business in Ealing Southall be microbusinesse . Most of those business will either pay less employer national insurance or the same as they currently pay . some business will pay more national insurance , but that be because the previous Government run up a massive £ 22 billion credit card bill make rash promise they do not even attempt to keep , while run public service into the ground . when the final demand letter start come , they hide they in the back of a drawer and pretend everything be fine . employer national insurance increase for some business will help we to pay for the triple lock on pension , thousand of extra hip and knee operation , and more police on our street . again , unless the Conservatives think it be okay to reduce pension in real term , let waiting list go up and up and give our street over to criminal , they need to say where they would get the money from . before Christmas , I meet the brewer Heineken at its pub the Star and Scorpion in west Ealing . labour have already take a penny off a pint in the Budget and our decision in the Bill to permanently low business rate for retail and hospitality business will help to far protect local pub like the Star and Scorpion . without the Bill , the bar and restaurant of west Ealing and Hanwell would be face a cliff edge in April , with big increase in their business rate as the stick - plaster solution that the previous Government come up with end . the Bill both extend temporary reduction in business rate for high street business and introduce a new permanent scheme that will level the play field between the high street and the internet . the one tax that the opposition do not mention be the 10p crime tax : 10p add to every shopping basket due to the impact of shoplifting . the Tories do absolutely nothing about that , but this be a Tory tax that Labour be get rid of . we be invest in neighbourhood policing , scrap the Tory shoplifter charter that allow theft under £ 200 not to be investigate , and bring in a new offence of assault a shopworker . the Conservatives have 14 year to help out local business like those in Ealing Southall . instead , they trash our economy , destroy public service and stifle business growth . the Labour Government be clear up their mess . through this Bill , we be ensure fair business rate for shop , restaurant and bar on Ealing Southall ' s high street . I , too , serve on the Public Bill Committee and would like to put on record my thank to all the witness who attend and give evidence . the Bill shine a light on how politic be about choice . at the general election , we promise a Labour Government that would make different choice : choice root in fairness and a commitment to level the playing field . today , the Bill be a powerful example of how we be go to deliver on that promise . this be a Bill about the politic of equity . it be about ensure that everyone — from small business owner to schoolchildren in Wolverhampton North East — have a fair chance to succeed . for too long , the scale have be tip in favour of the large corporation , online giant and private school , while business and state school have be leave to shoulder an unfair burden . the Bill change that . we be deliver a permanent reduction in business rate for the hard - work small business that be the backbone of Wolverhampton North East . my constituency do not include a city centre , but it do contain plenty of brilliant small business : fantastic caf é s , restaurant , beauty and hair salon , a micropub , large pub chain and family - run shop . these business be the heart of our community . for year , high street have be force to compete unfairly with massive online retailer and retail park , but the Bill will ensure that the large online retailer , supermarket chain and distribution warehouse finally pay a fairer share . small business in Wolverhampton and Willenhall will now see permanent low business rate , free up resource to invest in their workforce , improve security and grow . as Paul Gerrard of the Co - op have point out , this reform will strengthen the viability of small shop , ensure that they can continue to provide job , beef up security , and uphold their community - centre value . the Association of Convenience Stores have say that these change will save small store money that can be use directly to hire more staff , install new CCTV , and invest in the future . the Bill be , however , not just about business ; it be about fairness in education . private school fee have rise by about 55 % in real term over the last 20 year , while state school ' funding have largely flatline . state school and academy be pay business rate right now while private school enjoy business rate tax break , and that be simply unfair . this be the reality . almost 50 % of private school student achieve top GCSE grade this summer , compare with just 20 % in state school . sport facility in state school be crumble , with fixture cancel owe to a lack of minibus or driver . private school have more swimming pool than all the state school , further education college and high education institution put together . just 35 % of child from low - income family can swim 25 metre unaided , compare with 82 % from affluent family . the Bill remove those unfair tax break for private school and reinvest every single penny directly in state school . that funding will recruit more specialist teacher , provide breakfast club in primary school , and give school the resource that they need to unlock every child ' s potential regardless of their family ' s wealth . this be the politic of equity in action . I will continue to support strong , vibrant high street , brilliant school , and a fair future for all . conservative Members do not like to be remind of the fact that six month ago our Labour Government inherit a £ 22 billion black hole from their 14 year of Tory rule — [ interruption ] — as they be demonstrate now . it be , however , a fact . with that inheritance from the Tories , our new Government be take much - need action such as that on which we be vote today . in particular , they be take action to end tax break for private school across the UK , and it be the education side of this Bill on which I will now focus . many of we be here today partly because of the inspiration , teaching and support that an incredible teacher give to we . I want to pay tribute to one of my teacher at Hermitage academy , which be a state school . Mrs McKeirnan be my modern study teacher , and a fine job she do too . I fondly remember write essay about the reason for Labour ' s election win in 1997 ; they obviously have an impact . however , while we have skilful and energetic teacher like Mrs McKeirnan , what be less satisfactory be that the school roof often leak when it rain , and sometimes the window blow in during the winter . that continue until the election of Labour in both Westminster and Holyrood see my old school be rebuild . we can compare that with the situation today in my constituency , where Balwearie high school in Kirkcaldy need a new building . the funding have not be available during the last 18 year of SNP government and 14 year of Tory rule . my point be that much of our country ' s public sector infrastructure be not fit for purpose after year of Tory neglect . to turn that around , we obviously need to raise revenue , and that be exactly what the measure that we be vote on today will do . end tax break for private school be crucial to the record budget settlement for the Scottish Government — the large settlement since devolution , with an additional £ 1 . 5 billion to spend in this financial year and an additional £ 3 . 4 billion for next year . for too many in my constituency , the SNP ' s record of educational failure have let the party down . Nicola Sturgeon once say : " judge I on my educational record " , and she promise that her Government would close the attainment gap by 2026 . last year , the attainment gap in Scotland widen , and the PISA report show that reading , math and science be in long - term decline . now that the SNP Government have the funding , it be up to they to clear up the mess in education that they have create , which fail young people in my constituency . across the UK , we know that when deliver large - scale investment to our school to improve standard and increase opportunity , we have to pay for the policy that we want to implement , and it be only right for those with the broad shoulder to support other around they . as many of my colleague have say , politic be about choice , and I be proud of the choice that my party be make . I absolutely agree that we need to make sure that there be equity in education . the hon . Lady say that those with the broad shoulder will carry the burden , but I have a family in Berkhamsted who work really hard to put their son into private education . follow the change , Seb have have to change school after just two year , because the family can not afford it any more . I make a plea on behalf of the child affect by this policy , because it should be about lift all of we up , not bring anyone down . all parent work hard to support their family , and all parent want the very good for their child . hon . member would do well to remember that . the additional £ 1 . 8 billion a year , which will be raise by end tax break for private school , allow we to increase per - pupil funding in real term and help to deliver the record budget settlement of an extra £ 4 . 9 billion for the Scottish Government . I find it strange that the Conservative party , which in the last Parliament promise to level up the country , should be so opposed to measure that will do exactly that . indeed , the Leader of the Opposition say that her first act as Prime Minister — I be not sure how many conservative Members actually believe that the day will ever come — would be to restore tax break for private school . she be obviously not here to defend that statement , but in recent month I have hear little from the Conservatives about what they would cut to pay for that policy . would they make teacher redundant ? would they cancel breakfast club ? would they cut mental health support and career advice ? at the last election , I be proud to stand on a manifesto that promise to break down the barrier to opportunity . as a state - educate MP , I be also proud to deliver this speech in a Parliament in which 63 % of its member be educate at state comprehensive , with 85 % of my party ' s mp be state educate . indeed , only 4 % of child in Scotland attend private school — even few than the 7 % in England . the need of our student be great than ever . young people in Scotland face an annual mark saga , decrease teacher number and a deepen mental health crisis — something that I have raise in relation to my own constituency . it be more crucial than ever that we intervene now to prevent those crisis from deepen , and that be what these revenue - raise measure will help to fund . I be glad that this Labour Government have introduce protection for SEND child and military family , but it be necessary for private school to contribute towards improve educational standard across our country . let we not forget that they have raise their fee by 75 % in real term since 2000 . I know that parent in my Cowdenbeath and Kirkcaldy constituency want to see their child benefit from the kind of education that their ingenuity , creativity and innate talent deserve . they will be crucial to our future society and economy , and to the kind of country that we want to be . we must make the most of their potential . in this matter , I take inspiration from Jennie Lee , who attend Beath high school in my constituency and go on to set up the Open University . her picture hang in my office . she know the value of ensure that high - quality education be available to all , no matter their background and where they live . if we be to provide that , it have to be pay for , and that be why these measure be so important . I be grateful for this opportunity to speak in favour of this Bill , have be involve in its scrutiny at most of its stage . I join my hon . friend the Member for Wolverhampton North East ( Mrs Brackenridge ) in thank all the witness who come forward to give evidence to the Bill Committee . I thank they for the evidence they give and for the useful insight from their respective sector . we on the Government Benches be clear that small business in the retail , hospitality and leisure sector should pay low business rate . the Bill establish two new multiplier that be low than the current standard business rate multiplier . in order to pay for these change , we must ask large business to contribute their fair share so that our small business can thrive . that be because we on this side of the House know that when we have tax cut , we need to pay for they with revenue - raise measure — something the opposition have not quite realise yet . this be a good mechanism that the Government be deploy to save our high street , to incentivise local investment and to support entrepreneurship . as all member will know , high street be essential to local town and should be give the support they need . I be pleased to say that the measure in the Bill will benefit small local business such as those on Queen Street , which sit in the centre of Leeds South West and Morley . in Committee , we hear from Paul Gerrard , who be the board secretariat director at the Co - op . he tell the Committee that these change will help 92 % of the Co - op ' s retail property , but he also estimate that they will help 98 % of retail business because they will have a rateable value that allow they to benefit from these change . that have to be welcome . as for those that will pay more to make these change possible , the high multipli will apply to property with a value great than or equal to £ 500 , 000 , include large warehouse that be often use by online giant . they will pay their fair share , and we can start to level the play field so that essential community high street business be on a level playing field with multinational corporation . the hon . Gentleman be right to say that there be a challenge in make sure that thing be fair , and we all support a level playing field between the online world and brick - and - mortar business , include in our town centre . there be a thing call the digital service tax , which be conceive while we be in government . will he say a word about the relative advantage and disadvantage of try to go after online retailer with business rate change , which will also affect all manner of other organisation , include brick - and - mortar retailer , and do it a different way through a more direct type of tax ? I return to the point I make early . we know that we have to support these small business — these brick - an - mortar business , as the right hon . Gentleman call they — and the only way we be go to pay for this be by find the money from elsewhere . we have choose to cut business rate for small business , and we be choose to raise the revenue from the large business and corporation that have be get away without pay their fair share for far too long . the hon . Member will recognise that it be the Government ' s intention to reduce business rate for the small business , but as I have mention a couple of time in this debate , House of Commons Library research show that if we compare this year to two year ' time , small business will end up 80 % bad off , whereas the big chain will end up 40 % well off . I believe that this be an unintended consequence . will he urge the Minister , as I be do , to address that point in his wind - up ? I be grateful to the hon . member for that contribution . of course I have read the House of Commons Library research into this . I also take time to listen to all the witness who come forward in the Bill Committee , and they make it clear that the change in this Bill will benefit small business in the long term . I be quite happy with the evidence that they provide to support the change that the Bill make . rise — I will move on to the next part of my speech , but I be happy to take any further intervention that might be relevant to that point . I be go to talk about the amendment now . I think new clause 1 to 3 be unnecessary . the Government will monitor the effect of the new multiplier and , as we know , they will show what those effect have be in Budget 2025 . they will do the same in all future fiscal statement , so the monitoring be already go to take place . the hon . member refer to the impact these change might have in two year ' time , and the Government will comment on that in all future fiscal statement . amendment 1 to 6 be noble , but they would significantly affect and reduce the support that the Bill be able to provide to retail , hospitality and leisure business . the hon . gentleman mention leisure business , and I have be contact by several soft play facility . they talk about the importance of play to child ' s wellbee , but they be not sure whether they will be entitle to the low rate . even Parliament ' s expert be not sure . will the hon . Gentleman support we in call on the Government to clarify that soft play will be include in those low business rate ? yes , it would be helpful if the Minister could provide clarity . as someone who use soft play — [ Laughter . ] not personally , enjoyable though it be . I be sure that my son Oscar and Arthur , who be six month old and not quite ready to take advantage of soft play , will also be keen to know , so perhaps the Minister could offer some clarity in his closing remark . although amendment 1 to 6 be noble , this Bill be about the high street , and we know just how much our high street have suffer . this do not mean , for one second , that we be back down from the challenge face manufacturing business , which amendment 1 to 6 aim to help with . the Budget announce over £ 3 billion to support the manufacturing sector , include £ 520 million for a life sciences innovative manufacturing fund , but the change to business rate in this Bill be primarily about support our high street . as someone who be teach on this date a year ago , I be particularly interested in clause 5 , which remove the charitable relief enjoy by some private school . I welcome this , along with the Budget ' s broad measure to remove tax break from private school so that we can fund state education properly . a vote for amendment 10 would delay this funding for state school by another year . it be estimate that , of the 2 , 444 private school in England , only 1 , 040 will be impact by the change . the measure will raise around £ 70 million , which , when take together with the other revenue - raise measure we have announce , will increase per pupil funding in real term to benefit the 94 % of student who attend state school . we must give every child the chance to succeed in life , and that be exactly what this Bill and the other measure we have announce be do . it be worth reflect that the education budget go up every year . it do not go up because there have be a change to business rate , vat or anything else , which be the logic we sometimes hear from Labour Members . if the revenue from those thing be slightly small than expect , do that mean less money will go into education ? of course not . we keep hear about hire 6 , 500 more teacher . do the hon . Gentleman know how many more teacher be hire in the last Parliament ? I hear the right hon . Gentleman put that question to the Minister in last Monday ' s Westminster Hall debate but , just to go back to his original point — I will come to the 6 , 500 new teacher — we be deliberately take these decision in order to increase the amount of money that state school have to teach the 94 % of student who enjoy state school education . as a basic principle , all member of this House can get behind the idea that it be a basic function of the state to provide a well - fund , excellent state school place for all student , whether or not parent choose to take advantage of it . that be exactly what we be do with this Bill and the other measure we have announce . talk of basic principle , do the hon . Gentleman therefore believe it be right to tax education — yes or no ? I believe it be right to tax business . private school be business , and we be choose to levy the tax on business . we be not choose to levy the tax on state education , because as I be just set out , it be imperative on we to make sure there be an excellent and well - fund place in state - fund education for all student , should parent choose to take advantage of it . it must be remember that not all parent have the choice of private or state education . the reason why 94 % of student be in state education be because that choice do not exist for most parent in this country . that be why we will take the necessary action to fund state school properly . I will make some progress because I can see that Madam Deputy Speaker would like I to — oh , she be be quite generous with her time . thank you , Madam Deputy Speaker . in which case , I will take more intervention . some member have raise concern about whether the legislation adversely affect the private school that be primarily concerned with teach student with ehcp . I be pleased to report that it do not . the Government have clearly set out that private school that teach 50 % or more student with ehcp will continue to be exempt from business rate , which be exactly the right approach . there be therefore no concern there . amendment 8 seek exemption for certain kind of school . we have talk a little bit about faith school , and we talk about that a lot on Second Reading . I can not support the amendment give that we be end the tax break to support the 94 % of student who attend state school . if we dilute the measure in the Bill for that exception , it be easy to make an argument for the next exemption , the one after that and the one after that as well . our guide principle should be that every child be entitle to an excellent , properly fund state school place , as I think I have say repeatedly . amendment 9 — the last one I will speak about — give local authority discretion over whether the high multipli will apply . as many hon . member will know , local authority already possess wide - reach power regard discretionary rate relief . give that the Bill do not affect those power at all , I do not think the amendment be require . to conclude , the measure in the Bill be vital to bring about the restoration of our high street , support local business and give state school the funding they desperately need . those be the priority of this Labour Government and my priority too . if conservative member claim to represent the party of business again , if they ever hope to seize back the mantle of be the party of opportunity , I hope they put their money where their mouth be and join we in vote for this unamended Bill today . I think it very sensible for the hon . member to clarify that it be young Arthur , not himself , who enjoy soft play . I call the final speaker , Chris Vince . as I have about two hour to give this speech , I want to start by go back to the summer of 1983 — [ Laughter . ] I have just tell everyone how old I be , have I not ? thank you , Madam Deputy Speaker , for the opportunity to speak in this debate . I also thank the Minister for all his work on the Bill . I genuinely want to thank all member from across the House too for their contribution in Committee . I think the way in which the Bill be discuss in Committee and the contribution from both side be well think out and , as I have mention before , respectful — I say that in advance of any intervention . I also want to thank all the people who come forward to provide evidence to the Committee . I be honour to rise to speak on Report on behalf of my constituency of Harlow . first — I promise I will not take two hour — I think everybody in the Chamber will forgive I for take the opportunity to thank and praise the hard - work teacher and school support staff across my constituency for the hard work they do day in , day out to support young people . I have a wonderful opportunity to visit Mark Hall academy in my constituency last week and see the incredible work that its staff be do to provide an inclusive atmosphere . I particularly welcome the fact that the school be about not just exam result , but what I describe as the hidden curriculum — how young people grow and develop . the school also focus on the importance of debate skill , which may be of particular interest to the right hon . member for East Hampshire ( Damian Hinds ) — I be only joke . I think that perhaps he and I could go together and learn a thing or two . [ interruption . ] I set myself up for that . the school also recognise the importance of critical thinking . as I say , it be a fantastic visit , which be cap by an opportunity to meet the young carer in the school . as many member will know , young carer be a hugely important issue for I . I will briefly address private school , as they have be mention a number of time . as I say on Second Reading , private school affect by this policy can choose to absorb some of the cost if they so wish , and that be their prerogative . member across the House may disagree with this , but , ultimately , the fundamental issue here be fairness and equality . will the hon . Gentleman give way ? yes , I certainly have the time . the hon . Gentleman mention that private school could absorb the cost . the headteacher of my Carrdus school tell I that they could not absorb the cost . the school have try everything possible to stay open , but it can not . one just can not make this claim that these school can absorb the cost ; they can not . I thank the hon . Lady for her comment . have speak to headteacher in private school , I know that that be what some of they be look to do . I recognise that may not be the case in that situation . as I say on Second Reading , ultimately , we want all school to be at such a standard that parent do not need to choose to send their child to private school . every business in the UK be require to pay vat . the " Cambridge Dictionary " definition of a business be a particular company that buy and sell good and service . parent pay for the service of their child ' s teacher , and they pay for their child to go to private school . do the hon . Gentleman think that university be company ? if he do , would he advocate impose vat on fee for university education ? I thank the hon . gentleman for his question , but I think that we have have a very good debate on high education today . it be interesting that conservative Members want to talk about university and high education when it be in an awful state . clearly , we need to look at how private school be fund . [ interruption . ] I be be a teacher , sorry . member can carry on ramble ; this be not a school . the second part of my speech be about our high street . I think we can all agree about the importance of support our high street , while also recognise the change nature of both retail and those high street . the Bill be design to decrease tax on high street business and make online retailer pay their fair share . very briefly , in its evidence , the Co - op say that the Bill would benefit " 92 % of our estate " , which be 98 % of retail store , and describe it as have " a significant impact " . the representative of the Association of Convenience Stores describe the Bill as very helpful , and " very positive for the sector , but … also very positive for the place where they trade . " – – [ Official Report , Non - Domestic Rating ( Multipliers and Private Schools ) Public Bill Committee , 11 December 2024 ; c . 18 , Q25 . ] I have not take two hour , Madam Deputy Speaker , but I will conclude . I welcome the Bill . I welcome the practical step that this Labour Government be take to address the issue leave by the previous Government and to support small business in my constituency of Harlow and across the country . I call the shadow Minister . it appear that the attraction of business rate have not be sufficient to draw as many speaker to the Chamber as some debate , but I be none the less grateful to all member for their contribution to today ' s debate . just a few month ago , we expose a £ 2 . 4 billion black hole in the local government budget : £ 3 . 7 billion of additional spending be announce , with only £ 1 . 3 billion of funding to pay for it . over the week since the Budget , we have see pensioner , business of all size and type , school , landlord and tenant all face additional cost to begin to backfill the consequence of those political choice . with the Bill before the House tonight , those tax hike be head for the business rate bill of company and organisation , large and small , on high street the length and breadth of the country . we should not pretend that this be an essential step . our council be acknowledge as the most efficient part of the public sector . they respond magnificently to the consequence of the financial crash in the late 2000 , with rise resident satisfaction against a backdrop of increasingly challenge budget , but the decision make by this new Government , in particular load an additional £ 1 . 66 billion of national insurance cost on to local authority , with less than a third of that cover by the promise additional funding , have consequence in our town hall . the Bill begin to make a small step towards bridge that colossal gap , but the Government need to own these political choice . the consequence of the Bill for our business and school be stark . first , let I address the change in the multipli , and in particular the consequence for large premise . under the change to the business rate system introduce by the Government overall , increase cost load on to large premise will provide the source for any reduction for small business , unlike under the previous Government , when it be cover from general grant . as a result , these business , often small and medium - sized enterprise — important employer and vital source of growth for our economy — will face high bill . such business have be characterise by the Government as warehouse , often own by online giant , but when we look at the detail from the Government ' s own datum , we see firm such as Banner , which supply the office of member of Parliament with all kind of stationery product , Tygavac Advanced Materials Ltd , and Zetex Semiconductors plc , which be an American - own business that trade on the London stock exchange , produce product that be vital for our security and growth . those be just example of business in the Minister ' s own constituency that will be hit by the change . Scapa Group Ltd , a major healthcare provider in the constituency of the Secretary of State , will also face significantly high bill . we have hear member wax lyrical about how much they value the opportunity for growth in this country , and how they value in particular different type of community asset , but 28 of the data centre that the Prime Minister speak of as be vital to the AI agenda will be hit by the Bill , and 16 of the brewery that have supposedly benefit from a penny off the pint , include Fuller ' s , Bulmers , John Smith ' s and Greene King , all face significant increase in their bill . eight zoo and safari park , include Colchester , Bristol and Chester zoo , face significantly increase business rate bill , and 48 stadium across the country , include Wimbledon , Twickenham and both the Manchester stadium , all expect to see big rise as a consequence . all Labour Members who love to champion their local pub and talk about take a penny off the pint need to remember that the consequence of the Bill be to put business rate up by , on average , £ 5 , 500 a year per pub . the list be available from Government datum . it be very clear that this will be a difficult Bill for retail , hospitality and leisure to swallow , after a period of direct and specific support from the previous Government . this change do not come from a government that come to office say that this be their intention or plan ; it come from a Government whose Chancellor — Rachel from account — go so far as to promise in 2021 that she would abolish business rate . business owner and worker who think they be vote for a Labour Government that would come in and abolish business rate be face significant increase today . there be still no certainty on the small business rate relief , which many of the witness in Committee and many of those who have be in touch with all of we as member of Parliament highlight as be incredibly important for small business and high street . the Bill come against a backdrop of serious concern express across the retail sector and license trade — the Association of Convenience Stores ' comment on the Bill be lukewarm to say the least — and some of the big retailer , such as Sainsbury ' s , about the damage the Budget in general and the Bill in particular do to employment and pay . when my party reflect on the thing we be proud of that we do in government , what stand out for I be that 4 million more people be in work in this country than when we take office and youth unemployment be halve in our time in office . the Bill put the financial wellbeing of the family include in those statistic at risk . the Bill not only have an impact on business ; it carry out this Government ' s spiteful and politically motivated attack on education in the private sector . as my hon . friend the Member for South Northamptonshire ( Sarah Bool ) say , it be not the case that private school be all luxury business ; many face significant challenge . it be worth go through some of those challenge in a bit of detail to understand why the amendment be important and why many of the thing that have be say about the consequence of the Bill be simply incorrect . first , in the context of school financing , we should recognise that the measure in the Bill and the introduction of vat will not end up benefit our state school . if every single penny of all those extra taxis be to find its way into state school budget , it would represent the cost of half the salary of a single classroom teacher . the effect of the national insurance increase alone on school budget wipe that out straightaway . state school unambiguously will be bad off as a result of the measure set out in the Budget . we have hear categorically from Labour that private school be business . they see themselves as part of the community and as charity . now that they be see as business , they will act as business and will have to look to raise revenue from all their sport facility and anything else that they willingly give away to the state system . private school work with the state system and ensure that there be support for the state system — that be the community basis of what schooling be about . do my hon . friend share my concern that define they as business will be a big problem ? my hon . friend highlight a point that many of we will have hear from our local state school : the fact that they be in share arrangement with private school to access facility . they be concerned that , as the cost driver introduce by the Government and the Budget increase the pressure on those school , they may lose the free or low - cost access they have . I have a meeting with a state school in my constituency that say the change will be damaging because it get a grant from a private school , which will have to be cut to deal with the impact of vat . that state school , which be in a genuinely work - class community , will be £ 200 , 000 a year bad off under this policy . do my hon . friend agree that that be terrible ? I agree that it be terrible , but sadly it be typical of the consequence introduce into the system by the action of the Government . do the hon . Gentleman agree that state school should not have to go with a beg bowl to private school to ask to borrow their facility ? they should be properly fund in their own right . have serve as a governor in three different state school during my local government career , I know that many state school have facility that they be very happy to share — some have swimming pool , some have library , some have adult education facility . the sharing of facility among school of all kind be normal , but the Bill introduce additional pressure that will take away access to those facility . isolated community in particular , which benefit most from that access , risk lose it . the basic fact that school will end up net bad off demonstrate that , contrary to what have be say , this policy fail the basic test of equity and efficiency . it harm some people in our country , with no corresponding benefit to anybody else . let I address the argument propose by a number of member that the consequence be marginal . we hear a lot of evidence from different people . the hon . member for Erewash ( Adam Thompson ) refer to an academic who have build a career write tract attack the private education sector . that be not somebody I consider to be an expert . I will take the word of mum and dad , the Independent Schools Council , institution that represent people across our country and the House of Commons Library over the word of a single left - wing academic . the hon . member for Wolverhampton North East ( Mrs Brackenridge ) say , " it ' s not fair because school in the state sector pay business rate . " she may not be aware that there be already an 80 % mandatory business rate relief for voluntary aided , foundation and academy school , and 100 % of all state school business rate liability be pay for by central Government anyway , so no school budget be burden by the cost of business rate , whereas the consequence of the Bill will be that every independent school be burden by those cost . many of we in this Chamber will see the add value that independent education bring . many of those expert whose opinion we value have speak profoundly about the fact that so much of our special educational need provision be in the private sector . I make reference in Committee to Gesher school in my constituency . I defy any Labour Member visit Gesher to come away say , " that be a private business that deserve to be tax . " such institution have emerge — in many case over a long time — to cater to very specific and profound special educational need and disability , and they be look aghast at the consequence of the Bill . there be a number of reason for that , some of which be technical . the Government ' s solution be to introduce the " wholly or mainly " provision . school that wholly or mainly provide place for child with an education , health and care plan — by which the Government mean 50 % or more — will be exempt from the provision . the problem with that policy be that many child who have well - establish , diagnose special educational need and disability do not have an education , health and care plan . indeed , beneath statementing , which be the term at the time , the previous Labour Government introduce a number of tier : school action and school action plus . child with moderate to severe special educational need and disability could fall into those category and be support in a mainstream setting . the statementing and education , health and care plan process be only ever intend to make provision for child with the most significant and severe need . that be already the case across the state sector . we know from the evidence of many parent up and down the land that they find provision in local independent school , and at their own cost , for child who have not qualify or have not yet achieve an education , health and care plan . it be very clear that the Government ' s solution underestimate , and fall well short of account for , the number of child with special educational need and disability . this be a Government whose Secretary of State for Education stand at the Dispatch Box last week and talk about how much they believe in inclusion . well , their action in support of this Bill say otherwise . the Bill also fail to address the need of parent who wish to secure a place for their child at a school that have a special character . this be particularly important in rural area , but it be an issue across the country . we all know that there be school that have the ability to provide specialist training or coach in a sport that a child excel in and wish to pursue , and there be school that have a faith or cultural identity that be incredibly important to the family . by require all those type of school to pay these significantly hike taxis , this Government be bear down on choice in the education sector and push up cost for mum and dad . these be not wealthy family , but ordinary people in this country who be seek to do the good for their child and who , in some case , be willing to take on the responsibility of pay for their child ' s education even if they could still pursue the opportunity of an education , health and care plan for they through the state system . they choose to do the right thing by their child , and this Government will be penalise they . the amendment we have table seek to address the shortcoming I have describe as good we can . we will also support some of the amendment table by other party where they clearly fulfil our share objective , but as the speech and other contribution to this debate by Conservative Members have show , there could have be so many more amendment seek to get this Bill right . in conclusion , all of the hereditament that be cover by this Bill be important to our economy and to growth , and in many case they be vital to our community . since the Chancellor ' s Budget , growth have flatline , inflation have revive , borrowing cost be rise and employment opportunity be diminish . it be not too late for this Government to choose a different path , and we invite they to do so this afternoon . before I speak to the amendment table by the hon . member for Mid Dorset and North Poole ( Vikki Slade ) , for Ruislip , Northwood and Pinner ( David Simmonds ) and for St Albans ( Daisy Cooper ) , I thank member from across the Chamber for their contribution and for the constructive spirit , by and large , in which they have engage with the Bill since its introduction . although they be not always see , with evidence session and Committee stage not always be prime - time tv viewing — it be a curse , but that be the way it be — those deliberation be nevertheless essential . the contribution that be make by member from all part of the House in probe and scrutinise the Bill be valuable , and I hope that all member find they interesting . I will begin by speak to the amendment concern the impact of the new multiplier . new clause 1 , table by the hon . member for Mid Dorset and North Poole , would require the Secretary of State to review the impact of clause 1 to 4 on business , high street and economic growth within six month of those clause come into effect . the hon . member for Ruislip , Northwood and Pinner and for St Albans have propose two other new clause . new clause 2 and 3 would seek to impose in legislation a requirement for an analysis of the impact of the new business rate multiplier at vary point ahead of , or follow , implementation of the Bill . new clause 3 also seek to require an assessment of how the application of the new multiplier would differ between retail , hospitality and leisure business occupy different number of property , and to compare that assessment with the impact of retail , hospitality and leisure relief from the 2020 - 21 financial year to the 2025 - 26 financial year . we agree in principle with the point that hon . member have raise through their new clause . it be right that the Government consider the effect of their policy on business , on the high street and on economic growth , and indeed within different sector . it be the policy of the Government that those business should feel a material benefit as a direct result of these measure , so let I set out how we propose to do that . it state in the Bill that the two new retail , hospitality and leisure multiplier may not be set at more than 20p in the pound low than the small business multiplier . the Bill also place appropriate restriction on the high multipli : when it be set , it can not be more than 10p in the pound above the standard multipli , and can not be apply to property with a rateable value of less than £ 500 , 000 . it be important to state that those be not the intend tax rate , but the maximum parameter to be introduce through the new business rate multiplier . as we explain during the Bill ' s passage through the House , the actual tax rate will be set at the 2025 Budget , take into account the effect of the 2026 business rate revaluation , as well as the broad economic and fiscal context at that time . the Minister have be here throughout the debate , and he will have hear a number of my intervention . I accept his point that those figure will not be publish until Budget 2025 . may I ask if he be in a position to give a cast - iron guarantee that small independent , with a small number of hereditament , will not be subsidise organisation that have many , such as the big chain ? I do hear the hon . Lady , and I think we all accept the principle of need to target or get support to those important small business , which we can all identify in our constituency . with respect , I think there be a degree of conflation with the temporary relief bring in during covid , which the previous Government do not account for , that be always go to come to an end . our challenge be how to reconcile ongoing support for the high street with a permanent relief in law so that business know exactly where they be and can plan ahead with certainty . the choice we make be far fair : to target high - value property of more than £ 500 , 000 , which be generally — but , I accept , not entirely — the large - footprint warehouse and distribution premise use by the big online retailer . the shadow Minister use the example of the stationery provider in my constituency . it be an online retailer , so it ought to be pay more . why ? because for a long time — and we have all hear this from our constituent and industry — we have need a rebalancing from online to on - street and from out - of - town to in - town , and that be exactly what this target do . it be never intend to be a continuation of the relief that be only temporary during covid . it be about rebuild the foundation , and that be exactly what we have set out to do . I completely accept that point , and I be very sympathetic to the fact that the Minister inherit a sticking - plaster system from the previous Government . if during the course of this year his Government ' s own analysis prove what I have discover from the House of Commons Library research , will he ensure that the Government at least do not rule out introduce a new small business relief in a target way to support such small independent business ? as with all tax policy , we will keep this under review , and I say that in a very general sense . we absolutely believe that the business that be the backbone of our high street , town centre and community would , be it not for these measure , go bust . they would not be viable and they would feel the heat very quickly . however , because of the measure we be take , business will be able to plan with certainty for the future , know that they have a Government act in partnership with they in that enterprise . I appreciate the Minister ' s point , but clearly no Parliament bind its successor , so every Parliament must make its own decision . a lot of member have ask about small business rate relief . it would be helpful to have some certainty from the Dispatch Box about the Government ' s intention on that . can he give we that certainty tonight ? I can certainly give the certainty that we be provide in law for a permanent relief for retail , hospitality and leisure business , and we will fund that through a very targeted additional payment for property of more than £ 500 , 000 , which will primarily be the online retailer occupy big warehouse and distribution centre . it be a promise to shift from the online to the on - street , as I talk about . before we move on to vote on the amendment , I will make some progress . the House will know that tax policy and legislation be not subject to the same requirement for the impact assessment that accompany non - fiscal policy decision . nevertheless , the Treasury be commit to publish an analysis of the effect of any multiplier at Budget 2025 , which we hope will go some way to reassure hon . member that we will be consider the impact of this policy carefully before the new rate be set . the Government will continue to keep the policy and its effect under review as a matter of course , because we believe it be good practice to do that for all taxis . however , we want to make it clear to hon . member that the Government have hear they , and we understand the importance of robustly understand tax change , which be something to which we have already commit . I hope this commitment to understand the effect of the new tax rate when it be introduce will enable hon . member not to press their propose new clause . amendment 9 would give local authority discretion over whether the high multiplier enable by the Bill should be apply . the Bill would enable the Treasury , through regulation , to introduce permanently low multiplier for qualify retail , hospitality and leisure property , and to fund this by introduce high multiplier for property with a rateable value of £ 500 , 000 or more . as we explain in Committee , we do not have any plan to narrow the scope of the high multiplier as do so would reduce the funding available for the very targeted support for low multiplier for use that everyone in the Chamber support . that do not mean that local authority will be unable to apply local discretion to rate bill . as be set out in contribution , local authority already have wide - range power for discretionary rate relief as set out in section 47 of the Local Government Finance Act 1988 where the authority be satisfied that that would be reasonable , have regard to the interest of council tax payer . we assure the House that those discretionary power be unaffected by the Bill and remain in place . give that local authority will be able to use those discretionary power to provide relief , include for ratepayer subject to the high multipli , the amendment be not require . I hope that assure hon . member . I turn to amendment 1 to 6 , which would widen the scope of the low multiplier so that qualify manufacturing property would become eligible alongside retail , hospitality and leisure property . in the Bill Committee , the hon . member for Newton Abbot ( Martin Wrigley ) speak of the vital importance of manufacturing to the british economy and of how provide they with a permanent cut to their business rate could help they to recover . let I reiterate the Government ' s support for the manufacturing sector as a whole . it be say that Britain be a nation of shopkeeper , but it be also a nation of innovator , creator and entrepreneur . our manufacturing sector help bring many of those idea to life , and we understand its importance . but the Government must also support our high street — the hotelier , restaurateur and publican — and that be especially important with a property tax such as business rate as those sector rely on good location , which in the business rate system be often valuable location . if they do not have that target support , they would feel the hit very strongly . through the Bill , we be deliver our manifesto pledge to protect valuable town centre and high street by enable the introduction of permanently low taxis for qualify retail , hospitality and leisure property from 2026 - 27 , end the uncertainty of the annual retail , hospitality and leisure relief that have be roll over year on year since the covid - 19 pandemic . we have be clear throughout the process that this tax cut must be fully fund . therefore , against the current fiscal backdrop , a widening of the scope of property eligible for the low multiplier might dilute the support that the Government be able to provide , or its impact might even require a high tax rate for property with value of more than £ 500 , 000 to fund such new multiplier . however , we respect hon . member ’ point of view and agree that our manufacturing sector should be recognise and support . advanced manufacturing be one of the eight growth - drive sector identify as part of the Government ' s industrial strategy . at the autumn Budget , the Government announce £ 975 million for the aerospace sector over five year , over £ 2 billion for the automotive sector over the same period , and £ 520 million for the new life science innovative manufacturing fund . that be how the Government intend to support the innovator , creator and entrepreneur mention early . because we have this package in place to support manufacturing , we can not accept the amendment , but I hope that I have be able to provide hon . member with reassurance as to our commitment to support the sector , which I be sure the whole House recognise be vital . I turn to amendment 7 and 8 . while clause 5 will remove business rate charitable relief from private school , the amendment would introduce new provision or expand exist provision in the Bill to ensure that certain private school remain eligible for business rate charitable relief . amendment 7 would result in a fee - pay school retain its relief if it wholly or mainly cater for pupil with special educational need as define under section 20 of the Children and Families Act 2014 , whether or not those pupil have an education , health and care plan . amendment 8 would result in a private faith school or a private school with a special character maintain its eligibility for charitable relief if there be no maintain or academy school of the same faith or special character within the statutory walking distance set out in the Education Act 1996 . although amendment 8 do not indicate what may constitute a special character , we understand from previous contribution in the House that that would include school that follow a particular method of education . amend the basis on which fee - pay school be eligible to retain their charitable rate relief in the manner in which the amendment propose would undermine the Government ' s intention to remove tax break for private school . as we have say , the removal of the tax break be necessary to fund school support for the over 90 % of pupil who be educate in the state sector . the Government have carefully consider their approach to minimise the impact on pupil with the most acute need . the Bill provide that private school that be charity and that wholly or mainly — by over 50 % — provide education for pupil with an education , health and care plan will remain eligible for charitable relief . as hon . member will be aware , most child with special educational need , with or without an EHCP , have their need meet in mainstream state - fund school . if an EHCP assessment conclude that a child can only be support in a private school , the local authority directly fund that place . where an EHCP have not name a private school , the parent or carer of the child may choose to place that child in a private school , but that be a choice make by the parent and do not detract from the assessment that the pupil ' s need can be cater for in the mainstream state - fund sector . in instance where a child ' s parent disagree with the local authority ' s assessment that their need can be meet in the state sector , the EHCP system be the most appropriate channel to resolve such disagreement . the Government be aware of the concern raise by hon . member and other that pupil with special educational need in private school may lose their charitable relief . the Government believe that most private special school will not be affect at all by the Bill . in fact , we expect any private special school lose eligibility for private relief to be the exception ; accord to our assessment , they could be in the single figure . it be important that we keep it in that context . will the Minister give way ? I do not have time for any more intervention . private school that benefit from the exist rate exemption for property that be wholly use for the training or welfare of disabled people will continue to do so . the majority of child in England with special educational need , with or without an EHCP , have their need meet in the state sector already . the Government ' s ambition be for all child and young people with special educational need or a disability to receive the right support to succeed in their education as they move into adult life . as member know , all school be require to follow the Equality Act 2010 , which include foster and promote an environment that encourage respect and tolerance of child and family of all faith and of none . we have listen carefully to argument relate to exempt faith school from the Bill , and we have decide that a carve - out for faith school or school with other special characteristic can not be justify . for those reason , we be unable to accept amendment 8 . finally , amendment 10 would delay the removal of charitable rate relief from private school by one year to April 2026 . to eliminate barrier to opportunity , we need to concentrate on the broad picture of the state sector , where most child be educate . end the tax break on vat and business rate for private school be a tough but , in the end , necessary decision that will secure additional funding to help deliver on the Government ' s commitment to education and young people . together , these policy be expect to raise over £ 1 . 8 billion a year by 2029 - 30 — essential funding to improve the education of the vast majority of school - age child . delay their implementation would forgo about £ 140 million , which , frankly , can not be justify . the House have hear a good range of amendment to the Bill , and I hope that I have be able to address they all . although we be not able to accept the amendment , I hope that the assurance that I have outline be accept and member feel able to withdraw they . if not , the Government can not support they . question put , that the clause be read a second time . Shockat Adam Gideon Amos Lee Anderson Stuart Anderson Stuart Andrew Steffan Aquarone Edward Argar Josh Babarinde Gareth Bacon Harriett Baldwin Steve Barclay Peter Bedford Alison Bennett Saqib Bhatti Bob Blackman Sarah Bool Andrew Bowie Karen Bradley Suella Braverman Alex Brewer Jessica Brown - Fuller Alex Burghart Charlotte Cane Alistair Carmichael James Cartlidge David Chadwick Wendy Chamberlain Danny Chambers Christopher Chope Ellie chown James Cleverly Geoffrey Clifton - Brown Lewis Cocking Chris Coghlan Victoria Collins Daisy Cooper John Cooper Alberto Costa Claire Coutinho Harriet Cross Adam Dance Steve Darling Edward Davey Gareth Davies Mims davy David Davis Bobby Dean Carla Denyer Charlie Dewhirst Lee Dillon Caroline Dinenage Oliver Dowden Iain Duncan Smith Luke Evans Nigel Farage Tim Farron will Forster Peter Fortune Ashley Fox Z ö e Franklin George Freeman Roger Gale Mark Garnier Andrew George John Glen Marie Goldman Tom Gordon Helen Grant Sarah Green Andrew Griffith Alison Griffiths Monica Harding Rebecca Harris John Hayes Pippa Heylings Damian Hinds Simon Hoare Wera Hobhouse Richard Holden Kevin Hollinrake Paul Holmes Neil Hudson Jeremy Hunt Christine Jardine Liz Jarvis Bernard Jenkin Clive Jones Alicia Kearns Ayoub Khan Paul Kohler Danny Kruger Katie Lam John Lamont Edward Leigh Julian Lewis Julia Lopez James MacCleary Angus MacDonald Ben Maguire Helen Maguire Alan Mak Kit Malthouse Mike Martin Brian Mathew Jerome Mayhew Charlie Maynard James McMurdock Esther McVey Freddie Van Mierlo Calum Miller John Milne Andrew Mitchell Iqbal Mohamed Gagan Mohindra Robbie Moore Layla Moran Helen Morgan Tom Morrison Joy Morrissey Wendy Morton Kieran Mullan David Mundell Andrew Murrison Jesse Norman Ben Obese - Jecty Neil o ' Brien Sarah Olney Rebecca Paul Manuela Perteghella Chris Philp Al Pinkerton Mark Pritchard Adrian Ramsay Jack Rankin David Reed Joshua Reynolds Joe Robertson Andrew Rosindell Anna Sabine Roz Savage Jim Shannon Neil Shastri - Hurst Alec Shelbrooke David Simmonds Vikki Slade Lisa Smart Greg Smith Julian Smith Rebecca Smith Andrew Snowden Ian Sollom Ben Spencer Patrick Spencer Gregory Stafford Blake Stephenson Mel Stride Graham Stuart Desmond Swayne Luke Taylor Bradley Thomas Cameron Thomas Richard Tice Nick Timothy Laura Trott Matt Vickers Caroline Voaden Helen Whately James Wild Max Wilkinson Gavin Williamson Munira Wilson Mike Wood Jeremy Wright Martin Wrigley Claire Young Jamie Stone Susan Murray Jack Abbott Debbie Abrahams Luke Akehurst Bayo Alaba Dan Aldridge Heidi Alexander Sadik Al - Hassan Rushanara Ali Tahir Ali Rosena Allin - Khan Mike Amesbury Callum Anderson Fleur Anderson Tonia Antoniazzi Scott Arthur Jessica Asato James Asser Jas Athwal Catherine Atkinson Lewis Atkinson Olivia Bailey David Baines Richard Baker Antonia Bance Paula Barker Lee Barron Alex Barros - Curtis Johanna Baxter Danny Beales Lorraine Beavers Apsana Begum Torsten Bell Hilary Benn Clive Betts Polly Billington Matt Bishop Olivia Blake Rachel Blake Christopher Bloore Elsie Blundell Kevin Bonavia Jade Botterill Sureena Brackenridge Jonathan Brash Julia Buckley Richard Burgon Maureen Burke David Burton - Sampson Dawn Butler Ian Byrne Liam Byrne Ruth Cadbury Nesil Caliskan Alan Campbell Irene Campbell Juliet Campbell Markus Campbell - Savours Sam Carling Sarah Champion Bambos Charalambous Luke Charters Feryal Clark Ben Coleman Lizzi Collinge Tom Collins Liam Conlon Sarah coombe Andrew Cooper Beccy Cooper Deirdre Costigan Pam Cox Neil Coyle Jennifer Craft Mary Creagh Stella Creasy Torcuil Crichton Chris Curtis Janet Daby Nicholas Dakin Ashley Dalton Emily Darlington Jonathan Davies Paul Davies Marsha de Cordova Josh Dean Kate Dearden Jim Dickson Anna Dixon Samantha Dixon Anneliese Dodds Helena Dollimore Peter Dowd Graeme Downie Neil Duncan - Jordan Angela Eagle Maria Eagle Colum Eastwood Cat Eccles Lauren Edwards Clive Efford Damien Egan Maya Ellis Chris Elmore Kirith Entwistle Florence Eshalomi Bill Esterson Chris Evans Miatta Fahnbulleh Hamish Falconer Linsey Farnsworth Mark Ferguson Patricia Ferguson Natalie Fleet Emma Foody Catherine Fookes Paul Foster Vicky Foxcroft Daniel Francis James Frith Gill Furniss Allison Gardner Anna Gelderd Alan Gemmell Gill german Tracy Gilbert Preet Kaur Gill Becky Gittins Mary Glindon Ben Goldsborough John Grady Lilian Greenwood Nia Griffith Andrew Gwynne Amanda Hack Louise Haigh Sarah Hall Fabian Hamilton Paulette Hamilton Emma Hardy Carolyn Harris Lloyd Hatton Helen Hayes Tom Hayes Claire Hazelgrove Meg Hillier Chris Hinchliff Jonathan Hinder Sharon Hodgson Rachel Hopkins Claire Hughes Alison Hume rupa Huq Patrick Hurley Leigh Ingham Natasha Irons Sally Jameson Dan Jarvis Adam Jogee Diana R . Johnson Darren Jones Lillian Jones Louise Jones Ruth Jones Gurinder Josan Sojan Joseph Warinder Juss Chris Kane Satvir Kaur Liz Kendall Afzal Khan Naushabah Khan Stephen Kinnock Jayne Kirkham Gen Kitchen Sonia Kumar Peter Kyle Laura Kyrke - Smith Peter Lamb Noah Law Kim Leadbeater Brian Leishman Andrew Lewin Clive Lewis Simon Lightwood Rebecca Long - Bailey Josh MacAlister Alice Macdonald Andy MacNae Justin Madders Seema Malhotra Amanda Martin Rachael Maskell Keir Mather Alex Mayer Douglas McAllister Kerry McCarthy Martin McCluskey Siobhain McDonagh Andy McDonald Chris McDonald Lola McEvoy Alison McGovern Gordon McKee Kevin McKenna Catherine McKinnell Jim McMahon Kirsty McNeill Anneliese Midgley Julie Minns Navendu Mishra Perran Moon Jessica Morden Stephen Morgan Grahame Morris Joe Morris Margaret Mullane Luke Murphy Chris Murray James Murray Katrina Murray Luke Myer James Naish Kanishka Narayan Josh Newbury Samantha Niblett Charlotte Nichols Melanie Onn Chi Onwurah Simon Opher Abena Oppong - Asare Kate Osamor Kate Osborne Tristan Osborne Taiwo Owatemi Sarah Owen Darren Paffey Andrew Pakes Matthew Patrick Michael Payne Stephanie Peacock Jonathan Pearce Matthew Pennycook Toby Perkins Bridget Phillipson David Pinto - Duschinsky Lee Pitcher Lucy Powell Gregor Poynton Peter Prinsley Richard Quigley Yasmin Qureshi Steve Race Connor Rand Andrew Ranger Mike Reader Steve Reed Ellie Reeves Joani Reid Emma Reynolds Jonathan Reynolds Martin Rhodes Jake Richards Jenny Riddell - Carpenter Marie Rimmer Dave Robertson Tim Roca Matt Rodda Sam Rushworth Sarah Russell Tom Rutland Oliver Ryan Sarah Sackman Jeevun Sandher Mark Sewards Naseem Shah Michael Shanks Tulip Siddiq Andrew Slaughter John Slinger Cat Smith David Smith Jeff Smith Nick Smith Karin Smyth Gareth Snell Alex Sobel Euan Stainbank Jo Stevens Elaine Stewart will Stone Alistair Strathern Alan Strickland Graham Stringer Kirsteen Sullivan Lauren Sullivan Zarah Sultana Peter Swallow Mark Tami Mike Tapp David Taylor Fred Thomas Gareth Thomas Nick Thomas - Symonds Adam Thompson Marie Tidball Stephen Timms Jessica Toale Dan Tomlinson Jon Trickett Henry Tufnell Anna Turley Matt Turmaine Karl Turner Laurence Turner Derek Twigg Liz Twist Harpreet Uppal Tony Vaughan Valerie Vaz Christopher Vince Christian Wakeford Imogen Walker Chris Ward Melanie Ward Paul Waugh Chris Webb Michelle Welsh Catherine West Andrew Western Matt Western Michael Wheeler Jo White Katie White David Williams Steve Witherden Sean Woodcock Rosie Wrighting Yuan Yang Mohammad Yasin Steve Yemm Daniel Zeichner Gerald Jones Anna McMorrin the House divide : Ayes 175 , Noes 342 . question accordingly negative . proceeding interrupt ( Programme Order , 25 November ) . the Deputy Speaker put forthwith the Questions necessary for the disposal of the business to be conclude at that time ( Standing Order no . 83e ) . New Clause 2 - Review of impact of new multiplier " ( 1 ) within eighteen month of the day on which section 1 to 4 of this Act be commence , the Secretary of State must conduct a review of the impact of those section . ( 2 ) the review must consider — ( a ) the impact of the introduction of the low multipli on qualify retail , hospitality and leisure hereditament , ( b ) the impact of the introduction of high multiplier in relation to a hereditament for which the value be £ 500 , 000 or more . ( 3 ) the Secretary of State must , as soon as be reasonably practicable , publish the review and lie a copy of that review before Parliament . ( 4 ) as part of the review the Secretary of State must consult with such party as they see fit include — ( a ) business , ( b ) the Valuation Office Agency ; and ( c ) Billing Authorities . " — ( David Simmonds . ) this new clause would require the Secretary of State , within 18 month of section 1 to 4 of the Act be commence , to review and consult on the impact of new multiplier . bring up . question put , that the clause be add to the Bill . Shockat Adam Gideon Amos Lee Anderson Stuart Anderson Stuart Andrew Steffan Aquarone Edward Argar Josh Babarinde Gareth Bacon Harriett Baldwin Steve Barclay Alison Bennett Saqib Bhatti Bob Blackman Sarah Bool Andrew Bowie Karen Bradley Suella Braverman Alex Brewer Jessica Brown - Fuller Alex Burghart Charlotte Cane Alistair Carmichael James Cartlidge David Chadwick Wendy Chamberlain Danny Chambers Christopher Chope James Cleverly Geoffrey Clifton - Brown Lewis Cocking Chris Coghlan Victoria Collins Daisy Cooper John Cooper Jeremy Corbyn Alberto Costa Claire Coutinho Harriet Cross Adam Dance Steve Darling Edward Davey Gareth Davies Mims davy Bobby Dean Charlie Dewhirst Lee Dillon Caroline Dinenage Oliver Dowden Iain Duncan Smith Luke Evans Nigel Farage Tim Farron will Forster Peter Fortune Ashley Fox Mark Francois Z ö e Franklin George Freeman Roger Gale Mark Garnier Andrew George John Glen Marie Goldman Tom Gordon Helen Grant Sarah Green Andrew Griffith Alison Griffiths Monica Harding Rebecca Harris John Hayes Pippa Heylings Damian Hinds Simon Hoare Wera Hobhouse Kevin Hollinrake Paul Holmes Neil Hudson Jeremy Hunt Adnan Hussain Christine Jardine Liz Jarvis Bernard Jenkin Dr Caroline Johnson Clive Jones Alicia Kearns Ayoub Khan Paul Kohler Danny Kruger Katie Lam John Lamont Edward Leigh Julian Lewis Julia Lopez James MacCleary Angus MacDonald Ben Maguire Helen Maguire Alan Mak Kit Malthouse Mike Martin Brian Mathew Jerome Mayhew Charlie Maynard James McMurdock Esther McVey Freddie Van Mierlo Calum Miller John Milne Andrew Mitchell Iqbal Mohamed Gagan Mohindra Robbie Moore Layla Moran Helen Morgan Tom Morrison Joy Morrissey Wendy Morton Kieran Mullan David Mundell Susan Murray Andrew Murrison Jesse Norman Ben Obese - Jecty Neil o ' Brien Sarah Olney Rebecca Paul Manuela Perteghella Chris Philp Al Pinkerton Mark Pritchard Jack Rankin David Reed Joshua Reynolds Joe Robertson Andrew Rosindell Anna Sabine Roz Savage Jim Shannon Neil Shastri - Hurst Alec Shelbrooke David Simmonds Vikki Slade Lisa Smart Greg Smith Julian Smith Andrew Snowden Ian Sollom Ben Spencer Patrick Spencer Gregory Stafford Blake Stephenson Jamie Stone Mel Stride Graham Stuart Luke Taylor Bradley Thomas Cameron Thomas Richard Tice Nick Timothy Laura Trott Matt Vickers Caroline Voaden Helen Whately James Wild Max Wilkinson Gavin Williamson Munira Wilson Mike Wood Jeremy Wright Martin Wrigley Claire Young Richard Holden Rebecca Smith Jack Abbott Debbie Abrahams Luke Akehurst Bayo Alaba Dan Aldridge Heidi Alexander Sadik Al - Hassan Rushanara Ali Tahir Ali Rosena Allin - Khan Mike Amesbury Callum Anderson Fleur Anderson Tonia Antoniazzi Scott Arthur Jessica Asato James Asser Jas Athwal Catherine Atkinson Lewis Atkinson Olivia Bailey David Baines Richard Baker Antonia Bance Paula Barker Lee Barron Alex Barros - Curtis Johanna Baxter Danny Beales Lorraine Beavers Apsana Begum Torsten Bell Hilary Benn Clive Betts Polly Billington Matt Bishop Olivia Blake Rachel Blake Christopher Bloore Elsie Blundell Kevin Bonavia Jade Botterill Sureena Brackenridge Jonathan Brash Julia Buckley Richard Burgon Maureen Burke David Burton - Sampson Dawn Butler Ian Byrne Liam Byrne Ruth Cadbury Nesil Caliskan Alan Campbell Irene Campbell Juliet Campbell Markus Campbell - Savours Sam Carling Sarah Champion Bambos Charalambous Luke Charters Feryal Clark Ben Coleman Lizzi Collinge Tom Collins Liam Conlon Sarah coombe Andrew Cooper Beccy Cooper Deirdre Costigan Pam Cox Neil Coyle Jennifer Craft Mary Creagh Stella Creasy Torcuil Crichton Chris Curtis Janet Daby Nicholas Dakin Ashley Dalton Emily Darlington Jonathan Davies Paul Davies Marsha de Cordova Josh Dean Kate Dearden Jim Dickson Anna Dixon Samantha Dixon Anneliese Dodds Helena Dollimore Peter Dowd Graeme Downie Neil Duncan - Jordan Angela Eagle Maria Eagle Colum Eastwood Cat Eccles Lauren Edwards Clive Efford Damien Egan Maya Ellis Chris Elmore Kirith Entwistle Florence Eshalomi Bill Esterson Chris Evans Miatta Fahnbulleh Hamish Falconer Linsey Farnsworth Mark Ferguson Patricia Ferguson Natalie Fleet Emma Foody Catherine Fookes Paul Foster Vicky Foxcroft Daniel Francis James Frith Gill Furniss Allison Gardner Anna Gelderd Alan Gemmell Gill german Tracy Gilbert Preet Kaur Gill Becky Gittins Mary Glindon Ben Goldsborough John Grady Lilian Greenwood Nia Griffith Andrew Gwynne Amanda Hack Louise Haigh Sarah Hall Fabian Hamilton Paulette Hamilton Emma Hardy Carolyn Harris Lloyd Hatton Helen Hayes Tom Hayes Claire Hazelgrove Meg Hillier Chris Hinchliff Jonathan Hinder Sharon Hodgson Rachel Hopkins Claire Hughes Alison Hume rupa Huq Patrick Hurley Leigh Ingham Natasha Irons Sally Jameson Dan Jarvis Adam Jogee Diana R . Johnson Darren Jones Lillian Jones Louise Jones Ruth Jones Gurinder Josan Sojan Joseph Warinder Juss Chris Kane Satvir Kaur Liz Kendall Afzal Khan Naushabah Khan Stephen Kinnock Jayne Kirkham Gen Kitchen Sonia Kumar Peter Kyle Laura Kyrke - Smith Peter Lamb Noah Law Kim Leadbeater Brian Leishman Andrew Lewin Clive Lewis Simon Lightwood Rebecca Long - Bailey Josh MacAlister Alice Macdonald Andy MacNae Justin Madders Seema Malhotra Amanda Martin Rachael Maskell Keir Mather Alex Mayer Douglas McAllister Kerry McCarthy Martin McCluskey Siobhain McDonagh Andy McDonald Chris McDonald Lola McEvoy Alison McGovern Gordon McKee Kevin McKenna Catherine McKinnell Jim McMahon Kirsty McNeill Anneliese Midgley Julie Minns Navendu Mishra Perran Moon Jessica Morden Stephen Morgan Grahame Morris Joe Morris Margaret Mullane Luke Murphy Chris Murray James Murray Katrina Murray Luke Myer James Naish Kanishka Narayan Josh Newbury Samantha Niblett Charlotte Nichols Melanie Onn Chi Onwurah Simon Opher Abena Oppong - Asare Kate Osamor Kate Osborne Tristan Osborne Taiwo Owatemi Sarah Owen Darren Paffey Andrew Pakes Matthew Patrick Michael Payne Stephanie Peacock Jonathan Pearce Matthew Pennycook Toby Perkins Bridget Phillipson David Pinto - Duschinsky Lee Pitcher Lucy Powell Gregor Poynton Peter Prinsley Richard Quigley Yasmin Qureshi Steve Race Connor Rand Andrew Ranger Mike Reader Steve Reed Ellie Reeves Joani Reid Emma Reynolds Jonathan Reynolds Martin Rhodes Jake Richards Jenny Riddell - Carpenter Marie Rimmer Dave Robertson Tim Roca Matt Rodda Sam Rushworth Sarah Russell Tom Rutland Oliver Ryan Sarah Sackman Jeevun Sandher Mark Sewards Naseem Shah Michael Shanks Tulip Siddiq Andrew Slaughter John Slinger Cat Smith David Smith Jeff Smith Nick Smith Karin Smyth Gareth Snell Alex Sobel Euan Stainbank Jo Stevens Elaine Stewart will Stone Alistair Strathern Alan Strickland Graham Stringer Kirsteen Sullivan Lauren Sullivan Zarah Sultana Peter Swallow Mark Tami Mike Tapp David Taylor Fred Thomas Gareth Thomas Nick Thomas - Symonds Adam Thompson Marie Tidball Stephen Timms Jessica Toale Jon Trickett Henry Tufnell Anna Turley Matt Turmaine Karl Turner Laurence Turner Derek Twigg Liz Twist Harpreet Uppal Tony Vaughan Valerie Vaz Christopher Vince Christian Wakeford Imogen Walker Chris Ward Melanie Ward Paul Waugh Chris Webb Michelle Welsh Catherine West Andrew Western Matt Western Michael Wheeler Jo White Katie White David Williams Steve Witherden Sean Woodcock Rosie Wrighting Yuan Yang Mohammad Yasin Steve Yemm Daniel Zeichner Gerald Jones Anna McMorrin the House divide : Ayes 174 , Noes 340 . question accordingly negative . clause 5 - Removal of relief Amendment propose : 7 , page 5 , line 37 , leave out from " person " to end of line 38 and insert — " who have special educational need . ( 5A ) in subsection ( 5 ) ' special educational need ' have the same meaning as in section 20 ( when a child or young person have special educational need ) of the Children and Families Act 2014 . " — ( David Simmonds . ) this amendment would mean that a school that be wholly or mainly concerned with provide education to person with special educational need would not be a private school for the purpose of the Act , and as a result would retain charitable relief from non - domestic rate . question put , that the amendment be make . Shockat Adam Gideon Amos Lee Anderson Stuart Anderson Stuart Andrew Steffan Aquarone Edward Argar Josh Babarinde Gareth Bacon Harriett Baldwin Steve Barclay Alison Bennett Saqib Bhatti Bob Blackman Sarah Bool Andrew Bowie Karen Bradley Suella Braverman Alex Brewer Jessica Brown - Fuller Alex Burghart Charlotte Cane Alistair Carmichael James Cartlidge David Chadwick Wendy Chamberlain Danny Chambers Christopher Chope James Cleverly Geoffrey Clifton - Brown Lewis Cocking Chris Coghlan Victoria Collins Daisy Cooper John Cooper Alberto Costa Claire Coutinho Harriet Cross Adam Dance Steve Darling Edward Davey Gareth Davies Mims davy Bobby Dean Charlie Dewhirst Lee Dillon Caroline Dinenage Oliver Dowden Iain Duncan Smith Luke Evans will Forster Peter Fortune Ashley Fox Mark Francois Z ö e Franklin George Freeman Roger Gale Mark Garnier Andrew George John Glen Marie Goldman Tom Gordon Helen Grant Sarah Green Andrew Griffith Alison Griffiths Monica Harding Rebecca Harris John Hayes Pippa Heylings Damian Hinds Simon Hoare Wera Hobhouse Kevin Hollinrake Paul Holmes Neil Hudson Jeremy Hunt Adnan Hussain Christine Jardine Liz Jarvis Bernard Jenkin Dr Caroline Johnson Clive Jones Alicia Kearns Ayoub Khan Paul Kohler Danny Kruger Katie Lam John Lamont Edward Leigh Julian Lewis Julia Lopez James MacCleary Angus MacDonald Ben Maguire Helen Maguire Alan Mak Kit Malthouse Mike Martin Brian Mathew Jerome Mayhew Charlie Maynard James McMurdock Esther McVey Freddie Van Mierlo Calum Miller John Milne Andrew Mitchell Iqbal Mohamed Gagan Mohindra Robbie Moore Layla Moran Helen Morgan Tom Morrison Joy Morrissey Wendy Morton Kieran Mullan David Mundell Susan Murray Andrew Murrison Jesse Norman Ben Obese - Jecty Neil o ' Brien Sarah Olney Rebecca Paul Manuela Perteghella Chris Philp Al Pinkerton Mark Pritchard Jack Rankin David Reed Joshua Reynolds Joe Robertson Andrew Rosindell Anna Sabine Roz Savage Jim Shannon Neil Shastri - Hurst Alec Shelbrooke David Simmonds Vikki Slade Lisa Smart Greg Smith Julian Smith Andrew Snowden Ian Sollom Ben Spencer Patrick Spencer Gregory Stafford Blake Stephenson Jamie Stone Mel Stride Graham Stuart Desmond Swayne Luke Taylor Bradley Thomas Cameron Thomas Richard Tice Nick Timothy Laura Trott Matt Vickers Caroline Voaden Helen Whately James Wild Max Wilkinson Gavin Williamson Munira Wilson Mike Wood Jeremy Wright Martin Wrigley Claire Young Richard Holden Rebecca Smith Jack Abbott Debbie Abrahams Luke Akehurst Bayo Alaba Dan Aldridge Heidi Alexander Sadik Al - Hassan Rushanara Ali Tahir Ali Rosena Allin - Khan Mike Amesbury Callum Anderson Fleur Anderson Tonia Antoniazzi Scott Arthur Jessica Asato James Asser Jas Athwal Catherine Atkinson Lewis Atkinson Olivia Bailey David Baines Richard Baker Antonia Bance Paula Barker Lee Barron Alex Barros - Curtis Johanna Baxter Danny Beales Lorraine Beavers Apsana Begum Torsten Bell Hilary Benn Clive Betts Polly Billington Matt Bishop Olivia Blake Rachel Blake Christopher Bloore Elsie Blundell Kevin Bonavia Jade Botterill Sureena Brackenridge Jonathan Brash Julia Buckley Richard Burgon Maureen Burke David Burton - Sampson Dawn Butler Ian Byrne Liam Byrne Ruth Cadbury Nesil Caliskan Alan Campbell Irene Campbell Juliet Campbell Markus Campbell - Savours Sam Carling Sarah Champion Bambos Charalambous Luke Charters Ellie chown Feryal Clark Ben Coleman Lizzi Collinge Tom Collins Liam Conlon Sarah coombe Andrew Cooper Beccy Cooper Deirdre Costigan Pam Cox Neil Coyle Jennifer Craft Mary Creagh Stella Creasy Torcuil Crichton Chris Curtis Janet Daby Nicholas Dakin Ashley Dalton Emily Darlington Jonathan Davies Paul Davies Marsha de Cordova Josh Dean Kate Dearden Carla Denyer Jim Dickson Anna Dixon Samantha Dixon Anneliese Dodds Helena Dollimore Peter Dowd Graeme Downie Neil Duncan - Jordan Angela Eagle Colum Eastwood Cat Eccles Lauren Edwards Clive Efford Damien Egan Maya Ellis Chris Elmore Kirith Entwistle Florence Eshalomi Bill Esterson Chris Evans Miatta Fahnbulleh Hamish Falconer Linsey Farnsworth Mark Ferguson Patricia Ferguson Natalie Fleet Emma Foody Catherine Fookes Paul Foster Vicky Foxcroft Daniel Francis James Frith Gill Furniss Allison Gardner Anna Gelderd Alan Gemmell Gill german Tracy Gilbert Preet Kaur Gill Becky Gittins Mary Glindon Ben Goldsborough John Grady Lilian Greenwood Nia Griffith Andrew Gwynne Amanda Hack Louise Haigh Sarah Hall Fabian Hamilton Paulette Hamilton Emma Hardy Carolyn Harris Lloyd Hatton Helen Hayes Tom Hayes Claire Hazelgrove Chris Hinchliff Jonathan Hinder Sharon Hodgson Rachel Hopkins Claire Hughes Alison Hume rupa Huq Patrick Hurley Leigh Ingham Natasha Irons Sally Jameson Dan Jarvis Adam Jogee Diana R . Johnson Darren Jones Lillian Jones Louise Jones Ruth Jones Gurinder Josan Sojan Joseph Warinder Juss Chris Kane Satvir Kaur Liz Kendall Afzal Khan Naushabah Khan Stephen Kinnock Jayne Kirkham Gen Kitchen Sonia Kumar Peter Kyle Laura Kyrke - Smith Peter Lamb Noah Law Kim Leadbeater Brian Leishman Andrew Lewin Clive Lewis Simon Lightwood Rebecca Long - Bailey Josh MacAlister Alice Macdonald Andy MacNae Justin Madders Seema Malhotra Amanda Martin Rachael Maskell Keir Mather Alex Mayer Douglas McAllister Kerry McCarthy Martin McCluskey Siobhain McDonagh Andy McDonald Chris McDonald Lola McEvoy Alison McGovern Gordon McKee Kevin McKenna Catherine McKinnell Jim McMahon Kirsty McNeill Anneliese Midgley Julie Minns Navendu Mishra Perran Moon Jessica Morden Stephen Morgan Grahame Morris Joe Morris Margaret Mullane Luke Murphy Chris Murray James Murray Katrina Murray Luke Myer James Naish Kanishka Narayan Josh Newbury Samantha Niblett Charlotte Nichols Melanie Onn Chi Onwurah Simon Opher Abena Oppong - Asare Kate Osamor Kate Osborne Tristan Osborne Taiwo Owatemi Sarah Owen Darren Paffey Andrew Pakes Matthew Patrick Michael Payne Stephanie Peacock Jonathan Pearce Matthew Pennycook Toby Perkins Bridget Phillipson David Pinto - Duschinsky Lee Pitcher Lucy Powell Gregor Poynton Peter Prinsley Richard Quigley Yasmin Qureshi Steve Race Adrian Ramsay Connor Rand Andrew Ranger Mike Reader Steve Reed Ellie Reeves Joani Reid Emma Reynolds Jonathan Reynolds Martin Rhodes Jake Richards Jenny Riddell - Carpenter Marie Rimmer Dave Robertson Tim Roca Matt Rodda Sam Rushworth Sarah Russell Tom Rutland Oliver Ryan Sarah Sackman Jeevun Sandher Mark Sewards Naseem Shah Michael Shanks Tulip Siddiq Andrew Slaughter John Slinger Cat Smith David Smith Jeff Smith Nick Smith Karin Smyth Gareth Snell Alex Sobel Euan Stainbank Jo Stevens Elaine Stewart will Stone Alistair Strathern Alan Strickland Graham Stringer Kirsteen Sullivan Lauren Sullivan Zarah Sultana Peter Swallow Mark Tami Mike Tapp David Taylor Fred Thomas Gareth Thomas Nick Thomas - Symonds Adam Thompson Marie Tidball Stephen Timms Jessica Toale Jon Trickett Henry Tufnell Anna Turley Matt Turmaine Karl Turner Laurence Turner Derek Twigg Liz Twist Harpreet Uppal Tony Vaughan Valerie Vaz Christopher Vince Christian Wakeford Imogen Walker Chris Ward Melanie Ward Paul Waugh Chris Webb Michelle Welsh Catherine West Andrew Western Matt Western Michael Wheeler Jo White Katie White David Williams Steve Witherden Sean Woodcock Rosie Wrighting Yuan Yang Mohammad Yasin Steve Yemm Daniel Zeichner Anna McMorrin Gerald Jones the House divide : Ayes 172 , Noes 341 . question accordingly negative . third read I beg to move , that the Bill be now read the third time . I take this opportunity to acknowledge all who have contribute to the Bill ' s passage through this House , particularly my private office team , for the support that they have offer during this process , official in my Department , for the outstanding work that they have do , and colleague in the Department for Education and the Treasury , as well as Clerks of the House , for support the process of this Bill . the Bill honour the Government ' s manifesto pledge to end business rate charitable rate relief for private school in England and to fundamentally reform the business rate system . we be kickstarte this endeavour through the introduction of low tax rate for retail , hospitality , and leisure property . I thank all member who contribute to the evidence session , the Committee stage and today ' s debate . I hope , even though there be disagreement on part of the new clause and on the amendment , that there be at least an acknowledgment that we have go a long way to ensure that we get to the heart of what this Bill be intend to do when it come to the high street and our town centre . in the end , whatever the difference — and let we be honest there be plenty — we all know how important our small business be to the viability of our high street . we all recognise that these be more than just place in which to do business ; they be place that people look to as the heart of their community . they be always more than the sum of their part . hopefully , member will see that these measure will really make a dent in this area . I also place on the record our thank to those who give evidence to the Public Bill Committee , include : the Institute of Revenues , Rating and Valuation ; the British Retail Consortium ; the Co - op Group ; M & S ; the Shopkeepers ' campaign ; the British Property Federation ; and the Independent Schools Council . they have enable we to scrutinise the Bill properly and to get evidence from professional who understand what thing be like on the ground , and that , I believe , add value to the process . I thank those who attend and give evidence in Committee for their time and willingness to share their expertise . I also wish to extend my thank to hon . member who attend the Public Bill Committee to ask question , to foster debate , and to contribute to discussion as we take these important first step to transform the business rate system . the Bill will help to secure additional funding to enable the Government to deliver their commitment to the majority of child who attend state school , which be the second part of this Bill . end tax break for private school be a tough but necessary decision . it will come as welcome news to most parent in England , as it represent the Government ' s determination to break down the barrier to opportunity and ensure that all child get a high - quality education . let we be absolutely clear : more than 90 % of child in this country go to state school and they deserve the good , too . now they be go to get it . let I assure Members that the education system in England be prepare for the relatively small number of pupil who may move as a result of the measure in this Bill . much of what we have hear about churn in the system be not support by the evidence and , in the end , it run the risk of scaremongere . we need to reflect on the fact that there have always be change in the system , even before these measure be introduce . importantly , we be organise to make sure that parent and pupil receive support if they need it , but we believe that will be around the edge . the Bill will also provide certainty to high street by make provision to introduce a permanent tax cut for retail , hospitality and leisure property . we have hear a lot about the change from the covid relief to the permanent , bake - in relief that we be provide through the Bill . the Opposition have say a number of time during the Bill ' s passage that it represent a reduction , but a degree of honesty be require . the opposition know , as do we , that there be no provision — not a single pound or penny — for the continuation of the temporary relief provide during covid on which retailer , hospitality provider and leisure provider be rely . the opposition know that that be a fact , as do we . the only difference be that while the opposition be willing to political point score , while business be wait for maturity and for an answer to the problem , we be get on with the job of government , and provide the permanent support that business need . how will we pay for it ? we have hear the opposition say a lot that they do not support measure , but they always support the investment . they support the investment in state school , but not the measure to generate the income . they support the measure to support high street , but seem not to support the measure to ensure that premise with a value of £ 500 , 000 or more pay more into the pot . the reality be that this have not just come out of the blue . the Conservatives have 14 year to address the imbalance from the online to the on - street , from the out - of - town to the in - town , and they do nothing , so it be , frankly , ridiculous for they to try to present themselves during the passage of the Bill as the champion of enterprise , of our town centre and of small business . they now have an opportunity . we have sort out the amendment — they be nonsense , and most people would accept that — but on Third reading we get to vote on the substance of the Bill . the opposition could do the right thing . they could change course and back support for state school to get they the money that they need . they could back measure to get money to the high street in our town centre and do the right thing . now be the time to show that they will be the mature opposition that they promise to be , but I expect that that will not be the path they choose . luckily , the Government be get on with the job . I commend the Bill to the House . I call the shadow Secretary of State . I thank the Minister , and indeed my shadow Ministers , the other Opposition spokespeople and all parliamentarian who have help with the passage of the Bill , as well as the Clerks and official — not that I would like to see the Bill progress any far . Aristotle , in his book " politic " , over 2 , 000 year ago — [ interruption . ] order ! over 2 , 000 year ago , Aristotle talk about deviant government . alongside tyranny , he place democracy . he say the risk be that , soon or later , a Government will come along who represent only their own interest and those of their supporter , and that that Government will pursue the politic of envy . let we see who the Minister ' s supporter be . they be not the 12 . 6 million pensioner in this country , if we judge by the winter fuel allowance ; not the 89 , 500 farmer whose livelihood will be damage by the family farm tax ; not the 5 million businesspeople who will be damage by the change to business property relief , who employ 14 million people and pay £ 200 billion a year in taxis ; not those people who live in rural area ; and not the family of the 550 , 000 young people who be in private and independent education . accord to the Institute for Fiscal Studies — this be not scaremongere — 90 , 000 of they may go back into the state sector as a result of the Government ' s choice . the Government have the gall to say that the fact that business rate or vat do not apply to school fee be a tax break . it be no more a tax break than there be no vat on housing , child ' s clothe or food . those measure be there because we should encourage people to pursue education , particularly those who scrimp and save to send their child into private education . what about business ? business be suffer on the back of the employer national insurance rise of £ 25 billion a year , and be worried about the future because of the withdrawal of business property relief and agricultural property relief . the reality be that this Bill mean a cut in support for many of those whom the Minister say he seek to protect — people who work in the retail , hospitality and leisure sector . the 75 % discount be down to 40 % . that will mean a tangible difference for the average pub of £ 5 , 500 a year . that come on top of the huge increase in employer national insurance . some 250 , 000 business will be bad off to the tune of £ 925 million . that be the tax charge he be place on those business he say he seek to protect . if he be honest with they , those taxis will go up again in April 2026 . that be the reality of the situation . what promise do Labour make before the election ? they say they would scrap business rate completely — another broken promise . in their manifesto , they say they would change the balance between high street and the online giant . that be not what the Bill do . the Bill also tax brewery , airport , football stadium and brick - and - mortar retailer such as John Lewis , Sainsbury ' s and Morrisons . that be the reality behind the Government ' s change : not scrap business rate , nothing on the online giant and big taxis on many business . this be the politic of envy . it be the tyranny of socialism , and that be why we will vote against the Bill . question put , that the Bill be now read the third time . diane Abbott Jack Abbott Debbie Abrahams Luke Akehurst Bayo Alaba Dan Aldridge Heidi Alexander Sadik Al - Hassan Rushanara Ali Tahir Ali Rosena Allin - Khan Mike Amesbury Callum Anderson Fleur Anderson Tonia Antoniazzi Scott Arthur Jessica Asato James Asser Jas Athwal Catherine Atkinson Lewis Atkinson Olivia Bailey David Baines Richard Baker Antonia Bance Paula Barker Lee Barron Alex Barros - Curtis Johanna Baxter Danny Beales Lorraine Beavers Apsana Begum Torsten Bell Hilary Benn Clive Betts Polly Billington Matt Bishop Olivia Blake Rachel Blake Christopher Bloore Elsie Blundell Kevin Bonavia Jade Botterill Sureena Brackenridge Jonathan Brash Julia Buckley Richard Burgon Maureen Burke David Burton - Sampson Dawn Butler Ian Byrne Liam Byrne Ruth Cadbury Nesil Caliskan Alan Campbell Irene Campbell Juliet Campbell Markus Campbell - Savours Sam Carling Sarah Champion Bambos Charalambous Luke Charters Ellie chown Feryal Clark Ben Coleman Lizzi Collinge Tom Collins Liam Conlon Andrew Cooper Beccy Cooper Deirdre Costigan Pam Cox Neil Coyle Jennifer Craft Mary Creagh Stella Creasy Torcuil Crichton Chris Curtis Janet Daby Nicholas Dakin Ashley Dalton Emily Darlington Jonathan Davies Paul Davies Marsha de Cordova Josh Dean Kate Dearden Carla Denyer Jim Dickson Anna Dixon Samantha Dixon Anneliese Dodds Helena Dollimore Peter Dowd Graeme Downie Neil Duncan - Jordan Angela Eagle Colum Eastwood Cat Eccles Lauren Edwards Clive Efford Damien Egan Maya Ellis Chris Elmore Kirith Entwistle Florence Eshalomi Bill Esterson Chris Evans Miatta Fahnbulleh Linsey Farnsworth Mark Ferguson Patricia Ferguson Natalie Fleet Emma Foody Catherine Fookes Paul Foster Vicky Foxcroft Daniel Francis James Frith Gill Furniss Allison Gardner Anna Gelderd Alan Gemmell Gill german Tracy Gilbert Preet Kaur Gill Becky Gittins Mary Glindon Ben Goldsborough John Grady Lilian Greenwood Nia Griffith Andrew Gwynne Amanda Hack Louise Haigh Sarah Hall Fabian Hamilton Paulette Hamilton Emma Hardy Carolyn Harris Lloyd Hatton Helen Hayes Tom Hayes Claire Hazelgrove John Healey Meg Hillier Chris Hinchliff Jonathan Hinder Sharon Hodgson Rachel Hopkins Claire Hughes Alison Hume rupa Huq Patrick Hurley Leigh Ingham Natasha Irons Sally Jameson Dan Jarvis Adam Jogee Diana R . Johnson Darren Jones Lillian Jones Louise Jones Ruth Jones Gurinder Josan Sojan Joseph Warinder Juss Chris Kane Satvir Kaur Liz Kendall Afzal Khan Naushabah Khan Stephen Kinnock Jayne Kirkham Gen Kitchen Sonia Kumar Peter Kyle Laura Kyrke - Smith Peter Lamb Noah Law Kim Leadbeater Brian Leishman Andrew Lewin Clive Lewis Simon Lightwood Rebecca Long - Bailey Josh MacAlister Alice Macdonald Andy MacNae Justin Madders Seema Malhotra Amanda Martin Rachael Maskell Keir Mather Alex Mayer Douglas McAllister Kerry McCarthy Martin McCluskey Siobhain McDonagh Andy McDonald Chris McDonald Lola McEvoy Alison McGovern Gordon McKee Kevin McKenna Catherine McKinnell Jim McMahon Kirsty McNeill Anneliese Midgley Julie Minns Navendu Mishra Perran Moon Jessica Morden Stephen Morgan Grahame Morris Joe Morris Margaret Mullane Luke Murphy Chris Murray James Murray Katrina Murray Luke Myer James Naish Kanishka Narayan Josh Newbury Samantha Niblett Charlotte Nichols Melanie Onn Chi Onwurah Simon Opher Abena Oppong - Asare Kate Osamor Kate Osborne Tristan Osborne Taiwo Owatemi Sarah Owen Darren Paffey Andrew Pakes Matthew Patrick Michael Payne Stephanie Peacock Jonathan Pearce Matthew Pennycook Toby Perkins Bridget Phillipson David Pinto - Duschinsky Lee Pitcher Lucy Powell Gregor Poynton Peter Prinsley Richard Quigley Yasmin Qureshi Steve Race Adrian Ramsay Connor Rand Andrew Ranger Mike Reader Steve Reed Ellie Reeves Emma Reynolds Jonathan Reynolds Martin Rhodes Bell Ribeiro - Addy Jake Richards Jenny Riddell - Carpenter Marie Rimmer Dave Robertson Tim Roca Matt Rodda Sam Rushworth Sarah Russell Tom Rutland Oliver Ryan Sarah Sackman Jeevun Sandher Mark Sewards Naseem Shah Michael Shanks Tulip Siddiq Andrew Slaughter John Slinger Cat Smith David Smith Jeff Smith Nick Smith Karin Smyth Gareth Snell Alex Sobel Euan Stainbank Jo Stevens Elaine Stewart will Stone Alistair Strathern Alan Strickland Graham Stringer Kirsteen Sullivan Lauren Sullivan Zarah Sultana Peter Swallow Mark Tami Mike Tapp David Taylor Fred Thomas Gareth Thomas Nick Thomas - Symonds Adam Thompson Marie Tidball Stephen Timms Jessica Toale Jon Trickett Henry Tufnell Anna Turley Matt Turmaine Karl Turner Laurence Turner Derek Twigg Liz Twist Harpreet Uppal Valerie Vaz Christopher Vince Christian Wakeford Imogen Walker Chris Ward Melanie Ward Paul Waugh Chris Webb Michelle Welsh Catherine West Andrew Western Matt Western Michael Wheeler Jo White Katie White David Williams Steve Witherden Sean Woodcock Rosie Wrighting Yuan Yang Mohammad Yasin Steve Yemm Daniel Zeichner Gerald Jones Anna McMorrin Shockat Adam Gideon Amos Lee Anderson Stuart Anderson Stuart Andrew Steffan Aquarone Edward Argar Josh Babarinde Gareth Bacon Harriett Baldwin Steve Barclay Alison Bennett Saqib Bhatti Bob Blackman Sarah Bool Andrew Bowie Karen Bradley Suella Braverman Alex Brewer Jessica Brown - Fuller Alex Burghart Charlotte Cane Alistair Carmichael James Cartlidge David Chadwick Wendy Chamberlain Danny Chambers Christopher Chope Geoffrey Clifton - Brown Lewis Cocking Chris Coghlan Victoria Collins Daisy Cooper John Cooper Alberto Costa Claire Coutinho Harriet Cross Adam Dance Steve Darling Edward Davey Gareth Davies Mims davy David Davis Bobby Dean Charlie Dewhirst Lee Dillon Caroline Dinenage Oliver Dowden Iain Duncan Smith Luke Evans Tim Farron will Forster Peter Fortune Ashley Fox Mark Francois Z ö e Franklin George Freeman Roger Gale Mark Garnier Andrew George John Glen Marie Goldman Tom Gordon Helen Grant Sarah Green Andrew Griffith Alison Griffiths Monica Harding Rebecca Harris John Hayes Pippa Heylings Damian Hinds Simon Hoare Wera Hobhouse Richard Holden Kevin Hollinrake Paul Holmes Neil Hudson Jeremy Hunt Adnan Hussain Christine Jardine Liz Jarvis Bernard Jenkin Dr Caroline Johnson Clive Jones Alicia Kearns Ayoub Khan Paul Kohler Danny Kruger Katie Lam John Lamont Edward Leigh Julian Lewis Julia Lopez James MacCleary Angus MacDonald Ben Maguire Helen Maguire Alan Mak Kit Malthouse Mike Martin Brian Mathew Jerome Mayhew Charlie Maynard James McMurdock Esther McVey Freddie Van Mierlo Calum Miller John Milne Andrew Mitchell Iqbal Mohamed Gagan Mohindra Robbie Moore Layla Moran Helen Morgan Tom Morrison Joy Morrissey Wendy Morton Kieran Mullan David Mundell Susan Murray Andrew Murrison Jesse Norman Ben Obese - Jecty Neil o ' Brien Sarah Olney Rebecca Paul Manuela Perteghella Chris Philp Al Pinkerton Mark Pritchard Jack Rankin David Reed Joshua Reynolds Joe Robertson Andrew Rosindell Anna Sabine Jim Shannon Neil Shastri - Hurst Alec Shelbrooke David Simmonds Vikki Slade Lisa Smart Julian Smith Andrew Snowden Ian Sollom Ben Spencer Patrick Spencer Gregory Stafford Blake Stephenson Jamie Stone Mel Stride Graham Stuart Desmond Swayne Luke Taylor Bradley Thomas Cameron Thomas Richard Tice Nick Timothy Laura Trott Matt Vickers Caroline Voaden Helen Whately James Wild Max Wilkinson Gavin Williamson Munira Wilson Mike Wood Jeremy Wright Martin Wrigley Claire Young Rebecca Smith Greg Smith the House divide : Ayes 341 , Noes 171 . question accordingly agree to . Bill read the third time and pass . business without Debate Business of the House ( 16 January ) order , that , at the sitting on Thursday 16 January , the business determine for that day by the Backbench Business Committee may be proceed with until 5 . 00pm or for 90 minute , whichever be the late , and shall then lapse if not previously dispose of ; those proceeding may be enter upon and continue , though oppose , after the moment of interruption ; and Standing Order No . 41a ( defer division ) shall not apply . — ( Lucy Powell . ) endometriosis : woman in the Workplace Motion make , and question propose , that this House do now adjourn . — ( Keir Mather . ) I be grateful for this opportunity to raise the plight of woman with endometriosis and the everyday struggle they face in the workplace . Endometriosis be first identify in 1860 , but progress in improve the life of woman suffer from it have move at a glacial pace since then . as the Women and Equalities Committee so accurately put it : " woman and girl be miss out on their education , career opportunity , relationship , social life and be have their fertility impact because of neglect reproductive health condition . " this debate focus on the impact of endometriosis on woman in the workplace . I choose this specific focus of attention because an examination of all the issue face woman with this condition would far exceed the time constraint of an Adjournment debate ; it would span an entire parliament and more . I commend the hon . Lady for raise this massive issue . I have in my office a girl who join as a 16 - year - old and have be with I for almost 12 year . she get marry on new year ' s day . at the age of 28 , she have menopause to try to help her endometriosis . as a caring employer , I obviously make sure that she have all the day off that she need , but not every workplace will ensure that such woman get the time off that they should . do the hon . Lady agree that , although the debate will raise awareness , there be a role for the Government to ensure that there be training for business so that they understand their obligation ? I thank the hon . member for that point . the issue have be know about for a long time . the woman ' s health strategy , publish in 2022 , paint a picture of what workplace should be like over the next 10 year , argue that woman should " feel able to speak openly about their health and to be confident that they will be support by their employer and workplace colleague , with an end to taboo " and that " woman experience woman ' s health issue such as period problem , endometriosis , fertility treatment , miscarriage and menopause " must " feel well support in their workplace . " this be a far cry from the reality face woman in the workplace today . it be fortuitous that you be in the Chair tonight , Madam Deputy Speaker , give all the work you do on these issue in the last Parliament as Chair of the Women and Equalities Committee . I think that the hon . Lady attend my Westminster Hall last year , and I be grateful to she for secure this Adjournment debate . as a direct consequence of my Westminster Hall debate , Essex police contact I , say , " we be look into do this . can you give we advice on the workplace ? " it be a great example of the impact of this place , and employer will be listen to her debate . Des she agree that education and sunlight will help a lot of employer make the right decision ? I thank the right hon . member for that intervention , and I absolutely agree . I pay tribute to you , Madam Deputy Speaker , and to the right hon . member for the effort he have put in over many year . Stigma and a lack of awareness by employer mean that reproductive health condition can have a significant effect on woman ' s experience at work . it be almost impossible to remain at work when suffer from chronic pain and the mental toll that these condition cause . I thank my hon . friend for the fantastic speech she be make . Endometriosis UK , which provide the secretariat of the all - party parliamentary group on endometriosis , of which I be the chair , release a report last year that find that 47 % of woman have visit their gp 10 or more time with symptom prior to diagnosis . many of those woman be likely to face issue with get time off work to attend these appointment , or experience some form of disciplinary action because of it . do my hon . friend agree that be understand and tolerant about the number of appointment need to secure a diagnosis be critical to be an endometriosis - friendly employer , and that , ultimately , we need to take step to ensure that the process do not take several year and so many appointment ? I thank my hon . friend . the average length of time take be now eight year , which be not good . many woman feel unable to speak openly about endometriosis as they would other condition , as if it be something to be ashamed of . research show that 23 % of woman take time off work because of period health issue while 80 % lie about reason for absence if they be relate to period . have say that , endometriosis be not just about period ; it be a whole - body complaint . I do not think there be an organ in the body up to the chest that have not be find to be affect by what be a crippling disease . I want to build on what the hon . Lady say about endometriosis in the workplace . the condition often come with infection of the digestive system , which can make many woman incontinent to the point that they suddenly have to run . that be important to consider , as this be not just about appointment and time off but the condition in which people work and the understanding they need from their colleague and boss . I completely agree , and it have serious consequence . woman may need to have a stoma because of the damage do to their bowel . the right hon . Member and I have both meet quite young woman their 20 who have need to have hysterectomy and will never be able to bear a child . Endometriosis should not mean that woman have to put their career on hold and leave the job they have work hard to get . employer can take simple step such as offer flexible working , access to period product and time off to attend appointment to build the type of workplace envision in the woman ' s health strategy . I be pleased that the Government have bring forward the Employment Rights Bill , which will be the big boost to worker ' right in a generation . that offer the perfect opportunity to begin to change the workplace experience of woman with endometriosis . I thank my hon . friend for secure this important debate . as she mention , endometriosis can have a knock - on effect on many area of a woman ' s life . it can affect mental health , and it can also have an impact on fertility , yet there be no statutory right to time off work for fertility treatment , or indeed in many other scenario . do she agree that we should welcome the support that employer provide in this area and encourage other to do much more to support woman go through endometriosis and so many other difficult condition ? I thank my hon . friend for that point , and I completely agree . although the Employment Rights Bill do require large employer to publish equality action plan , there be no specific mention of reproductive condition . what discussion be the Minister have with her colleague in the Department for Business and Trade to ensure that those issue be not forget ? what hope can we have that employer will understand the condition if even some medical professional do not ? all too often , we have hear story from woman who have be tell , " it ' s just a heavy period " and , " suck it up — every woman go through this . " I meet woman from the endometriosis support group in Derby , and so many report that they have have to give up work because of their symptom as well as the huge delay in their diagnosis and treatment . do my hon . friend agree that until this get real priority and understanding , we will continue to lose out on the talent and skill of woman with endometriosis ? absolutely , and I will come to that shortly . that leave woman feel dismiss , ignore and belittle by the very people who should be help they . the result be that it take almost nine year on average to get a diagnosis of endometriosis in the UK . I therefore look forward to hear from the Minister on the step she be take to promote well awareness . will my hon . friend give way ? I be sorry ; I have get to make progress . I do not underestimate the task for Ministers in fix our NHS after it be leave in tatter by the previous Government . waiting list for gynaecological care have grow fast than those for any other specialty in recent year , leave many woman in agony . the woman ' s health strategy correctly identify some of these chronic issue , but in the absence of funding to back that up , we have go far and far backwards from what we need . for instance , woman ' s health hub have improve woman ' s access to healthcare service , but the previous Government fail to give they long - term certainty and their funding be set to run out in March . as the Government work hard to rebuild the NHS , improve gynaecological care must be at the centre of that , because woman have wait long enough . will the Minister therefore update the House on how the Government will implement the measure in the woman ' s health strategy ? we must continue to encourage research into endometriosis . our world - lead researcher be do vital work in clinical trial to find well way to manage and treat this condition . they will not stop until they find a cure . therefore , will the Minister outline what step she be take to support clinical research and ensure that woman be able to get on to those clinical trial ? if we have a cure , it be obvious that we will not have any of the problem that I have speak about . I commend the Women and Equalities Committee on its excellent report into woman ' s reproductive health condition . it have make a number of recommendation , include on employment right , and I look forward to read the Government ' s response . I hope that they will listen to call to give specific mention to reproductive health as part of the Employment Rights Bill , which have cross - party support . I also praise Endometriosis UK for its invaluable work in support woman with this condition and campaign for change . it act as the secretariat for the all - party parliamentary group on endometriosis , of which I be an officer . I thank my hon . friend for secure this critical debate . with an average of eight - plus year for a diagnosis , do she agree that employer must build a more supportive and flexible approach that embed policy to help woman , such the endo - friendly employer scheme ? will she join I in thank campaigner such as the Endo Warriors West Lothian for their tireless awareness - raise effort ? my hon . friend be absolutely right — that be what we be talk about . for many year , the APPG be chair by our dear friend David Amess . David campaign tirelessly for improvement to endometriosis care , and he will forever remain on our mind as we continue his legacy . I congratulate my hon . friend the Member for Sheffield Brightside and Hillsborough ( Gill Furniss ) on secure this important debate on the impact of endometriosis on woman in the workplace . in opposition I support the work of the APPG . I echo the praise for the campaign work of Endometriosis UK and the support that you , Madam Deputy Speaker , and other in the Chamber have give to the APPG . I also remember the work of our friend David Amess . I echo the recognition of the recent report by the Women and Equalities Committee on reproductive health condition . my Department be work across Government on our response , which will be publish in due course . I welcome the progress make on raise awareness — we be move very fast on this — and on provide well support for woman ' s health condition , include endometriosis . nevertheless , this Government recognise that woman with endometriosis have be fail for far too long , and we acknowledge the impact that it have on woman ' s life , relationship and participation in education and the workforce . there be still much more work to be do . we be committed to improve support for any woman and girl whose period or woman ' s condition disrupt their normal life , work or education . in addition to receive support in the workplace , all woman should have access to healthcare support to help diagnose and manage this condition . we be make progress to ensure that those with endometriosis receive a timely diagnosis and effective treatment . there have be a lot of cross - party work on this issue . I lead a debate — the last one before the general election be call , I think — on endometriosis education . it be not prescribe that school should educate about what a bad period be — I still meet woman bear in this century who do not know . if someone do not know what a disease be , how do they know that they have it ? I urge the Minister to ensure that those message be push in the Department for Education , as we need to ensure that people know what disease they could have . I thank the right hon . gentleman for that point , which I will talk about later . on the Employment Rights Bill , our plan to make work pay set out a significant and ambitious agenda to ensure that workplace right be fit for a modern economy , empower work people and contribute to economic growth . on 10 October , the Government fulfil their manifesto commitment to introduce legislation within 100 day of enter office , by introduce the Employment Rights Bill . as part of the Bill , we be take the first step towards require employer to publish action plan alongside their gender pay gap figure . the relevant clause set out that regulation may require employer to develop and publish action plan relate to gender equality , which include measure to address the gender pay gap and support employee go through the menopause . it deliberately do not provide an exhaustive list of matter relate to gender equality , give we the scope to be lead by the action themselves . this reflect the fact that many of the action employer take will be beneficial for people in a lot of different circumstance ; for example , improve provision of flexible working can be valuable for an employee balance childcare as well as someone manage a health condition such as endometriosis . in the same way , ensure that employer support staff go through the menopause will necessitate they take step that be positive for support woman ' s health in the workplace more broadly . for example , menopause good practice include great discussion around woman ' s health and awareness of potential workplace adjustment — thing that have a much wide potential benefit . as my hon . Friend say , we need to start to reduce the stigma and taboo and remove they from the debate . through the Employment Rights Bill , the Government be also make statutory sick pay payable from the first day of sickness absence . this will particularly benefit those who suffer from condition such as endometriosis , who may need to take time off to manage a flare up . we be also remove the low earning limit and extend statutory sick pay to up to 1 . 3 million additional low - pay employee , particularly benefit woman , young people and those in part - time work . the Minister for Equalities , my hon . friend the Member for Llanelli ( Dame Nia Griffith ) , lead for the Government on the Bill from the equality team , and I can assure my hon . friend the Member for Sheffield Brightside and Hillsborough that we be work with she and talk about this issue throughout the Government . for example , I regularly join Women and Equalities question here in the Chamber to make sure we work closely together , and I will continue to work closely with colleague on these issue . the new measure we be seek to introduce build on exist Government support for employer , which recognise their key role in increase employment opportunity and support disabled people and those with health condition to thrive as part of the workforce . the Government ' s current offer to employer include a digital information service that provide tailor guidance to business to support employee to remain in work . that include guidance on health disclosure and have conversation about health , as well as guidance on legal obligation include statutory sick pay and reasonable adjustment . the service be available across Britain and can currently be access from a range of trust location , include both the Health and Safety Executive and ACAS website . we be also take step to well understand the challenge face by woman with endometriosis in the workplace and to improve workplace support for those with the condition . the Government health and wellbeing fund have award almost £ 2 million to 16 voluntary , community and social enterprise organisation lead project focus on support woman who experience reproductive health issue to remain in or return to the workplace , include a project on endometriosis deliver by Endometriosis UK . an Office for National Statistics study be investigate the impact of endometriosis on woman ' s labour market outcome . this important study will be a vital step to improve our understanding and will inform future action policy work . the first publication in this research project , on the characteristic of woman diagnose with endometriosis in England between 2011 and 2021 , be publish in December . in addition to provide workplace support for endometriosis , the Government be commit to improve healthcare support and ensure that woman with endometriosis can receive timely diagnosis and treatment . we recognise that patient have be let down for too long while they wait for the care they need . nearly 600 , 000 woman be on gynaecology waiting list . it be unacceptable that patient be wait too long to get the care they need . I thank my hon . friend the Member for Sheffield Brightside and Hillsborough for her sympathy with the task of reduce those list , but that be our priority . cut waiting list , include for gynaecology , be a key part of our health mission and a top priority for this Government . we have commit to achieve the NHS constitutional standard that 92 % of patient should wait no long than 18 week from referral to treatment by the end of this Parliament , and that absolutely include those wait for gynaecology treatment . my noble friend Baroness Merron , the Minister responsible for patient safety , woman ' s health and mental health , and I recently meet with the Government ' s woman ' s health ambassador , Professor Dame Lesley Regan , and NHS England to discuss progress on woman ' s health and current issue include gynaecology waiting list . follow that meeting I be pleased that our recently publish plan for reform elective care set out commitment to support the delivery of innovative model in gynaecology offer patient care close to home and pilot gynaecology pathway in community diagnostic centre for patient with post - menopausal bleeding . enable access to adequate healthcare support begin with provide high - quality education and information on menstrual health , as the right hon . member for Wetherby and Easingwold ( Sir Alec Shelbrooke ) highlight , so that woman and girl know when and how to seek help for symptom such as heavy or painful period . the compulsory aspect of the curriculum on relationship , sex and health education mean all pupil be teach about several area of woman ' s health , include menstruation , contraception , fertility , pregnancy and menopause . my right hon . friend the Secretary of State for Education have commit to provide teacher with clear guidance that focus on the wellbeing of child . her Department will look carefully at all relevant evidence and engage with stakeholder , include young people and parent , ahead of publish a consultation response and the revised guidance later this year . I be pleased that Dame Lesley Regan , in her role as woman ' s health ambassador , have be feed woman ' s health perspective into this work . my Department have work with NHS England to improve and create new content on endometriosis symptom , diagnosis and treatment option on the NHS website and YouTube channel . NHS England have also publish a decision support tool for manage heavy period to support woman ' s understanding of their symptom and appropriate treatment option to discuss with clinician . education and clinical guideline support healthcare professional to provide care for woman with endometriosis . the General Medical Council have introduce the medical licensing assessment for most incoming doctor , include all medical student graduate in the academic year 2024 - 25 and onwards . the content for the assessment include several topic relate to woman ' s health , include menstrual problem and endometriosis , and will encourage a well understanding of common woman ' s health problem in all doctor as they start their career in the UK , which we all want to see . Endometriosis be also already in the core curriculum for trainee GPs , obstetrician and gynaecologist . last year , the National Institute for Health and Care Excellence publish update guideline on the diagnosis and treatment of endometriosis , and the new and update recommendation on referral and investigation should help woman receive a diagnosis more quickly . through the National Institute for Health and Care Research , the Department have also commission a number of study focus on endometriosis diagnosis and treatment and patient experience . in closing , I thank my hon . friend the Member for Sheffield Brightside and Hillsborough for table this debate and for she continue long - stand advocacy for woman ' s health . let I affirm the Government ' s commitment to support the many woman who live with endometriosis in the workplace and beyond . this Government be commit to prioritise woman ' s health as we build an NHS fit for the future . my noble friend Baroness Merron be carefully consider how we take forward the woman ' s health strategy by align it to the Government ' s mission and forthcoming 10 - year health plan , and woman ' s equality will be at the heart of our mission . it be vital that we work with woman to well understand their experience and address their concern , which have be ignore for far too long . question put and agree to . 7 . 27 pm House adjourn . Deferred Divisions Retained EU Law Reform that the draft Electricity Capacity Mechanism ( Amendment ) Regulations 2024 , which be lay before this House on 18 November 2024 , be approve . diane Abbott Jack Abbott Debbie Abrahams Shockat Adam Zubir Ahmed Luke Akehurst Bayo Alaba Dan Aldridge Douglas Alexander Sadik Al - Hassan Rushanara Ali Rosena Allin - Khan Mike Amesbury Callum Anderson Fleur Anderson Tonia Antoniazzi Steffan Aquarone Scott Arthur Jessica Asato James Asser Jas Athwal Lewis Atkinson Josh Babarinde Calvin Bailey Olivia Bailey David Baines Richard Baker Antonia Bance Paula Barker Lee Barron Alex Barros - Curtis Johanna Baxter Danny Beales Lorraine Beavers Apsana Begum Torsten Bell Hilary Benn Alison Bennett Clive Betts Polly Billington Matt Bishop Olivia Blake Rachel Blake Christopher Bloore Elsie Blundell Kevin Bonavia Jade Botterill Sureena Brackenridge Jonathan Brash Alex Brewer Jessica Brown - Fuller Chris Bryant Julia Buckley Richard Burgon Maureen Burke David Burton - Sampson Dawn Butler Ian Byrne Ruth Cadbury Nesil Caliskan Alan Campbell Irene Campbell Juliet Campbell Markus Campbell - Savours Charlotte Cane Sam Carling David Chadwick Wendy Chamberlain Sarah Champion Bambos Charalambous Luke Charters Ellie chown Feryal Clark Ben Coleman Lizzi Collinge Tom Collins Liam Conlon Sarah coombe Andrew Cooper Beccy Cooper Daisy Cooper Yvette Cooper Jeremy Corbyn Deirdre Costigan Pam Cox Neil Coyle Jennifer Craft Mary Creagh Stella Creasy Torcuil Crichton Chris Curtis Janet Daby Nicholas Dakin Ashley Dalton Adam Dance Steve Darling Emily Darlington Edward Davey Ann Davies Jonathan Davies Paul Davies Marsha de Cordova Bobby Dean Josh Dean Kate Dearden Carla Denyer Jim Dickson Lee Dillon Anna Dixon Samantha Dixon Anneliese Dodds Helena Dollimore Stephen Doughty Peter Dowd Graeme Downie Neil Duncan - Jordan Angela Eagle Maria Eagle Colum Eastwood Cat Eccles Lauren Edwards Clive Efford Damien Egan Chris Elmore Kirith Entwistle Florence Eshalomi Bill Esterson Chris Evans Hamish Falconer Linsey Farnsworth Tim Farron Mark Ferguson Patricia Ferguson Natalie Fleet Emma Foody Catherine Fookes will Forster Paul Foster Vicky Foxcroft Daniel Francis Z ö e Franklin James Frith Gill Furniss Barry Gardiner Allison Gardner Anna Gelderd Alan Gemmell Andrew George Gill german Tracy Gilbert Preet Kaur Gill Rachel Gilmour Becky Gittins Mary Glindon Olly Glover Marie Goldman Ben Goldsborough Tom Gordon Georgia Gould John Grady Sarah Green Nia Griffith Andrew Gwynne Amanda Hack Louise Haigh Sarah Hall Fabian Hamilton Paulette Hamilton Claire Hanna Emma Hardy Carolyn Harris Lloyd Hatton Helen Hayes Tom Hayes Claire Hazelgrove John Healey Pippa Heylings Meg Hillier Chris Hinchliff Jonathan Hinder Simon Hoare Wera Hobhouse Sharon Hodgson Rachel Hopkins Claire Hughes Alison Hume rupa Huq Patrick Hurley Leigh Ingham Natasha Irons Sally Jameson Dan Jarvis Adam Jogee Diana R . Johnson Clive Jones Darren Jones Gerald Jones Lillian Jones Louise Jones Ruth Jones Gurinder Josan Sojan Joseph Warinder Juss Chris Kane Satvir Kaur Liz Kendall Afzal Khan Ayoub Khan Naushabah Khan Stephen Kinnock Jayne Kirkham Gen Kitchen Paul Kohler Sonia Kumar Uma Kumaran Peter Kyle Laura Kyrke - Smith Peter Lamb Ian Lavery Noah Law Kim Leadbeater Brian Leishman Andrew Lewin Clive Lewis Simon Lightwood Rebecca Long - Bailey Josh MacAlister James MacCleary Alice Macdonald Andy MacNae Justin Madders Ben Maguire Shabana Mahmood Seema Malhotra Amanda Martin Mike Martin Rachael Maskell Keir Mather Brian Mathew Alex Mayer Charlie Maynard Douglas McAllister Martin McCluskey Andy McDonald Chris McDonald John Martin McDonnell Lola McEvoy Gordon McKee Kevin McKenna Catherine McKinnell Jim McMahon Anna McMorrin Frank McNally Kirsty McNeill Llinos Medi Freddie Van Mierlo Calum Miller John Milne Julie Minns Navendu Mishra Iqbal Mohamed Perran Moon Layla Moran Jessica Morden Helen Morgan Stephen Morgan Grahame Morris Joe Morris Tom Morrison Margaret Mullane Luke Murphy Chris Murray James Murray Katrina Murray Susan Murray Luke Myer James Naish Lisa Nandy Kanishka Narayan Josh Newbury Samantha Niblett Charlotte Nichols Alex Norris Sarah Olney Melanie Onn Chi Onwurah Simon Opher Abena Oppong - Asare Kate Osamor Kate Osborne Tristan Osborne Taiwo Owatemi Sarah Owen Darren Paffey Andrew Pakes Matthew Patrick Michael Payne Stephanie Peacock Jonathan Pearce Matthew Pennycook Toby Perkins Manuela Perteghella Bridget Phillipson Al Pinkerton David Pinto - Duschinsky Lee Pitcher Joe Powell Lucy Powell Gregor Poynton Peter Prinsley Richard Quigley Yasmin Qureshi Steve Race Adrian Ramsay Connor Rand Andrew Ranger Angela Rayner Mike Reader Steve Reed Ellie Reeves Rachel Reeves Joani Reid Emma Reynolds Joshua Reynolds Martin Rhodes Bell Ribeiro - Addy Jake Richards Jenny Riddell - Carpenter Lucy Rigby Marie Rimmer Dave Robertson Tim Roca Matt Rodda Ian Roome Sam Rushworth Sarah Russell Tom Rutland Oliver Ryan Anna Sabine Sarah Sackman Jeevun Sandher Liz Saville - Roberts Mark Sewards Naseem Shah Baggy Shanker Michael Shanks Josh Simons Andrew Slaughter John Slinger Lisa Smart Cat Smith David Smith Jeff Smith Sarah Smith Karin Smyth Gareth Snell Alex Sobel Euan Stainbank Jo Stevens Elaine Stewart will Stone Alistair Strathern Wes Streeting Alan Strickland Kirsteen Sullivan Lauren Sullivan Zarah Sultana Peter Swallow Robin Swann Mark Tami Mike Tapp Alison Taylor David Taylor Luke Taylor Cameron Thomas Fred Thomas Gareth Thomas Nick Thomas - Symonds Adam Thompson Marie Tidball Stephen Timms Jessica Toale Dan Tomlinson Jon Trickett Henry Tufnell Anna Turley Matt Turmaine Karl Turner Laurence Turner Derek Twigg Liz Twist Harpreet Uppal Tony Vaughan Valerie Vaz Christopher Vince Christian Wakeford Imogen Walker Chris Ward Melanie Ward Paul Waugh Chris Webb Michelle Welsh Catherine West Andrew Western Matt Western Michael Wheeler Katie White Max Wilkinson David Williams Steve Witherden Sean Woodcock Rosie wrighte Martin Wrigley Yuan Yang Mohammad Yasin Steve Yemm Claire Young Daniel Zeichner Jim Allister Lee Anderson Stuart Anderson Stuart Andrew Gareth Bacon Kemi Badenoch Harriett Baldwin Steve Barclay Peter Bedford Saqib Bhatti Bob Blackman Sarah Bool Andrew Bowie Suella Braverman Gregory Campbell James Cartlidge Christopher Chope Geoffrey Clifton - Brown Lewis Cocking Alberto Costa Gareth davy Mims davy David Davis Oliver Dowden Iain Duncan Smith Nigel Farage Peter Fortune Ashley Fox Mark Francois George Freeman Roger Gale Mark Garnier John Glen Andrew Griffith Alison Griffiths John Hayes Richard Holden Kevin Hollinrake Paul Holmes Jeremy Hunt Lincoln Jopp Danny Kruger Katie Lam Edward Leigh Julian Lewis Carla Lockhart Julia Lopez Rupert Lowe Alan Mak Jerome Mayhew James McMurdock Andrew Mitchell Gagan Mohindra Joy Morrissey Jesse Norman Neil o ' Brien Chris Philp Mark Pritchard Jack Rankin David Reed Joe Robertson Gavin Robinson Andrew Rosindell Jim Shannon David Simmonds Greg Smith Julian Smith Andrew Snowden Gregory Stafford Blake Stephenson Mel Stride Graham Stuart Bradley Thomas Richard Tice Nick Timothy James Wild Sammy Wilson Mike Wood the House divide : Ayes 418 , Noes 78 . question accordingly agree to . that the draft Official Controls ( Amendment ) Regulations 2024 , which be lay before this House on 19 November 2024 , be approve . diane Abbott Jack Abbott Debbie Abrahams Shockat Adam Zubir Ahmed Luke Akehurst Bayo Alaba Dan Aldridge Douglas Alexander Sadik Al - Hassan Rushanara Ali Rosena Allin - Khan Mike Amesbury Callum Anderson Fleur Anderson Tonia Antoniazzi Steffan Aquarone Scott Arthur Jessica Asato James Asser Jas Athwal Lewis Atkinson Josh Babarinde Calvin Bailey Olivia Bailey David Baines Richard Baker Antonia Bance Paula Barker Lee Barron Alex Barros - Curtis Johanna Baxter Danny Beales Lorraine Beavers Apsana Begum Torsten Bell Hilary Benn Alison Bennett Clive Betts Polly Billington Matt Bishop Kirsty Blackman Olivia Blake Rachel Blake Christopher Bloore Elsie Blundell Kevin Bonavia Jade Botterill Sureena Brackenridge Jonathan Brash Alex Brewer Jessica Brown - Fuller Chris Bryant Julia Buckley Richard Burgon Maureen Burke David Burton - Sampson Dawn Butler Ian Byrne Ruth Cadbury Nesil Caliskan Alan Campbell Irene Campbell Juliet Campbell Markus Campbell - Savours Charlotte Cane Sam Carling David Chadwick Wendy Chamberlain Sarah Champion Bambos Charalambous Luke Charters Ellie chown Feryal Clark Ben Coleman Lizzi Collinge Tom Collins Liam Conlon Sarah coombe Andrew Cooper Beccy Cooper Daisy Cooper Yvette Cooper Deirdre Costigan Pam Cox Neil Coyle Jennifer Craft Mary Creagh Stella Creasy Torcuil Crichton Chris Curtis Janet Daby Nicholas Dakin Ashley Dalton Adam Dance Steve Darling Emily Darlington Edward Davey Ann Davies Jonathan Davies Paul Davies Marsha de Cordova Bobby Dean Josh Dean Kate Dearden Carla Denyer Jim Dickson Lee Dillon Anna Dixon Samantha Dixon Anneliese Dodds Helena Dollimore Dave Doogan Stephen Doughty Peter Dowd Graeme Downie Neil Duncan - Jordan Angela Eagle Maria Eagle Colum Eastwood Cat Eccles Lauren Edwards Clive Efford Damien Egan Chris Elmore Kirith Entwistle Florence Eshalomi Bill Esterson Chris Evans Hamish Falconer Linsey Farnsworth Tim Farron Mark Ferguson Patricia Ferguson Natalie Fleet Stephen Flynn Emma Foody Catherine Fookes will Forster Paul Foster Vicky Foxcroft Daniel Francis Z ö e Franklin James Frith Gill Furniss Barry Gardiner Allison Gardner Anna Gelderd Alan Gemmell Andrew George Gill german Stephen Gethins Tracy Gilbert Preet Kaur Gill Rachel Gilmour Becky Gittins Mary Glindon Olly Glover Marie Goldman Ben Goldsborough Tom Gordon Georgia Gould John Grady Sarah Green Nia Griffith Andrew Gwynne Amanda Hack Louise Haigh Sarah Hall Fabian Hamilton Paulette Hamilton Claire Hanna Emma Hardy Carolyn Harris Lloyd Hatton Helen Hayes Tom Hayes Claire Hazelgrove John Healey Pippa Heylings Meg Hillier Chris Hinchliff Jonathan Hinder Simon Hoare Wera Hobhouse Sharon Hodgson Rachel Hopkins Claire Hughes Alison Hume rupa Huq Patrick Hurley Leigh Ingham Natasha Irons Sally Jameson Dan Jarvis Adam Jogee Diana R . Johnson Clive Jones Darren Jones Gerald Jones Lillian Jones Louise Jones Ruth Jones Gurinder Josan Sojan Joseph Warinder Juss Chris Kane Satvir Kaur Liz Kendall Afzal Khan Ayoub Khan Naushabah Khan Stephen Kinnock Jayne Kirkham Gen Kitchen Paul Kohler Sonia Kumar Uma Kumaran Peter Kyle Laura Kyrke - Smith Peter Lamb Ian Lavery Noah Law Kim Leadbeater Graham Leadbitter Brian Leishman Andrew Lewin Clive Lewis Simon Lightwood Seamus Logan Rebecca Long - Bailey Josh MacAlister James MacCleary Alice Macdonald Andy MacNae Justin Madders Ben Maguire Shabana Mahmood Seema Malhotra Amanda Martin Mike Martin Rachael Maskell Keir Mather Brian Mathew Alex Mayer Charlie Maynard Douglas McAllister Martin McCluskey Andy McDonald Chris McDonald John Martin McDonnell Lola McEvoy Gordon McKee Kevin McKenna Catherine McKinnell Jim McMahon Anna McMorrin Frank McNally Kirsty McNeill Llinos Medi Freddie Van Mierlo Calum Miller John Milne Julie Minns Navendu Mishra Iqbal Mohamed Perran Moon Layla Moran Jessica Morden Helen Morgan Stephen Morgan Grahame Morris Joe Morris Tom Morrison Margaret Mullane Luke Murphy Chris Murray James Murray Katrina Murray Susan Murray Luke Myer James Naish Lisa Nandy Kanishka Narayan Josh Newbury Samantha Niblett Charlotte Nichols Alex Norris Brendan O ' Hara Sarah Olney Melanie Onn Chi Onwurah Simon Opher Abena Oppong - Asare Kate Osamor Kate Osborne Tristan Osborne Taiwo Owatemi Sarah Owen Darren Paffey Andrew Pakes Matthew Patrick Michael Payne Stephanie Peacock Jonathan Pearce Matthew Pennycook Toby Perkins Manuela Perteghella Bridget Phillipson Al Pinkerton David Pinto - Duschinsky Lee Pitcher Joe Powell Lucy Powell Gregor Poynton Peter Prinsley Richard Quigley Yasmin Qureshi Steve Race Adrian Ramsay Connor Rand Andrew Ranger Angela Rayner Mike Reader Steve Reed Ellie Reeves Rachel Reeves Joani Reid Emma Reynolds Joshua Reynolds Martin Rhodes Bell Ribeiro - Addy Jake Richards Jenny Riddell - Carpenter Lucy Rigby Marie Rimmer Dave Robertson Tim Roca Matt Rodda Ian Roome Sam Rushworth Sarah Russell Tom Rutland Oliver Ryan Anna Sabine Sarah Sackman Jeevun Sandher Liz Saville - Roberts Mark Sewards Naseem Shah Baggy Shanker Michael Shanks Josh Simons Andrew Slaughter John Slinger Lisa Smart Cat Smith David Smith Jeff Smith Sarah Smith Karin Smyth Gareth Snell Alex Sobel Euan Stainbank Jo Stevens Elaine Stewart will Stone Alistair Strathern Wes Streeting Alan Strickland Kirsteen Sullivan Lauren Sullivan Zarah Sultana Peter Swallow Mark Tami Mike Tapp Alison Taylor David Taylor Luke Taylor Cameron Thomas Fred Thomas Gareth Thomas Nick Thomas - Symonds Adam Thompson Marie Tidball Stephen Timms Jessica Toale Dan Tomlinson Jon Trickett Henry Tufnell Anna Turley Matt Turmaine Karl Turner Laurence Turner Derek Twigg Liz Twist Harpreet Uppal Tony Vaughan Valerie Vaz Christopher Vince Christian Wakeford Imogen Walker Chris Ward Melanie Ward Paul Waugh Chris Webb Michelle Welsh Catherine West Andrew Western Matt Western Michael Wheeler Katie White Max Wilkinson David Williams Steve Witherden Sean Woodcock Rosie wrighte Martin Wrigley Yuan Yang Mohammad Yasin Steve Yemm Claire Young Daniel Zeichner Jim Allister Lee Anderson Stuart Anderson Stuart Andrew Gareth Bacon Kemi Badenoch Harriett Baldwin Steve Barclay Peter Bedford Saqib Bhatti Bob Blackman Sarah Bool Andrew Bowie Suella Braverman Gregory Campbell James Cartlidge Christopher Chope Geoffrey Clifton - Brown Lewis Cocking Alberto Costa Gareth davy Mims davy David Davis Oliver Dowden Iain Duncan Smith Nigel Farage Peter Fortune Ashley Fox Mark Francois George Freeman Roger Gale Mark Garnier John Glen Andrew Griffith Alison Griffiths John Hayes Richard Holden Kevin Hollinrake Paul Holmes Jeremy Hunt Lincoln Jopp Danny Kruger Katie Lam Edward Leigh Julian Lewis Carla Lockhart Julia Lopez Rupert Lowe Alan Mak Jerome Mayhew James McMurdock Andrew Mitchell Gagan Mohindra Joy Morrissey Neil o ' Brien Chris Philp Mark Pritchard Jack Rankin David Reed Joe Robertson Gavin Robinson Andrew Rosindell Jim Shannon David Simmonds Greg Smith Julian Smith Andrew Snowden Gregory Stafford Blake Stephenson Mel Stride Graham Stuart Robin Swann Bradley Thomas Richard Tice Nick Timothy Sammy Wilson Mike Wood the House divide : ayes 423 , Noes 77 . question accordingly agree to . energy that the draft Clean Heat Market Mechanism Regulations 2024 , which be lay before this House on 21 November 2024 , be approve . diane Abbott Jack Abbott Debbie Abrahams Shockat Adam Zubir Ahmed Luke Akehurst Bayo Alaba Dan Aldridge Douglas Alexander Sadik Al - Hassan Rushanara Ali Rosena Allin - Khan Mike Amesbury Callum Anderson Fleur Anderson Tonia Antoniazzi Steffan Aquarone Scott Arthur Jessica Asato James Asser Jas Athwal Lewis Atkinson Josh Babarinde Calvin Bailey Olivia Bailey David Baines Richard Baker Antonia Bance Paula Barker Lee Barron Alex Barros - Curtis Johanna Baxter Danny Beales Lorraine Beavers Apsana Begum Torsten Bell Hilary Benn Alison Bennett Clive Betts Polly Billington Matt Bishop Kirsty Blackman Olivia Blake Rachel Blake Christopher Bloore Elsie Blundell Kevin Bonavia Jade Botterill Sureena Brackenridge Jonathan Brash Alex Brewer Jessica Brown - Fuller Chris Bryant Julia Buckley Richard Burgon Maureen Burke David Burton - Sampson Dawn Butler Ian Byrne Ruth Cadbury Nesil Caliskan Alan Campbell Irene Campbell Juliet Campbell Markus Campbell - Savours Charlotte Cane Sam Carling David Chadwick Wendy Chamberlain Sarah Champion Bambos Charalambous Luke Charters Ellie chown Feryal Clark Ben Coleman Lizzi Collinge Tom Collins Liam Conlon Sarah coombe Andrew Cooper Beccy Cooper Daisy Cooper Yvette Cooper Jeremy Corbyn Deirdre Costigan Pam Cox Neil Coyle Jennifer Craft Mary Creagh Stella Creasy Torcuil Crichton Chris Curtis Janet Daby Nicholas Dakin Ashley Dalton Adam Dance Steve Darling Emily Darlington Edward Davey Ann Davies Jonathan Davies Paul Davies Marsha de Cordova Bobby Dean Josh Dean Kate Dearden Carla Denyer Jim Dickson Lee Dillon Anna Dixon Samantha Dixon Anneliese Dodds Helena Dollimore Dave Doogan Stephen Doughty Peter Dowd Graeme Downie Neil Duncan - Jordan Angela Eagle Maria Eagle Colum Eastwood Cat Eccles Lauren Edwards Clive Efford Damien Egan Chris Elmore Kirith Entwistle Florence Eshalomi Bill Esterson Chris Evans Hamish Falconer Linsey Farnsworth Tim Farron Mark Ferguson Patricia Ferguson Natalie Fleet Stephen Flynn Emma Foody Catherine Fookes will Forster Paul Foster Vicky Foxcroft Daniel Francis Z ö e Franklin James Frith Gill Furniss Barry Gardiner Allison Gardner Anna Gelderd Alan Gemmell Andrew George Gill german Stephen Gethins Tracy Gilbert Preet Kaur Gill Rachel Gilmour Becky Gittins Mary Glindon Olly Glover Marie Goldman Ben Goldsborough Tom Gordon Georgia Gould John Grady Sarah Green Nia Griffith Andrew Gwynne Amanda Hack Louise Haigh Sarah Hall Fabian Hamilton Paulette Hamilton Claire Hanna Emma Hardy Carolyn Harris Lloyd Hatton Helen Hayes Tom Hayes Claire Hazelgrove John Healey Pippa Heylings Meg Hillier Chris Hinchliff Jonathan Hinder Wera Hobhouse Sharon Hodgson Rachel Hopkins Claire Hughes Alison Hume rupa Huq Patrick Hurley Leigh Ingham Natasha Irons Sally Jameson Dan Jarvis Adam Jogee Diana R . Johnson Clive Jones Darren Jones Gerald Jones Lillian Jones Louise Jones Ruth Jones Gurinder Josan Sojan Joseph Warinder Juss Chris Kane Satvir Kaur Liz Kendall Afzal Khan Ayoub Khan Naushabah Khan Stephen Kinnock Jayne Kirkham Gen Kitchen Paul Kohler Sonia Kumar Uma Kumaran Peter Kyle Laura Kyrke - Smith Peter Lamb Ian Lavery Noah Law Kim Leadbeater Graham Leadbitter Brian Leishman Andrew Lewin Clive Lewis Simon Lightwood Seamus Logan Rebecca Long - Bailey Josh MacAlister James MacCleary Alice Macdonald Andy MacNae Justin Madders Ben Maguire Shabana Mahmood Seema Malhotra Amanda Martin Mike Martin Rachael Maskell Keir Mather Brian Mathew Alex Mayer Charlie Maynard Douglas McAllister Martin McCluskey Andy McDonald Chris McDonald John Martin McDonnell Lola McEvoy Gordon McKee Kevin McKenna Catherine McKinnell Jim McMahon Anna McMorrin Frank McNally Kirsty McNeill Llinos Medi Freddie Van Mierlo Calum Miller John Milne Julie Minns Navendu Mishra Iqbal Mohamed Perran Moon Layla Moran Jessica Morden Helen Morgan Stephen Morgan Grahame Morris Joe Morris Tom Morrison Margaret Mullane Luke Murphy Chris Murray James Murray Katrina Murray Susan Murray Luke Myer James Naish Lisa Nandy Kanishka Narayan Josh Newbury Samantha Niblett Charlotte Nichols Alex Norris Brendan O ' Hara Sarah Olney Melanie Onn Chi Onwurah Simon Opher Abena Oppong - Asare Kate Osamor Kate Osborne Tristan Osborne Taiwo Owatemi Sarah Owen Darren Paffey Andrew Pakes Matthew Patrick Michael Payne Stephanie Peacock Jonathan Pearce Matthew Pennycook Toby Perkins Manuela Perteghella Bridget Phillipson Al Pinkerton David Pinto - Duschinsky Lee Pitcher Joe Powell Lucy Powell Gregor Poynton Peter Prinsley Richard Quigley Yasmin Qureshi Steve Race Adrian Ramsay Connor Rand Andrew Ranger Angela Rayner Mike Reader Steve Reed Ellie Reeves Rachel Reeves Joani Reid Emma Reynolds Joshua Reynolds Martin Rhodes Bell Ribeiro - Addy Jake Richards Jenny Riddell - Carpenter Lucy Rigby Marie Rimmer Dave Robertson Tim Roca Matt Rodda Ian Roome Sam Rushworth Sarah Russell Tom Rutland Oliver Ryan Anna Sabine Sarah Sackman Jeevun Sandher Liz Saville - Roberts Mark Sewards Naseem Shah Baggy Shanker Michael Shanks Josh Simons Andrew Slaughter John Slinger Lisa Smart Cat Smith David Smith Jeff Smith Sarah Smith Karin Smyth Gareth Snell Alex Sobel Euan Stainbank Jo Stevens Elaine Stewart will Stone Alistair Strathern Wes Streeting Alan Strickland Kirsteen Sullivan Lauren Sullivan Zarah Sultana Peter Swallow Robin Swann Mark Tami Mike Tapp Alison Taylor David Taylor Luke Taylor Cameron Thomas Fred Thomas Gareth Thomas Nick Thomas - Symonds Adam Thompson Marie Tidball Stephen Timms Jessica Toale Dan Tomlinson Jon Trickett Henry Tufnell Anna Turley Matt Turmaine Karl Turner Laurence Turner Derek Twigg Liz Twist Harpreet Uppal Tony Vaughan Valerie Vaz Christopher Vince Christian Wakeford Imogen Walker Chris Ward Melanie Ward Paul Waugh Chris Webb Michelle Welsh Catherine West Andrew Western Matt Western Michael Wheeler Katie White Max Wilkinson David Williams Steve Witherden Sean Woodcock Rosie wrighte Martin Wrigley Yuan Yang Mohammad Yasin Steve Yemm Claire Young Daniel Zeichner Jim Allister Lee Anderson Stuart Anderson Stuart Andrew Edward Argar Gareth Bacon Kemi Badenoch Harriett Baldwin Steve Barclay Peter Bedford Saqib Bhatti Bob Blackman Sarah Bool Andrew Bowie Karen Bradley Suella Braverman Gregory Campbell James Cartlidge Christopher Chope James Cleverly Geoffrey Clifton - Brown Lewis cock John Cooper Alberto Costa Harriet Cross Gareth Davies Mims davy David Davis Charlie Dewhirst Caroline Dinenage Oliver Dowden Iain Duncan Smith Luke Evans Nigel Farage Peter Fortune Ashley Fox Mark Francois George Freeman Roger Gale Mark Garnier John Glen Helen Grant Andrew Griffith Alison Griffiths Rebecca Harris John Hayes Damian Hinds Simon Hoare Richard Holden Kevin Hollinrake Paul Holmes Nigel Huddleston Neil Hudson Jeremy Hunt Bernard Jenkin Dr Caroline Johnson Lincoln Jopp Danny Kruger Katie Lam John Lamont Edward Leigh Julian Lewis Carla Lockhart Julia Lopez Rupert Lowe Alan Mak Kit Malthouse Jerome Mayhew James McMurdock Andrew Mitchell Gagan Mohindra Robbie Moore Joy Morrissey Wendy Morton Kieran Mullan David Mundell Andrew Murrison Jesse Norman Ben Obese - Jecty Neil o ' Brien Rebecca Paul Chris Philp Mark Pritchard Jack Rankin David Reed Joe Robertson Gavin Robinson Andrew Rosindell Jim Shannon Neil Shastri - Hurst David Simmonds Greg Smith Julian Smith Rebecca Smith Andrew Snowden Ben Spencer Gregory Stafford Blake Stephenson Mel Stride Graham Stuart Bradley Thomas Richard Tice Nick Timothy Helen Whately James Wild Gavin Williamson Sammy Wilson Mike Wood Jeremy Wright the House divide : Ayes 424 , Noes 109 . question accordingly agree to .