I would like to start by thank all right hon . and hon . member for their invaluable contribution during the passage of the Bill to date , and in particular , member of the Public Bill Committee for provide insight , scrutiny and debate . I be honour to have take on responsibility for this Bill . it be a watershed piece of legislation and the most significant public health intervention since the ban on smoking in public place in 2007 . it will establish a smokefree generation by gradually end the sale of tobacco product across the UK so that a child turn 16 this year will never be able to be legally sell tobacco , save countless life in the process . it will strengthen exist power to reduce the harm of second - hand smoke in public space . in keep with our manifesto commitment to the british people , it will outlaw the manipulative promotion of vape to child to protect the next generation from become hook on nicotine . finally , it will implement robust measure to strengthen enforcement activity . I do not need to tell anyone in this Chamber that tobacco kill — we all know that . what hon . member may not know be just how much it kill , the rate at which it kill , and the devastation it cause for individual , family and community across the country . let I remind hon . member that tobacco kill more people than any other preventable cause of death . around 80 , 000 people in the UK lose their life to tobacco every year . it rob an average of 10 year off the life expectancy of smoker . it substantially increase the risk of many major health condition throughout people ' s life , such as stroke , diabete , heart disease , stillbirth , dementia and asthma . this daily tragedy continue unabated , with someone be admit to hospital because of smoke almost every minute , day in , day out , with no end in sight . tobacco harm be not feel equally either . our most disadvantaged community suffer most , with 230 , 000 household live in smoking - induce poverty . in Blackpool , 17 . 5 % of pregnant woman still smoke at the time of delivery compare with 2 . 8 % in Kensington and Chelsea . over a quarter of people with a long - term mental health condition smoke . beyond the immeasurable cost to life in the UK , the staggering economic impact of tobacco on our NHS can not be ignore . the treatment of smoking - relate disease consume approximately £ 3 billion a year of vital NHS and social care resource . the cost of smoking to our economy be even great : £ 18 billion be lose in productivity every year , far outweigh the tax receipt it bring in of around £ 9 billion . the Bill be a vital step to break the devastating cycle of tobacco addiction and safeguard future generation from a lifetime of ill health . but the world move forward , and we can not ignore the alarming rise of youth vaping . while vaping be less harmful than smoke and can be an effective quit aid for adult smoker , child should never vape . however , in the past five year , youth vaping have more than double . one in four 11 to 15 - year - old try vape in 2023 , and that be no accident . it be in part due to the deliberate branding and advertisement of vape to our child , with brightly coloured packaging and entice sweet - like flavour — a calculate strategy to hook young people on nicotine . we can not afford to wait to act . I turn to the Government amendment , which seek to strengthen the Bill and ensure great clarity . as we create the first smokefree generation and strengthen age restriction on vape and nicotine product , we want to support retailer in take appropriate step to ensure they do not sell to customer under the age of sale . new clause 11 and Government amendment 47 to 49 , 51 to 53 , 61 , 63 , 65 to 67 , 69 to 71 , 75 , 77 , 79 and 81 be a package of amendment and consequential amendment to the Bill . they seek to remove potential ambiguity for retailer regard the use of digital identity for verify the age of prospective customer when sell tobacco , vaping and nicotine product . in Committee , Members raise concern that the list of identity document to satisfy the defence for a person charge with sell product to someone under the age of sale be limited , and query the inclusion of other form of physical and digital identity . these amendment remove the list of physical ID from the Bill and instead provide power for the Secretary of State and the Department of Health in Northern Ireland to specify in regulation the step that may be take to verify a customer ' s age to meet the requirement for the defence . this revised approach well future - proof the defence against development in identification process and provide the potential to recognise digital ID , as well as physical ID , in the context of the defence , support the widespread use of digital ID . the amendment provide the opportunity for effective interaction with part 2 of the Data ( Use and Access ) Bill that be currently go through Parliament , which include provision relate to digital verification service . digital verification service provide an opportunity to securely verify age for in - person and online sale . we will continue to work closely with the Department for Science , Innovation and Technology and other Departments when develop the regulation . new clause 11 provide a similar power for Scottish Ministers to prescribe in regulation the step that should be take to establish a customer ' s age as a defence to an age of sale offence . that will enable Scottish Ministers to respond to change in technology and consumer behaviour , which may move away from the presentation of a physical document . the last Labour Government take bold action to prohibit display of tobacco product to protect child and young people from be entice into addiction and to create a more supportive environment for adult seek to quit . the Bill go far and give power to limit the display of a wide range of product , include herbal smoking product , cigarette paper , vape and nicotine product . government amendment 56 , 57 , 60 , 62 , 74 , 76 , 78 and 80 will alter the power in the Bill for England , Wales and Northern Ireland that regulate display of product and their price , so that they also cover tobacco - relate device . as be discuss in Committee , pipe , heated tobacco device and bong be currently display in shop and can have the effect of promote tobacco usage . the amendment will ensure that we can make regulation to stop product that facilitate the consumption of tobacco be openly display by retailer . the Bill ban the sale of vape , nicotine product and cigarette paper from vend machine in England , Wales and Northern Ireland and restate the exist ban on tobacco vending machine . we know that vend machine be use to bypass age of sale restriction and to undertake proxy purchase on behalf of people under the age of sale . government amendment 50 , 54 , 55 , 64 , 68 , 72 and 73 be clarify amendment that make the scope of the prohibition on vend machine absolutely clear , as be discuss in Committee . the Government ' s position be that the Protection from Tobacco ( sale from Vending Machines ) ( England ) Regulations 2010 already apply where a customer have a coupon , receipt or token purchase elsewhere that can be redeem at a machine . we be amend the clause so that all machine that dispense product in connection with a sale be clearly capture by the ban . the Bill strengthen the enforcement regime to support law - abide retailer while take action against those who break the rule . along with introduce new fix penalty notice and new power to create a licensing system , the Bill re - enact provision on restrict premise order and restrict sale order . those be exist measure that local authority trading standard in England and Wales can use when deal with a retailer that persistently breach restriction . that ensure there be a range of tool in the enforcement armoury , so that trading standard officer can act quickly and effectively against rogue retailer . government amendment 58 and 59 clarify a point raise in Committee by remove a duplicative and unnecessary provision that would prevent a business or individual from operate a vend machine for the sale of tobacco , vaping or nicotine product follow the issuing of a restrict premise order or a restricted sale order . give that the Bill already prohibit the use of vend machine for tobacco , vaping or nicotine product , there be no need for restrict premise order and restrict sale order to expressly prohibit the use of vend machine . together , the Government amendment will improve the implementation and enforceability of measure in the Bill to ensure the most effective protection for the public , and I commend they to the House . turn to the other amendment in the group , I thank hon . member for their scrutiny of the Bill so far . when I wind up , I will try to cover the key theme that be touch on . on the amendment that seek to undermine the smokefree generation , I be sure we will hear argument from some hon . member who have be listen to the tobacco industry ' s argument and myth about how people should be free to make their own choice . I would say to they that smoke kill two third of its user . three quarter of people wish they have never start smoke , and the majority want to quit — that be not freedom of choice . the tobacco industry take away that choice with addiction , usually at a young age . on smokefree place , we have be clear : in England , we intend to consult on extend smokefree outdoor place to outside school , child ' s playground and hospital , but not to outdoor hospitality setting at this time . no smoker want to harm people , but with second - hand smoke , they do . if people can smell smoke , they be inhale it . this be particularly important for child , pregnant woman and people with pre - exist health condition such as asthma or heart disease . the only way to stop this harm be to stop people smoke around other . while I understand hon . member ' proposal to list specific place in the Bill or to add additional limit to the use of the power , it be right that we consult on the detail before make regulation and have the necessary power to protect child and vulnerable people from the harm of second - hand smoking . I be grateful to the co - chair of the all - party parliamentary group on smoking and health , my hon . friend the Member for City of Durham ( Mary Kelly Foy ) and the hon . member for Harrow East ( Bob Blackman ) , for their long - stand support for the Bill . through their amendment , they highlight the importance of retain a focus on support for current smoker . that be why we be invest an extra £ 70 million for local stop smoke service this year and work to ensure that all NHS hospital offer opt - out smoking cessation service into routine care . I hope they will be pleased that we have be able to confirm the extension of the swap to stop scheme for the come year , with up to £ 90 million of funding to provide free vape starter kit for smoker to use as quit aid . on the group of amendment relate to vape advertising , we realise that product be deliberately market at child be unacceptable , which be why we have include a commitment to stop vape be brand and advertise to child . the Government be also invest £ 10 million of new funding for the come year for National Trading Standards to tackle underage illicit tobacco and vape and to boost the trading standard workforce by recruit 80 new apprentice , provide additional boot on the ground .