thank you , Madam Deputy Speaker , for the opportunity to make my maiden speech . I thank all hon . member for their fine contribution , include my hon . friend the Member for Epsom and Ewell ( Helen Maguire ) and the hon . member for Sittingbourne and Sheppey ( Kevin McKenna ) . it be the great honour of my life to serve the people of Stratford - on - Avon . I be humble to have be elect to represent the place that I call home , where I live and where I have raise my family , who be here today in the Public Gallery . I be proud to be the first Liberal MP for our constituency in over a century , and the first woman ever to be elect to this role . I extend my heartfelt thank to the people of Stratford , Alcester , Studley , Shipston , Henley , Bidford and the many village and hamlet that make up our beautiful constituency . I thank they for place their trust in I . I promise to be their champion , and a strong and unwavering voice for everyone , fight every day for the fair deal that they deserve . I pay tribute to my predecessor , Nadhim Zahawi , who be MP for Stratford - on - Avon for the last 14 year . during his political career he cover many important role in the Cabinet , but I thank he in particular for his work as vaccine Minister during the covid pandemic . I also acknowledge the service of the late John Maples , who represent Stratford - upon - Avon with distinction from 1997 to 2010 , before be elevate to the other place . he be both well like and greatly admire . although I be proud to be the first female MP for Stratford - upon - Avon , I be not the first to bring italian heritage to the role . that distinction belong to another of my predecessor , John Profumo , who beat I to it — although I plan on a much quieter stay in the history book . my constituency be one of the most beautiful area of our country , with luscious woodland such as the Heart of England forest , valley lap by river and brook , and fertile farmland — a landscape special as only the Warwickshire countryside can be . my connection to my constituency be one of deep love . I love the stretch from Shipston - on - Stour and the rolling Cotswolds fringe in the south , to the Avon valley village and Henley - in - Arden in the north , where the majestic forest of Arden once stand . at the heart of my constituency lie the town of Stratford - upon - Avon , celebrate worldwide as the birthplace of the great playwright of all : William Shakespeare . each year on William ' s birthday , the town remember and celebrate its most famous son , with civic dignitary and local schoolchildren parade through the historic street to lay flower on his tomb in Holy Trinity church . I look forward to join they next April . what make our constituency special above all be its people , who be resilient and community minded . each town and village be bless with warm - hearted volunteer help in repair caf é s , food bank , the community speed watch and flood action group . there be outstanding place of learning , such as our local school and college , the Shakespeare Institute of the University of Birmingham , and the University of Warwick ' s innovation campus ; national portfolio organisation such as the Royal Shakespeare Company and the Shakespeare Birthplace Trust ; as well as grassroots art company such as the Bear Pit Theatre and Escape Arts . event such as the Shipston Proms celebrate the wealth of musical talent . Most of all , we be a constituency of entrepreneur and innovator , business and social enterprise . overlook by Beaudesert castle — know locally as " the Mount " — the town of Henley - in - Arden have a timber - frame high street , which include Henley ' s most famous attraction , Henley Ice Cream , which be well worth a visit . alcester be a town rich in community spirit that come together each year for event such as the Alcester food festival . the town ' s root stretch back to roman time , and its heritage be proudly preserve today in the Roman Alcester Museum . just up the road from Alcester be Coughton Court , home of the Throckmorton family , who play a rather infamous role in the gunpowder plot of 1605 . as the new MP for the area , I assure the House that I will not continue that local tradition . my constituency also have some of the most beautiful waterway in the country . the Rivers Avon , Alne , Arrow and Stour , and our fantastic canal network , include the long canal aqueduct in England — the Edstone aqueduct — be not only vital to our community ' s natural and industrial heritage , but be central to our environmental responsibility . sadly , not enough have be do to tackle river pollution . I thank resident for join citizen ' science project to regularly test the water and collect much - need datum on the state of our river ' health , so that we can hold the Government and water company to account . as a rural constituency , we face many challenge : NHS dentistry desert , long wait time for mental health service , special educational need and disability family battle for education provision , and fuel poverty . many of my vulnerable constituent live in off - grid home that be expensive to heat . the Warm Homes and Energy Conservation Act 2000 , introduce by Sir David Amess , be important legislation that seek to eliminate fuel poverty . to far combat it , we need an emergency home insulation programme so that home be safe , warm and cheap to heat . as Shakespeare write : " some be bear great , some achieve greatness , and other have greatness thrust upon ' em . " I stand here today not because I be bear great , or because I seek greatness , but because the people of Stratford - upon - Avon have entrust I with public service . together , we can achieve greatness not for ourselves , but for our constituent and our country . with a new Parliament , we have a chance to strive for a fair , green and more inclusive future . the stage be set , and it be now time for we to play our part .