Oral Answers to Questions Transport the Secretary of State be ask — seafare support : Red Sea what step his Department be take with Cabinet colleague to support seafarer work in the Red sea . let I first take this opportunity to offer my support and good wish to his Majesty the King for a swift and full recovery . I look forward to see he out and about again on his public - face duty . this be a challenging time for seafarer . their welfare be central to our concern during the Red sea crisis . their bravery have ensure the continue supply of vital good to the UK . we have engage with organisation that represent seafarer , work closely with the International Maritime Organisation — I have meet its new secretary - general twice this year . we will not hesitate to take action to protect innocent life and preserve freedom of navigation . in response to the Red sea crisis , the RAF have engage in three wave of proportionate and target strike against Houthi military target with the United States and other ally . my Department continue to work closely with industry to provide the good possible advice and support . I associate myself , and the people of Banff and Buchan , with my right hon . friend ' s remark wish his Majesty the full of recovery . could he set out in more detail precisely what engagement the Government have have with british company across the UK on not just the attack but the threat of attack in the Red sea ? I be pleased to tell my hon . friend that we have be engage regularly with shipping company to ensure that they have as much advice and support as possible , so that they can take informed commercial decision about vessel movement base on a full consideration of recent event . we provide security advisory notice and convene meeting with the sector at both official and ministerial level . I have meet sector leader to discuss these critical development . I thank the Minister for that positive response . it be clear that the Government be take the right step to broadly address the issue , but what be be do to ensure that individual seafare company with responsibility for crew have access to up - to - date advice ? I would go so far as to suggest protective measure to enable they to keep their route open — perhaps protective staff on boat , or helicopter or plane overhead . the hon . Gentleman be right to put the safety of ship and seafarer at the centre of the issue , as we and the IMO do . we work very closely with the sector to ensure that it have the good possible information , both at policy level and in the region . we be take further step to ensure that the good advice be available on the ground , so that individual captain as well as their company can make the good decision commercially and , importantly , for the safety of their crew . Transport Connectivity : north - west England what step he be take to increase transport connectivity between town and city in the north - west . Network North will see a furth £ 19 . 8 billion - worth of investment in the north of England follow the redirection of funding from High Speed 2 . that be in addition to what have already be commit through the £ 3 . 5 billion to northern city region from the first round of the city region sustainable transport settlement ; the development of Northern Powerhouse Rail , which will transform rail connectivity between the north of England ' s key economic centre ; and £ 11 billion for the trans - Pennine route upgrade . in the light of the Government ' s commitment to level up through Network North , will my hon . friend commit to a meeting with I and other key stakeholder to discuss reinstate the Burscough curve rail link , which would connect Southport to Preston and the wide north of England , fulfil our economic potential and help we welcome another million visitor a year to Southport ? you could meet in Chorley , at Coppull station . I be always happy to meet my hon . friend , and I pay tribute to his doughty campaigning on the reopening of the Burscough curve . it be for local transport authority to consider whether such project be the good way to meet local transport need and , if so , whether they wish to develop the scheme from the significant new transport budget that the Government will shortly be allocate from HS2 saving . I call the shadow Minister . when the Prime Minister make the decision to scrap hs2 , the Department for Transport say that the plan would " lead to increase capacity on the west coast mainline . " that be not correct , be it ? I have a leak document from the Minister ' s own official that prove it . in it , they admit that the decision will mean few seat than today , with Glasgow and Manchester badly hit , and because HS2 train can not tilt , they will be even slow than current train . do he not owe it to the north finally to admit that ? do he accept that he will be the high - speed rail Minister who leave behind slow train and few seat ? obviously , we do not comment on document that may or may not have be leak . what I can say be that the HS2 train design have always have capacity for 500 seat ; if the train have double up to 400 metre in length , the capacity would , of course , be 1 , 000 seat . the Network North document commit half a billion pound to look at unlock further capacity . let we be quite clear that the 140 mile of hs2 be build to Birmingham will reduce the journey time not only to Birmingham , but to Manchester by another 27 minute , and to Liverpool by 26 minute . as far as the tilting be concern , as the Department make clear to the Public Accounts Committee , we be look at where those speed can still be achieve on the west coast main line without the need to tilt . Taxi Licensing what step he be take to ensure consistent standard of taxi licensing across local authority . what step he be take to ensure consistent standard of taxi licensing across local authority . what step he be take to ensure consistent standard of taxi licensing across local authority . the Department for Transport issue guidance to licensing authority in England to help they regulate the sector , include the statutory taxi and private hire vehicle standard and the good practice guidance , update in November 2023 . last year the Government enact legislation require licensing authority in England to use a national database to share information , in order to prevent driver who have lose their licence from apply to other authority that would not know about their previous wrongdoing . local taxi driver in Barnsley be have their price undermine by cross - border taxi driver who do not have to abide by the same regulatory measure . local council have no jurisdiction over out - of - borough hire , and concern have be raise about difference in the training and safety precaution require . the Labour party have commit to action . when will the Government do the same ? there be already a database and already a duty on local authority to share information . licence can be take away in the particular circumstance the hon . Lady identifie . Taxis and private hire vehicle be a very personal service , and it be important for customer that both the vehicle and the driver have proper safety check , so that if thing go wrong they can take a complaint to the licensing authority . the problem be that when that authority be 100 mile away in Wolverhampton , the system simply do not work . when will the Minister legislate to ensure that journey can be make in a licensed vehicle only when they either take place or finish in the licensing authority area ? with the great respect to the hon . Gentleman , we have already bring in change to the rule that mean that individual authority can take action against an individual operate in another authority , which be something I think he should welcome . as we have hear from colleague , the cross - border issue remain a real problem right across the country . we have the additional problem of the potentially change relationship between operator and driver , which be highlight by the press campaign about the possible imposition of vat on private hire journey . do all this not show that the Department should have modernise taxi and private hire legislation age ago , rather than wait for company such as Uber to drive a coach and horse through regulation that be , frankly , write in the time of coach and horse ? I would not refer to regulation write in 2020 and update in 2023 as write in the time of coach and horse — perhaps the hon . Gentleman should check his history . on the Uber case that he rightly identify , that be clearly a court case that the Government have to address and will therefore consult on thereafter . I call the shadow Secretary of State . I associate myself with the Secretary of State ' s good wish to his Majesty the King . during my time in this House , I have work alongside victim and survivor of the Rotherham child sexual exploitation scandal . follow the scandal , Rotherham council set very high standard for its taxi driver , include instal CCTV in cab and require national vocational qualification level 3 on child safeguarding . those standard be be undercut by the Government ' s deregulation of taxi standard , and nothing the Minister have set out this morning will stop that . do he not agree that the Government ' s position be put the safety of woman and girl at risk ? be it not time for robust legislation and national minimum standard to protect they ? with respect , on 27 April 2023 a new law come into force that require license authority in England to use a database to record refusal , suspension and revocation make on safeguarding or road safety ground . the new requirement mean that individual who be not fit and proper to hold a taxi or private hire vehicle licence will be unable to apply for a licence with other authority without that authority be make aware of past safety concern . that change will help to protect passenger , include woman and girl , as well as the reputation of the majority of driver , from those who be unfit to hold that office . Bus Services what recent assessment he have make of the adequacy of bus service . what recent assessment he have make of the adequacy of bus service level in England . the Government be provide the large public investment in bus for a generation , provide more than £ 4 . 5 billion - worth of service in England outside London since 2020 , as we rebuilt post covid . my constituent be deeply concerned about the propose cut to the 78 , 79 and 200 bus route link village and town in Bedfordshire . that be in the context of the Government ' s own late bus statistic , which show that in the last decade the bus sector in England outside London lose 15 , 000 worker and have around 600 million few annual bus passenger journey . the Government ' s bus strategy , publish in 2020 , be not reverse that decline . will they commit to reverse the ideological ban on municipal bus company and ensure that all local authority get sufficient funding to deliver the bus service our community need ? the hon . Lady seem to have forget the covid pandemic . the number of local bus passenger journey in England increase by half a billion — that is 19 % — in the financial year end March 2023 . her local authority receive extra BSIP - plus — bus service improvement plan — funding of £ 19 million . I urge her bus operator to sign up to the £ 2 bus fare , which have be transformational across the country in raise bus number . would the Minister be as surprised as I be to learn that , of the £ 3 . 722 million long - term BSIP Government cash give to Blackburn with Darwen Council , only £ 180 , 000 — less than 5 % of the entire budget — be be spend in the town of Darwen ? it be all very well for the Minister to give money to council such as Blackburn with Darwen , but will he ensure that it be spend fairly among the population they represent ? my right hon . Fried make a very good point . this be money that the Government give to ensure that community across a particular constituency receive support . it should not be solely focused on one area . I will take up that point and write to the local authority myself . bus mileage have drop by just 5 % in London since 2010 , yet astonishingly it have fall by more than 30 % in the north - east , as the Minister will know . Kim McGuinness , Labour ' s candidate for North East Mayor , be keen to fix that as a priority , if elect in May . be it not beyond time to let local community have power and control of their own local bus service ? clearly , that we be to have a regional Mayor for the North East be good news , but I do not think the hon . Lady would be celebrate the fact that she have a disastrous police and crime commissioner as her candidate and that the previously Labour Metro Mayor of North of Tyne be now run as an independent against the Labour party . however , it be without a shadow of a doubt the " well - fund devolution deal in the country . " those be not my word , but those of the previously Labour Mayor . I genuinely believe we be build back well post covid , with enhanced bus company usage in circumstance where the £ 2 bus fare be make a huge difference . I call the shadow Minister . recent statistic show that the Bee Network be already make a daily difference for bus passenger across Greater Manchester , with an 8 % rise in patronage in the first month of franchising alone and more bus service run on time than before . Liverpool and West Yorkshire be now follow in Greater Manchester ' s footstep and explore their own franchising plan to revolutionise local transport for thousand of resident . do the Minister agree with Labour ' s plan to give every local authority , not just Metro Mayors , the same freedom to take back control of their own bus service ? if not , what do he say to the million of people whose bus route be be so badly cut back under this tired Tory Government ? do it not prove that while the Conservatives dither , labour deliver ? with respect , the number of bus journey in England increase by half a billion to 3 . 4 billion in the financial year end March 2023 , and that happen because of massive Government funding , which have effectively double since 2009 . the hon . Gentleman be actually laud something that be fund by this Government . it be unquestionably the case that we have allow certain local authority and Mayors to engage in franchising — something we introduce — but there have to be a way of pay for it , and it have be demonstrate repeatedly that when labour organisation be challenge on this , they struggle to find out how they be go to deal with the funding , because , quite simply , they do not have a plan . Speed Limits what discussion he have have with local authority on 20 mph speed limit on road . in England , this be primarily a matter for local authority . the 20 mph limit work in the right place , such as outside school , and follow the right consultation with the public . they do not work as blanket measure . we do not want they to be set indiscriminately on all road , without due regard for the safety case and without local support . the 20 mph limit can work in quiet , narrow residential side street where there be local consent , but London ' s Labour Mayor and borough be increasingly inflict they on wide road and main road where they be not justify . now Barnet Council want to introduce a big 20 mph zone in Whetstone without adequate consultation . will the Secretary of State intervene to ensure that these speed limit be introduce only in appropriate circumstance , and only when they have strong local support ? I entirely agree with my right hon . friend . impose blanket 20 mph zone without local support — which be what Labour have do across Wales and in London — be bad for driver , but it also risk reduce the specific protection for vulnerable road user which operate , for example , near school . as our policy paper " plan for driver " explain , we will be provide strong guidance to ensure that blanket 20 mph zone be restrict , and we will consider further action against council that do not comply with it . on one hand the Secretary of State acknowledge the ability of local authority to deliver their own local transport strategy such as low - traffic neighbourhood and 20 mph zone where they fit , but on the other hand this " plan for driver " weaponise such policy . will he stop weaponise they , and consider those who be not in vehicle but be use our road and the safety measure from their local authority ? will he recognise that we be all road user , whether or not we be in a vehicle ? I think that question have the disadvantage of be write before the hon . Lady have listen to my answer . I say very clearly that I support 20 mph zone in area where they make sense . outside a school , for instance , they make perfect sense . what do not make sense be impose blanket policy that bear no relation to the circumstance , which , as I have say , be what Labour have do in Wales . it have implement blanket policy that be very unpopular , do not carry public support , and damage the acceptance of 20 mph zone in place where they do make sense — he be peddle conspiracy theory again . the hon . Gentleman , from a sedentary position , refer to conspiracy . my constituency be next door to Wales , and I can tell the House that that be not a conspiracy ; the 20 mph zone be incredibly unpopular in Wales . this be a blanket policy that make no sense and be not support by the public . sustainable Aviation Fuel what step he be take with the Department for Energy Security and Net Zero to improve the allocation of resource between the production of sustainable aviation fuel and other use of biomass . in develop the biomass strategy and our forthcoming low - carbon fuel strategy , my Department have work closely with the Department for Energy Security and Net Zero , whose policy paper on the biomass strategy be publish last year . sector that be hard to decarbonise , include aviation , should be priority use for biomass . we be continue to work across Government , and with industry expert , to ensure that policy that increase the supply of sustainable aviation fuel deliver on our climate change commitment . as the Minister will know , the sustainable aviation fuel mandate will come into force in 2025 , but meanwhile the Government have not yet respond to consultation on how it will work , and there be no real - world fuel source analysis or plan that would take account of the change nature of municipal waste arise from the already allocate use of municipal and agricultural feedstock for purpose other than the production of SAF . what step be the Minister take to develop a realistic plan for feedstock availability and use ? I welcome the hon . Gentleman ' s question . as I have just say , we will shortly publish the low - carbon fuel strategy , which will set out the different source of low - carbon fuel . we will publish our response to the SAF mandate by the spring . a great deal of detailed analysis and work be be do in relation to different fuel source . we will also publish a revenue certainty mechanism to ensure that we have a UK SAF industry . we engage regularly with the industry on this , and it be very confident about and supportive of the Government ' s policy . we do have a detailed plan , and I want to commiserate with the hon . Gentleman , because I be sure that as Energy Minister he too have a plan , but the opposition ' s plan seem to have be u - turn today . rail Fares what assessment he have make of the impact of the rise in rail fare on passenger number since 2010 . since 2010 , regulate fare across Great Britain have decrease by around 7 % compare with the retail price index . the Government continue to intervene to keep fare affordable , and to encourage travel , by cap increase below inflation and deliver initiative such as the second great british rail sale . we have to strike a balance between encourage passenger to use our rail network and support the rail industry to get back on a good financial footing as it continue to deal with a revenue shortfall follow the pandemic . for a period last year , Urmston train station in my constituency be one of the country ' s 10 worst perform train station for service reliability . give the level of service experience by my constituent who use Urmston and other station on the line , why be they set to face an inflation - bust fare increase in March ? if we take the current year ' s fare as an example , we deliver the big government intervention on rail fare since privatisation by cap fare increase at 5 . 9 % , which be 6 . 4 percentage point below the July RPI . it be all about strike a balance , and I believe that balance be a fair one . in the last three year , the UK taxpayer have contribute £ 45 . 9 billion to keep the railway go . this year ' s figure of 4 . 9 % be , again , below inflation . it can not be that bad , because labour - run Wales have do exactly the same . it be well than Scotland , where the SNP have put up fare by 8 . 7 % . if a person be to get a train from Market Rasen to London later this morning , not only would they be hit by a hefty rail fare , as we all know , but , bad , it would take they over three hour and two change . my hon . friend have repeatedly promise I and my hon . friend the Member for Cleethorpes ( Martin Vickers ) that he will give we a through train to London . I understand that he have now approve that — he can confirm it today — but it be hold up on the desk of the Chief Secretary to the Treasury . we do not want some bean counter in the Treasury stop our train . I fear a career - limit response . my right hon . friend ' s campaign be strong , and he be absolutely right that it have this team ' s support ; I be sure that it will have support across Government . it be currently be look at , and I hope to be able to give he and his colleague good news . I call the SNP spokesperson . I apologise for the disruption to normal service : my hon . friend the Member for Paisley and Renfrewshire North ( Gavin Newlands ) be on Committee business , so the House will have to put up with a spokesperson replacement service this morning . last October , peak fare be scrap across Scotland ' s railway for six month . that have be extend to nine month , until the end of June . as a result , ScotRail service be 4 % busy and demand have shift across the service day . meanwhile , Department for Transport - own London North Eastern Railway have push up price for thousand of ticket in the name of simplification , in some case cost passenger go to and from Scotland hundred of pound extra . will the Minister look to the lesson that Scotland have learn from scrap peak fare , and apply that policy across anglo - scottish service ? I be delighted to talk about thing that be be scrap , because perhaps we can shift towards rail freight . the SNP budget have just be set . Mode shift revenue support have always be give to rail freight , to move freight from road to rail , but the SNP Scottish Government have just announce that they be axe that subsidy . not only that , but for the year to come , the cross - border subsidy between Scotland and the rest of Great Britain be be scrap , too . we stand by the rail freight subsidy , so we will fund the scottish element . what be the Scottish Government do ? they talk about decarbonisation while shift more freight on to the road , because they refuse to support rail freight . that be an absolute shocker . that , along with the 8 . 7 % increase in fare and the £ 80 million cut to ScotRail , mean that the hon . Gentleman be in no place to lecture anyone when it come to rail . Road resurface what fund his Department be provide for road resurfacing . what fund his Department be provide for road resurfacing . as part of the Network North plan , the Government be provide a record funding increase of £ 8 . 3 billion for local highway maintenance in England over the next decade to enable local highway authority to resurface road up and down the country . over that period , Nottinghamshire will get £ 138 . 44 million of additional funding over and above what it would have receive . in the current financial year , most highway authority in England will get 30 % more funding than they do in the previous year . I be grateful to my right hon . friend for that answer , and for the billion that have be redirect to the midland for road repair from HS2 . Conservative - control Nottinghamshire County Council , in difficult financial circumstance , be endeavour to spend million , beyond its regular highway budget , on road repair . may I impress on he that this remain perhaps the top issue raise with I in my inbox ? will he bear that in mind , particularly when he have his conversation with the Treasury ? will he join I in my campaign to carry on fix gedle ' s road ? I be grateful to my hon . friend for raise the issue , and for point out how effective Nottinghamshire County Council be in spend the £ 2 . 3 million that it be get this year and will get next year ; this be revolutionary long - term funding . interestingly , this be happen because we have a plan , not just for deliver well road , but for pay for that . have a plan for deliver and pay for thing be important , as the Labour party be find out today ; it have no plan and no way to pay . may I associate myself with the Secretary of State ' s remark wish his Majesty the King a speedy recovery ? pothole in Broxtowe be incredibly bad ; my constituent raise this issue all the time . the ongoing situation have be compound by multiple recent flooding event in Nottinghamshire , which have result in five time more damage to our road than have occur in other year . my office get call and email constantly about this plight , from constituent in Beeston , Stapleford , Strelley , Nuthall and Kimberley , to name a few of the area I be contact about . this week , I meet my hon . friend the Member for Mansfield ( Ben Bradley ) , the leader of Nottinghamshire County Council , to raise this issue . what more be the Government do to work with local council to tackle pothole in Broxtowe ? my hon . friend the Member for Mansfield ( Ben Bradley ) raise the issue of flood damage with I as well , and we be look at what we can do . I be glad that my hon . friend the Member for Broxtowe ( Darren Henry ) raise the issue of the importance of funding for improve local road . we make a big decision on that , and improve the road network over time and allow local authority to spend that money show an important sense of priority . we be also make sure that reporting requirement be in place , so that highway authority have to set out to the people to whom they be accountable what they be spend the money on . the pothole situation be a metaphor for what the Government have be do with public investment in the past 14 year . the road have get bad and bad , with the Automobile Association describe October as the bad month for pothole breakdown on our road . if the Government be really concerned about this issue , they would not have starve local authority of the resource to deal with the problem . be that not correct ? no , I do not agree with the hon . gentleman on that at all . we have give local authority more than £ 5 billion of funding for local road maintenance . the £ 8 . 3 billion in the Network North plan be over and above that . I would have think he would welcome the fact that when we announce the money for local road maintenance , I decide that in London , 95 % of that extra funding would go to London council , rather than Transport for London , so that it get spend on fix the road , rather than be waste by the Mayor of London . I call the shadow Minister . the Secretary of State seem to have forget the extensive cut to the road repair budget that his Government have preside over . let we consider the example of Northamptonshire , where the Government have cut £ 16 million from highway maintenance since 2020 alone . that be leave 330 , 000 pothole unfilled . he know that the Network North announcement will give Northamptonshire back only £ 2 . 5 million of that £ 16 million over the next two year . as for Wellingborough , the last time Peter Bone mention road repair be in 2015 . after 14 year of neglect by the Conservative Government and their former Conservative MP , be not the good advice for people in Wellingborough who want action on pothole to vote for Labour ' s Gen Kitchen next Thursday ? it will not surprise the hon . gentleman to hear that I do not agree with he at all . before the Network North announcement , the Government be already invest over £ 5 . 5 billion of capital funding in highway maintenance between 2021 and 2024 - 25 , and in the Budget last year , the Chancellor find an extra £ 200 million for eligible highway authority . the £ 8 . 3 billion be on top of that , so I would urge voter in Wellingborough to vote for our fantastic candidate , Helen Harrison , who will make a fantastic Member of Parliament to serve on the Government side of the House . Road Safety what step he be take to help ensure the safety of vulnerable road user . in January 2022 , the Government update the highway code to improve road safety for people walk , cycling and riding . the change aim to make a positive shift in road - user behaviour , by make road user aware of their responsibility to use road safely and to reduce the danger they may pose to other . the Government ' s flagship multimillion - pound road safety campaign , think ! , also play a crucial part in reduce the number of people kill or seriously injure on our road . be the Minister and his team aware that our country , once know to be one of the good place in the world for road safety , be now , after 14 year of neglect , no target — in fact , there be a hatred of target — and little enforcement , a very dangerous place to be a vulnerable road user ? when will this Government wake up and start do something about that ? with no disrespect to the hon . Gentleman , who I like as a person , he be simply wrong . in the last year , end June 2023 , there be a decline of 9 % in fatality compare to the year end June 2022 . look at the specific measure take : we have toughen up the drive test , make the highway code more robust and introduce tough criminal sentence . those be the action of a Government who be listen and take action . unused Rail Capacity whether the Office of Rail Regulation have identify unused rail network capacity for open - access service . the Office of Rail and Road have be work with Network Rail and the Department for Transport to identify unused access right . that work will support the release of under - use capacity on the rail network , which may then be use by potential operator in the development of open - access proposal . it be great to hear that there be work under way , but I notice that my hon . friend do not say how far it have get . I know that he understand that this be a huge opportunity to improve our over - subsidise , post - pandemic railway , so that passenger can get a well deal , but if we do not move fast it will slip through our finger . the only people who be happy with the status quo be middle - aged man who want to carry on play with train at the expense of taxpayer , and the Labour party , which want to run rail for the benefit of rail union rather than passenger , so please can we get on with this a lot fast ? I think he be refer to I with that " middle - aged man " point , but I can assure my hon . friend that we be work at pace . since we meet in November with the team , which include my hon . friend , to see what far we could do , we have write to operator to clarify that unused access right should be release . with regard to Department for Transport operator , we have hundred of unused access right that we have identify for release . we also talk about speed up the entire decision - make process , and the ORR and Network Rail now have a draft service level agreement to do that . I will write to he with more detail , but a lot have happen in the last month . transport for London : fund what discussion he have have with Transport for London on its use of Government funding . transport in London be devolve to the Mayor of London . since 2020 , the Government have give TfL £ 6 . 6 billion of funding to support transport service . it be the responsibility of the Greater London Authority to hold the Mayor and Transport for London to account . the Department be in regular contact with TfL and monitor its finance in accordance with the term of our funding settlement letter . clearly , the £ 6 . 6 billion to subsidise TfL come with string attach , include raise fare in line with the rest of England . no soon do the last instalment of the money arrive than the Mayor manage to find £ 30 million to pay off the National Union of Rail , Maritime and Transport Workers , which threaten strike action , store up problem for the next negotiation . he then find £ 120 million so that he do not have to raise fare in line with the rest of England . he have now come up with a crazy policy of reduce fare on Fridays , without have talk to anyone before introduce it . will my right hon . friend have a meeting with the Labour Mayor of London and ensure the money provide by the Department be use for the benefit of Londoners ? my hon . friend be right : it be important that the money be use for the benefit of Londoners . we have provide very significant support , as I have set out , but it have not stop the Mayor of London from put up taxis on the poor motorist , with the extension of his ultra low emission zone scheme to outer London . rather than my have a meeting with he , the good way to hold the Mayor of London to account be for voter in London to vote for Susan Hall and kick he out . Transport Connectivity : North Yorkshire what step he be take to increase transport connectivity across north Yorkshire . because of the Prime Minister ' s decision , Network North will see £ 19 . 8 billion of extra transport investment in the north of England , include a brand new £ 2 . 5 billion fund to transform local transport in 14 rural county , small city and town in every part of the north outside the big city region . this be in addition to what have already be commit through the integrated rail plan and the £ 11 billion TransPennine route upgrade . I thank the Minister for visit my constituency back in January . follow that visit , he become aware of the important economic impact of the A64 on York and North Yorkshire . may I stress to he again how important the upgrade be to safety on the road ? a few day follow his visit , the road be again close due to a serious accident . sadly , that follow another fatal accident on the road in December . this be become an ever more frequent occurrence , so when he look at the upgrade of the A64 , will he ensure that the safety impact play an important role ? it be a pleasure to visit my hon . friend ' s constituency and meet he and other parliamentary colleague who be so passionately concerned about the improvement of the A64 and its safety issue . I take the point he raise on board . I know that National Highways be develop option to address the concern that he , local people and business have identify with the road . we will look at they very closely . I welcome the fact that he continue to champion this important matter . support for Motorists what step he be take to support low - income motorist . the Government be help low - income motorist by keep down the cost of motoring . there have be no increase in fuel duty since January 2011 , 13 year ago . furthermore , recognise the fuel price volatility after Putin ' s invasion of Ukraine , we cut 5p from fuel duty in March 2022 . this be extend for another year in March 2023 . this cut , along with the inflation freeze , have save the average car driver around £ 100 this year . I thank my hon . friend for his answer . month after the Mayor of London ' s ULEZ expansion come into effect , some of Uxbridge and South Ruislip ' s most hard - work and least well - off resident continue to be penalise by it . as part of the Government ' s work to help motorist , will he commit to continue to work with I and colleague from across outer London to ensure that we be do all we can to lessen the financial burden on all motorist ? I thank my hon . friend for raise that matter . I be very sorry to hear about the burden that the Mayor of London have force on the poor motorist in London , particularly when we hear that his scrappage scheme be underfunde and slow to process payment . this be a direct consequence of a Labour Mayor who do not keep his word to Londoners . the only remedy for Londoners be to vote he out and vote in Susan Hall in May . we need to incentivise people from all income to participate in the green transition . however , electric vehicle be totally out of reach for most car owner , especially those on low income . in addition , people who rely on public charging point be still pay a lot more than those who can charge from home . will the Government close this gap to ensure that everybody be get a fair deal , include those on low income , to make sure that we get to net zero ? those on low income also want to help the country get to net zero . I thank the hon . member for her question . it be my responsibility to help roll out electric vehicle . we introduce the zero emission vehicle mandate to ensure that 22 % of vehicle sale this year be zero emission . I should say that , throughout the life cycle of an electric vehicle , they be cheap than petrol or diesel car to drive . this government have give £ 2 billion - worth of support to owner of electric vehicle and to charge point company to help smooth that introduction . the specific question that she raise be about vat , and that be a matter for the Treasury . Rail Connectivity : Cambridge and Norwich what step he be take to increase rail connectivity between Cambridge and Norwich . Greater Anglia currently operate an hourly direct rail service between Norwich and Cambridge use its new rolling stock , with a journey time of around 80 minute . it be also possible to travel between Norwich and Cambridge at other time by change train at Ely station . when the Ely area capacity enhancement scheme be deliver , it could create improve regional journey for passenger across East Anglia . cost be rise for grow a business in Cambridge , yet Norwich , a fine city , be just down the road and , more importantly , just down the railway . we need a great frequency of train , and fast train , to make the Norwich - Cambridge tech corridor a great reality . it be be hold back by the delay in get the Ely junction fix . how soon will that be sort out by the Department ? I welcome my hon . friend ' s campaign for the Ely junction capacity enhancement scheme , which be one of the scheme reference in the Prime Minister ' s Network North plan . Network Rail have develop the scheme to outline business case stage , and next step will involve further investment case development and delivery planning . I be keen to see it deliver , because it will deliver for rail freight . topical Questions if he will make a statement on his departmental responsibility . this week , the Government show once again that we be on the side of Britain ' s driver . new measure from our plan for driver will make it simple to charge electric car , with school and college receive grant to boost charge and the release of the first payment from our £ 381 million levy fund . we be also consult on speed up charge point installation . we have a plan to decarbonise transport that be work . the Labour party be in disarray . its leader , the right hon . and learn Member for Holborn and St Pancras ( Keir Starmer ) , would ditch labour ' s flagship spending promise , despite only commit to it on Tuesday . the hon . member for Sheffield , Heeley ( Louise Haigh ) must feel uncomfortable , have say week ago that it be very important . it be not the first time that she have be in that position . she say a month ago that cancel phase two of hs2 would make transport bad ; the very same day , the leader of the Labour party overrule she and agree with the Prime Minister ' s plan . labour have no plan , no direction , no clue — order . just a second , Secretary of State . you know that you have no responsibility for the Opposition , and I be sure that you would not want to take it on as part of your portfolio . I need to get through topical question . I be pleased to hear about the Secretary of State ' s plan , but do he have a plan to deal with some of the apparent traffic jam in respond to consultation on private member ' legislation in his Department ? in 2020 , the consultation on pavement parking close . pavement parking cause huge problem for guide dog , wheelchair user and everybody else . when will we have a response to that ? on the Parking ( Code of Practice ) Act 2019 , introduce by my right hon . friend the Member for East Yorkshire ( Sir Greg Knight ) , when will we see the plan to cut down on cowboy parking enforcement company ? when will that traffic jam be ease ? I be grateful to my hon . friend for raise those issue . we will come out with a response on pavement parking very shortly . I can not give he a specific date . on roadwork generally , we will consult on plan to improve the measure that stop utility company cause roadwork to overrun , put more pressure on they to ensure that our road can keep move , to support driver . I call the shadow Secretary of State . what do the Secretary of State think that it say about the performance standard in the contract that he sign with fail operator that senior executive at Avanti , whose cancellation now run at 17 % , could boast about the " free money " from the taxpayer that be " too good to be true " ? two thing : first , Avanti do not have any money under the performance regime , because it have not deliver appropriate enough quality , demonstrate that we pay only for good performance . on the specific issue that the hon . Lady raise , the Rail Minister and I raise that with Avanti . senior executive at FirstGroup agree with we that those comment be appalling , and they be take step to deal with that issue within the company . they be disgraceful comment from Avanti , but the problem go to the contract that the Secretary of State be sign with such fail operator . last year , Govia Thameslink fail on every single performance measure at its station , but rather than enforce the standard in the contract and demand well , he lower they so that Govia would still potentially receive its bonus and performance fee , at a potential cost of million to the taxpayer . be that not the perfect symbol of the Conservatives ' break rail network : failure reward , and passenger and taxpayer pay the price ? it absolutely be not . the hon . Lady refer to Avanti West Coast , I give she the answer to the question on Avanti and then she just repeat something that simply be not the case . accord to the service quality regime under which Avanti West Coast operate , it have not receive any payment , because it have not be hit the quality target — [ interruption . ] if she would listen to my answer , Avanti have not hit the quality target , so that be exactly the performance regime work . the Cumbrian Coast railway be vital to the energy coast , for both passenger and freight . I welcome the extra funding and service that Network North will bring , but could the Rail Minister update I on the late progress ? I would be delighted to update my hon . friend . she will know that the upgrade of the energy coast line be one of the commitment in the Network North document . the Department be now work closely with Network Rail and local stakeholder to revisit the scope of the intervention , which be present in the 2022 outline business case , and we expect that work to conclude later this year . I call the SNP spokesperson . the A701 relief road realignment be a key regional infrastructure project with knock - on national benefit , not to mention the major improvement it would make in Midlothian . so - call levelling up round 3 do not even allow the project to bid for funding , and I know that the leader of Midlothian Council and the leader of all the council in the Edinburgh and South East Scotland city region deal have write to the Levelling up Secretary to express their disappointment . will this Secretary of State add his voice to theirs in call for that critical infrastructure to be support ? the hon . Gentleman will know that the primary responsibility for deliver road transport in Scotland be the responsibility of the SNP Government , because it be devolve . I be pleased that he have welcome the levelling - up bid that have be deliver in Scotland — this Government deliver for the people of Scotland where his Government have fail . on the specific issue he raise , I will of course draw his remark to the attention of the Secretary of State . Fraserburgh - base Gray & Adams be the UK ' s pre - eminent manufacturer of refrigerated trailer — I be tell they be involve in the design of regulation in the early day of refrigerated transport . will the Minister meet I and Gray & Adams ' s management and engineer to see what can be do to ensure that regulation be update at a pace that keep up with the ongoing innovation make by that great example of british manufacturing ? my hon . friend have be a fantastic champion for Fraserburgh and for that business in particular . I know very well the issue in respect of long semi - trailer and compliance with the regulation . I would be delighted to meet he and the company , and I assure both the company and the wide industry that we be work to find a way forward on this question , because it matter and we want to support that business . his Majesty the King be well know and much love in my constituency , and on behalf of my constituent I wish he a full recovery . do the Government agree that the sustainability of transport link , particularly air link , between scottish airport and the rest of the UK be very important ? for example , flight in and out of Wick John o ' Groats airport be crucial to the economic development of the far north . indeed ; aviation be important for economic development across the entirety of the UK , include link between Scotland and England . however , the hon . Gentleman ' s question be about Wick John o ' Groats airport , and the public service obligation for that airport lie entirely within Scotland and be a matter for the Scottish Government . the road Minister will recall a meeting I have with he , along with my hon . friend the Members for Great Grimsby ( Lia Nici ) and for Scunthorpe ( Holly Mumby - Croft ) , about resurface the a180 and remove the concrete surface . I have have many meeting with road Ministers over the year who have promise that . will he be the one who can deliver it ? I sincerely hope so . one SME owner in my constituency tell I that , if he have meeting in London , he now often travel down the night before , because he can not rely on Avanti ' s train service . even if the train be not cancel , as we learn recently , Avanti be Britain ' s least punctual train operator . give that terrible service , do the Secretary of State now regret his premature decision to extend the contract for the west coast main line ? the decision to extend the Avanti contract be take because its performance have improve dramatically . at that time , its self - induce cancellation rate be at 1 . 5 % , down from 13 % . Avanti be in the process of hire 70 driver per year . I have speak to Avanti about matter that have be raise in the Chamber today , and about its recent service . we know that it need to do well , and we be hold it to account to ensure that it do so . it be an appalling service . hear , hear ! the propose west London orbital network could enable train to run from Hendon to Hounslow and take million of passenger off the underground , and will be a boon to all people in west London . have my hon . friend have a look at the proposal , and will he give it the green light ? we have have a presentation on the plan , and I would be very happy to meet my hon . friend to update he . it be a matter of interest , and I like to see such proposal bring forward — although , of course , we have to balance they with ensure that the taxpayer be not at extra risk . the dualling of the A47 at Blofield be fully fund and ready to go a year ago . since then , a former Green party parliamentary candidate have bogge it down in a series of legal challenge . once they have be overcome , will the Department be right behind that much - need dualle scheme ? the Government be utterly committed to the A47 . the court case to which my hon . friend refer be also link to the A57 . we be passionately commit to both road . we await the judgment , which we believe will come within the next month or so . Bedford borough could become the home of the only Universal Studios theme park in Europe , bring enormous prosperity and many job to my constituency and the eastern region . although road infrastructure funding have already be allocate until 2025 , will the Government commit to support that exciting project by fund the substantial road improvement that will be necessary for the plan to go ahead ? I be familiar with that scheme , on which I have be brief , and I know that the Chancellor have be involve in it as well . the Government will look carefully at the proposal that be bring forward and will want to do what we can to ensure that that exciting proposal come to fruition . will the Minister update the House on what measure be be take to reduce the amount of litter and debris blight many central reservation and grass verge on our major highway ? my hon . friend be right to raise that point . it be absolutely vital that the great british public stop throw litter — that would be the first and most important thing . I can assure he that National Highways be utterly commit on this matter , and give evidence to the Transport Committee about the dozen and dozen of people it have clear up the litter every single day . however , it be fundamentally up to the public to stop litter . Heathrow airport see a significant increase in noise complaint last year . resident in my constituency be regularly wake up in the middle of the night by the roar of jet engine overhead , and there be well - document impact on their physical and mental health . will the Secretary of State finally commit to ban night flight between 11 pm and 6 be ? on noise , it be important to strike a balance between the negative impact of aviation on local community who live close to the airport and the economic benefit of flight around the UK . we will shortly publish the result of a consultation on night flight , and the hon . Member should wait for it . [ Official Report , 19 February 2024 , Vol . 745 , c . 7mc . ] ( Correction ) vehicle park on pavement continue to have a negative impact on disabled people , especially those who be blind or partially sight like myself . it have be four year since the Government ' s consultation on that , yet still no action have be take . the Minister say that they be go to respond to that consultation soon . " soon " be not good enough . when will they bring forward a plan to ban pavement parking ? the hon . Lady will understand that there be already provision in place permit action by local authority . we intend to publish the Government review very shortly . have the ministerial team see the Parliamentary Advisory Council for Transport Safety ' s recent report on the grow number of accident involve e - scooter , and if not , will they look at it ? not only be e - scooter an increase danger to all our constituent , there be a lack of police follow - up when accident happen . the use of private e - scooter on public land — on road and pavement — be illegal in the UK , and it be up to the police to enforce that law . we have 23 different legal trial of rental e - scooter around the country . [ Official Report , 19 February 2024 , Vol . 745 , c . 7mc . ] ( Correction ) we recently announce the extension of those trial , and we be use that datum to learn more about the danger or otherwise of e - scooter , which will inform the policy for the future regulation of e - scooter . the Mayor of London have freeze fare for five out of the eight year he have be in office , mean that they be 14 % below national fare increase . should I take it from the Secretary of State ' s early answer to the hon . member for Harrow East ( Bob Blackman ) that he be oppose to those fare freeze , and that he expect a Conservative Mayor to put fare up if elect ? no . what I find surprising be that the London Mayor spend an awful lot of time pretend that he do not have any money , so he put up taxis on hard - work motorist in outer London , and then just before an election , he find a secret war chest that enable he to do popular thing . everyone know that if he be to win , he would put up taxis again on the poor motorist as sure as night follow day , which be why they should vote for Susan Hall . I thank Ministers for all their answer . regard accessibility for disabled passenger , be ever mindful that we be in an age of equality and that disabled people deserve the same opportunity as everyone else , have consideration be give to ensure that taxi firm have an obligation to provide vehicle for disabled people in every shift pattern ? it be always good to have the hon . Gentleman wind up proceeding . I will take away that point and have a very detailed look at it , and get official to give I a detailed answer that I will provide in writing . business of the House will the Leader of the House give we the forthcoming business ? the business for the week commence 19 February will include : Monday 19 February — second reading of the Investigatory Powers ( Amendment ) Bill [ Lords ] . Tuesday 20 February — remain stage of the Offshore Petroleum Licensing Bill . Wednesday 21 February — opposition day ( 5th allot day ) . debate on a motion in the name of the Scottish National party , subject to be announce . Thursday 22 February — a debate on the civil nuclear road map , follow by a general debate on premature death from heart and circulatory disease . the subject for these debate be determine by the Backbench Business Committee . Friday 23 February — private member ' Bills . the provisional business for the week commence 26 February include : Monday 26 February — general debate , subject to be confirm . Tuesday 27 February — remain stage of the Leasehold and Freehold Reform Bill . Wednesday 28 February — Second reading of the Pedicabs ( London ) Bill [ Lords ] . Thursday 29 February — a debate on a motion on language in politic on International Women ' s day , follow by a general debate on Welsh affair . the subject for these debate be determine by the Backbench Business Committee . Friday 1 March — private member ' Bills . I start by offer my good wish to his Majesty the King and all the royal family at this difficult time . I wish he a speedy recovery . I thank the Leader of the House for the business , but yet again , there be a few thing miss that we have long be promise . I be glad that the motion on risk - base exclusion of Members be lay before the House last week , but when will the Leader of the House schedule a debate and a vote ? once again , there be no motion on the Procedure Committee ' s recommendation on hold secretary of State in the Lords to account . report stage of the Renters ( Reform ) Bill be promise by early February , but it be nowhere to be see , and the football regulator long promise to club and their community be still not in the upcoming business . the Leader of the House say a few week ago that that legislation would be bring forward " very soon " . will she also confirm that the Government will make a statement as soon we be back on progress in exonerate victim of the Post Office Horizon scandal , and that it be still the intention of the Government to bring forward legislation to exonerate victim ? we be get a write ministerial statement today on infected blood , yet time and again she have promise oral statement to update the House . the business she have announce be not exactly go to fill all the day , so surely she can find time for these important matter . this week , we see the launch of the Popular Conservatives , who apparently have not hear of irony or oxymoron . they be head by the right hon . member for South West Norfolk ( Elizabeth Truss ) , the least popular Prime Minister in the history of british polling . I know the Leader of the House be a fan , but in the six week she be in office she manage to totally crash the economy . who exactly do they think they be popular with : mortgage holder come out of fix rate and now pay hundred of pound more a month , shopper see the price of food and essential soar , or renter see massive hike ? let we be honest : poll after poll show there be absolutely nothing popular about the current conservative party , although I do notice that the Leader of the House herself rank as the most popular conservative with voter . so maybe she could offer the Popular Conservatives some advice : show some contrition for the economic mess they have cause and stay off the airwave . perhaps more sombrely , the Prime Minister have this week make some serious misjudgment . on Monday , he shake hand on a bet to deport migrant to Rwanda before the next general election . bet on people ' s life be grim to watch , and the ease with which the Prime Minister agree to a £ 1 , 000 bet when so many be suffer through the conservative cost of living crisis be a gross spectacle . do the Leader of the House think bet about the plight of desperate people be a good advert for her Government ? in that interview , the Prime Minister also infer that the Leader of the Opposition be a terrorist sympathiser . actually , when he be the Director of Public Prosecutions , my right hon . and learn Friend oversee the first conviction of senior member of al - Qaeda , the jailing of the airline liquid bomb plotter and the deportation of countless terrorist . all the while , the Prime Minister be make money as a hedge funder in the City during the global financial crisis , as ordinary people pay the price . I know who I would rather have in charge . only last week , we agree in here that civility , respect , decency and truth in politic matter , so will the Leader of the House distance herself from such malicious mud - sling ? this week , in Prime Minister ' s Question Time , we hit a new low . in the week of the first anniversary of the murder of Brianna Ghey and while her mother be in the Public Gallery , the Prime Minister try to score cheap political point at the expense of trans people , which Brianna ' s father condemn as " absolutely dehumanising " . many of we find it deeply offensive and distasteful , include many Government Members . the Prime Minister have be give plenty of opportunity to apologise to Esther Ghey and her family , and have refuse , while the Minister for Women and Equalities , whose job it be to stand up for the marginalised , double down and dismiss the cry of the family . the Leader of the House have a well record than many in her party on this issue , and I know she will be appal , too . so will she take this opportunity to apologise on the Prime Minister ' s behalf , and call out use minority as a political punchbag ? we be about to go into recess , and I think it be restorative to spend time with our constituent , and to escape the Westminster and social medium bubble . since Parliament return this year , we have witness the nation rally behind a group of people mightily wrong , who take on those in powerful position to fight to get justice for themselves and other . the hon . Lady mention the Post Office Horizon scandal . she will know that there be a debate this afternoon , and I be sure that the Under - Secretary of State for Business and Trade , my hon . friend the Member for Thirsk and Malton ( Kevin Hollinrake ) , will take the opportunity to update the House on progress make towards that legislation . I confirm that that be still our intent . I also know that the Minister for the Cabinet Office and Paymaster General , my right hon . friend the Member for Salisbury ( John Glen ) , be work at pace with regard to infected blood . I understand he have a meeting with the right hon . member for Kingston upon Hull North ( Dame Diana Johnson ) about that early this week . we have also see the crew of the Prince of Wales aircraft carrier cancel plan , leave , and time with their love one to do their duty . we have learn that thank to the graft and grit of the british people and business , our economy have turn a corner . we have see our monarch respond to his cancer diagnosis , as many other Brits have , with courage , duty and cheerfulness , and with family rally around , and I thank the hon . Lady for her remark and good wish , as well as all member and the british public who have send their good wish to his Majesty . we have also see a mother meet the brutal murder of her child with the most profound grace and compassion , turn her anguish into positive action to protect other child . and we have see a father speak about how the love for his child enable he to overcome his worry about they be tran . those be the thing that our nation be make of : compassion , fairness , tolerance , responsibility , service , and love . we see those thing every day in the people who send we here , and we look on they with pride . sometimes that pride be reciprocate , as I be sure it be for my hon . friend the Member for Carshalton and Wallington ( Elliot Colburn ) in what he say yesterday . sometimes that pride be not reciprocate . whatever the rough and tumble of this place , and whatever the pressure and mistake that be make in the heat of political combat , we owe it to the people who send we here to strive every day to make they proud of we and this place . the Prime Minister be a good and caring man . I be sure that he have reflect on thing , and I understand that he will say something later today or perhaps even during these question . it be not just about Mr and Mrs Ghey that he should reflect on ; I be sure he be also reflect on people who be tran or who have trans love one and family , some of whom sit on these green Benches . I hope the Leader of the Opposition will also reflect on his action . this Government have be right to protect the safety and dignity of woman , and at each stage of do so they have seek to bring certainty and assurance to tran people . this Government be also right to hold the opposition to account for their multiple inconsistency and u - turn on their policy platform . today supposition have end , and reality have land about the Schr ö dinger £ 28 billion — a policy that for month and month have be both alive and dead , and be now confirm as dead , at least for now . there will be question over whether the shadow Energy Secretary ' s tenure in that role be also alive or dead . " politically , it ' s strategically incompetent " as the hon . member for Brent North ( Barry Gardiner ) call this sorry saga , and that description could also apply to labour ' s costing on its insulation programme and its council tax policy and modelling . it be more confirmation that not only do labour not have a plan , it have no hope of arrive at one either . the hon . member for Manchester Central ( Lucy Powell ) ask I about risk - base exclusion , and we have table that motion on future business . she know that we will bring forward a debate and vote on that after recess , but I want Members of the House to have time to make themselves aware of the issue and to ask I , and other member of the House of Commons Commission , question about it . regard scrutiny of the Foreign Secretary , I be in touch with the Leader of the House of Lords about that matter and I hope to update the House soon . finally , today mark the start of marriage and family week , and it be appropriate that we send a big thank you to all those who support we in this place and who quite often put up with a great deal . further business will be announce in the usual way . the Leader of the House know that I be a member of the programme board on restoration and renewal , and she be the responsible Minister . there be a debate due on the business case , and she might now tell the House when that will happen . it be imminent . we will also have a debate on whether we will have a decant , but not until 2025 , and even if we do decant , that will not be until 2031 , and I doubt I will personally live to see it , although I wish Members well with that project . I do not want to get involve with whether we decant , but ask a specific question . this matter have now drag on since 2015 and could drag on until 2031 . meanwhile , the building be decay around we . three option be deliver to the Speaker ' s Commission on this matter , and one be plan maintenance around we . we have successfully do good work on part of the building , and I urge the Leader of the House now — she might make an announcement on this — to press ahead with proper plan maintenance , so that we can repair the building and make it good for future generation . may I start by thank my right hon . friend and other colleague for all the work they have do on the programme board ? the new governance structure — I hope Mr Speaker would concur — have enable we to make good progress on get a proper grip of what need to happen to this building and the activity and cost associate with that . we will bring forward further news to the House shortly on where we be with the plan and the programme , but that should not get in the way of concurrent activity . he will know there be some early project that we think we can get on with that be perfectly within the boundary of the parliamentary Buildings ( Restoration and Renewal ) Act 2019 , and we should get on and do they . I hope that the House will welcome a more pragmatic approach to take care of this important UNESCO heritage site . I call the SNP spokesperson . may I associate myself with the shadow Leader of the House ' s comment about Brianna Ghey and her remarkable parent ? last week , I ask the Leader of the House about the cost of the Tories ' secret and highly sensitive report to Cabinet on the state of the Union . hansard record that not one word of her answer reflect my question — not one syllable . instead , she read out to the Chamber a video script about bingo and make a joke about monkey . the week before , I ask the Leader of the House about the Electoral Commission ' s concern over Tory voter ID plan . again , there be not one word in Hansard about Tory voter ID — not a peep . instead , she read she prepare script attack the SNP . in fact , hansard reveal that week after week , not only do my question go unanswered , but they be completely ignore . week after week , we get a clickbait video for her personal YouTube channel . surely that behaviour demean her office and disrespect this House . she be here to answer question from member . return to that state of the Union report to Cabinet in July 2020 , it aim to undermine the Scottish Government and the scottish independence cause , which be apparently a Tory top priority at the height of the pandemic . it come to light last week , and no wonder the Leader of the House ' s Government want to keep it under wrap . it contain more grim news for any remain supporter of the Union . my question again be : how much do it cost taxpayer , what be its purpose , and what strategy be it ask the Cabinet to endorse ? do the Union strategy and operation committee still exist ? while she be at it , I would be pleased to know the detail of the " highly professional attack dog " , as describe by one journalist , who be employ around that time in an attempt to counter independence support . unlike the Prime Minister , I be not a bet woman , but I would wager £ 1 , 000 that I will not get answer to those today , either . I will be write to the Leader of the House with all the question she have ignore just this year for starter . my question today , though , just need a simple yes or no , and I challenge she then to sit back down and resist the video script . will she at the very least attempt to find answer to my question when she receive they in writing , as she refuse to do so here ? can we have a debate on the role and function of the Leader of the House ? the hon . Lady can have a debate on the role and function of the Leader of the House every Thursday at approximately 10 . 30 am . I hope it be colleague ' experience that when they ask I question , I either furnish they with answer if it be about the business of the House or I follow up with Departments and write to they . I be afraid that , as Hansard will show , her question to I and to various Departments be sometimes hard to fathom . the hon . Lady ask I about a particular piece of polling . I can certainly write to the Cabinet Office , although she indicate that she may kindly save I the trouble ; in that case , I will just send her letter to the Cabinet Office for it to respond to she . but it come in a week when the Scottish Government ' s own cost for polling have be expose . I hope that hon . member disagree with the hon . Lady ' s assessment that I demean my office , although that be high praise indeed from the Scottish National party — I think my party have some way to go before we reach 22 live police investigation . while it may be true that those who live in Labour area be 40 % more likely to be a victim of crime , I think SNP politician be probably 40 % more likely to be investigate for one . I do not need to join the new organisation point out by the shadow Leader of the House because , as my friend the hon . member for Wansbeck ( Ian Lavery ) , for Caithness , Sutherland and Easter Ross ( Jamie Stone ) and for Huddersfield ( Mr Sheerman ) know , I be already popular and conservative . will the Leader of the House organise a statement on pernicious political correctness ? Mr Speaker , you will be as surprised as I be to note that the Environment Agency have remove the word " mother " and " father " from all its document because it believe they should be non - gendere . my dear mother , look down from a great place , will be spin in her grave to have be designate non - gender . can we have a debate on that ? it sound like nonsense , but it be actually much more sinister . free speech be at stake . I thank my right hon . friend for raise that important question . while our legislation and the thing that arm ' s length body use need to be legally accurate , it be important that people can use language and word such as " mother " and " father " . actually , that be not only the right thing to do but what the guidance they operate under say they should do . may I ask he to let my office have the detail of that case ? in addition to perhaps have a debate — he will know how to apply for one in the usual way — I could follow that up for he with relevant arm ' s length body . I call the Chair of the Backbench Business Committee . I thank the Leader of the House for the business statement and for announce two full week ' business . that be welcome . last week , we have to pull a debate due to shortage of time . that be understandable , give the importance of the Government business table for that day , but the sad point from our perspective be that unless we be allocate time other than on Thursdays for Back - Bench debate , we will probably have no further time to allocate in the Chamber before the Easter recess . Monday 26 February might fit the bill , since a general debate have be announce for that day . we be of course open for application , particularly for business in Westminster Hall . I know this have be mention , but could the Leader of the House give an indication of the progress make on bring forward legislation for the appointment of the football regulator ? I have a particular interest in that . television ' s impact on travel football fan be worsen , with Newcastle United fan alone — I be one of they — have have inconvenient and almost unworkable away - game fixture impose on they no few than eight time this season . we have have away kick - off time of 8 pm on new year ' s day , 5 . 30 pm in Brighton and Bournemouth — this be when travel from the north - east of England — and Saturday night kick - off in London at 8 pm on two occasion and 7 pm on one occasion . those time make it unworkable for people to get back from those fixture on public transport , and it be happen on a much more regular basis . the football regulator be much need , and I be sure that be something that it would like to focus on . I thank the hon . gentleman for all his work on the Backbench Business Committee and for welcome two week of business — nothing make I happy than to come to the House and announce that . he know that I take very seriously our obligation to provide the Backbench Business Committee with time to have its debate on the Floor of the House . I hope to update he shortly on when we can give he some additional time . the hon . Gentleman raise an incredibly important point about football , and I find it amazing that it have be allow to endure for some time . it be probably very unfair on not just the player but the travel public . I will make sure that the Secretary of State have hear his concern , and he will know that the next Culture , Media and Sport question be on 22 February . collect food waste from domestic property be an expensive service both to set up and to carry out . every local authority in west London have have the service for a long time — certainly before March 2023 . in west London , the Department for Environment , Food and Rural Affairs be provide £ 230 , 000 in funding for Hounslow , £ 201 , 000 for Brent , £ 406 , 000 for Ealing and a massive £ 606 , 000 for Hillingdon . in my borough of Harrow we have have zero , yet we provide food waste collection to 4 , 136 flat , and the borough want to roll out the service to over 18 , 000 more flat . it be clearly unfair that Harrow have be single out . it be not get the funding it deserve , and have not for many year . could right hon . friend arrange for the DEFRA Secretary of State or a Minister to make a statement on the Floor of the House on how that funding be allocate , and why Harrow do not receive its fair share ? I thank my hon . friend for his question , and for give I advance notice of it — it be helpful and diligent of member to do that . I have uncover an administrative saga that I will not bore the House with , but I will update my hon . friend . the fact that he have put the situation on record will help it to be resolve . I have receive some reassuring news from the Department . far to a question at last week ' s business question from a Conservative Member about SSB Law , I have at least 10 constituent affect by this issue . what can only be describe as cowboy outfits offer constituent cavity wall insulation , and put it into home where it should not have be , result in mould , damp and damage to property . those constituent be then approach by SSB Law , which take on those claim in a no win , no fee basis . when it go under , my constituent receive enforcement notice tell they that they owe up to £ 19 , 000 . it be a scandal on top of the scandal . I write to the Justice Secretary as a matter of urgency back in December , but I have not have a response . can the Leader of the House help I to find way in Parliament to co - ordinate all those across the north who have be affect — we expect there be hundred , if not thousand — and to get a response so that we can look after those people , some of whom be among the most vulnerable and have receive extortionate bill tell they that they owe thousand of pound ? I be very sorry to hear about this ongoing situation . from memory , I write to the Department last week about this issue , and I will make sure that the hon . Lady be cite in the reply . I will also raise it again with the Justice Secretary , and chase up the hon . Lady ' s correspondence . my office stand ready to assist she in get this matter resolve for her constituent . it be both intolerable and heartbreake that hostage remain in captivity in Gaza after more than 100 day . who know what horror be be inflict on they as we sit here today ? can a Minister come to the House to make an urgent statement on what the Government be do to get the hostage home ? I thank my right hon . friend for what she have just say and for her ongoing work to keep our eye focus on those individual . yesterday mark four month that they have be in captivity . this week , I meet Annabel , who be help the Sharabi family , who lose multiple member of their family in the 7 October attack . very sadly , the family recently confirm that another relative , Yossi , who be take hostage , have be murder . Yossi be describe as a pillar of their family ; he be also a football fan , and a supporter of Manchester United . the family be hope that Eli Sharabi , who be also take hostage , will be return to they , and that eventually Yossi ' s body will be return to they so that they can bury he . sadly , Eli ' s ordeal will not end there , as his wife and two daughter be among those murder in the attack , which I do not think he will know yet . I thank all those work to bring the hostage home , and all member work to keep the spotlight on these individual and to resolve the tragedy continue to unfold in Gaza . I will ensure that the Foreign Office have hear what my right hon . friend have say today and that this House be keep inform . may I also wish his Majesty the King a speedy recovery ? he be brave to share his health news — he have show his own vulnerability and humanity , and I be sure people across the nation will thank he for that . the household support fund provide grant to household struggle to make end meet , but local authority still do not know whether funding will continue past the end of March . More than 100 organisation have warn that there will be devastating consequence if the fund be not extended . can we have a statement to clarify the future of the household support fund ? I thank the hon . Lady for her word about his Majesty the King . many member will know the merit of the household support fund , which be give to local authority to provide they with the flexibility to respond to particular situation where people have fall through the crack for other type of support . that be why we have provide the fund . it be still in operation , and I know the Department for Levelling up , Housing and Communities and the Treasury will want to ensure that member be give good notice about what will follow . I shall ensure that both those Departments have hear what the hon . Lady have say today . local plan be the foundation on which planning authority make their decision . despite the fact that they shape our village and town across the country , few people take part in the consultation that take place ahead of their production . can we have a debate in which to exchange idea about how we might involve more people in the formation of those plan ? I thank my hon . friend for raise this matter and for all the work he do to empower his community to get more involved with shape their local plan . he will know that our revised national planning policy framework address some of those concern and the weakness in the planning system . the next question to the Secretary of State will be on 4 March , where my hon . friend can raise this matter directly with the Minister himself . the life expectancy for the less well - off in south - east Northumberland barely scrape 70 year of age , due to the industrial heritage and legacy in my region , like many other . right - wing think - tank be moot the idea of increase the pension age to 71 , which would basically mean that people in my constituency and other constituency would pay in all our life and get absolutely nothing from the pot . can we have a debate in Government time to discuss the huge discrepancy in life expectancy and the potential for people to receive no pension for a lifetime of contribution ? the hon . Gentleman raise a good point . there be clearly legacy issue in certain part of the country because of the industry that be there . People in certain profession in the modern workplace , such as shift worker , be also at a disadvantage in term of their health . all of that need to be feed in when policy be make , which be why it be important that we have evidence - base policy and a system across Government so that every Department be involve in the formulation of policy . give that the question session to the relevant Department be not for some time , I will ensure that the Secretary of State for Work and Pensions have hear the hon . Gentleman ' s point today . since be elect , I and many colleague have spend much time raise issue that affect man and boy . however , this House have barely raise the importance of dad and the challenge they face . they play a vital role in bring up their child , support their family and support our country . too many be block unfairly from see their child after a divorce and too often their role in bring up child be not see as important , yet we all know family need their father , daughter need their dad , and lad need their dad . do the Leader of the House agree that we should have a debate on the vital role dad play and the challenge they face ? I thank my hon . friend for the campaign he have be run on this issue and his diligence in hold all Departments to account for what they be do to recognise the vital contribution father make , not just to their family but to wide society . that would be an excellent topic for debate and he will know how to apply for one . he will also know that he can continue to raise this issue directly with Ministers at Question Time . it be highly appropriate that he have speak about this issue ; as I say in my opening , we be start a celebration week of the family . we know that when family have strong father figure and role model , they be strengthen . the Leader of the House promise that she would table a motion on risk - base exclusion for member . it be publish last week , the future business be light and there be plenty of parliamentary time available , so will she tell we why she have not schedule the debate yet and why there be no sense of urgency in ensure that Parliament be a safe workplace and its reputation be restore ? I refer the hon . Lady to the answer I give to the shadow Leader of the House . I think that if she be to ask colleague about their awareness of the motion and the detail within it , many will not have register it . what I and other member of the Commission be do be talk to colleague about it . I have have meeting with colleague who still have some concern about aspect of it . I want to bring it to the House and for it to be understand when the House make a decision on it . I will do that very shortly after recess , but I do want to allow right hon . and hon . member the time to study the motion and understand what the scheme be . I think it stand a well chance of gain maximum support in the House if that be the case . I will keep the hon . Lady update . farmer in my constituency be in uproar and my Welsh conservative colleague across Wales tell I that they be hear the same thing . the source of farmer ’ distress be the new proposal from the Welsh Government for a new farming subsidy scheme to be introduce in 2025 . an independent economic assessment publish with the proposal say that the scheme will result in a 10 . 8 % reduction in livestock and an 11 % reduction in labour — a number that the National Farmers Union in Wales say be equivalent to about 5 , 500 job . I know how important farming be where I be , even if the Welsh Government do not seem to appreciate how important it be in Wales . give the close tie within the farming community across the UK , and give the fact that we enjoy a single UK labour market , will my right hon . friend consider provide time for a debate on the vital contribution of farming to the UK economy when the House return ? I thank my hon . friend for all the work he continue to do not just to champion the interest of farming community in Wales , but to highlight their critical importance to our resilience as a nation . when we study the potential job loss and the potential reduction in livestock number , the assessment of the NFU in Wales — that the plan be " catastrophic " — be right on the money . I will certainly make sure that the Secretary of State have hear my hon . friend ' s concern . I encourage he to keep campaign against the plan . he will know that the next Environment , Food and Rural Affairs question be on 14 March . I respect the Leader of the House , and I note that there be a write ministerial statement today , but what the House need be an oral statement from the Cabinet Office Minister so that we can ask question about what the Government be do . I also want to raise a separate issue : the devolution deal that be be consult on in my area of East Yorkshire and Hull . apparently , we be to receive an extra £ 13 . 3 million a year over 30 year , share between the two council in the area . constituent have point out to I that the Government ' s economic development deal with Rwanda average about £ 54 million a year over five year . they be wonder why the Government be put that amount of money into Rwanda , give that they be elect in 2019 on the basis of a policy of level up , and why my area be receive so much less . let I first thank the right hon . Lady for her kind remark about I , and say to she that the feeling be entirely mutual . she will know that I keep in close contact with the Paymaster General regard infected blood , and I will ensure that he have hear what she have say today . I understand that he meet she this week , and I know that the whole House will want to be keep inform and update about the progress that he be make . I will also ensure that those at the Department for Levelling up , Housing and Communities have hear what the right hon . Lady have say about the devolution deal . such deal be a vital tool , along with the many other source of funding that we be put into community that need it and will do something good with it . however , as she will know , the devolution deal be not the only source of the fund that her constituent will receive : they will be get many more stream of funding in many other area and from many other Departments . however , the Government have a finite amount of money , and it be important that we be direct it to where we want to spend it and alleviate pressure on public service that we do not want to see . where we have porous border and people — for example , economic migrant who be not flee persecution — be for understandable reason abuse our asylum system , we need to close those loophole . the Rwanda scheme be design to be a deterrent , and if it be stand up and successful it will benefit the right hon . Lady ' s constituent . for some time I have notice a grow sense of frustration among member who ask a question and be give an answer that bear no relation to it . it be as if Ministers be apply some sort of Jedi mind trick to suggest that this be not the question they be look to ask . will the Leader of the House arrange for a statement to be make on what step the Government will take to ensure that Ministers actually answer the question that they be ask ? I think that when one be present with a question like that , it be quite hard to answer it . if the hon . Gentleman would like to furnish I with some example — any example — of where that be happen , I will of course respond to they . this be business question , so his question be in order , but I would point out to he that it be actually quite difficult to answer . I want to pay tribute to my constituent Loyd , who be in the Public Gallery this morning . he be a remarkable young man . every time the Ellesmere Port Wombles have a litter - pick he be there , come rain or shine . I also want to record my appreciation of another young constituent , Heidi , who be nine year old and who , on Sunday , will complete her cycle ride — the equivalent of London to Paris — to raise fund for Alzheimer ' s Research UK and Macmillan Cancer Support . she have already raise nearly £ 6 , 000 , which be a fantastic achievement . there be so many other young people in my constituency and , I be sure , every other Member ' s constituency who do fantastic thing for their community and for good cause . may we please have a debate to celebrate the great work that our young people do ? I thank the hon . Gentleman for afford I , and the whole House , the opportunity to join he in praise Loyd and Heidi and congratulate they on all that they be do . young people in this country sometimes get a bad press , so it would be very good to have time on the Floor of the House or in Westminster Hall to celebrate all that they do . a recent report by London Councils find that Wandsworth be one of the borough worst affect by fall pupil roll number , with a 12 % drop in demand for reception place . many parent in Battersea have share with I their concern about their child ' s education . it be vital that the Government ensure that every local area have excellent , financially viable school . may we have a statement on how they will address the fall in pupil roll number ? I will ensure that the Secretary of State for Education have hear what the hon . Lady say , and I will draw her attention to that report . I think that be how I can well serve the hon . Lady today . in the midst of a cost of live crisis of his own making , the Prime Minister this week place a £ 1 , 000 bet with a tv presenter . what message do that send to our constituent , many of whom be struggle to pay their bill ? the hon . Lady accuse the Prime Minister of cause a cost of living crisis . she know that the pandemic have knock - on effect because of the spending we have to do , include on the furlough scheme , which the Prime Minister design when he be Chancellor . that scheme keep people , family and business go throughout that period and enable we to make a swifter economic recovery than many comparable nation . the Prime Minister be not responsible for the war in Ukraine or any of the other geopolitical and global shock we have to endure , which be cause financial pressure on the nation and on household . during this time , we feel it right to stand up an enormous package of support for household to alleviate the cost of living . More than £ 100 billion , and grow , have go towards support people , which show that this Government understand what they be go through and will do everything we can to support they . the Leader of the House may not know this , but when I first receive my cancer diagnosis just after the last election , I think it be the end of the world ; that I would be unable to carry on my job of represent the people of Huddersfield , and do all the stuff I love about be an active parliamentarian . may we have a debate in the House on how cancer treatment have change dramatically because of science , technology and the wonderful care from the NHS , include the wonderful team at Guy ' s and St Thomas ' s ? whether it be immuno - therapy or robotic surgery , which I have , the world be now much bright than it have be for people diagnose with cancer . in a way , I want to send a message to his Majesty that it be not the end of the world . I have have a very active life since my diagnosis , and I can still make myself a real pain to Mr Speaker and my colleague in the House of Commons . may we have a debate on how thing have change ? let we give a little good news to his Majesty . I thank the hon . gentleman for send such a positive and thoughtful message not only to his Majesty the King , which I be sure be very welcome , but to all Brits who be live with cancer . there be a huge amount to celebrate , include treatment , our amazing research base and our fantastic third sector organisation . it be not just about the treatment , the drug and the healthcare professional ; it be also about the financial advice and moral support that be often provide by our fantastic cancer charity . of course , it be also about the people who work in the NHS and the agency that support they . I think this would be a wonderful topic for a debate , and the hon . Gentleman will know how to apply . may we have a debate on the death of Opposition politic and the rise of the uniparty ? the tired pantomime of this House be play out in this Chamber by second - rate actor , but behind the scene there be elite director and scriptwriter . and we know the script , Mr Speaker : uncontrolle immigration will be see as inevitable ; eye - water taxis for the many but tax evasion for the few be just a fact of life ; the religion of net zero be to be indulge , whatever the cost ; the forever war will be support , even if we have to hand over our child and our treasure ; and there be no appetite for an investigation into the excess death around the world , and woe betide anyone who point out the inconvenient truth that the excess death be be suffer only by nation that succumb to the magic juice . I be tempt to say , in response to that , that it take one to know one . I say to the hon . Gentleman that our democracy be strong . no matter whether someone agree or disagree with people who sit on these Benches , the view they have or the political party they represent , they be here because their constituent have send they here . in the vast majority of case , they be good people who be serve their constituent to the good of their ability , and they should not be tarnish with slur against their character that they be work for some international Illuminati or that they do not care about people in their constituency . our democracy be the good in the world and it will remain so , not just because of the people on these Benches , but because of the people who send they here . I would like to add my good wish to his Majesty the King . this week , the Secretary of State for Education say that she be " confident " that 15 hour of free childcare would be deliver by April , but she then refuse to guarantee it would be in place on time . nursery in Barnsley have raise their concern about how they will deliver the policy , and this be create yet more uncertainty . so may we have a statement on the delivery of the Government ' s childcare policy ? I thank the hon . Lady for her question on an important matter . this government be undertake the large expansion of childcare entitlement and support to the people of this country . this matter be of great interest to member in all part of the House . I will ensure that the Secretary of State have hear what the hon . Lady have say , and she will know that the next Education question be on 11 March . may I add my call for a statement from the Paymaster General about the contaminate blood scandal on the day we get back after the recess ? I be delighted that the Leader of the House have announce two week of business for when we return the week after next , but we have be promise that the football Bill be imminent and it do not appear in the business for those two week , and there be also no sign of the Third Reading of the Renters ( Reform ) Bill . will the Leader of the House explain what be go on with those two Bills ? those Bills be be work on and be make progress . I fully appreciate that both be eagerly anticipate and I hope they will get support from member in all part of this House . the hon . Gentleman will know my particular interest in the football governance Bill , and I know that many member meet stakeholder in the past couple of week regard that Bill . I hope to update the House on it shortly ; I hope we will bring forth that legislation shortly , and I will announce future business in the usual way . in an increasingly cashless society , access to cash from free - to - use atm be increasingly scare . that be a particular issue in Old Trafford , in my constituency , where the main shopping parade on Ayres Road have no cash machine at all . may we therefore have a statement from the relevant Minister on how the Government will ensure that , as technology mean we be increasingly cashless , people will continue to have access to their hard - earn money for free in their local community ? the hon . Gentleman make an important point because access to cash be an absolute lifeline for particular people in our community . he will know that the Government have issue the sector with guidance and expectation about make free - to - access cash machine available . that be monitor and map , and I will ensure that the relevant Secretaries of State in both Departments have hear what the hon . Gentleman have say . last week , from across the Chamber , we hear unanimous expression of deep disquiet at the prospect of a foreign state — and not a particularly friendly one — gain control of the Spectator and the Daily Telegraph . I be unlikely to be a recipient of favourable coverage in either publication , but the Leader of the House just refer to we be the good democracy in the world , so it strike I that freedom of speech , proper debate and a free press , not control by a foreign state , be part and parcel of that . may I respectfully request that we have a debate on the matter ? I thank the hon . gentleman for raise awareness of that important point . I know that many member have grave concern about this situation . he be absolutely right that a free press and a competitive media sector be vital to our democracy ; that should be a concern not just to everyone in the House , but to all our citizen . the Secretary of State for Culture , Media and Sport have an obligation to intervene in media transaction where there be a public interest to do so . clearly , the hon . Gentleman have put his view on the matter on the record today . there be a statutory judicial process underway , so it would not be right for I to comment far , but I will ensure that the Secretary of State have hear what he and many other hon . member have say . I be sure that the Leader of the House be comfort and hearten to hear that where her party lead , the Labour party be sure to follow in major policy area , such as the retention of tuition fee , Brexit , retain the House of Lords and , of course , protect banker ’ bonus , while maintain the two - child cap and reject universal free school meal for child . I appreciate that she do not speak for the Labour party — although , in truth , in important policy area she might as well — but will she make a statement set out why she believe it be okay to cap support for the poor and most vulnerable child in our society , but not for banker ? the hon . Lady do not appear to have get the memo from her party ' s First Minister of the Scottish Government , because I think her party and the Labour party be plan to work together , perhaps to try to form a coalition in the not - too - distant future . an organisation that have conduct research into scottish household with an income of less than £ 20 , 000 have say that 53 % of those household feel they be not get value for money from the Scottish Government . I would ask the hon . Lady to reflect on what the Auditor General say this week about the Scottish Government ' s performance , what they be do with their budget and the value for money that the poor in Scotland be get . it be always a privilege to come to the House and ask a question of the Leader of the House because , as she say , this be the mother of Parliaments . I chair the all - party parliamentary group for international freedom of religion or belief . this week we have be highlight the rise persecution of those practise religion in Nicaragua , about which Lord Alton be admirably chair an inquiry on behalf of the APPG , and work to develop a report on the condition there , as religious leader face arrest and religious group face increase persecution by the Government . will the Leader of the House join I in condemn Nicaragua ' s action against forb , and ask the Foreign , Commonwealth and Development Office to support Lord Alton ' s inquiry into such persecution and ensure that there be a Government response ? I thank the hon . gentleman for again raise these incredibly important matter , as he do diligently every single week . he will know that my hon . friend the Member for Congleton ( Fiona Bruce ) do great work in this important area as the Prime Minister ' s special envoy for freedom of religion or belief , so I will make sure not only that the Foreign , Commonwealth and Development Office have hear what he have say today , but that my hon . friend have as well , give her role . no one should experience discrimination for exercise their right to freedom of religion or belief . the hon . member for Strangford ( Jim Shannon ) will know that we take the matter very seriously , and we will work through the UN to promote those right and raise his concern on every occasion . I thank the Leader of the House and the shadow Leader of the House for their participation this morning . will member leave please do so quickly and quietly ? Protest measure with permission , Mr Deputy Speaker , I shall make a statement on new Government measure to tackle unacceptable behaviour at protest . in the aftermath of the horrific attack on 7 October , many people take to the street to make their view hear . many do so peacefully and respectfully . I have the great privilege of marching alongside many people , include some in this House , against antisemitism on the street of both Manchester and London . sadly , those protest do not tell the whole story . over the past few month , we have all see disturbing and distress example of hateful abuse , of serious damage , and of law - abide citizen be intimidate and prevent from go about their daily life . the right to protest be fundamental to our democracy , but when we see people hurl racist abuse , desecrate national memorial of great significance to our country , or take flare to marche to cause disruption and fear , the only reasonable response be outrage and disgust . tolerate these action would be radicalise in itself . this government will not stand by and allow a small minority to incite hatred and commit crime , undermine our proud tradition of peaceful protest . today , the Government have announce a package of measure to put a stop to this criminality for good . protester have for too long be able to claim in law that protest be a " reasonable excuse " for criminal behaviour . block road , prevent ambulance from get through and stop people from get to work or visit love one be breathtakingly selfish act . the british public certainly do not see an acceptable justification for that level of disruption to their life . that be why we be remove that defence for relevant crime . protester will no long be able to cite the right to protest as a reasonable excuse to get away with disruptive offence , such as block road . through the package that we be announce today , we will crack down on those who climb on war memorial . in recent month , we have see case where individual have break away from large protest and scale national monument . war memorial belong to all of we . they be the altar of our national grief , and it be clearly not acceptable to disrespect they in that way ; it be an assault on the memory of so many who give their life for our freedom and to defend our nation . attack our national memorial go beyond the legitimate exercise of free speech . we must not give those who commit criminal act at protest the ability to get away with it by simply hide their identity . once the legislation come into force , the police will have new power to arrest protester at certain protest who wear face covering to conceal their identity . those who shout racist abuse and extremist rhetoric will no long be able to hide from justice . we be also protect the public by put an end to people bring flare on marche . flare have be use during large - scale protest , and have be fire at police officer , pose significant risk of injury . a new offence will ban the possession of flare , firework and any other pyrotechnic at protest . anyone who flout the new rule will face serious consequence , include up to three month in jail and a £ 1 , 000 fine for those who climb on war memorial . the change that we have announce today build on the legislation that we introduce last year to help the police tackle disruption from protest . we criminalise interfere with key national infrastructure through section 7 of the Public Order Act 2023 . since we pass the Act last year , the Metropolitan police have make more than 600 arrest to minimise the disruption cause by just stop oil . on Tuesday , the Home Secretary meet police leader to thank they for their work , and to encourage the use of all exist power at their disposal , as well as these new measure , to maintain order at protest . I be very grateful to frontline officer across the country for their effort and success in keep the british people safe during an immensely challenging period . I know that police these event on a regular basis be both complex and demanding . it take officer away from crucial work prevent crime and protect vulnerable people in our community . as I have make clear , freedom of expression be vital to our democracy , and this House champion it every day . People must be able to speak without fear , and have their right to peaceful protest protect , but those freedom and right be not absolute , for very good reason . there be no freedom to commit violence or intimidation , or to harass other . this country have law against vocally support terror organisation for a very good reason , and last month , the Government proscribe Hizb ut - Tahrir as a terrorist organisation . that group actively celebrate the 7 October terrorist attack in Israel that lead to the rape and murder of many , many people . it be an organisation that have poison mind for far too long . we must , and we will , continue to stand with community who feel threatened , and ensure their safety wherever they live and work . the Government be stick to the plan to give police the power that they need to crack down on crime and keep our street safe . we will never tolerate hateful , dangerous or intimidate behaviour . we will always put the decent , law - abide majority first . we will do what be right and fair . I commend this statement to the House . I call the Opposition spokesman . I thank the Minister for his statement , and for advance sight of it . the Labour party absolutely respect the fundamental freedom to make legitimate , peaceful protest , but when that freedom be abuse to intimidate , harass and harm other , safeguard must be put in place to protect the public . it be essential that the police be able to maintain public order while safeguard the right to legitimate , peaceful protest . we will therefore scrutinise the detail of the proposal to ensure that any new measure be apply appropriately and proportionately . I will respond to the measure that the Minister have outline . first , there be the new power for the police to arrest protester use face covering to conceal their identity . while we understand the genuine concern about protester commit public order offence while wear face covering , we be also concerned that there might be , at time , legitimate reason why some protester would want to wear face covering . let I give an example . when dissident protest outside foreign embassy — the Minister will know which one I have in mind — they may well want to conceal their identity to protect their family back home . the UK be , and should always be , a safe haven for dissident oppose oppressive regime . can the Minister provide more detail about how that new power will be apply appropriately ? secondly , the opposition welcome a ban on flare and firework , which have be use to fuel public disorder and intimidate police officer in recent month . however , the policing of large protest could pose a challenge to enforce the ban effectively , so I would be grateful if the Minister outline what guidance will be issue to police force on enforce that at large protest with thousand of people in attendance . thirdly , on measure to protect the sanctity of war memorial , I know that the Minister will agree — as will , I be sure , every right hon . and hon . member in the House — that they be extremely important place . they be place to remember those who have make the ultimate sacrifice in the service of our country , and they must always be respect . during protest activity last year , a very small minority of protester desecrate the sanctity of war memorial , which understandably spark outrage right around the country . protest activity also raise the issue of what be define as hateful extremism . despite promise , the Government have not so far be forthcoming with their definition of hateful extremism , which would help the police force to police protest well . can the Minister say when that will be bring forward , and outline when the Government will bring forward an update counter - extremism strategy ? the current one be eight year out of date . the right to peacefully protest be a fundamental freedom in our country . it must not be abuse , but it must not be curb unnecessarily , either . the opposition will scrutinise these measure far to ensure that they strike the right balance between safeguard the right to protest and the important duty to safeguard the public . I thank my hon . friend — and he be my hon . friend — for his support and comment . he be quite right that protect peaceful protest and the right of free citizen to express their view on our street be essential to the Government ' s mission , and it be one of our priority . the point that he raise be fair ; in some case , I will have to write to he with more detail , but I will cover some of the area that I think matter greatly . on face covering , my hon . friend raise important question about when there might be a legitimate reason for somebody to cover their face . the guideline and the legislation that we be set out will cover that , because police officer will have discretion to give an order require a face cover to be remove . those command the policing of protest will therefore have discretion over when they ask for that instruction to be carry out . secondly , on pyrotechnic , the instruction be quite clear : the measure relate to those participate in the protest . if , particularly around Diwali or Guy Fawkes ' s day — not a day that I think anybody in this House would ever celebrate — people who have buy firework happen to pass a protest , they will not be catch by the offence . it refer to participation in the protest . on my hon . friend ' s point about war memorial , he and I know far too many name that have be etch on to those stone . we also know that protest on war memorial can tear open extremely painful wound that have long be close . that be why I think the british people , quite rightly , see the protest on war memorial as so offensive . that be why it be right that the Government act against the small minority desecrate such an important place in our heart . on my hon . friend ' s question about counter - extremism , the work be do by Robin Simcox be hugely important , and we be do an awful lot to tighten up various element of our counter - extremism policy . indeed , I hope very much that I will be leave the Chamber very shortly to have a meeting on that subject . the reality be , however , that it be a very complex subject ; the Secretary of State for Levelling up , Housing and Communities be currently work on a definition of extremism alongside the Attorney General . there be an awful lot that we must do to ensure that group that pose the danger of extremism be address in other way . that be where cross - Government working have be so important in ensure that group be transparent in what they be do , in who be fund they and in where they be target their attention . I call the Father of the House . it be an honour to follow the hon . and gallant Member for Barnsley Central ( Dan Jarvis ) , who have just put a question to my right hon . and gallant Friend the Minister for Security . some demonstration be perfectly acceptable . for example , in my early year as an MP , in order to get a relief road , I escort mother and their pram down a major road . we go at three and a half mile an hour , which be fast than the traffic would have go have we not be there on a demo . it be a Friday evening and people be try to leave London . we get the relief road . I also lead a march from speaker ' Corner to Trafalgar Square for the Cambridge two — two social worker who be wrongly convict and jail for help the homeless . that be different from the kind of disaster that happen when there be crowd surge , especially if they be create by explosion , be they from firecracker or other thing . I be present at Ó scar Romero ' s funeral , when 14 people die around I from crush because explosive or firework go off . I be present at the Heysel stadium in 1985 when 39 Italians be crush to death . be able to control demonstration , which should be hold by agreement and understanding with the authority , be vital for they to be safe . on a more minor scale , there be a flash protest outside my constituency office yesterday by good - natured people who care about the people in Gaza . have there be one young worker in that place when suddenly a flashmob appear around they , it would have be discomfit . I be sure that that would not be catch by these measure , and nor should it be , but I say to those do such protest : " think of other . " I ask my right hon . friend to remember a last point about disruption . when there be one of the Just stop Oil or Extinction Rebellion demonstration , in which people be allow to sit around in the street here — for far too long in my view — I say to one person who have fly in from Vancouver to join the protest that fly halfway across a continent and an ocean to help Extinction Rebellion be odd . I say , " what about the ambulance ? " they say , " we ' ll let they through . " I reply , " the ambulance be stick 2 mile away . you can ' t let they through . you must let people go about their ordinary business to save life and for the prosperity of the country . " I back the Government ' s measure , and I hope my right hon . friend know that he will have support from across the House and the country for what he have propose . first , I thank the Father of the House for his support for these important measure , and indeed for his entirely correct observation that protest be not only necessary but important across the country . every day , many protest happen politely , courteously and in way that make their point without cause the kind of societal harm that , sadly , some cause . his longevity in this place , and indeed outside it , be a blessing to the House . he remember the funeral of the late St Ó scar Romero , whose extraordinary work be an inspiration to million around the world . my hon . friend remind we not only that cry " Fire ! " in a crowded theatre be not an expression of freedom of speech , but that , in this context , make an explosion in a crowded area can lead to human tragedy beyond expectation . the co - operation between protester and the police be incredibly important for the protection of the public . I call the SNP spokesperson . we in the SNP oppose these measure to clamp down on people ' s right to protest , just as we oppose the Public Order Act 2023 and the Police , Crime , Sentencing and Courts Act 2022 . on issue such as the Women against State Pension Inequality campaign , Iraq , and Israel and Gaza , people from Scotland travel to London , to Westminster , to make their voice hear . People feel helpless in the wake of the Gaza situation , which be unfold 24 / 7 on our social medium feed . they donate what they can during a cost of living crisis , and they boycott and protest . how do Westminster respond ? it respond by cut cost of live support , ban public body from invest ethically , and clamp down on the right to protest through measure that will impact certain people in society , particularly those live with disability . human right lawyer Baroness Shami Chakrabarti have call out today ' s announcement as " more culture war nonsense " . she highlight that individual may have reason other than criminality for cover their face : " should rape victim or refugee peacefully protest really be punish for cover their face to protect their identity ? " be this not just another example of the Government pander to their far - right wing , rather than protect the legitimate right to protest ? this government be punish the majority for a tiny minority ' s action , far fuel their culture war . as for the detail the Minister outline , a £ 1 , 000 fine be significant and unaffordable to people across these isle , but it be nothing to a Prime Minister who be willing to bet that exact amount on people ' s life . I can honestly say that I be sorry , but not entirely surprised , that the SNP be choose to make divisive politic out of what have be a moment of national unity . at many of these protest , we have see extremely dignified individual raise a point , whether about Gaza or antisemitism . we have hear courageous voice speak out on all side of these debate — individual who have make their voice hear extremely clearly and in a dignified way — but sadly , some extremist have choose this as the moment to spread hatred and fear and to stoke nationalism or division . I realise that that be something that the hon . Lady and I take different position on , as after all , she represent a nationalist wing in our country . it be a great shame that she be choose this moment to spread that hatred . I do wish that the scottish nationalist would — [ interruption . ] you be a nationalist party ; therefore , you be scottish nationalist . it be the Scottish National party . order . as the scottish nationalist who be represent in Parliament today have choose to make a point out of this issue , I will just say that many people have protest across the whole of the United Kingdom in many dignified way . we be seek to make sure that those across our country who quite rightly wish to exercise their right to protest can do so in a safe and dignified way . this be an important set of measure , and I welcome everything that my right hon . friend have announce . without seek to interfere with the operational independence of the police , there should be a presumption of instant and immediate application of these new measure where offence occur . too often in the protest we have see since 7 October vile antisemitic poster have be display and banner have be carry unchallenged , only for the police — particularly the Metropolitan police — to put out appeal later ask , " do you know this person ? " that embolden those who have these foul view to carry on , and it send a much deep and disturbing message , particularly to jewish community across the country , that the police be just let those offence go by . my hon . friend be absolutely right . that be exactly why the Home Secretary have already be speak with police chief in the United Kingdom about the power that will be provide . the police chief themselves have ask for the power . he be also absolutely right that the level of antisemitism we have see on our street be simply vile and completely unacceptable , and it be also true that some of the symbol that be be carry and some of the flag that be be display be themselves radicalise , so action against they be so important . it be quite noticeable how many of the symbol that people claim should be culturally normalise in the UK be absolutely not tolerate in muslim country across the world , for the very clear reason that they do not speak for muslim people — either in the UK or around the world — but be try to speak for a narrow islamist fringe that be utterly hateful and have no place in our society . I be sure the Minister know that the Home Affairs Select Committee have be carry out an inquiry into the policing of protest after the horrific attack of 7 October . I join both Front Benchers , the Minister and my hon . friend the Member for Barnsley Central ( Dan Jarvis ) in thank the police for the work they have do , keep people safe on demonstration and also uphold the law . we on the Home Affairs Committee have take evidence from the police , and although people should of course have the right to protest , we be very concerned about the effect that the number of protest be have on the number of rest day that be be cancel for police officer in the Met , for example . More than 4 , 000 rest day have be cancel , and the cost to the Met of police those protest up to the end of December have be £ 18 . 9 million . will the Minister explain how these new law will be support with any additional resourcing that the police need ? what more can be do to support the wellbeing of officer who be either deploy or abstract to ensure that these protest can go ahead ? in the light of Home Secretary ' s comment this week about neighbourhood police and how important that is , can the Minister reassure the House that resource will not be take away from neighbourhood police to deal with the policing of protest ? I pay tribute to the right hon . Lady ' s work on the policing of protest . her Committee have already have some important evidence session , which I have listen to in part , not in whole — forgive I . we will no doubt be see the work she pull together at the end of that inquiry , and I shall read it with great interest . it be worth say that the pressure on police across the United Kingdom from these protest have be significant . we recognise that , and we have be look to support police force , where appropriate , in whatever way be appropriate . it be certainly true that many police force have be able to manage only because of the uplift in police number they have see in recent year . sadly , London , as the right hon . Lady know , have not manage to use that uplift , which be a great shame . frankly , I be sure that that be something the people of London will consider in the poll in May . sadly , in Scotland as well , police number have fall , whereas in the rest of the United Kingdom they have by and large risen . these be area in which I know she will encourage people to make decision accord to how they have be govern , not just police . since the atrocity on 7 October , the regular hate marche that have take place in London have force jewish Londoners to remove their kippah , remove their Star of David necklace and , in some case , even vacate their home because they be scared — and they be certainly scared to travel to central London when one of these hate marche be take place . only 16 % of british Jews believe that the police treat antisemitism as equivalent to other form of hate crime , and two third of british Jews believe that the police have double standard on these crime . when these measure be introduce , will my right hon . friend make sure that they be actually target at the people express hatred towards british Jews , and that those people be arrest and take to court to answer for the charge that be make ? I thank my hon . friend for his question , and he be absolutely right that the level of antisemitism we have see have be utterly unacceptable and the fear that have be spread , sadly , among the jewish community in the United Kingdom have be utterly vile . it be simply intolerable to have part of our community feel unsafe to walk , shop or do whatever they choose on the street of our capital . it be completely wrong . the power in this instruction or ruling will be for the police to deploy as operationally appropriate . however , I be sure that police officer and police chief around the United Kingdom will have hear my hon . friend ' s point and will have recognise it . I should point out that , since the 7 October protest begin , more than 600 arrest have be make in relation to those protest . the police take this extremely seriously , and about 30 of those arrest have be relate to TACT — Terrorism Act 2000 — offence . that should , I hope , reassure all community across this country that this Government and these police officer take these offence extremely seriously , and they will be use all the power at their disposal to protect everyone in the United Kingdom . I be someone who know the politic and lifestyle of Northern Ireland and who live through the trouble , and we protest on many occasion , but the one thing we never do be wear a mask . I therefore very much welcome the legislation come forward today . the right to protest be an important right in a democratic society and country , but I firmly believe that thing should be do decently and in order , which mean people have the courage of their conviction and have their face uncover . People wear a mask at a protest , whether they be pro - Hamas protester or hunt saboteur , be break the law , and I would be very pleased to see they jail and fine for the activity of wear a mask . will the Minister outline how soon change can be put in place , and whether discussion be ongoing with the Northern Ireland Assembly — it be back on its foot again , and Ministers be in place — to ensure that the legislation initiate here can apply across all of this great United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland ? I greatly welcome the hon . member ' s comment , but he will know that , perhaps not so often in Strangford , but some people do wear balaclavas in the protest that I see in Northern Ireland . I didn ' t . I be sure the hon . Member be not one of they ; there be absolutely no suggestion that he could ever be one of they . I think that would surprise quite literally everyone in this House . I be grateful for his support . this measure will clearly need to be work on , and we have already begin conversation with the Northern Ireland Office , but area of work will be require across the United Kingdom . police chief be already aware of this and have be ask for these power , and that be why they be come into place . the Minister ' s statement will be welcome to the vast majority of decent , law - abide citizen up and down the country , particularly in respect of the protection of war memorial . although the propose three month ' imprisonment or £ 1 , 000 fine might be suitable for some who be catch up in demonstration , three month seem incredibly lenient for those who we can probably describe as " professional protester " . of course the final decision rest with the court , but could a heavy period of imprisonment be available to they ? my hon . friend raise an interesting point . sadly , as be quite frequently the case , on the more serious occasion it would not be just one offence that be bring . I think this level of punishment represent , rightly , the offence that such action cause , and the penalty be , I think , appropriate to that . it be of course possible that other charge will be bring alongside that . I welcome the Minister ' s statement , and I support the reference to protect war memorial . as the son of someone who serve in the second world war and as someone who grow up know people who lose comrade in the war , those memorial be often the only place where those people be commemorate , because they have no grave of their own , and such memorial should be protect in the way the Minister suggest . none the less , the detail of the proposal will require a great deal of scrutiny , so could he say a little more about where we will get that opportunity ? the Criminal Justice Bill be now on Report . be the measure an amendment to that ? will they be statutory instrument ? when will we get the opportunity to scrutinise the Government ' s proposal ? there will be amendment to the Criminal Justice Bill , which can be scrutinise on Report . I understand the hon . member ' s comment . these be limited and minor amendment , as he know . they be measure that the police have be ask for , and they enjoy the support of the House for exactly the reason he give . it be expect — and even reasonable — that those who lose the democratic debate in this place will take their protest on to the street . however , we have see a recent disturbing trend that the tactic of a minority now undermine and jeopardise the tradition of effective peaceful protest that we enjoy in this democracy . do my right hon . friend agree that the measure the Government have take , and the measure he propose today , be a reasonable response to such tactic , and that the tactic of the minority that have be employ , and that these measure address , be distort and abuse the hard - win freedom of this country to gather , to speak , and to protest peacefully ? my hon . friend make an extremely important point and if I may , I will build on it in combination with an early point . there be many people who serve our country in various different way over two world war and in conflict since then , whose memorial be either lose and know only unto God or be many thousand of mile away from their family . family who have come to share our life in the United Kingdom may have leave behind they the grave of family member who serve in those conflict . I be think in particular of the 140 , 000 or so muslim servicemen who serve and lose their life in the last two war , of the many jewish ex - servicemen who march as well , and of many other from around the world — from Africa , South America and Asia — who serve in the pursuit of liberty and the defence of freedom in our country . this be their home now ; those memorial remember their relative and love one , and it be absolutely right that , for all community in this country , we defend those moment of national memorial and the altar to liberty that they represent . these measure may impact on those of my constituent who wish to protest outside this place or elsewhere over the border . the Minister say that enforcement action will be take by police officer at their discretion . how will the Government ensure that these measure will be apply uniformly , proportionately and appropriately across all of England ' s police force ? these be police power , so the enforcement or application of they be operationally independent and down to the discretion of officer and chief constable as appropriate . that be how police traditionally work . we do not have a national police force through which we can order police officer to arrest or not arrest individual . we allow individual police officer to apply the law accord to the guideline that chief constable set out , and that be exactly what will happen in this circumstance . Backbench Business National HIV Testing Week I beg to move , that this House have consider National HIV testing week . I be the understudy today for the right hon . member for Dumfriesshire , Clydesdale and Tweeddale ( David Mundell ) , who secure this debate . it have be 42 year since the untimely death of Terrence Higgins , who be not only the first record british person to die of HIV / AIDS , but a Commons Hansard reporter . since then , we have make huge progress in the testing , diagnosis and treatment of HIV . today , people live with HIV can continue to live very normal life . it be essential to remember , however , that HIV remain a critical global health issue , with million of people live with the virus and many more at risk of infection . early diagnosis and treatment of HIV be essential in reduce the spread of the virus , improve health outcome and reduce the stigma associate with the disease . I thank charity such as the Terrence Higgins Trust , the National AIDS Trust , the George House Trust and other that have work tirelessly to lead the fight against HIV . they have do and continue to do phenomenal work to help those live with HIV and to achieve the goal of no new HIV transmission by 2030 . I take the time on behalf of all the member of the all - party parliamentary group on HIV and AIDS to thank the outgoing chief executive of the National AIDS Trust , Deborah Gold , for her hard work and dedication to the charity for the past 10 year , and for her immense contribution to the fight against HIV . I be sure that everyone will join I in wish she the good of luck in her new chapter . as member will be aware , HIV weaken a person ' s immune system and their ability to fight everyday infection and disease . HIV be pass from human to human and , if leave untreated , can progress through a series of stage lead to acquire immune deficiency syndrome , or AIDS . though there be currently no cure for HIV , treatment be available that enable a person to live a long and healthy life . a person live with HIV have a similar life expectancy to a HIV - negative person , provide that they be test and diagnose in good time . in 2022 , the Government introduce the national HIV action plan . it have the clear aim of reduce new infection by 80 % by 2025 and , crucially , end infection and death from HIV by 2030 . that goal can be achieve only if the plan be properly finance and implement . in November , at the event to honour Sir Elton John organise by the APPG on HIV and AIDS and host by Mr Speaker , the Secretary of State for Health and Social Care outline that the UK Government would be expand the hugely successful NHS opt - out virus testing programme for HIV and hepatitis to 46 new emergency department across England . expansion of the programme from the current 33 site to every high - prevalence area could identify a significant proportion of the estimate 4 , 500 people live with undiagnosed HIV , prevent new transmission and save more life . as hon . member will know , we have be mark National HIV Testing Week with event across the country , include on the parliamentary estate , to raise awareness of HIV testing . this annual campaign aim to raise awareness of the importance of regular testing to reduce the number of people live with undiagnosed HIV and those diagnose late , and the campaign ' s strapline " I test " be in its second year . I urge everyone to take advantage of the service available during National HIV Testing Week and throughout the year to get test and know their status . recent UK Health Security Agency datum highlight that while HIV diagnose among white gay and bisexual man be fall , inequality be deepen . HIV transmission have increase in the last year among heterosexual man and woman , as well as gay and bisexual man of other ethnicity . persistent inequality must be overcome . at the same time , the experience of people live with HIV be not equal or equitable . worry number of people live with HIV be afraid to visit healthcare setting , with woman and people of black african ethnicity more likely to be afraid than man or people of white ethnicity . those inequality be mirror in the experience of people offer an HIV test : 40 % of woman eligible for a test be not offer one when attend a sexual health service . I urge the Minister to do everything she can to tackle the inequality in the HIV response in order to deliver the Government ' s action plan and end new transmission by 2030 . along with tackle inequality , we need to tackle the grow number of people previously diagnose with HIV who be not access the care they need . the ukhsa estimate that as many as 14 , 000 people live with HIV in England have not be see by their HIV clinic for at least a year , often for complex social and stigma - relate reason . they be essentially lose from the health system . one in three of those testing positive for HIV through opt - out HIV testing in accident and emergency department know about their status but be not access care . hospital in London be now report that people lose to care have overtake undiagnosed HIV as the lead cause of HIV - relate hospitalisation and mortality . those be entirely preventable incident . pilot work in south London fund by the Elton John AIDS Foundation have show that with case finding , focus follow - up and wraparound support , people can be successfully return to care at an average cost of £ 3 , 000 a person . HIV clinic currently do not have the resource to do that work , but it be significantly cheap than care cost when people develop serious illness . a national programme must be urgently introduce to find everyone lose to HIV care in England and ensure that they be get the lifesave treatment they need . will the Minister confirm what action the Government be take to find people live with HIV who have be lose to care ? finally , we must tackle late diagnosis . certain group be more likely to be diagnose late and therefore experience bad health outcome . last year , 44 % of people diagnose with HIV in England be diagnose at a late stage , and late diagnosis rate be even high for woman , at 51 % . the number of people live with HIV who know their status but be not in care could be high than the number of people with undiagnosed HIV . that be a risk to their health , expensive for the NHS and threaten HIV elimination . People not in HIV care be disproportionately from underserved community , include black community , woman and people who use drug . the impact of late diagnosis can be extremely damaging : as well as mean that someone might unknowingly pass on the virus , if they receive a late diagnosis , their chance of die in the first year after diagnosis be 10 time great than if they have receive an early diagnosis . additionally , late diagnosis can have a detrimental impact on an effective response to treatment , which in turn lead to great healthcare cost at a time when there be already financial strain on the NHS . late diagnosis be particularly common among certain group , with 54 % of heterosexual british black Africans and 29 % of gay and bisexual man diagnose late . opt - out testing have allow we to identify that those be the group most likely to be HIV - positive . although opt - out testing highlight that those group be most likely to have HIV , we need to encourage more people from they to get test . a simple solution for that could be to use public message campaign . target message across radio , television and social medium could be create to encourage people to come forward and get test . it could also specify the importance of testing and tell people where their near local test centre be . ultimately , to address late diagnosis in both primary and secondary care service , HIV testing need to become more prominent across the entire NHS primary and secondary estate . if we want to turn the UK into a science and health superpower , and if we want there to be no new case of HIV transmission by 2030 , it be essential that we address the issue that I be highlight . in particular , it be vital that we rapidly increase testing level in high and very high prevalence area through opt - out testing . that will not only save the NHS money and reduce the backlog but enable patient to know quickly whether they have HIV . my challenge to the Minister be to fight her corner and fight the inequality in the HIV response , ensure that access to testing be increase and ensure that once testing have start in hospital , fund for it will continue until we find the last person live with undiagnosed HIV in England . the opportunity to eliminate new case of a long - term condition be rare , yet we have the tool to do just that now . we must grasp that opportunity and create a culture where failure to follow guideline be consider wrong and HIV testing be consider routine . I end on this note . it be crucial that HIV and AIDS remain firmly on the agenda of our government , both domestically and internationally . they must be hold to their promise to reach zero new infection by 2030 . I call the Father of the House . at the conclusion of the debate , I be go to take an HIV test . I do not expect it to have a surprising result , but I think that unless people like I set an example , we can not expect other to overcome what might be embarrassment or awkwardness . the same apply to thing like give blood , which I do again this morning , for over the 90th time . if people watch blood be take , they would be less fearful about give blood themselves , and if they know that they could take HIV test without embarrassment , they would do so . each year , about 3 million of we go to sexual health clinic , where there be a lot of acronym — sti , std , GUM , HIV and AIDS — that all follow from thing like blood be give . the first person in my family to take an HIV test be my mother , who have have a number of blood unit give to she after an operation and wonder whether she be infect and might infect other in the family . she be clear ; many be not so fortunate . on vector — person - to - person transmission — we ought to be far more open , because the only thing we can not inherit from our parent be celibacy . celibacy can be adopt or force on someone , but sex be quite common for the rest of we . on that , I be glad that we now have a vaccination against genital wart , which be include in the cervical cancer vaccination and be now available to young man and boy as well . we will reach herd immunity much fast if both sex be involve . that also give protection to man who have sex with man . I be not an expert on all these thing , but we ought to be as careful about this as we be about ensure that people ' s tooth be protect , as we discuss yesterday in the dentistry statement . we should be concern that the chance of be involve in a conception that end in a formal termination be about 50 % in this country . there be a birth cohort of just over 600 , 000 , and there be over 200 , 000 abortion a year — the math be not complicated . it take two to tango . as the hon . member for Warrington North ( Charlotte Nichols ) say in her remarkable , positive and important speech , we can end HIV transmission if , when people know that they have be expose to it , they can get treatment for it . there be no reason for a long debate , or even a long speech from someone like I . I simply say , in solidarity with the people we can protect , that we ought to know our own status , encourage other to find way of discover their status and make sure that help be available and offer . it be odd that , often , when people come into contact with clinical service , they be not encourage to discover their status in all kind of way . modern treatment be available and they be effective . if we can overcome the embarrassment , we can get to a situation where people can be themselves and live as they choose , without be a risk to themselves or to other . I thank the hon . Lady again for her speech , and I hope that the whole country will pay attention . it be a pleasure to follow the Father of the House , and I thank my hon . friend the Member for Warrington North ( Charlotte Nichols ) for so clearly set out the issue . I do not need to repeat they , as I want to speak briefly . I represent a constituency that have have a high incidence of HIV infection for many year . it have a young , mobile and diverse population , and a very busy sexual health clinic at 10 Hammersmith Broadway , which I visit last summer . I pay tribute to all the staff there and at the other clinic around the country . they offer a fantastic service and they be engineer testing and comprehensive treatment under very difficult circumstance and with very limited resource . I also pay tribute to the Terrence Higgins Trust and the National AIDS Trust , and all the other charitable organisation that have do so much over the past few decade . we should pause in this debate to mark the success and the transformation in both the prevention and the treatment of HIV and AIDS over the past few year . there have be great success . we know now that early diagnosis be important but , after diagnosis , those who be infect can live normal life of normal duration . that would have be unthinkable even 20 year ago . there be very effective prevention through PrEP and other method . to go from where the risk of infection be a few year ago to where we be now be extremely significant . give that testing and treatment be available — and prevention should be available — it be even more frustrating that we be in the situation that my hon . friend outline . first , the fact that 4 , 500 people be undiagnose in the UK be entirely unnecessary . one of the solution , which the Government be expand , be opt - out testing in A & E and other location . that need to be embed and extend . until we get to the stage of prevent transmission altogether — for which there be an ambitious target — opt - out testing need to be expand and make more usual . in turn , that will help to eliminate the disparity in test rate between different part of the population — between man and woman , and heterosexual and man who have sex with man . this be not rocket science . this be about simply make sure that the proper remedy be available . the other issue that have come up repeatedly over the past couple of year be the availability of PrEP and other preventive measure . that be partly down to the pressure on sexual health clinic , through an upsurge in other sti such as gonorrhoea and syphili , of which we have see not quite epidemic but serious outbreak . last year we see several episode of monkeypox . understandably , they have take priority in sexual health clinic , but that mean that less time be available for consultation , and there be few prescription of PrEP and other medication . the wait time be still far too long , but at one stage they be be measure in month rather than week . it be clearly a miss opportunity if people be willing to be prescribe PrEP and understand its advantage , but be not receive prescription because they simply can not get an appointment at their local clinic , through no fault of the clinic or its staff . these problem need to be tackle , and it would be relatively inexpensive to do so . the problem be relatively clear and straightforward . the drug and product be safe and try and test , and the method — whether postal testing or in a & E or outreach — be well know and prove to work . the only issue , which I hope the Minister will address , remain why it be not be do . obviously , there be problem during covid , as there be in many health service , but that be no long a good enough excuse . there be no reason why people should not be able to readily accept testing , medication and preventive measure . I would like to hear a further commitment from the Minister today on opt - out testing , resource for sexual health clinic and the availability of PrEP . it have be suggest that , give the expansion in service now provide by pharmacy , PrEP could be add to they . I see no reason why that can not be the case . it could be perfectly safe to prescribe it in that way . it would take the pressure off clinic and it would make the medication more accessible and easy for those who be not currently receive prescription . I ask the Minister and the Government to consider those point . they be not difficult and they will not take a long time , but they could have a significant effect on many hundred and thousand of people who be unnecessarily at risk . it be a pleasure to follow the hon . member for Hammersmith ( Andy Slaughter ) . I thank he for his contribution and his knowledge of his constituency . I also thank the hon . member for Warrington North ( Charlotte Nichols ) . she lead a debate yesterday on mindfulness , which I attend , and she lead this debate on HIV testing exceptionally well . I be the Democratic Unionist party ' s health spokesperson , so it be a pleasure for I to be here to make a contribution . I always like speak in such debate if possible . once or twice I have miss they , but I be very pleased to be here today . we celebrate the fact that HIV be now a disease that people can live with , and can enjoy a well life with . that be something to celebrate . national HIV Testing Week last from 5 to 11 February , and special recognition be deserve for reach a decade since it start . we should look at what have be do in the last 10 year — how we have progress and do well , and how people have a well quality of life today . it be important to mark this week in Parliament , as testing be the only way for people to know if they have HIV . the Father of the House say that he would go and get a test , even though he do not need one . he say that people should recognise that testing be important . the late figure show that rate of HIV diagnosis be fall , but people of a heterosexual orientation be get more HIV diagnose , so there be a lot of work still to do . testing be free , quick and easy , so it be imperative that people of all age be aware of the service available to they and take advantage of they to prevent pass it on to other . I would point the Minister , for whom I have great respect — I understand her deep interest in this subject and very much look forward to her response today — to the issue of PrEP , which the hon . member for Hammersmith refer to . in Northern Ireland , we have have a very successful campaign on that for some time , which seek to raise awareness , reduce sexual disease and then , by its very nature , give people long live . some 69 , 000 HIV test be carry out in Northern Ireland in 2020 ; from those , there be 52 new diagnosis , bring the total number of people diagnose with the disease in Northern Ireland to 1 , 123 . with a population the size of ours , we might say that those figure be not bad — I do not think they be . it illustrate that testing and the use of PrEP , among other policy in Northern Ireland , have enable we to reduce diagnosis and keep they at a manageable figure . that be a decline of 49 % from 2015 , which be a massive success story . there have be a decline trend in the annual number of diagnosis in people bear in the UK . there be no doubt that we be do our good to encourage people to partake in testing . it be important to recognise how far we have come since the ' 70 and ' 80 , when there be a huge stigma around HIV diagnosis , testing and treatment . as I have say , I be my party ' s health spokesperson , so I try never to miss these debate . it be amazing to see how far we have advance since then , both socially and medically , and it be important to say how wonderful our NHS be , be capable of transform what be once a much - fear virus into something that be now easily treat . that do not mean we become nonchalant in relation to it ; it mean we have to recognise what we have do , and then recognise what our policy will be for the next period , because people be now able to live long , healthy life through treatment . I look to the Minister for a commitment that we will dedicate more resource to educate young people on HIV and other virus that can be pass on through infected bodily fluid . many young people will not remember , or even be aware of , the year when HIV be a massive concern to so many . it be crucial that we keep on raise that awareness today , and that young people be encourage to test , if necessary , and to have those conversation with family and friend , to ensure they do not have the disease and that they be safe , well and healthy . where we can do that most effectively be in school and university , which have a role to play in ensure that young people feel comfortable and have a safe place where they can speak to someone privately . the Father of the House be absolutely right : these subject be sometimes difficult to deal with , and those conversation may need to be private . many university already have sexual health clinic , which be fantastic service to offer young people . so many organisation do incredibly hard work to provide support for other nation with a high prevalence of HIV . in National HIV Testing Week , I want to make a plea to the Minister . Ards Elim church in Newtownards , in my constituency , operate aid and mission out of the church and be incredibly active with missionary in Africa , especially in Swaziland and Zimbabwe . every year , a group of young people come to our constituency , every one of whom be HIV - positive — their parent have it , and they have it — but they be live their life today because of the new medication that we have . I feel greatly encourage when I see they and when I hear they singe in their heavenly voice . it remind I that we in this great United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland have do magnificent work out in Swaziland , Zimbabwe and across Africa . I know it be not the Minister ' s responsibility , but could she perhaps give a hint or write a letter to myself and other on what can be do to continue the work on HIV in Swaziland and Zimbabwe ? it be of great interest to my constituent who attend that church . at one stage , 40 % of the population of Swaziland be HIV - positive , but today , after receive medication and do testing campaign , the rate there be manageable . if that be not a success story , I would like to know what be . as many will know , there be a high prevalence of HIV in certain part of Africa , and the ministry be keen to secure help for young child and parent who be suffer . there be so much ambition to help other , as it have be prove that catch case early through frequent testing hinder the spread and lessen the impact of HIV on an individual . across the UK , we be successful with our figure . can the Minister provide some clarity on whether we be able to help other country in desperate need as well ? this week be another opportunity to encourage people to take advantage of service offer to combat HIV . there be fantastic potential to protect people from HIV and to prevent severe illness and even death . when I think of the royal family , I often think of Princess Diana and the work she do when she be alive . she reach out and be one of those great motivator who try to make sure that people across the world know that HIV should not and would not be a death sentence . to conclude , I thank the local health trust in Northern Ireland , and indeed across the whole United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland , for provide these worthwhile facility . I call on the Government and the Minister to ensure that we continue to provide sufficient testing service to all across the United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland , as testing have prove instrumental in save life . why would we not celebrate an occasion like this , when across this great United Kingdom , many more people be alive today because of what we have do ? I call the SNP spokesperson . I congratulate the hon . member for Warrington North ( Charlotte Nichols ) on open this debate . she be an excellent stand - in for the right hon . member for Dumfriesshire , Clydesdale and Tweeddale ( David Mundell ) , approach the subject with nuance and good grace . I thank my constituent in East Dunbartonshire and people right across Scotland who contact I in advance of the debate , which have help I to shape my remark . I also thank the Terrence Higgins Trust for its very helpful briefing . just prior to Christmas , I pop into Charlotte Tilbury , where I purchase myself a nice new lipstick , which I be wear today . the money from the sale of this lipstick go to the Rocket Fund , power by the Elton John AIDS Foundation , which seek to end AIDS everywhere . I must say that I be delighted to be do my bit just by treat myself to a new lipstick , even prior to this debate . national HIV Testing Week serve as a reminder to we all of the importance of know our status , and provide amplify opportunity for people who would otherwise never test to do so . the scientific advance in HIV treatment and prevention be some of the big we have see in modern medicine . an HIV diagnosis have go from be a near death sentence for sadly too many people to be a manageable condition , with people live with HIV enjoy a normal life expectancy . even more incredibly , we can now say with absolute confidence that someone on effective HIV treatment can not pass on the virus to their sexual partner — undetectable equal untransmittable . one of the key intervention and milestone that contribute to this progress be the implementation of the NHS - deliver national HIV PrEP programme in 2017 . I be proud to recognise here today that Scotland be the first nation in the UK to make PrEP available , free to anyone at risk , on our precious nhs . there be now approximately 6 , 000 people use PrEP in Scotland at any one time . an estimated 500 people be live with undiagnosed HIV in Scotland , and a further 961 people have be diagnose with HIV but be no long consider to be receive specialist HIV care . reach those people will be vital if we be to succeed in end new case of HIV by 2030 . between 2010 and 2019 , the most marked reduction in the annual number of first ever HIV diagnose in Scotland be observe among gay , bisexual and other man who have sex with man . the reduction likely reflect a decline in the incidence and transmission of HIV infection in Scotland , associate with a range of public health measure over this period . however , that same progress be not happen across other group , with slow reduction among woman and minority community . other group continue to be marginalise , such as sex worker and inject drug user . the number of people with undiagnosed HIV in Scotland be think to be large in heterosexual individual , which emphasise the importance of consider HIV in people without identify current risk behaviour and the potential for great impact of HIV - relate stigma . Stigma still blight the life of far too many . we must continue to fight the stigma still experience by people live with HIV . Stigma and discrimination remain a reality for many people live with the condition . there be a need to increase awareness , fight prejudice and improve education about HIV . that be why , on 1 December 2022 , the Scottish Government publish their report " end HIV transmission in Scotland by 2030 " . to achieve the HIV transmission elimination goal in Scotland , a whole system and whole society approach will be require . the high - level activity require be primary prevention , detection and treatment . indeed , National HIV Testing Week hold the opportunity to get test . it can even be do at home , with a result in as little as 15 minute . I be pleased to confirm to everyone here that I , as a heterosexual woman , have take an HIV test . it be an important step that we as member of Parliament can take for our constituent to show how important this matter be . the only HIV test to fear be the one you do not take . it be a privilege that so many in the ' 80 and ' 90 be never afford . globally , thank to the investment of country such as the UK in aid through the UN Global Fund and research into vaccine through International AIDS Vaccine Initiative , million more be receive antiretroviral treatment and testing . in November 2020 , the UK Government announce aid spending would fall from 0 . 7 % to 0 . 5 % of GNI as a " temporary measure " , in response to the effect of the covid - 19 pandemic on the UK ' s public finance and economy . I would like to express my concern to the Government on their lack of recommit to 0 . 7 % GNI spending on overseas development aid . I echo the comment of the Chair of the International Development Committee , the hon . member for Rotherham ( Sarah Champion ) , and reiterate her point on how the UK be fail on funding commitment and its ability to set or achieve meaningful target on sexual and reproductive health . we have the tool to end HIV transmission ; we just need to use they , back up by political will . while advancement in medical science have transform HIV , the persistent stigma , discrimination and lack of awareness surround HIV testing remain formidable barrier in our fight against it . national HIV Testing Week serve as a crucial reminder of the importance of early detection and diagnosis . so , as we commemorate National HIV Testing Week , let we reaffirm our commitment to end the silence surround HIV , and to dismantle barrier to test and save life . I would like to see a recommitment by the UK Government to end HIV as a public health threat . by work together , we can achieve our goal of end new HIV case by 2030 . it be a great pleasure to speak for the Opposition in this debate to mark National HIV Testing Week . we have hear great contribution today from member on both side of the House , and it give I hope that we can continue to make progress on this issue in the year ahead . I thank my hon . friend the Member for Warrington North ( Charlotte Nichols ) , the hon . member for worthe West ( Sir Peter Bottomley ) , the hon . member for Strangford ( Jim Shannon ) and my hon . friend the Member for Hammersmith ( Andy Slaughter ) for make powerful speech on the enormous progress make on HIV . incredible advance mean that people live with HIV on effective treatment can now enjoy normal life expectancy and be no long at risk of pass on the virus . the reality of live with HIV in the 2020s be a world away from the 1980 . as colleague have remark today , we might just have the chance to be the generation to make Britain the first country in the world to end new case of HIV for good . it be an enormous credit to a generation of activist , fantastic organisation such as the Terrence Higgins Trust , many great campaign mp across the House and the all - party parliamentary group on HIV and AIDS that we have get to this point . More treatment have become available . thousand of people be now live with HIV at level undetectable or intransmissible to other , and the stigma and misinformation that the LGBT + community suffer through the ' 80 be not what it be . for Labour ' s part , we be incredibly proud of our record on HIV . it be the last Labour Government who switch spending so people could get the new drug as they become available after 1997 . we pass the Equality Act in 2010 that give legal protection to people live with HIV . Chris Smith become the first MP to talk about live with HIV in 2005 , and in 2018 my hon . friend the Member for Brighton , Kemptown ( Lloyd Russell - Moyle ) be the first MP to talk about live with HIV here in the Commons . but there be much more to be do . there be around 4 , 500 people in the UK live with HIV who be undiagnosed . the early those people can be find and link to care , the well their health outcome will be and the close we will be to stop new transmission . some 44 % of people diagnose with HIV in England last year be diagnose at a late stage . late diagnosis rate be even high for woman , at 51 % , and that mean some woman be diagnose so late they be already on their death bed . I be glad the hon . Lady be make the important point that woman be particularly at risk of non - diagnosis . she rightly mention some Labour people who make important contribution . we ought to remember Norman Fowler . I do not normally talk about my wife ' s work , but if I may say so , when she be Secretary of State for Health , she get the insurance company in and say , " do not charge high premium , or refuse cover to , people who have take an HIV test . that be not the way to move forward . " I thank the hon . gentleman for his remark , which he have now put on the record . there be 13 % few people test for HIV in 2022 than in 2019 . that be why we have see cross - party support today for National HIV Testing Week . testing be free , quick and easy . you can even test from home , and you can order a free test online ; I urge colleague to share that information with their constituent . turn to what the Government can do to help eradicate new transmission of HIV , I be very pleased to see the Government finally commit to roll out opt - out testing to all 32 area of high HIV prevalence in England . the pilot have be a resounding success , and Labour have fully support bring they to other high - risk community across England . the shadow Health Secretary , my hon . friend the Member for Ilford North ( Wes Streeting ) , be on the HIV Commission that first make the recommendation . will the Minister provide an update on progress towards roll out the programme to the 47 new hospital ? can she provide reassurance that in the long term , opt - out testing in emergency department will be embed as a cornerstone of the UK ' s plan to end new HIV transmission ? receive an HIV diagnosis can be alarming , especially if you be not expect it , so have she consider set aside a portion of funding to ensure that people who be diagnose through the scheme be give support to help they to come to term with their diagnosis ? have she make an assessment of whether opt - out testing could be roll out to other setting in primary care ? the Minister will know that the HIV action plan include several commitment on HIV testing , include the commitment that local authority commissioner would set the standard that sexual health service would achieve a 90 % testing offer rate to first - time attendee . two year on from the publication of the plan , there have be no reporting on its progress . will the Minister say what progress the Government have make against commitment in the HIV action plan to increase the number of people test in sexual health service ? finally , I want to ask the Minister about the Government ' s commitment to the prevention agenda . under the Government , we have widen health inequality , life expectancy stall , and a record high of 2 . 8 million people out of the workforce due to ill health . any government interested in support the NHS would put prevention front and centre of their agenda , but for 14 year , there have be no join - up plan for health , and service and institution that promote good health have be run down . this week we hear that England ' s national public health agency , the Office for Health Improvement and Disparities , have be " effectively dismantle " . ohid lead on sexual and reproductive health and HIV , as well as a wide range of public health issue , range from tobacco to obesity and child ' s health . will the Minister explain how the Government can be commit to the prevention agenda when they be dismantle our national public health function ? will she do we the courtesy of confirm how many full - time equivalent staff have be cut from ohid , and can she explain why the Government have not have the courtesy to make a statement to Parliament on what have be report , which sound like quite significant cut ? the remarkable progress on HIV have be hard win , and it put end new case of HIV within reach . we have only one Parliament leave to do that by 2030 . I want to put on record clearly that Labour be committed to get we over the line . that be why we would immediately get to work publish a refresh HIV action plan . it will not be easy , but we know what it will take . we owe it to everyone we have lose to the virus , everyone who have face that stigma , and everyone who be live with HIV today to end new transmission once and for all . I congratulate my right hon . friend the Member for Dumfriesshire , Clydesdale and Tweeddale ( David Mundell ) and the hon . member for Warrington North ( Charlotte Nichols ) on secure this important debate . my right hon . friend have be call away to his constituency today , but I be grateful to both he and the hon . Lady for their strong advocacy for National HIV Testing Week . I pay tribute to all the other member who have contribute today : my hon . friend the Member for worthe West ( Sir Peter Bottomley ) , the hon . member for Hammersmith ( Andy Slaughter ) , for Strangford ( Jim Shannon ) , and for East Dunbartonshire ( Amy Callaghan ) , and the shadow Minister , the hon . member for Birmingham , Edgbaston ( Preet Kaur Gill ) . it be clear that there be cross - party consensus on the need to challenge ourselves to meet our ambition of no new HIV transmission by 2030 , and I be sure that we can do that if we stick together on this subject . I listen carefully to all Members ’ speech , and I will try to answer all the question that be ask . let I begin by say how grateful I be to everyone who have take part in in National HIV Testing Week , especially all those who have be test in Portcullis House thank to the work of the excellent Terrence Higgins Trust . I also commend the work of other charity , include the National AIDS Trust , Tackle HIV , LGBT Foundation , George House Trust and many other support family up and down the country — and I salute the work of the all - party parliamentary group on HIV and AIDS . we should remember the way in which heroic NHS staff step up to care for people live and die with HIV and AIDS in the 1980 , at a time when AIDS be a terrifying new disease that spare no one . it be to honour their legacy , and to complete the work that our NHS begin 40 year ago , that this Government make a bold and ambitious commitment in 2019 to end new transmission in England by 2030 . to that end , we publish the first , groundbreake national HIV action plan just over two year ago . testing be one of the plan ' s central pillar , and I be proud to say that we have be make huge stride , set an example to the rest of the world to follow . last year the UK rank first in the european combine sexual and reproductive health right rank atlas 2020 to 2023 , in front of 43 other country , and the UK Health Security Agency have confirm that for the third time in a row , England achieve or exceed the UN ' s 95 - 95 - 95 target . that mean that 95 % of people with HIV be be diagnose , 98 % of those diagnose be be treat , and 98 % of those receive treatment be unable to pass on the condition . however , while we have make excellent progress , we be not complacent , and we will not be satisfied until the number of transmission be bring to zero . we have therefore put National HIV Testing Week at the heart of our effort , year on year . we know that tailored and target campaign be the most effective , so we have increase the number of test and widen the scope of our campaign , ensure that our messaging reflect and appeal to the different group whom we be try to reach . we be undertake ever great effort to reach those who have be miss before and have become disengage from the process . last year we introduce the option of self - testing , with near - instant result at home , to give people more choice and more control over their testing , and this year we be partner with local business to offer test in place that regularly serve people from , for example , the black african community , who we know be less likely to want to go for a test . these effort have bring result . since we launch the HIV action plan , we have send out nearly 100 , 000 test and receive more than 300 reactive result , allow we to immediately begin the process of get vital treatment to those who need it . so far this year , the figure show that more than 4 , 000 self - sampling and self - test kit have be order and nearly 500 result have be report , nine of they reactive . our campaign ' s message be simple : " I test " — not " eye test " ! I be pleased to tell the House that , like the hon . member for East Dunbartonshire , I test this week , so I can say from experience that testing be quick , easy , confidential and free . I engage in a good bit of banter with my fellow Health Ministers as we undertake our testing together , so ours be not very confidential , but it be do through choice , and we be demonstrate how easy it be to do . everyone should test . it take two minute , so I say : please do it . our most recent figure show that although new HIV diagnosis rate be steadily decrease , they sadly remain disproportionately high among gay man , bisexual man and other man who have sex with man , as well as heterosexual people from the black african community . similarly , disparity can be find in testing : despite huge progress and record testing rate among gay man , low level of testing persist among black african and hetero - sexual group . NHS England have invest £ 20 million to deliver opt - out HIV testing in emergency department in area of extremely high HIV prevalence to ensure that people who need it receive the right treatment as early as possible . anyone have blood take in A & E in those centre have be automatically — with the potential to opt out — test for blood - bear virus , which mean that people who would not have be reach via any other testing route have be diagnose . this save the NHS million of pound , relieve pressure on the service , and help to address inequality in testing . in under two year , the programme have already prove value for money by diagnose more than 4 , 000 people with blood - bear virus include HIV , hepatitis B and hepatitis C . the National Institute for Health and Care Research be invest an additional £ 20 million to find out how we might go far , fast , in tackle HIV rate in the additional 47 site of high HIV prevalence across England . that may be a good initiative , but it be limit by time , geography , and the type of institution offer the test . be the Government commit to go far , and spread opt - out testing to other health facility and other part of the country ? as I just mention , there be an additional £ 20 million for the National Institute for Health and Care Research . as well as deliver the opt - out testing in 47 centre , it will deliver a live dashboard show the effectiveness of this type of testing . that be in addition to self - testing , which people can do at home or at a testing centre . it be particularly important to note that the public health grant be use in local authority area , so that authority can make their own attempt to reach out and identify those who should be test . we in the House may want to reach out far and bring about more testing . have the Minister be able to explore the possibility of extend this programme to Northern Ireland , Scotland and Wales ? this be something that we should all pursue vigorously , and we can do that well if we do it collectively . I completely agree . we would like to see this be do around the world . the UK be , I believe , the third big donor to the Global Fund to fight AIDS , Tuberculosis and Malaria , which seek to eradicate those disease and to which we have donate £ 5 . 5 billion , so our interest be in eradicate those disease throughout the world . close to home , the hon . Gentleman be absolutely right : that crucial part of the United Kingdom , Northern Ireland , should also be support and help to roll out this testing , and that will be possible now that the Northern Ireland Assembly have be re - establish , which I be delighted about . of course , there be still much more to be do to smash the stigma attach to HIV testing and treatment . I pay particular tribute to Becky from Sheffield and Akhona from Leeds for come forward recently and tell their story to the BBC . they be set an example for people up and down the country who should come forward for testing or treatment , and we be back their effort to spread awareness by fund HIV Prevention England ' s HIV stigma symposium in March at the International Convention Centre in Birmingham . the event will bring together community expert , activist , healthcare professional and affect people to discuss the impact of HIV stigma and look at effective stigma - reduction strategy . I be sure that it will generate promise stigma - reduction solution , and I will listen carefully to its recommendation . I be pleased that HIV Prevention England be focus its effort on give a platform to speaker from underserved area . of course , HIV prevention go beyond testing . the use of pre - exposure prophylaxis , commonly know as PrEP , be an important part of combination HIV prevention . it have be call a " miracle drug " that prevent HIV - negative people from acquire the virus , and it be a vital tool in our battle to end new HIV transmission by 2030 . oral PrEP have be routinely available in specialist sexual health service since 2020 . however , we recognise that certain group have challenge in access the PrEP they need . that be why we have develop a prep road map with colleague from Government , local authority , professional body and the voluntary and community sector , and it will be publish on 15 February . at the moment , because it can be access only through sexual health clinic , the average wait to access PrEP be more than 12 week . sexual health clinic have see about a 30 % real - term funding cut over the last few year , so will the Minister either increase the resource available to clinic or increase the number of outlet , such as pharmacy , from which PrEP can be obtain ? that be where the logjam be occur . as I have just say , we have develop a prep road map precisely to increase access to PrEP , and its report will be publish in a few day ' time . I encourage the hon . gentleman to look at that report . I thank everyone who play their part in draft the road map , work tirelessly towards our 2030 goal of zero new transmission . I also thank all our partner for support the promotion of HIV testing through National HIV Testing Week , our sexual health summer campaign , the roll - out of PrEP throughout the country , the introduction of opt - out testing , the development of a prep access and equity road map ; and so much else besides . these result would not have be possible without Kevin Fenton , the Government ' s chief adviser on HIV and chair of the HIV action plan implementation steering group . his bold leadership have bring together partner across the health landscape towards our share goal , and I pay particular tribute to he . so many of we have a part to play as we reach the endgame of end new HIV transmission in England by 2030 . I reiterate my sincere thank to all colleague who have share their story , advice and experience to support our effort for so long . I hope that today ' s debate will inspire thousand of people to do the right thing and take an HIV test . I thank all hon . and right hon . member who have make such thoughtful contribution today . again , I thank the right hon . member for Dumfriesshire , Clydesdale and Tweeddale ( David Mundell ) , who secure this debate , for give we this opportunity . the cross - party consensus on the importance of HIV testing and the tone in which today ' s debate have take place represent the very good tradition of this House . I hope all those listening will consider take a test to know their status , and I look forward to continue to work with member of the APPG on HIV and AIDS to hold the Government to account on their progress towards the 2030 target . question put and agree to . resolve , that this House have consider National HIV testing week . Post Office Management Culture [ relevant document : oral evidence take before the Business and Trade Committee on 16 January 2024 , on Post Office and Horizon – Compensation follow up , HC 477 ; oral evidence take before the Business and Trade Committee on 20 June 2023 , on the Post Office , Session 2022 - 23 , HC 1501 . ] I beg to move , that this House have consider the management culture of the Post Office . I thank the Backbench Business Committee for allow this debate . I speak in Westminster Hall on this very subject in July 2023 , but it be even more pertinent now . the Horizon IT scandal result from the Post Office ' s management culture . in his March 2019 judgment on Bates and other v . Post Office Limited , Mr Justice Fraser state : " there seem to be a culture of secrecy and excessive confidentiality generally within the Post Office , but particularly focus on Horizon . " follow this damn judgment , Nick Read , who have be appoint as chief executive officer , set about change the management culture of Post Office Ltd when he take over in September 2019 . in a letter to the Select Committee on Business , Energy and Industrial Strategy in June 2021 , he state that he be " undertake to drive a culture of genuine commercial partnership between Post Office and postmaster with openness and transparency at its core … a major programme of improvement have be underway . the goal be to overhaul the culture of the organisation " . I reiterate his word : " openness and transparency " and " to overhaul the culture of the organisation " . since last July , we have see a spate of historical scandal emanate from Sir Wyn Williams ' s statutory inquiry , from Post Office staff pursue prosecution despite know of Horizon issue , to other boastfully email colleague to celebrate have send innocent sub - postmaster to jail , and auditor omitting evidence in witness statement . it have be another shameful chapter in the Post Office ' s history and , at the outset , I commend the work of the inquiry for bring these issue and many other to light . it be worth point out that more than 40 current management staff be there throughout the Horizon scandal period . some have give evidence to the inquiry demonstrate element of the toxic management culture that have go on too long . the continual disclosure that have blight the inquiry appear to be another " spanner in the work , " as one victim say . the clear case of obfuscation on the watch of the current management of Post Office Ltd suggest that very little have change in the organisation . my hon . friend be make a powerful opening speech , and I commend her effort on this issue more generally . do she agree with I and many of my constituent in East Dunbartonshire that the Post Office have a difficult culture of secrecy ? that culture be highlight by the ITV drama " Mr Bates vs the Post Office " , which resonate with so many of our constituent . do she agree that sub - postmaster be othere by Post Office Ltd and the Government , and that they be not listen to or respect ? I absolutely agree . the ITV drama expose what happen , despite numerous effort by many distinguished people in this place and the other place , by journalist such as Nick Wallis and by Computer Weekly . many thousand of people know about this scandal , but not the general public . I congratulate the hon . Lady on secure this debate . she have hear I speak often enough about the culture in the Post Office . do she agree that follow the money be often a good approach ? last year , the cost of administer the Post Office centrally go up by 10 % , but the money go to sub - postmaster go down by 2 % . when those figure be reverse , we will know that there have be a genuine change of culture within the Post Office . I could not agree more with the right hon . Gentleman . I frequently agree with he on Post Office matter . this be important , because the all - party parliamentary group on post office , of which he be a member and I be the chair , be a true cross - party group . there be no party that do not have a member of the APPG . Sean Hudson of the Communication Workers Union describe the management culture perfectly : " every serious management failure result in a culture of offer that failure up for external investigation at significant expense to POL and the taxpayer , without learn from those mistake . " it have since transpire that the legal fee for resolve disclosure issue in the past year alone cost £ 24 million . that money could have go into the network to help struggle sub - postmaster , many of whom be work for below the minimum wage . for context , POL announce remuneration improvement this year of just £ 26 million , which in no way take into account the rise of cost and overhead . some of the issue be only bring to light through the perseverance of campaigner through freedom of information request that reveal that not all relevant evidence have be disclose to the inquiry . some of the issue outline come to light before the transmission of ITV ' s " Mr Bates vs the Post Office " , which have have a monumental impact on the public consciousness in Britain . it be important that that be beam into front room across the nation . it have cause deep distrust of Post Office management among the general public . with the word " openness and transparency " in mind , I want to bring to the attention of the House the case of my constituent Salman Aslam . Salman , or Sal , be a young man who run a post office in my constituency for five year , before he walk away last year . Sal take over the post office from his father , when he be in remission from Hodgkin ' s lymphoma . Sal begin notice shortfall , which he continually plug himself and which range from £ 4 , 000 to £ 16 , 000 at a time . he estimate that he have pay in about £ 100 , 000 of his own money . when audit last year , a shortfall double in front of his eye to £ 80 , 000 , he decide he could no long go on , for the sake of his finance , and of his mental and physical health , which doctor be say be under threat due to his level of stress . throughout the five - year ordeal , Sal contact the Post Office for help continually , but none be forthcoming , and after hand in his key , the Post Office be not in touch for more than a year , leave he in a perennial state of stress and fear . Sal go public with his story a few week ago — I have a hand in that — and once the story go out , Post Office Ltd immediately spring into action and the communication department get in touch with he . that be not indicative of a change of culture . it echo tale of the past that be all too familiar : desperate postmaster reach out to POL for help , but receive little in return ; and communication from POL arrive only after some negative press . throughout the Horizon scandal , POL prioritise institutional reputation over the welfare of sub - postmaster , whom Mr Read himself recently tell the Business and Trade Committee be the trust asset that make the network what it be . Sal be one of many postmaster who have be in touch in the past week to tell I that they be experience shortfall — not historical shortfall , but one that have occur in the past year . issue with Horizon appear to be continue to this day , which be seriously concern . be the Minister aware of ongoing issue with Horizon ? what have he do , or be he go to do , to address these ? Sal , like all the victim who precede he , be in this position through no fault of his own . today , I call for an undertaking from the Government , the Post Office ' s sole shareholder , that he will not be pursue for the ghost debt of £ 80 , 000 , and I ask the Government to examine what kind of redress he can expect , have sink so much of his own money into his post office to cover repeat shortfall generate by Horizon . I have other constituent who be also in that position . the culture of change that Nick Read have call for have not be apparent . in 2023 , POL be rock by scandal once again , with one appropriately name " bonusgate " . the former Chair of the Business and Trade Committee , the hon . member for Bristol North West ( Darren Jones ) , outline the statutory definition of " false accounting " at a meeting and say : " it seem to I that in the annual account that Post Office report to Parliament there be false or misleading information present that do lead to … financial gain " . I say in July : " that be the management culture of POL : bonus for do ' a reasonable job ' . " — [ Official Report , 13 July 2023 ; Vol . 736 , c . 161WH . ] we should compare that with the compensation scheme , which have be fraught with difficulty every step of the way . the fundamental principle of public life , include openness , honesty , and integrity , have not be uphold by the management of POL for decade . regrettably , even the compensation scheme establish to address the injustice of the lamentable Horizon chapter be not immune from POL ' s unjust approach . Dan Neidle , a renowned tax expert , soon realise that the scheme be design to ensure that the low amount of compensation be pay out . the application form be so legally intricate that even a legal expert such as Mr Neidle express the need for legal advice in order to complete they , but POL provide only token amount for legal advice . the original absence of an option to claim punitive damage , something a lawyer would notice , put applicant , many of whom be elderly and financially vulnerable , at risk of miss out on a significant portion of their compensation . I have see a heavily redact offer , and that be what happen to a sub - postmistress who be spat at by member of her local community after rumour of her stealing abound in the neighbourhood . this be appalling , shameful and a stain on we all . the hon . Lady remark early about the number of people come forward follow the ITV series , and I be keen for people to do that . it be important to say to all postmaster that they will be treat fairly . I know that she have some concern about that , and she be right to raise concern where she have they . I , too , have concern about some element of the original Horizon shortfall scheme . we be look at that , in conjunction with the advisory board , to see what might be do to make sure that those payment be fair . let I draw the hon . Lady ' s attention to some of the stat on the new group litigation order scheme . we may be talk about the simple case come forward here , but with 58 claim receive , 52 offer have be make and 41 have be accept without even a reference to the independent panel for people who be unhappy with the offer make . I do believe that the offer make be fair , but I be also happy to be challenge , in order to make sure that they be . I thank the Minister for his intervention . I know that he have work hard since he take over his post to make thing well , but it would not be right if I do not continually and continuously push he . indicate assent . he be acknowledge that . at this point , it be worth read out a letter from Professor Chris Hodges , the chair of the Horizon Compensation Advisory Board , who have be similarly scathing . he write : " Dear Nick Read , my colleague on the Advisory Board and I remain deeply unconvinced by the substance of what you say on legal issue . we continue to hear story your former Sub - Postmasters and Mistresses be confused , intimidate and hurt by the behaviour of the Post Office and its lawyer in negotiate settlement generally and in continue use of legalistic terminology . this be especially true for the significant number who remain deeply traumatised , and who do not understand the practice of terminology of what they see as an aggressive approach to settle claim . this be irrespective of whether the language or behaviour may or may not be technically permissible , and irrespective of the fact that they may have legal representation . your reliance of legal argument and legal terminology similarly do not impress we . we do not perceive demonstration of behaviour that be anything like a sympathetic understanding towards the people your organisation have harm . we suggest that this should give you cause for deep concern . " the hon . Lady be give an excellent speech about a sad chapter in the Post Office ' s life . as someone involve from the beginning , back in 2012 , Ron Warmington ' s first investigation into the Post Office Horizon scandal conclude that the Post Office always tend to promote from within , which lead to an incestuous management style and the keeping of secret . do the hon . Lady think that may be part of the problem ? order . before the hon . Lady answer the intervention , I have allow the hon . gentleman to intervene because the House be quiet , but be he in the Chamber at the beginning of the hon . Lady ' s speech ? I be five minute late . if the hon . Gentleman be not in the Chamber at the beginning of the hon . Lady ' s speech , it be not in order for he to make an intervention in her speech . I have allow it because the House be quiet this afternoon , but the rule be there for a good reason and they have to be observe . it be perfectly in order for the hon . gentleman to intervene in another speech , later , after he have be in the Chamber for a while . I have to make that point because if I do not make an example of the hon . Gentleman now , on a quiet day , we will totally lose control on busy day , when lot of people want to do that , and it be not right . there be very few people here this afternoon and there be plenty of time , so in these circumstance I have allow the hon . gentleman to make his point and I will allow the hon . Lady to answer it . I agree with the hon . gentleman . he have be one of the people who have be pursue this business for many year , and I pay tribute to he for that . shockingly , the Post Office ' s attempt to suppress the truth continue as it caution sub - postmaster under the Horizon shortfall scheme against mention compensation term to anyone . the overall process of seek fair compensation be describe by one applicant as " soul destroy " , raise concern about the add suffering impose on those individual who have already endure so much . again , I have a personal example of a constituent I be try to persuade to apply , but he be terrify because he sign a non - disclosure agreement . because he have hear about how other have be treat , he be even more afraid to apply . I commend the hon . Lady for her speech . one issue that burden I — I think it burden we all in this House — be those who unfortunately take their own life as a result of what have happen . I be conscious of the family leave behind now carry that burden . do the hon . Lady agree that there should be some methodology to ensure family who be leave without a love one be help through the process , which they might find equally terrifying and worrying ? I absolutely agree with the hon . Gentleman . many victim have describe themselves as suffer from post - traumatic stress disorder . there be no scheme in place to help they and their family through what have be a traumatic and absolutely awful time for all of they , especially when someone have die before they have be vindicate . there be many recent example of that . I be sorry to intervene on the hon . Lady yet again , but people might listen to her speech more than mine at the end , so I be keen to get a point on the record about the non - disclosure agreement . in evidence to the Select Committee , the Post Office have be quite clear — it be certainly our position — that nobody will be hold to their non - disclosure agreement , so everybody should feel completely at liberty to discuss the term of their settlement with member of Parliament and other , as they feel appropriate . it be important to get that on the record . I really thank the Minister for his intervention because hear direct from the Minister that he will not be pursue will provide my constituent with some element of comfort . however , people be still traumatise year later because of the treatment they have have and it be hard for they to believe that people will not pursue they . I will show my constituent a clip of what the Minister just say . I have meet recently with Christopher Head , who be in the Gallery today . he be a Horizon victim and campaigner who , out of his own good will , help other in apply for compensation . I do not want anyone else to add to Christopher ' s burden because he be do such a good job . he have tell I of the difficulty people face and that he himself receive an offer that be only a minuscule fraction of his estimate Horizon loss . Alan Bates recently talk about his offer as well . many sub - postmaster I have speak to recently tell I that they plug shortfall out of their own pocket for year . the Minister have advise those people to apply for the Horizon shortfall scheme , and I sincerely hope that many more people will take advantage of that . will the Minister ask Post Office management to make their record of those payment available to individual ? have Post Office management let the Minister know when they will give an estimate of the excess claim in Horizon shortfall , from the introduction of the system to the end of financial year 2019 - 20 ? that be important because all that excess money , which be not owe , be put into Post Office Ltd and management bonus be pay on profit . the Post Office network be in disarray . sub - postmaster have no faith in the current management of Post Office Ltd to turn thing around . what they see be an organisation that be top - heavy , with multiple layer of management and director , who have self - interest at heart . the hon . Lady be make an excellent speech . for obvious reason , she have focus on the Horizon scandal , which have horrify the country , but the malaise within the Post Office management go much far than that . over the last 10 year , I have notice the so - call temporary closure of many sub - office that never reopen , and the loss of town centre post office , some of which have be there for a century or more . do she agree that the fundamental duty of the Post Office to run a viable network across the country of the UK be simply not be fulfil , and that lie at the door of Post Office management ? I could not agree with the hon . gentleman more . I have lose three post office in the last year , but not one vacancy have be fill . as we all know , it be the poor and most vulnerable who regularly use post office . I will be apply to the Backbench Business Committee for another debate on the continuation of the network . the network also include pick - up and drop - off office — pudo , in the vernacular — that be not real post office . those who work there be not under Post Office term and condition , as they work for Payzone , which Post Office Ltd own . the post office network be in disarray and postmaster have absolutely no faith in the current management . all the while , as the hon . Gentleman say , the network be crumble , post office be close , and sub - postmaster be be ask to take on additional work for less pay , be punish for reduce hour as they try to keep overhead down in the middle of an economic crisis , and see their life investment lose value with each subsequent scandal that be uncover . lack of sub - postmaster support continue to this day , in stark contrast to the postmaster support policy champion by POL in the briefing that it give I for this debate . I have hear evidence of a recently widow postmaster , who be tell by a senior manager that Post Office Ltd " do not have a roadmap for bereavement " , mean that people be leave alone without support , except from their fellow sub - postmaster . in the same briefing , Post Office Ltd outline that it have increase fee for banking deposit by 20 % . as Richard Trinder , chair of Voice of the Postmaster , put it : " 20 % of not a lot , be still not a lot . " community be lose a vital social asset , and the post office that remain be be power by the altruistic nature of hard - work sub - postmaster , pillar of the community , who be run out of energy . in 2012 , the societal value of POL be estimate to be £ 2 billion . do the Minister have an update figure ? I do not expect an answer on that today . the Minister ' s announcement that the Government will legislate to exonerate convict sub - postmaster be welcome . Lord Arbuthnot say that " a mass problem require a mass solution . " will the Minister commit to change the governance format , which clearly have not work for decade ? it be high time for the Government to adopt a new approach , as the current arm ' s length governance arrangement have allow scandal after scandal to fester under the watch of successive Labour , conservative and coalition government . essentially , sub - postmaster find themselves subsidise a government - own network at significant personal cost . moreover , when issue arise , they be leave to navigate the path to justice on their own . the press need for genuine support for those on the frontline be evident . will the Minister elaborate on the Government ' s plan for the post office network , exclude PUDO service ? government oversight have not solve any of the issue of the past , include Horizon . it be the hard work and tireless campaigning of sub - postmaster themselves , journalist such as Nick Wallis , and campaigner such as Alan Bates and Christopher Head , the Justice for Subpostmasters Alliance , Eleanor Shaikh , Dan Neidle , Tim McCormack , the CWU , Voice of the Postmaster , the National Federation of SubPostmasters , and many member in this place past and present , that have continue to push the Government on the issue . will the Minister , on record , please confirm that sub - postmaster organisation , such as Voice of the Postmaster and the CWU , will no long be exclude from discussion with Post Office Ltd ? it be essential that those who power the post office network be front and centre of any decision - make process that will carry the Post Office forward . for those who be not aware of this , the nfsp be finance by Post Office Ltd . I be make no judgment on how it perform in respect of its member , but we need a wide range of postmaster who will be consult on and work with if we be to change thing go forward . I have see a rather large list of 23 director in the senior leadership team at Post Office Ltd , not one of whom be a postmaster national executive director or a postmaster experience director , so when Nick Read speak of put " postmaster right at the centre of the business " , be the postmaster director role simply window dressing ? until postmaster have a say in all level of the business , the culture will not change . only recently , a communication director at POL , Richard Taylor , be suspend for say that " some of they be guilty . " it say so much that he feel able to say that publicly . as Bates v . Post Office Ltd have show the nation , it be the hard - work community sub - postmaster who build the trust reputation and social value of the Post Office over century , and it be those within management who pull it down . if it be to be rebuild , then the rebuild must be lead by those community pillar once again . Mr Deputy Speaker , the speech I have write be twice as long as this . I know that I have probably overrun my time , but I still have so much more to say . Change must happen . the fact that there will be a general election this year — that be without doubt — must not stand in the way of change that be so , so need . thank you , Mr Deputy Speaker , for call I to speak so early in this debate . we be today debate the Post Office ' s management culture , but I very briefly want to touch on the responsibility that Fujitsu have , because as I understand it , it , too , be culpable and should be part of any agree outcome . Fujitsu have a role to play in bring this sorry tale to a speedy end . every computer system in the world have the potential to contain bug . People write the code . error can happen , but the vast majority be tiny . what matter be how those responsible react once an error have be identify . I work in it for 35 year , most of which be spend develop and implement computer solution for business problem . we review code — we pore over it , and we take pride in do it . somebody , somewhere , at some point be look at this particular problem in the Horizon system . why be they look at that problem ? who direct they to it , and when be they ask to address it ? I have no wish to stereotype my fellow software developer , but I have a vision in my head of somebody with a brain - load of code look at this problem one morning and then be strike by something . they take off their headphone and put down their fifth cup of coffee of the day and say , " we have a problem here . this be important . " in any system worth its salt , the modification to fix that problem will have be document , and somebody within Fujitsu will know when it be identify . therefore , at what point do the staff inform the Post Office ? that matter , because then we know when the Post Office stop act out of ignorance and belligerence and start lie to people . today we have a Government who have be in denial . it be as if this be not a problem of their making . please correct I if I be wrong , but the Post Office be a limited company own entirely by the UK Government . the Department for Business and Trade have responsibility for postal affair . Ofcom be the regulator of postal service . it be a public corporation accountable to Parliament . can anyone imagine what it be like to be an individual wrongly accuse of a crime , humiliate and ridicule , force into bankruptcy and know that they be innocent for all those year , while the wide establishment stand back and do nothing ? the Post Office proudly boast that " at our core we be a business drive and define by our social purpose " . well , here be a chance to prove that , and it have fail . that be despite the contrition , despite the promise to learn from its mistake , despite admit that it get it wrong , and despite acknowledge that compensation must be pay . what we see today be the establishment hide behind very expensive lawyer for whom I can only presume the taxpayer be pay . fortunately , in my life I have rarely bump up against the legal profession in its professional capacity . it have usually be restrict to move house , and that be confuse enough . the mountain of administration and the perpetual legal speak leave most people gasp for air . what must it be like for someone to face a criminal prosecution of which they be innocent , and then , when that innocence be prove , find that same force utilise to slow down the process that should be work for they to receive compensation ? the letter from Professor Chris Hodges , the chair of the Horizon compensation advisory board , to Nick Read , the chief executive officer of the Post Office , which be quote by my hon . friend the Member for Motherwell and Wishaw ( Marion Fellows ) , perfectly encapsulate the current situation . I will not read the entire letter , but I will read a couple of line : " your reliance on legal argument and legal terminology similarly do not impress we . we do not perceive demonstration of behaviour that be anything like a sympathetic understanding towards the people your organisation have harm . " I be not for a minute say that the Post Office do not require legal representation ; it certainly do . I be say that the manner in which it engage with the victim of the Horizon scandal be a measure of its concern , contrition and compassion , and it have fail on all three front . that be crucial , because a successful resolution depend on the mindset of the Post Office management change . we continually see citizen of the UK be chew up by large corporate and Government entity . the Equitable Life case , the Women against State Pension Inequality Campaign , the blood - bear virus scandal , and the Post Office Horizon fiasco be just a few example . if citizen of the UK be to have faith in their politician , we need to get it right and be on their side when big corporation beat down on they . I would like to put something on the record , and see what the hon . Gentleman think . I be in the original Post Office review group . by 2015 , a whistleblower from Fujitsu have come forward from the boiler room , as they call it . he have be alter account without the knowledge of the sub - postmaster . the mps in the review group know . the investigator from Second Sight , Ron Warmington , know . the Post Office know that the conviction be unsafe , as do the Government , yet it take another five year of very expensive litigation from the 555 before justice be do . that be an ongoing example of how , historically , the Government of the day think that they could weather this storm and get away with it . the UK Government have to be part of the solution . continue to be part of the problem be unacceptable . they must act swiftly to ensure that all innocent victim have their conviction quash , and that the correct , acceptable compensation be pay . anything else be an extension of the ongoing miscarriage of justice that innocent man and woman have be subject to because of the hubris of the Post Office and UK government past and present . today ' s debate be extremely timely and important . it be harrowing to listen to case from across the UK , and it take time for it to sink in how the cover - up of this scandal have cost the life of ordinary , hard - work people who only want to provide for their family by work for their community in post office . we have to think about how many of those people have be tret , not just by the Post Office but by the Government and Fujitsu . many of they have have extreme difficulty in employment . they be not just betray but send to prison for crime that they do not commit . they know they be innocent ; more importantly , the people who send they there know that they be innocent as well . we need a lot of answer . More and more be come to the fore every day with regard to this scandal . Mention have be make of who know about this . the Government know about it , Fujitsu know about it , and the Post Office know about it ; yet they still send investigator into sub - postmaster and sub - postmistress ' post office . they investigate people , charge people , and devastate people ' s life . they act like the Gestapo . they turn up on the day and close post office down . that be the Post Office management culture , and it need to be address . I be not sure how we can compensate anybody . how can we compensate the family of a woman or man who commit suicide as a result of the pressure that they be put under by the Government , the Post Office and investigator ? how do we compensate people for the death of a love one who be the breadwinner in the family , and decide that their only option be to take their own life ? it be unimaginable . we can not put ourselves in their shoe . what about the man and woman who go to prison because they have supposedly falsify account and commit theft ? they be imprison with child - killer and rapist for thing they have not do . not only do they know they have not do they ; the Government and the Post Office know it too . Fujitsu know what be happen behind the scene . this do not seem like the country I be very proud of — what happen with the Government behind the scene . it be very murky and sinister . at the same time , the Government and the Post Office be prosecute people with evidence from Fujitsu , and people be be imprison and take their own life . frankly , it be enough to make we cry . the hon . Gentleman be rightly make a typically impassione speech . I have be very careful throughout the whole time I have be involve in this matter , which be over four year , as a Back - Bencher and a Front - Bencher , not to play any kind of party politic with it . I put it on the record that the issue occur under a series of government : the Labour Government , the coalition Government and the current Government . it be important that we look at the matter on a cross - party basis and seek to resolve it as such . I be keen to work with he on that basis . I thank the Minister for that intervention , and I agree . I have a lot of time for he . we have have conversation about this matter and many other . as he will notice if he look in Hansard , I have not be party political . I have say " the Government " . he be correct to point out that there have be government of different colour throughout the period . will the hon . Gentleman give way ? the hon . Gentleman have just come in , but of course I will . the hon . Gentleman be make some very good point , as do the hon . member for Inverclyde ( Ronnie Cowan ) and for Motherwell and Wishaw ( Marion Fellows ) . all of we who have be in the House for a while share the feeling that all three member have express of horror and great anxiety , give the case that we be deal with . however , roughly 3 , 000 people work for Post Office Ltd , include all those work in Crown post office , like the one in my constituency of Gloucester . it be important that we try to separate thing out in our mind before we know from the inquiry precisely where guilt lie and where charge and prosecution will come , so that we do not label everybody within Post Office Ltd with the accusation that be rightly be make in the House today . order . before we proceed , I hear what the hon . member for Wansbeck ( Ian Lavery ) say , and I hear the Chairman of Ways and Means ' admonition of another hon . member early . the difference in this case be that the hon . member for Gloucester ( Richard Graham ) be here for the start of the speech . that say , I personally believe that there be a prerequisite for Members , whenever they can , to be in from the start of a debate and to hear the whole debate . the hon . Gentleman make a valid point , and nothing I have say up until now have criticise everyone in the Post Office . we have some fantastic employee in the Post Office , but I be not go to say the same thing about the executive team in the Post Office . I refuse to accept that thing have change , because the management culture within the Post Office have not change one iota . however , I agree that we have to look forward and take the Post Office forward . I mention that there might or might not be charge in the future , but too many people have be charge already . this whole Horizon scandal be a result of people be send to prison , people be traumatise and people — kid , man and woman — have their life destroy because people know there be something happen at the Post Office . I sit on the Business and Trade Committee , and the chief executive of the Post Office have be to the House a couple of time . I must be honest : he show no remorse whatsoever . he believe that , because he be not there at the time , that be right . this individual ' s wage be , I think , about £ 344 , 000 a year . I ask he , " why be you get a bonus in excess of £ 145 , 000 in addition to your salary ? what make you so special ? " he could not answer . that be at a time when people have suffer so greatly and the Post Office and the Government be reluctant even now to address many people who have suffer as a consequence of this scandal . I will come on shortly to the question of who have be miss in the compensation . there be three package , and I have have a chat with the Minister — I be go to call he my hon . friend , and why not ? — about this very issue . I have three heartbreaking example , and my understanding be that it will be very difficult for these individual to claim any compensation whatsoever . the culture have not change ; there have always be a serious cultural problem in the Post Office , which obviously come to the fore with the abuse of power blatantly display during the Horizon scandal . as I mention before , the management structure , the governance and the culture largely remain unreformed . we have people in post office now suffer greatly because of low wage . they be not get the wage from the Post Office to make end meet . those people be mainly in newsagent and Spar shop and so on . that be wrong when , as I mention before , at the same time Post Office executive be be award bonus of ten of thousand — if not hundred of thousand — of pound . that have to be look at . it have be suggest , as the Minister will be aware , that a lot of the bonus that have be pay be for progress on the Horizon scandal . how can anybody get a bonus for that ? be a bonus not suppose to be for additional production or good work ? how can the chief executive get a bonus of hundred of thousand of pound while this be happen ? who do we blame for that ? we have to look at how these remuneration package be settle and who benefit . we can not have people get hundred of thousand of pound in one hand and bonus of 10 time what ordinary sub - postmaster or sub - postmistress , or postal worker , be get in the other . it be just not correct . bonus should not be pay for failure , and that be what be happen here . be the hon . Gentleman aware that , on investigation , it be find that the Horizon system have a suspense account ? a suspense account in an accounting package be where transaction be put before they be properly allot . at the end of most year , there be more than £ 1 million retain in the suspense account , which be keep for four year and then add back to profit and never resolve . not only that , but Jo Hamilton have to pay £ 36 , 000 back , even though she know she be in the right . I ask Nick Read , the chief executive of the Post Office , whether it be a possibility that the money pay back by a number of the victim would have be in a place where it could have provide bonus for senior executive . how perverse be that ? the answer from the chief executive , when I press he and press he , be that yes , it be a possibility , but he do not know where the money actually go . that in itself be so bad that it beggar belief . Fujitsu , meanwhile , deny any knowledge of bug or any wrongdoing , but actually know quite the opposite , and it supply evidence to the Post Office to prosecute individual . how bad be that situation ? this be not a spy movie — it be bad than a spy movie . they have a dark room in Fujitsu where its employee be communicate with the Horizon computer system in post office up and down the country . Fujitsu deny it all along , say that it be impossible it could ever happen , yet people there be change the amount of money openly . the Government know . Fujitsu know , because it have the operation in its own office , with employee change fact and figure in the account of ordinary hard - work individual — again , spy movie stuff . it be unbelievable that that could be the case . be it not unreal to think that none of this would have come about if not for the ITV dramatisation , " Mr Bates vs the Post Office " ? we would not be discuss it in this Chamber , because it would have be kick into the long grass . the people would all have suffer the same — those who be in prison , the family who have be destroy , and the kid who have be bring up with the criticism and abuse that their parent be thief — but it would not have be unearth . there be no doubt that the ITV series have rightly heighten awareness both in this House and far afield , and I welcome that , but much work be go on in this space before it air , include on how we can overturn more conviction on a blanket basis . I be work on that with the advisory board before the series air , so it be not right to say that we would not have get to this position without it . we probably would not have get here as quickly , but the hon . Gentleman must concede that this work have be go on for year — although I welcome the fact that it be happen more rapidly now . I thank the Minister for that clarification . forgive I , Mr Deputy Speaker , if I suggest that nothing at all have happen , because I know that the Minister , the all - party parliamentary group , the hon . member for Motherwell and Wishaw ( Marion Fellows ) and other have be work on the matter assiduously . however , as the Minister say , we might not otherwise have be at this stage . we might not have get Fujitsu to say for the first time , " yes , we be sorry , " and the Post Office might not have start to admit that it have pursue wrongful or unsafe prosecution . but we be where we be . I would not want to mislead anyone in the debate . I have three brief example . these people , Minister , be heavily involve with Horizon and the Post Office , and suffer greatly . it cause I real heartbreak , to be honest . the first example be that of Janine , a lady from my constituency who have sadly pass on ; no one come to see I about her case until they see the ITV documentary . her husband simply cry for the entire hour that I sit with he . he want justice for Janine , who sadly die of covid . he be hope for some sort of justice now . Janine be employ in a post office in a newsagent , which be a regular thing up and down the country . her contract with the newsagent say that any shortfall in the post office finance must be make up by she . she and another person be employ by the newsagent , and then there be the sub - postmaster or mistress — I be not sure which it be on this occasion . Janine be accuse of steal £ 25 , 000 , even though she have not see that amount of money before . the Post Office investigator come to the newsagent and basically tret she like a common thief . the pressure be put on : " we be go to charge you with theft and you be go to prison . " Janine be absolutely devastate . she plead guilty . then , she sit back and realise , " why should I be plead guilty when I be not guilty ? " . it cost she and her family a small fortune to take the case back to court and have the guilty verdict rescind . the Post Office then say , " okay , you can accept the less charge of false accounting and pay the money back . " she refuse . all this cost she £ 15 , 000 in legal fee — these be just ordinary work people in the community . she be then inform that if she pay the £ 25 , 000 back , the Post Office would drop the charge . that be what happen : she pay the money back . unfortunately , by the day she sadly pass on , she and her family have lose everything they have . that need scrutiny . we need to look at the management culture . what on earth be go on at the Post Office during this thing ? who direct the investigator to go to those post office and treat people the way they be tret in the investigation ? they know at the time that the allegation be false . that be the thing that I have reiterate and will continue to reiterate : they know that the allegation be in many way false , unfounded , unfair . maybe the investigator do not , but the people at the top of the Post Office certainly know ; people in government know . that can not be right . Janine ' s husband have write and submit a really heart - rend letter , but under the current scheme , he be unlikely to be able to claim any money . how can that be just ? I will follow that up with the Minister . the second example be that of a man who write to we say : " I ' ve get a massive problem . I ' m like lot of other sub - postmaster and sub - postmistress . we work at the very heart of the community . it ' s where people use to come to talk . we be trust , well respected , listen to . " he be see mistake after mistake crop up on his computer week after week , but rather than inform the Post Office , he be put money in week by week to balance the account , which have be alter by somebody at the Fujitsu head office . this individual say that he simply could not stand the idea that anybody would think he in the slight — in the remotest sense — a thief . he have pay ten of thousand of pound , if we aggregate the money that he pay week by week . there be no way that he or hundred of other employee have the opportunity or ability to claim compensation at this moment . that beg the question of whether the Post Office , together with the Government , will write to every single person who be a sub - postmaster between 1998 and now to ask they if they be aware of anyone who might have put their own money — out of their own backside pocket , out of their family ' s saving — into balance the account . there should be consideration of compensation for such individual . the Post Office will have all the detail of people in those role who claim to have use finance from their own back pocket . I will briefly mention the last example . I have not actually see these individual — they be come to see we next week — but I have be tell by one of their relation that they be involve in the Horizon scandal and pay £ 25 , 000 . that sum crop up time and again . they pay that just to save their name . nothing go to court — nothing happen — but they pay the money , despite the fact that they be innocent . they think that because they pay the money , the matter would go away , and there be very little opportunity for people like they to reclaim their money . it be unfair . never mind they steal money off the Post Office ; the Post Office have steal money off hard - work people . that should be recognise . it would be helpful if the Post Office and the Government could listen to what other people have to say . this be not just about those who be convict or prosecute ; there be more people who be not convict or prosecute , but who be out of pocket and have have their life destroy as a consequence of the Post Office Horizon scandal . we need to look at how that can be address . those people deserve compensation . as the hon . member for Motherwell and Wishaw say , this scandal be appalling . it be disgraceful , shameful , and a stain on all of we . I agree with the Minister that this be a cross - party issue . we have the opportunity to put thing right , so let we do it . let we look after the people whose only crime be go to work and look after their family . I begin by thank the hon . member for Motherwell and Wishaw ( Marion Fellows ) for secure today ' s debate . this have be a shocking and heartbreaking sequence of event . nobody could fail to be move by the testimony of the countless family affect by this scandal . I will focus on one specific issue today : the pervasive use of non - disclosure agreement by Post Office management . I hear the Minister ' s intervention about nda , and I think it be worth highlight their use as part of the management culture at the Post Office . the more thing come to light , the more shocking and pernicious this aspect of the scandal be . for example , a recent report by the Financial Times highlight the distressing case of Martin Griffiths , who manage a post office for 18 year before tragically take his life after spend £ 100 , 000 of his own money to meet accounting shortfall . Post Office lawyer apparently offer his widow a settlement in exchange for her silence about the circumstance surround her husband ' s death . frankly , that be appalling . the Prime Minister himself , respond to a question in this Chamber just a few week ago , state that " the ability to speak out about thing be key to unlock justice . " — [ Official Report , 17 January 2024 ; Vol . 743 , c . 821 . ] last month , I be contact by a constituent who work for the Post Office for over three decade . he only grasp that there be an issue , and the scale of that issue , when a journalist get in touch about Horizon after he retire . he be , however , unable to agree to be interview because he be tie to a non - disclosure agreement that he sign when he retire from the Post Office . that , together with the Official Secrets Act , which he sign when he join the Post Office , mean that he have effectively be gag . he tell I : " as a member of the Post Office project team that deliver Horizon , I , like many of my ex project colleague , be aware of the truth behind many of the point that the Post Office have be at great pain to hide or deny . the Post Office be very careful to ensure that their employee with link to Horizon be unaware of how the system be operate or the volume of sub - postmaster that be be prosecute . " he also say : " I be still stagger that someone at a senior level didn ' t question the huge rise in prosecution after the system be implement … the Post Office have use these Non Disclosure Agreements to ensure that current and ex employee be effectively silence . if not tie by these agreement it be possible that information would have be available to those enquire about the scandal much early in the process . " I speak to my constituent again yesterday , and his sense of frustration be palpable . he know , for example , that Fujitsu have remote access to live Horizon terminal , and he share a host of other detail , which prompt the question : how much soon would this scandal have come to light if people such as my constituent have not be gag ? of course , it be entirely understandable that these people feel unable to speak out . if they have speak out , they risk not only prosecution for a criminal offence , but the possibility of the Post Office seek recovery of money pay for voluntary redundancy , for example . as my constituent feel unable to speak out openly , I close by give he the final word : " I understand that a company need the ability to protect its valid business interest and the interest of its client . however , the non - disclosure agreement should not be so restrict to avoid malpractice be report or to allow the company to blatantly lie when under investigation " . it be a pleasure to speak in this debate , and I commend the hon . member for Motherwell and Wishaw ( Marion Fellows ) for set the scene so well . she touch on everything in her contribution ; I be simply here to support she , and also to make the case for justice , for the right decision to be make , and for fairness and equality , which have be miss from this process . the hon . Lady have endeavour vigorously — evangelically , even — to pursue this matter , and have do so with a zest that we all recognise , as have many other . I also thank the other member who have make contribution , include the hon . member for Wansbeck ( Ian Lavery ) . as an MP for a rural constituency , the role of the post office in my community be vital . when we look at management culture , we have to look at the role of Post Office Ltd : what do it aim to achieve , and be it achieve that aim ? we have no bank branch leave in the rural community ; we have no hole in the wall — as we refer to they — that be free of charge . post office be the only option we have for rural banking and to lift pension , so in the rural community I represent in Strangford , the post office play a critical role . as such , today ' s debate be one of immense interest for I . I also commend the Minister . I think every one of we in this House — I can say this personally , but I think other will say the same — recognise that he have work industriously behind the scene on this issue for some two year , and probably long . he do the spadework and the footwork , and endeavour to ensure that we get to where we be now . the tv programme , " Mr Bates vs the Post Office " , highlight the issue visually and help we to understand it well , but there be always a person who have to sow the seed , and then there be a person who reap the harvest . the Minister have work hard to sow the seed , and today he be hopefully reap the harvest , which be a recognition of the endeavour that he have make . I say that very honestly , because I think we in this House all recognise that his heart be always set on justice and fair play . today ' s debate give we the chance to air those thing , so I thank he for that . with the drive towards online banking , our old and more vulnerable people have be leave behind . those people should be consider as part of the management culture , particularly those who do not have a good mobile signal or those in rural area who , due to broadband pocket , do not have at their fingertip the reliable internet connection that we take for grant . never mind the ability to use online facility ; those people do not even have the opportunity to do so , so the local post office — with its trustworthy staff who can help they do what they need to do — become even more important . when it come to management culture , we have to have a Post Office that work in the way we all wish to see . post office really be a lifeline , not simply when it come to fill the financial gap leave by the bank in their mass exodus from rural community , but in term of social engagement and contact . I think 11 bank have close in my constituency over the past number of year ; one or two of those be in the town , but most be in the rural community . People need to know that they can keep their wee routine of lift their money or pay their electric or gas bill , or do the other thing that can be accomplish in post office , without have to get on a bus — or even two bus — to go to one of the major town to carry out their business . what grieve I greatly , as I say in my intervention on the hon . member for Motherwell and Wishaw , be those who lose their life , as well as those who have prison term , which the hon . member for Wansbeck mention . I see the grief and the anxiety of all those people , who be good , honest , hard - work and sincere . they probably never have a parking ticket in their life or anything else , and they suddenly find themselves on the front row of discredit and disappointment , with their whole life destroy along with their relationship and their health . those people deserve to be compensate . they deserve to have their life reinstate , and for all the thing that happen to they — in many way , include financially — their compensation must be adequate . those honest , hard - work people lose their reputation and have their life destroy , so it be essential that sub - postmaster and mistress be support in their role by the Post Office ' s management culture . the Horizon scheme be a very big indication that the culture be not good , be not good and have to improve . that be not simply because of a defunct system and scheme , but because of the lack of trust and support give to those people , who have do nothing other than offer a service . Morale in the Post Office be at an all - time low , and the question be : how do the Government — and the management as well — fix this ? some of those people have become destitute and have their life destroy entirely , and that have to be address . how do we convince young man and woman to take up the gauntlet of run a post office ? the hon . member for Motherwell and Wishaw say that three post office have close in her constituency , and there be nobody take up those job . we know why no one be take they up . it be because the monetary value — the wage they receive — be such a minimum quantity . we need to look at that when it come to how the management culture move forward , to make sure that run post office can be , by their very nature , job that people can take on . there be horror story all around about how staff have be treat and just how horribly underpaid they be . who , for goodness ' sake , would take on a role in a post office for less than the minimum wage — and , my goodness , all the worry ? I have read of postmaster work out that , when they take into consideration the time take to carry out the function require by the Post Office , they be on less than the minimum wage . that be where they be , so I think today ' s debate also have to address that within the management culture . we have to incentivise people and make it a job that be worth do for those who put their reputation on the line to do it . it can not be acceptable to see boss take bonus . I understand people get bonus and the reason for it , but I can not understand some people get bonus while other be disadvantage financially , face destitution and with their life destroy . so I must express concern about some boss receive adulation and accolade while postmaster get less than the minimum wage . that would not entice people to take on a post office or entice other to join their rank . I conclude by suggest that , in any discussion of the management culture of the Post Office , there need to be serious cognisance take of how to rebuild trust . that start with honest and open communication , and the decision to work with Post Office staff at every level . a wrong have be do , and it have to be right . I know the Minister be commit to that , and we support he . he be right , the hon . member for Wansbeck be right and everyone else here be right . we support the Minister in what he do simply because he be seek justice — the justice we all want for our constituent — and I commend he for that . I look forward to his reply later . it be a great pleasure to follow the hon . member for Strangford ( Jim Shannon ) . I thank and commend my hon . friend the Member for Motherwell and Wishaw ( Marion Fellows ) for secure today ' s debate . I know that she have work on this and other Post Office issue from the minute she set foot in this place in 2015 . her effort , and those of many other hon . member who have spend many year try to raise this subject , be finally get the attention they deserve , and we be actually see the require redress for those catch up in it . in many way , she be our very own Madam Post Offices . I know she be go to hit I for that later , but that be okay . this be a really important issue , and it show that when injustice be bring to light , it be possible that they can be address . it may never be do as quickly as we want it to be do and it may not be do exactly how we want it to be do , but when we all come together , it can be do . the fact that we have to wait for a tv dramatisation to speed up the process be unfortunate , but at least we be there now . I commend the Minister for his personal effort and the action he have take in drive this forward , because I know he have do so . that be a genuine recognition of a subject on which we will not just oppose for the sake of oppose . when something be do right , it be important that we make that point . by now , we be sadly too familiar with the detail of this chapter in british history and , indeed , the infamy of it . hundred of work people have their life ruin , and still nobody have yet really be hold accountable . I know there be an inquiry under way , but we be still wait for that accountability . More than 900 sub - postmaster and postmistress have be prosecute after be accuse of steal money because of incorrect information provide by the fail Horizon computer system . my hon . friend the Member for Inverclyde ( Ronnie Cowan ) highlight issue involve Fujitsu and the responsibility of that company , but what question be be ask by the Post Office itself when issue in the system be first bring to light ? be question be ask , and be they simply dismiss ? why be it that , when question be ask , that do not necessarily result in the Post Office much more quickly address the issue that be raise ? some very serious question still require answer , and some very serious answer be require from Fujitsu . I know other have do the same , but in the past few week I have write to the CEO of Fujitsu to urge he to step forward to help the corporation come forward and accept its responsibility for its part in this debacle . it would only be right if Fujitsu hold up its hand and accept that responsibility . in the spirit of openness and transparency — and , indeed , dare I say , honour — that company should recognise the part it have play . the hon . member for Wansbeck ( Ian Lavery ) talk about injustice , and it be important that we all get behind an injustice such as this . of course , this be only one of several injustice we be currently deal with , which include Grenfell , infected blood , partygate , Hillsborough and — just to plug my own Bill — the subject of the Miners ' Strike ( Pardons ) Bill , which I would encourage all member to support . where we see injustice , it be important that we come together to address they and tackle they head - on . I share the concern of the hon . member for Chesham and Amersham ( Sarah Green ) about the use of nda by the Post Office , because when we be try to get to the bottom of a scandal such as this , we need to have as much information as possible . the Minister ' s direct intervention and assurance on that point be very helpful in make sure that we be all clear that any postmaster or mistress who may have concern about come forward can do so without fear of that come back on they . every day , I and everyone in the Chamber see the important part that post office play in our local community . I know that my post office in Midlothian do a phenomenal job . it be because they be a central part of the community that so many of we feel so strongly about this issue , and the heart of many of our community have be let down by a management structure that simply try to brush aside concern and complaint . I be still wait to see if there be actually the shift in culture that we all hope there have be , but there seem to be some concern that that have not necessarily entirely change . we hear that sub - postmaster be still close business because their present term be insufficient to make it worthwhile . what will the Minister do to push the Post Office far towards a fundamental culture shift ? some of the issue that arise in the Horizon scandal be even name after scottish town . we have the Dalmellington bug and the Callendar Square bug — these issue be not unseen or unheard ; they be flag to the extent of be name after town . how could we have get to that place without action be take soon ? all these tragedy again show that the card be stack heavily against the ordinary work person . sadly , it sometimes take something like an ITV programme to bring that into wide public awareness . I hope we can learn lesson through this process to instigate a culture shift in the management of the Post Office , and wider than that , to ensure that where such concern be raise , they be not simply push aside by whatever colour of Government there happen to be , and that those concern be take on board in the way the Minister be do here . we should expect Parliament and Governments to address injustice where we come across they and to restore faith . too often , it be the negative headline that come out of this place that catch the public ' s attention , but we be see that it be possible to do the right thing , albeit that it can sometimes take a lot long than we might have hope . I commend my hon . friend the Member for Motherwell and Wishaw for all her work , as well as member of the APPG and other member who over many year have contribute to try to get to the bottom of this issue . I hope we can move swiftly to a place where this issue be a historical fact that have be resolve . I , too , thank the hon . member for Motherwell and Wishaw ( Marion Fellows ) for all her work , include on the all - party parliamentary group on post office . member across the House be grateful to those member from different party who be the first to spot this scandal , and who doggedly campaign to place it on the Government and medium agenda , which have of course be amplify by the recent television series . I also thank other member who join that group , from this House and the other place , and who continue to campaign for many year . as have be state today and on many other occasion in the House , this scandal be one of the great miscarriage of justice in this country . we be now more than two decade into this scandal , with limited progress or justice for the victim , although recent month have see some considerable work . I commend the Minister for his work in do what he can from both the Back Benches and the Front Bench to address the injustice . the wrongly accuse sub - postmaster have have to endure unjust prison sentence , family breakdown , homelessness , bankruptcy , health consequence , ostracisation from their community , and bad . that be to say nothing of the mental health toll and stress that they have all carry while know they have be wrongly convict . as of 10 August 2023 , the Post Office Horizon IT inquiry and court case have hear that at least 60 sub - postmaster have die without see justice or receive compensation . tragically , at least four take their own life . as many member have rightly and powerfully share today , the scandal ' s impact be horrify and wide reaching . I do not think any of we can truly understand the scale of what the victim have suffer . the hon . member for Motherwell and Wishaw powerfully highlight how the toxic management culture continue to be alive and present . she highlight the scandal of the lack of openness and transparency , and the spectre of some 40 management staff who continue in post and have be there since the scandal begin . I hope the Minister will address , from his own insight , what be happen with those who remain in management position , because it can not be possible or right for they to continue . if we want a culture change , it would be helpful to understand how the Minister think that can happen when those who be involve in management at the time can take part in the reform process . many of those affect by the scandal remain trap in a limbo without closure or justice , and many of the victim have limit faith in our justice system for the reason we have hear in numerous debate and about which the Minister be well aware . since this issue become common knowledge , the public too have lose faith in the system . People be shocked and upset . they want change , and we must work hard to repair the distrust and damage that have be do . whatever we can do across party to achieve that be vital if we be to ensure that such scandal do not happen in the future . the hon . member for Inverclyde ( Ronnie Cowan ) highlight the appalling role of Fujitsu in the Horizon scandal , and rightly point out that the crisis could have be mitigate if those early it problem have be recognise and properly address , rather than ignore . my hon . friend the Member for Wansbeck ( Ian Lavery ) speak passionately about the failure of the management and executive team at the Post Office , and highlight the scale of the injustice and the trauma that victim have endure , and continue to endure . they have be let down at every turn , and we need the Government to act with the urgency that be desperately need . the hon . member for Chesham and Amersham ( Sarah Green ) speak about the horrific way that non - disclosure notice and agreement be use to silence victim , include some of her constituent . that can not be allow to happen because it add to the injustice of what her constituent and their husband face , and prolong the time it take to expose the scandal . lesson need to be learn . we recognise that the inquiry will highlight in its conclusion the lesson that the Government , and other , need to draw on . the hon . member for Strangford ( Jim Shannon ) speak of the importance of improve the culture of the Post Office , as we look at what it can provide for community up and down the country , especially rural community . bank closure around the country have lead to the need for banking and other service , for example . it be important that we work to ensure that the Post Office be fit for purpose , that there be never another scandal of this nature , and that we properly reform the Post Office for the good of citizen and community . in that spirit , I hope the Minister will tell we how he see that future , and tell we about the role of community , trade union , and those who have see how thing can go so badly wrong , so that their insight be build into how we shape the future of the Post Office . last month , the Secretary of State sack the chair of the Post Office , Henry Staunton , state , " give all of the difficulty the Post Office be have , it ' s not just about Horizon , it ' s about the entire business model , how we make it work … we need someone who could chair a board that be able to deal with these thing " . Mr Staunton be appoint in December 2022 , so be not chair of the Post Office during the key year of the scandal . in an answer during an urgent question , the Minister say that , " some of the past conduct and culture of the Post Office have change . however , we know that it need to change far . " — [ Official Report , 29 January 2024 ; Vol . 744 , c . 615 . ] will the Minister outline what he believe have change already in the culture of the Post Office ? what step be he take to ensure that further change take place ? what will the timeline be for that reform process ? I hope that the appointment of the new chair can be a clear marker for a fundamental alteration of the culture and management of the Post Office . in the High Court case of Bates v . Post Office , it be state : " there seem to be a culture of secrecy and excessive confidentiality generally within the Post Office , but particularly focus on Horizon . " this management culture have be affirm by numerous testimony . many victim of the scandal speak of the fear they feel as wednesday approach , as that be the day when sub - postmaster have to balance their account . other member have give testimony of the experience of sub - postmaster in their constituency and their terror when face with these issue . that be not because it be their fault , but because of the failure of the Horizon system and Post Office management . the Fujitsu whistleblow Nate Orrow last week reveal how he , along with fellow staff at the Fujitsu call centre , would also approach wednesday with dread . they know to expect a barrage of desperate call from sub - postmaster whose livelihood and life be be snatch from they . he say that despite Fujitsu staff know that the software clearly have fault , they would be punish by leadership for share any of their doubt with sub - postmaster . for staff across the organisation to face that every week and to be silence be hardly a sign of good management . these be the thing we need to prevent . the former Post Office chief executive Paula Vennells , as we have hear , will be give evidence to the public inquiry . it be crucial that the evidence provide clarity on what happen and that serious lesson be learn . it be also vital to recognise that when senior management failure happen , early intervention should take place to tackle it . the Department and the institution responsible for Post Office oversight need to learn lesson from the action or inaction that take place . it be important also to draw lesson for parliamentary scrutiny . could more have be do to ensure great scrutiny ? on the lesson we need to consider , should there be early warning system within whitehall to spot issue when Members of Parliament raise they or when case be bring to Ministers through official ? individual case too often do not get the attention they deserve in Whitehall . lesson will need to be learn on that front , too , work with member of Parliament so that we can build a clear picture of pattern that emerge and so that delay do not occur before a major scandal be expose . as we consider the future of the Post Office , give all that have happen — all that have be report on and uncover about the scandal — over two decade , there be rightly huge distrust , horror and dismay about Post Office management and the Post Office as an employer . despite the hard work of dedicated sub - postmaster across the country and all other staff , this scandal have make their role synonymous with be a victim of injustice . Citizens Advice report that more than 200 post office have close in the past two year and 1 , 291 post office be deem temporarily close . More than half of those have be shut for more than the two year . post office provide a broad range of service so that community can access cash , pay bill and deliver and receive mail , and they often act as hub for community . that be by no mean an exhaustive list of their positive role and impact on our country . high street have already be face year of decline , and when the key service of a post office close down , it leave a gape hole in our community . Labour have pledge to stop the decline of high street and to bring much - need service back to community . many post office provide crucial banking service , as have be mention . labour will accelerate the roll - out of bank hub to protect the service and to help people deposit and take out cash , as well as to get they support and help with wide banking service . I hope the Minister can provide further update on how his Department will reform the Post Office and how there will be wide consultation , include with the union and local player , to ensure we have an appropriate service for the future . the scale of Post Office management ' s failing be seismic . this scandal have instill mistrust in the Post Office , in public contract and , most worryingly , in our judicial system . I hope the Minister will set out the action that he and his government — this require cross - governmental work , too — will take to reform the Post Office and restore trust in our system so that these scandal do not happen again . he have hear about the numerous scandal that have come to pass , not just the Horizon scandal . can the Minister provide a further update on the wide independent review of governance in relation to Post office decision on remuneration ? another issue that have come to the fore be concern about racism in some of Post Office management ' s action , include in language and in racist classification , which the Post Office say it would investigate . will the Minister look at that and provide any update ? finally , I be grateful to all colleague across both Houses for their tireless work over many year in highlight this scandal and for the dog determination with which debate have be use to keep the pressure on Ministers . we will all continue to do everything we can to ensure that justice be do . may I first pay tribute to the hon . member for Motherwell and Wishaw ( Marion Fellows ) for secure this debate and her fine work as always on the all - party parliamentary group on post office , and to the Backbench Business Committee for bring forward this debate ? I also pay tribute to all member of this House and the other place for their work on this issue . I promise the shadow Minister , the hon . member for Bethnal Green and Bow ( Rushanara Ali ) , that I do not need anybody to hold my foot to the fire , but it be good that we have this momentum . I very much appreciate the work that have be do by many . there have be many kind word from contributor about my work , but it be a bit part compare with that of many other who have campaign long and hard on this issue , as have people outside this place , include member of the legal profession and the medium , many of whom we be familiar with for their great work on bring this scandal to light . on the governance issue , I be fond of a quote by Emerson , who say : " an institution be the lengthened shadow of a single man . " I be keen to ensure that the Post Office ' s management culture be in the right place . a positive management culture be paramount to the health of any organisation , so I very much welcome the opportunity the debate bring to consider that point . the Post Office scandal be one of the big miscarriage of justice in live history , and the victim must get the justice they deserve . I do believe that today ' s Post Office be different from the past , but restore trust will take time . that do not mean that we be satisfied with the current situation . this will never be about quick fix ; it will be about fundamental change in every part of the organisation , and that change will not occur overnight . when the current chief executive of the Post Office , Nick Read , start in September 2019 , he make it clear that as well as deliver the essential service that we value across our constituency , the Post Office need to apologise for the event of the past and fully address they . on the point make by the shadow Minister about the current board , no one serve on a day - to - day basis on the current board be there at the time of the scandal . as I say , Nick Read join in 2019 , and only one member of the board be there at the time , but they be on extended leave on health ground and do not work on the board on a day - to - day basis . no member of the senior management team be there at the time . Post Office be take step to right the wrong of the past . however , it be also important to highlight what it have do with a view to the present and future of the business to improve the culture and ensure that a similar situation can never arise . crucially , Post Office be take step to restore trust between itself and postmaster . that be so important , because , as I have say many time , without postmaster , there be no post office network . in December 2019 , the party to the group litigation in Bates v . Post Office Ltd take part in a mediation session and issue a joint statement confirm Post Office ' s commitment to reset its relationship with postmaster . since then , Post Office have improve the board ' s structure by ensure that two non - executive director postmaster nominate and elect by other postmaster have a seat on the board . that be intend to ensure that postmaster voice be be hear at the high level and that senior management be aware of the impact that decision will have on those on the frontline deliver service . Post Office also create a postmaster experience director role , which be fill by a serve postmaster . to pick up the point make by the hon . member for Motherwell and Wishaw , it be hold by Mark Eldridge , who be a serve postmaster at Great Massingham . he be second to the role , so he may no long be in that post office on a daily basis , but he be nevertheless a serve postmaster . he lead the day - to - day relationship with postmaster . alongside those senior appointment , the Post Office have reform operational matter to improve culture and trust between senior management , staff and postmaster . improved training package and the hiring of more than 100 new area manager to provide dedicated local support be all example of positive change . at my meeting yesterday with Voice of the Postmaster and Communication Workers Union national postmaster , they speak highly of the support and engagement provide by those area manager . Post Office have also strengthen how it listen to postmaster , with two postmaster conference and a nationwide postmaster consultation conduct each year to provide the foundation of Post Office annual priority . I experience at first hand how postmaster in the network today can challenge Post Office leadership on various issue when I chair a regular work group between the Post Office and the National Federation of SubPostmasters . I know that , accord to various commentator , past experience of that group have be mix , but my experience from work with they on an ongoing basis have be that the challenge they provide be constructive but robust . I know that branch profitability be the top priority for postmaster , and I be pleased that the Post Office be commit to increase the share of income go to postmaster . that have be stress on every occasion we have meet . we have also very much stress the need to control central cost — indeed , to reduce they — so that we see more of the remuneration head towards postmaster . the clear strategy for the Post Office to do that and ensure that the high share of income go to postmaster be through parcel and banking service , which be key ; we have discuss that regularly when we have meet . that point be raise by the hon . member for Midlothian ( Owen Thompson ) and for Strangford ( Jim Shannon ) . I have be clear that the banking framework , which be negotiate between the Post Office and the UK bank , should be as ambitious as possible . bank have save about £ 2 . 5 billion a year through closure of branch , and in our view a great percentage of that should go to postmaster directly . I be pleased that the shadow Minister like our policy on banking hub , which come principally as a result of our legislation on access to cash . thirty be open already , and another 70 be in the pipeline , so we will be at 100 and we anticipate that about 500 will be roll out across the country . clearly there be more to do to strengthen the relationship with postmaster , but I believe that the Post Office have make and be make some positive step forward . member rightly raise compensation , which speak to the current management culture at the Post Office . get compensation to those impact by the scandal have not be as swift as we would have hope . I can assure Members that my Department have be work hard on compensation , alongside colleague in the Post Office who be recruit specifically for that purpose . as the Secretary of State say recently , we continue to look for way to speed thing up , and we work closely with the Horizon compensation advisory board to ensure that we deliver fast compensation , and that compensation be see to be fair and be fair . recently , we introduce measure such as fix sum award of £ 600 , 000 for overturned conviction , and £ 75 , 000 for the GLO . to be clear , a fix sum award be an option for people who believe that it will provide sufficient redress . People who believe that their claim be above that level can go down the full assessment route , but the fix sum award route have the benefit of speedy resolution of claim and reduce the number of people in the queue who want to go down the full assessment route . that should mean fast resolution of claim for all party involve in the compensation process . the Minister have be give credit for the assiduous way that he be right the wrong . member in all part of the House have be contact by those affect , such as sub - postmaster who have be prosecute or have suffer in other way . be there a constituency breakdown of the number affect ? some people will be more familiar with how to avail themselves of opportunity than other . if we can make ourselves available to those affect — not just those prosecute — that may provide some assistance , albeit at a late stage , and some solace to they as they try and right the wrong that he have rightly outline . I thank my right hon . friend for his intervention and his work on this matter . it be interesting that more people be come forward , through colleague , to the compensation process , which be very welcome . some colleague have write to all their postmaster in their area , ask they to come forward . that be a positive step . I be not aware that I have a postmaster in my area who have be affect — Sam Harrison of Nawton , near Helmsley , who sadly pass away last May . she be one of the 555 member of the GLO scheme . sadly , she have pass away . new case come to light all the time . I be very happy to work with my right hon . friend to see what information we might provide he , so that he can take forward those action . as I say , we be aware of concern about the Horizon shortfall scheme , which be the first scheme set up . we be look at way to ensure that that scheme ' s compensation be fair and see to be fair . More than £ 160 million have be award already to 2 , 700 victim , and 64 % of all claimant who make their claim prior to the ITV series — more will come forward as a result , which we welcome — have have full and final compensation . much work have be do by I , my predecessor and many official , who do a tremendous job try to right the wrong of the past , but there be more that we can and have to do . as of 6 February , more than £ 35 million have be pay out to those with overturn conviction . there have be 42 claim submit already for the 101 conviction that be overturn ; 36 offer have be make and 32 have be accept . a very significant proportion of those have take the fix sum award . £ 27 million have be pay out to 479 claimant among the original 555 postmaster who take the Post Office to court . a total of 58 complete claim form have be receive , and 52 claimant have receive offer . of those , 41 people have accept those offer without go to the next stage , the independent panel . that indicate that people feel that the offer they be receive be fair , because there be two further stage in that process if they feel that they be not get fair settlement of their claim . some £ 98 million have be pay out through the Horizon shortfall scheme . there be 2 , 417 claimant who claim prior to the original deadline , which have now be extend for late application , so there be no final date for application in that scheme . some 2 , 417 offer have be make and 2 , 051 have be settle , mean that 84 % of claim have be settle . the hon . member for Motherwell and Wishaw raise the total compensation amount — I think she mention the figure of £ 2 billion . the maximum budget set thus far be £ 1 billion . that be the number we be work to at the moment . however , we have always be clear that that be not a cap and it will not stop people get fair compensation for their claim . on the matter of more people come forward , we be absolutely united with the Post Office in call for anyone impact by the scandal to bring forward their claim as soon as possible . I welcome the fact that the ITV drama have help to uncover people who have not previously come forward . the hon . member for Motherwell and Wishaw ask about ongoing shortfall . there may be instance of that , although not all shortfall occur as a result of software problem . I be happy to look at any case of that that the hon . Lady have , but I have to say that it have not be raise with I thus far in my conversation with the National Federation of SubPostmasters , the Voice of the Postmaster and the CWU . however , I be happy to look at that as we proceed . compensation be one part of provide justice ; the other be truth and accountability , which the Post Office have tell we it be fully commit to . the Post Office Horizon inquiry have be establish to uncover what go wrong , and the chair , Sir Wyn Williams , continue to make good progress . the Post Office be co - operate fully with the inquiry . while the recent disclosure issue have be disappointing , they be the consequence of a failure of process rather than a reflection of the management culture . we do not regard they as a deliberate obfuscation , as the hon . member for Motherwell and Wishaw say . nevertheless , it be a serious and unacceptable matter , and we certainly want to ensure that they do not happen again . it be reassuring to hear Sir Wyn Williams ' s comment on Friday that he be " impressed " that the Post Office ' s new lawyer have a " grasp of the scale of the disclosure exercise " , and that he currently have no reason to doubt that the Post Office will continue to assist the inquiry by disclose relevant material . the inquiry will also look at the future of the Post Office itself from September this year . on governance , strong and effective leadership of the Post Office be essential . as be set out in the Post Office article of association , the Business Secretary appoint the chair and approve the appointment of director of Post Office Ltd . it be a role that the Government take very seriously . as member will be aware , follow a conversation with the Business Secretary in late January , Henry Staunton agree to step down as chair of the Post Office . we judge that the current chairmanship be not prove effective and have a difficult decision to make between change course or wait and hope that it improve . the shadow Minister refer to ministerial scrutiny , and I think all Ministers should learn the lesson of the past in term of their approach to concern that be raise . of course , we as a Department have learn from this ourselves . we will continue to look at governance arrangement and make sure they be fit for purpose . we be not plan any further change at this time . member of the House and other have look at different model of governance of the Post Office , such as mutualisation . as I say , I meet with the Voice of the Postmaster and the CWU yesterday , and I be happy to have further conversation with they about that potential route . we be confident that our representative at UK Government Investments , Lorna Gratton , be do a good job to ensure that the Post Office ' s governance be fit for purpose . the hon . member for Wansbeck ( Ian Lavery ) and for Motherwell and Wishaw ask about the surplus and where they end up — whether they go into a suspense account , into profit and loss , or into bonus for director . we be currently conduct an exercise to find out where that money go and how much it be , and we will report accordingly . the hon . member for Inverclyde ( Ronnie Cowan ) talk about the role of Fujitsu . we welcome the admission from Fujitsu that it hold moral responsibility for the scandal and a responsibility to contribute towards the compensation bill . we will certainly take that up in due course , but it be right for we to ensure that we understand the extent of the bill . the inquiry be look at other matter surround Fujitsu and it be right that we wait for the outcome of that . he mention the role of Ofcom . Ofcom do not regulate the Post Office ; it regulate Royal Mail . there be a distinction there . the hon . member for Wansbeck talk about who know what . that be something we very much want to know . the inquiry ' s purpose be to find exactly that . he make the absolutely correct point that no amount of redress could ever make up for what have happen to some people in this scandal . People have take their own life and people have be make bankrupt . the least we can do be try to make that good by provide they with full and fair compensation . I be very sorry to hear about what happen to Janine . I be very happy to look at that case with the hon . Gentleman , as he ask I about it offline the other day . it be certainly the case that if an employee suffer financial detriment , their employer should be able to claim on their behalf . there may be other case we need to look at , include that case , so I be very happy to have that conversation with he . the hon . member for Chesham and Amersham ( Sarah Green ) talk about non - disclosure agreement and raise the tragic case of Martin Griffiths in that context . as I say to she in an intervention , it be absolutely right — the Post Office have say this and it be also our position — that no NDA should prevent somebody speak to relevant individual , include their Member of Parliament . it be the case , in whatever part of our system and wherever an NDA be sign , that no NDA can ever prevent somebody speak out — go to the police or other authority — about a crime . that be the case in any circumstance . the Official Secrets Act only cover the confidentiality of mail and it be no long sign by postmaster . again , I be very keen that the gentleman she refer to pass on his evidence to the inquiry , because I think it might find it very useful . I thank the hon . member for Strangford again for his very kind word . understandably , many people be still affect by the scandal and in term of my performance as a Minister — whether I be the right person or whether I be fit for purpose — I guess the jury be out . I quite understand that . People will judge I at the end of the process , but while I be here , I be very keen to make sure that the full and final settlement be make as quickly and as fairly as possible . to conclude , I have outline some of the progress the Post Office have make to improve its culture and its relationship with postmaster , and its determination to right the wrong of the past . despite the positive progress make since 2019 , there be clearly still improvement to be make . where the Post Office make mistake , I will continue to challenge the leadership . where action be need , I will not hesitate to act decisively . I thank everyone who have take part in this debate . it be quite a surprise that so many people turn up on a Thursday as the House rise for a recess . I intend to go on with this . I intend to secure more and more debate to keep this issue , as far as possible , in the public eye and in the eye of the House , the Minister and any Government that follow . I will start by mention Fujitsu , which be raise by my hon . friend the Member for Inverclyde ( Ronnie Cowan ) . I , too , have write to it . I have have no response as yet , but I be ever hopeful . the hon . member for Wansbeck ( Ian Lavery ) have be doughty in his questioning in the Select Committee and I have have the privilege of listen to he . as with so many of we , he have have many difficult case which sometimes leave you almost gasp for breath . they fire you , as they have I , with a real sense of injustice . we have to follow through and make sure thing be do . I thank the hon . member for Chesham and Amersham ( Sarah Green ) for what she say about non - disclosure agreement , and I thank the Minister for his response . it be important for people who have be affect by the Horizon scandal or by work for or in conjunction with Post Office Ltd as sub - postmaster to be able to come forward with their experience and speak about what have happen to they . I also want to give special thank to the hon . member for Strangford ( Jim Shannon ) , who have be very supportive in every debate that I have initiate , on this and on other subject . let I gently remind the Minister that the chief executive officer of Post Office Ltd have be in post for more than four year . I think that many people , especially postmaster , expect to see more change during this period than seem to have happen . I be extremely pleased that the Minister be to continue discussion with representative of Voice of the Postmaster and the CWU , and I hope that he will , in turn , gently remind the CEO of Post Office Ltd that he should be talk to those organisation as well . I be pleased that thing have move forward a bit . the Minister be pleased that those in the GLO scheme be accept £ 600 , 000 , but it should be bear in mind that people be accept offer because they have simply have enough . they want nothing more to do with the whole process , and they be break by it . that be something on which we should all reflect deeply . I be grateful to you , Mr Deputy Speaker , for chair the debate — in part — and , as I have say , I be grateful to all member who have take part in it . I do not often compare myself to Arnold Schwarzenegger , but I will be back . question put and agree to . resolve , that this House have consider the management culture of the Post Office . Post Office Services : isolate Communities Motion make , and question propose , that this House do now adjourn . — ( Mark Fletcher . ) continue the trend , I be delighted to have secure a debate on post office service , in this case those in isolated community . it be an issue that be very important to I and many of my constituent . you may not think , Mr Deputy Speaker , that a Member of Parliament who represent Stretford and Urmston , a seat relatively close to central Manchester , would be interested in post office service in isolated community , but the key point that I want to make today be that it be not necessary to be rural to be isolate , and that post office service be just as important to isolated community in city region as they be to those in the countryside . that be why it be so important that the right support be in place to enable post office to stay open and to thrive . that bring I to the subject of Partington , in my constituency , which have be without a post office since August last year , when its long - serve postmistress retire . that have have a significant impact on many of my constituent , because while Partington be a great place in which to live and an area that I be proud to serve , there be no doubt that it be an isolated community . transport connectivity be abysmal , there be no rail or light rail link , bus service be infrequent to say the least , and there be low level of car ownership . what be more , its town centre bank have long since close . in other word , the array of service that Partington post office use to provide , such as banking facility , the collection or delivery of mail and the ability to pay bill , be now incredibly difficult for resident to access . I commend the hon . gentleman for initiate a debate which , coincidentally , follow another very significant debate about the Post Office . as he may have hear member say during the early debate , post office be a vital tool in combat rural isolation . do he agree that there should be a statutory obligation to rural - proof post office provision ? while the bank have abandon community like those he have refer to without fear or favour , the post office have a responsibility not to do so , and we must ensure that that responsibility be fulfil and deliver . the hon . Gentleman be absolutely correct and , in fairness , there be a Government grant to support the subsidisation of post office service in isolated and rural community . there be , however , a question of whether that grant be sufficient or , indeed , whether it be reach the right place . for the people of Partington , their near post office be now several mile away , and the lengthy round trip for those without transport be prohibitively expensive for many local resident . People in Partington be now in the 1 % of post office customer whose near branch be more than 3 mile away . it be clear that the Post Office ' s treatment of isolated community be increasingly poor , and two post office in my constituency , in Treharris and Deri , have close , with Pantyscallog in Merthyr Tydfil closing temporarily next week . without a full consultation , we know that closure be usually permanent . do my hon . friend agree that , in term of access for geographically isolate community in which transport be poor and in which people have mobility issue or be elderly , not have a post office within 3 mile be place service out of reach ? I absolutely agree with my hon . friend . Partington ' s near recommend post office site , as advise by the Post Office , be 3 . 9 mile away . although that be a significant distance in and of itself , the post office be within a local Co - op store . resident be unable to access the full range of service at that location , and to do so they have to travel even far into Urmston town centre . have these service in local community be incredibly important , and my hon . friend be right to highlight that , once they be go , they often do not return . like my hon . friend ' s constituency , there be not only one recent example of a post office closure in my constituency . the Woodsend Road post office have also be close since last summer , and the loss of two local post office branch within a few month — like my hon . friend ' s example of three closure in his constituency — give an insight into the scale of the challenge nationally . we know that many branch , particularly those in isolated community , be struggle . as well as lose access to vital banking and postal service , people in Partington and Woodsend Road have lose something else — an important community hub . I know the Minister recognise that the value of post office go beyond the provision of mere service ; they can contribute to tackle loneliness , they can prevent old or more vulnerable people from become digitally exclude , and close and trusting relationship be build between staff and customer . indeed , research from the Post Office show that three in four people who use branch service list face - to - face interaction as their main reason for choose to do so . in preparation for this debate , I reach out to resident in Partington and around Woodsend Road ask they to contact my office to share the impact that the closure of their post office have have on they . I be grateful to everyone who do , and I will share a snapshot of their experience . one resident , age 77 , tell my team that conversation with post office staff be the only human interaction he have . if lose this be not bad enough , the gentleman in question have to start rely on Partington ' s one ATM to access cash . he be recently mug just after use the machine , because criminal know that vulnerable people have no other place to go in Partington to withdraw cash . he be now understandably scared to use the ATM again , and he instead have to rely on a friend to drive he to the close post office , several mile away . another resident , age 89 , describe the loss of the post office as " devastating " to her independence . she explain how in the past she use to walk to her local branch , but now her family must travel from Oldham , in the north of Greater Manchester , to drive she all the way to the Sale post office for she to access the service she need . her family ' s journey will take upwards of two and a half hour to complete , on a good day . another constituent be now spend £ 20 a week on taxi to go to her near post office , follow the closure of her local branch on Woodsend Road . this be unacceptable , not least because often those most affected be pensioner and be therefore necessarily on fix income . I have write to the Post Office about both branch closure in my constituency on multiple occasion to try to find a resolution . at both branch , the Post Office could have be well prepare in term of recruit a new postmaster to run the branch and provide some sort of alternative provision in the short term . the postmistress in Partington give the Post Office three year ' notice of her impend retirement , yet we find ourselves in this unacceptable situation . I be still await news on whether a mobile or drop and collect service could be put in place as a temporary measure to provide resident with access to post office service while a long - term solution be seek . I have to request that , as , seemingly , it have not be proactively consider by the Post Office . I understand from the Post Office that recruit new postmaster can be challenging . that reflect a wide challenge nationally about the viability of branch in isolated community and the remuneration of the people run they . that bring I on to the issue of the support that post office need . like any other retailer , post office branch be face the challenge of decline footfall , as more and more people go online for service . that make the host shop from which post office often operate less commercially viable . we should also reflect on the provision of Government service through post office , which have decline by more than 75 % since 2010 and today make up only 4 % of their overall revenue . in March 2024 , the Government be set to withdraw their Driver and Vehicle Licensing Agency service from post office . we also need to look at the relationship between bank and post office . with high street bank , include those in Partington , close en masse in recent year , post office have increasingly have to step in to provide banking service in community . the 5 , 500 bank closure since 2015 have save those bank about £ 2 . 5 billion to £ 3 billion a year . there be a strong case , which the Minister have articulate previously , for some of that money to be redirect to support the post office network . I would be grateful if he could update we as to whether any progress have be make in talk to the bank about their potentially provide some revenue to support post office service . one of my local post office , in Stretford , host pop - up bank regularly and that town centre also be to lose one of its bank in the near future . last but by no mean least , we face the big issue that the cost of sustain the loss - make post office network be significantly great than the £ 50 million in annual network subsidy that the Post Office receive from the Government , as I highlight early in my response to the hon . member for Strangford ( Jim Shannon ) . as the Post Office itself have say , the pressure on branch in isolated community have increase , but the subsidy the Government have in place to support they have not reflect that . I understand that it have decline over the past decade , from £ 210 million in 2012 to £ 50 million per year in recent year . will the Minister assure I that the £ 50 million subsidy and / or other form of financial support be available to provide post office service in place such as Partington , which , although not rural , be certainly isolate ? I understand that if the money have be reduce , there be less to go around , but it would be reassuring to know that somewhere such as that would be eligible . the previous postmistress be not access this grant in order to run her post office , but the difficulty in attract a new postmaster to run the service suggest that it may be something that should be consider in the future . I would be incredibly grateful for the Minister ' s support in work with the Post Office to try to establish that , and in look at any way in which we can restore post office service on Woodsend Road and , in particular , in Partington . to conclude , I hope I have highlight the importance of post office to isolated community , particularly those such as Partington , as well as those mention by my hon . friend the Member for Merthyr Tydfil and Rhymney and the hon . member for Strangford . when resident lose these service , the impact can be devastating as they often support incredibly vulnerable customer . I again thank everybody affect by the post office closure in Partington and Woodsend Road who take the time to contact I and share their story . I be pleased the Minister have have the chance to hear they today . I hope they help he to push for the change need to support our post office network move forward and ensure those service be retain in isolate community . I congratulate the hon . member for Stretford and Urmston ( Andrew Western ) on secure this important debate on a subject close to my heart , as the representative of the rural seat of Thirsk and Malton . we all know how highly our community value post office , and our constituent have deep concern whenever they be closed , even temporarily . they value they because of the service they provide but also , as the hon . Gentleman put it , because they be the provider of trust relationship — I could not agree more . the post office network be still significant , with over 11 , 500 branch across the country . recent research by the London School of Economics highlight that the network make a valuable contribution to the economic health of our high street , generate £ 3 . 1 billion of additional spending every year . it be understandable that the hon . Gentleman want to debate the issue , give that his constituency have see change in its provision of post office in recent month and year . the Post Office have the commercial freedom to deliver the branch network within the parameter set for it by Government . those parameter include minimum access criterion and minimum service to be provide at branch across the country . for example , 99 % of the population must live within three mile of their near branch and 95 % of the total urban population must live within one mile of their near outlet , which relate to the hon . Gentleman ' s constituency because it be in an urban area . despite all the challenge face by retailer in recent year , it be pleasing that the Post Office meet and exceed those criterion at a national level . in fact , more post office have open this year than have close and the network be as large today as it have be for five year , with around 11 , 700 branch open . as the hon . Gentleman will know , 12 branch be operate in in Stretford and Urmston , serve around 13 , 000 customer each week . the post office network in the area support around 60 full - time equivalent job and have an economic contribution to his constituency of over £ 6 million each year , as well as drive an additional wide high street spend of £ 5 million a year . I be aware of the hon . Gentleman ' s concern about the situation in Partington , where I understand the post office branch close last year when the postmistress retire after an incredible 35 year serve her community . from my own constituency experience , I fully appreciate the impact a branch closure can have on a community . it can be disruptive , particularly for community without nearby alternative , but that fluctuation be part of the modern , dynamic , franchise - lead business that the Post Office primarily be . the network be make up of small business and , just like any other franchise - base business , the Post Office can not control a franchise ' s decision about their future . as postmaster move on , branch close and new one open , as the hon . Gentleman have experience at first hand , with the opening of Stretford post office in its new permanent location late last year . the reason for a temporary branch closure be generally outside the control of the Post Office . however , in such instance , the Post Office ensure service be maintain as quickly as it can . I understand from the Post Office that there be interest from a community group in take on the Partington branch , with a further meeting schedule next week , so I be hopeful that the branch can be reopen as soon as possible . I note the hon . Gentleman ' s point about the provision of a mobile service , and I be happy to take that away and update he . it be not easy to secure , as I have experience myself , but we will do whatever we can . we be not blind to the reality of take on and run a post office . like any other retailer , post office face pressure from continually evolve consumer behaviour , particularly as consumer shop online more , drive footfall away from our high street . when it come to consumer habit and access Government service , it be not our place to dictate to people where they should access those service — I think that we often like to access those service online . none the less , we be keen to retain what service we can . the hon . Gentleman do point to the DVLA contract , which have be extend for another year . I think that everyone would like to see that contract extend on a long - term basis , but negotiation will have to continue . change in consumer behaviour be significantly drive down the number of letter be send , which be also have an impact on post office . nevertheless , there be reason to be optimistic . we be pleased to see the Post Office launch its Parcels Online business last year , whereby customer can select and pay for Evri and DPD product online before drop parcel off at their near post office . the Post Office be now also roll out a similar proposition across the physical network , which mean that customer can compare different carrier to choose the option that good suit their need . we see this as a significant opportunity to improve competitiveness and competition in the market , and I be keen that the Post Office expand that proposal far to include more carrier . there be also a major opportunity , as the hon . Gentleman put it , in banking service . all customer should have appropriate access to banking and cash service wherever they live . that be why we have legislate to protect access to cash to ensure that customer can continue to access everyday banking service at the post office . this development be important for the hon . Gentleman ' s constituency as , for example , around 50 % of bank branch in Stretford and Urmston have close since 2015 , so post office be key in provide access to cash in the constituency , as they be across the country . in December , £ 3 . 3 billion in cash be either deposit or withdraw across the country . the post office network be therefore a crucial component of this country ' s long - term provision of cash and banking service . and that be why I have be clear that the Post Office should be ambitious in its negotiation with the bank for the next iteration of the banking framework agreement , which already provide significant revenue into the post office network . we welcome that , but there be further opportunity . the hon . Gentleman may want to speak to the Economic Secretary to the Treasury about other service , such as banking hub . as I say early , there be 30 hub around the country already and 70 more in the pipeline , but our aspiration be to get 500 , and it may be suitable to provide a hub in his constituency . I thank the Minister for give way . I fully accept that there be challenge . for example , many of the people work in our post office have do so for many year and when they come to retirement , it really be a challenge to get people to take on those business . the community that we have describe this afternoon — geographically isolate community and community with public transport issue — tend have many old people who often use cash in their transaction . banking hub be great in large town perhaps , but thing be much more difficult in small , isolated community . what other option can be consider so that those community do not become financial desert ? the hon . Gentleman raise an important point . banking hub be not a one - size - fit - all solution . there be other solution , some of which be facilitate by the banking framework . enhance facility in post office be one such solution — for example , a separate line in the post office . Smart atm be part of the solution . OneBanx provide a mini - banking solution that can be provide in library , for example . different financial organisation , such as some of the building society , be roll out such provision , but we see banking service , and the remuneration that flow from they , as critical to ensure that we have a sustainable network of post office . I have always be clear in this House that if member have particular local issue , I be happy to work with they and the Post Office to try to deliver solution on a case - by - case basis . although there be opportunity , that do not mean we be out of the wood . Branch profitability be a top priority for postmaster , and I be keen to ensure that it can be enhance wherever possible . I assure Members that we remain steadfast in our support for the network . we have provide significant financial support to sustain the nationwide network — over £ 2 . 5 billion in funding in the past decade alone — and we be provide a furth £ 588 million for the Post Office between 2022 and 2025 . the money include investment and , as the hon . member for Stretford and Urmston refer to , an annual network subsidy of £ 50 million , which help to safeguard service in the uncommercial part of the network . the Government have be clear that post office should be a valuable social and economic asset for community and business for year to come . we continue to work with the Post Office to ensure that the organisation and the network be fit for the future , and we always welcome view on the network , such as those express today . I thank the hon . member for Stretford and Urmston for introduce this important debate , and the other hon . member who contribute to it . question put and agree to . House adjourn .