Speaker ' s Statement before we begin proceeding , I should advise the House that there be a fault with the Annunciator system that mean it be slow to update . there may therefore be a delay before the current information be display . I hope that the fault will be rectify as soon as possible — I understand that the Clerk be already at work with his technical electrical skill as we speak . oral Answers to Questions Northern Ireland the Secretary of State be ask — First Minister and Deputy First Minister what recent discussion he have have with the First Minister and the deputy First Minister of Northern Ireland . it be great to see the House so full for Northern Ireland question , and I congratulate all colleague recently elect in Northern Ireland . I meet the First Minister and Deputy First Minister twice in my first four day , during which we discuss a wide range of issue , include the Government ' s commitment to repeal and replace the legacy Act . I plan to update the House shortly on how we will begin that process . it be very good to see my hon . friend the Members for Foyle ( Colum Eastwood ) and for Belfast South and Mid Down ( Claire Hanna ) on the Government Benches . I be sure the commitment that the Secretary of State have just give we will be welcome by many in Newcastle - under - Lyme and , indeed , in Northern Ireland , give the lack of support for the legacy Act . can he undertake to consult widely on the Act ' s repeal and replacement , and will he keep the House inform ? I can indeed give my hon . friend that assurance , because the problem with the legacy Act be that it have almost no support in Northern Ireland among political party and victim ' family . we have give a very clear commitment to consult on how the repeal and replacement will work : in the end , we hope to get a large measure of support for a new approach , which the current approach have fail to secure . I thank the Secretary of State for his answer . he will recognise that Northern Ireland be represent in the Executive , in the Northern Ireland Assembly , and now in this place by more than just the party of the First Minister and Deputy First Minister . will he give an assurance that he will deal openly and transparently with all those party ? I will readily give the hon . member that assurance . I have meet with all the party leader , and the commitment to consultation that I have just give to my hon . friend the Member for Newcastle - under - Lyme ( Adam Jogee ) will extend to all the party in Northern Ireland . I call the shadow Secretary of State . I warmly welcome the right hon . gentleman to his place . I know he bring considerable quality to his role , and I look forward to work with he on behalf of all the people in Northern Ireland . I pay tribute to his predecessor , the right hon . Chris Heaton - Harris , who do such an excellent job and be much miss on the Conservative Benches . I very much welcome the positive meeting that the Secretary of State have have with all party since he be appoint . follow those meeting , may I ask he to reassure the House that on his watch , he will be an active supporter of the Union and an advocate for it ? I join the hon . Gentleman in express the House ' s collective thank to my predecessor , and congratulate he and his hon . friend the Member for Hamble Valley ( Paul Holmes ) on their appointment . I look forward to work with both of they . the Government be strongly committed to our United Kingdom , as be clearly set out in our manifesto . I hope the hon . Gentleman will see that reflect in our work as we take it forward . I thank the right hon . gentleman for his answer . the Government ' s manifesto state that they be " commit to implement the Windsor Framework in good faith " . however , that manifesto do not mention the Command Paper , which be vital in get Stormont back . as the right hon . Gentleman know , that Command Paper contain a number of measure to strengthen the Union — the East - West Council and InterTrade UK , to name but two . will the Government faithfully implement all those commitment in the Command Paper , which be design to strengthen the Union ? as the hon . Gentleman know , when we be in opposition , we support the two statutory instrument and the Humble Address . we will set up the independent monitoring panel , and we have recently have a success in develop our relationship with the European Union over dental amalgam : the new Government have secure a 10 - year derogation , which have be widely welcome by the party in Northern Ireland . Casement Park : Redevelopment what discussion he have have with Cabinet colleague on the redevelopment of Casement Park . what discussion he have have with the Chancellor of the Exchequer on fund for the redevelopment of Casement Park . how much funding he plan to make available for the redevelopment of Casement Park . the Government be commit to ensure that Euro 2028 benefit the whole of the United Kingdom . we be work as quickly as possible with all partner to assess the option on the Casement Park project . many people be surprised when the Secretary of State , on first be appoint , make it his priority to deliver on Casement Park . commit £ 320 million for a stadium to host five match at a time when there be huge waiting list to be deal with in the health service , and with special educational need and social housing need funding , be an indefensible use of public money . can the Secretary of State assure we that the Government ' s view have not be influence by any personal intervention by the chief of staff of the Labour party , for whom this be a personal project , and can he confirm that such an intervention would be a breach of standard in public life ? I would say to the right hon . Gentleman that I say this be a priority because a decision need to be make . the fact be that the Government have inherit a commitment to host the Euros at Casement Park . it be now a year and three quarter since UEFA award that right to Northern Ireland , and to the United Kingdom and Ireland , but nothing have happen during the year and three quarter since then to progress the project . we be leave with a situation in which the cost have go through the roof , and even if we have the money , we do not know if we could build it in time . that be why the Government be look at it , and that be why I say it be a priority to make a decision . the Gaelic Athletic Association be overwhelmingly a force for good across our island , and I be pleased to see so many in Britain enjoy the magic of the hurl final via the BBC on Sunday . GAA fan in Northern Ireland , like Northern Ireland football fan await sub - regional stadium funding , have be let down by a decade of Stormont dither , by snipe such as we have just see and by the last government . have they green - light the project when they say they would , construction would have be well under way in time for the Euros . can the Secretary of State assure we that Casement will ultimately be build , and that spectacle such as we will see for Armagh this Sunday will in time be host in Belfast ? I think we all wish Armagh well in the all - Ireland final . the Executive be commit to the Casement Park project — it have be a commitment for over a decade now — but it have not progress . Windsor Park get an upgrade , Ravenhill get an upgrade and it be important that Casement Park be build . that be why I say on my recent visit that one way or another that project need to be complete . will the Secretary of State explain to the 356 , 000 citizen of Northern Ireland who await out - patient appointment and to the 94 , 000 who await in - patient admission why , in the Government ' s view , it seem to be a priority to pour hundred of million of pound into a GAA sport stadium instead of fix our health service ? if the government commit money and the Euros do not come to Belfast , will the Government not be in a position in which the rugby stadium and the football stadium do not get a penny of Treasury or Northern Ireland Office money , but the GAA do ? how could that be fair and how could that be proportionate ? I hope very much that sport will be a force for unity in Northern Ireland , rather than a source of division . when it come to the health service , the hon . Gentleman make a very powerful point . the state of the NHS in Northern Ireland , with the long waiting list in the United Kingdom , be a function , if I may say so , of decision that the Executive have fail to take over many year . the people of Northern Ireland want to have a well health service , and that need the plan to which the new Health Minister be commit . do the Secretary of State agree that we would not be in the final minute of extra time on whether Casement Park can be rebuild in time for the Euros if the previous Government have actually do something about it after we be award host status a year and three quarter ago ? I agree with my hon . friend . the fact speak for themselves : a year and three quarter since we be award the wonderful opportunity to host the Euros , nothing have happen on the project . Barnett Formula whether he have have discussion with the Chancellor of the Exchequer on a revise financial formula for Northern Ireland . if he will have discussion with the Chancellor of the Exchequer on reform the Barnett formula for Northern Ireland . the interim fiscal framework agree early this year introduce a needs - base funding formula set at 124 % of spending per head in England , base on the advice of the Northern Ireland Fiscal Council , and we be commit to take forward these discussion with the Executive . I welcome the Secretary of State to his place , and look forward to work with he in his new role . fix Northern Ireland ' s financial framework be crucial to ensure that our public service be properly resource , and indeed that impact on my constituent in Lagan Valley . will he ensure that any new arrangement be fully baseline and inform by independent expert analysis ? the Northern Ireland Fiscal Council be set up to help to answer the question about what the need be in Northern Ireland . it come up with a range of between 121 % and 127 % , and opt for 124 % in the middle . the fact that that be in the interim fiscal framework that the previous Government negotiate be welcome , and be welcome by the Finance Minister in Northern Ireland . we be committed to take those discussion forward , and I understand that the Finance Minister in the Executive have already meet the new Chief Secretary to the Treasury . may I , too , welcome the Secretary of State to his place and wish he well in the role that he now play ? the Chancellor have indicate that there will be a 5 % increase in wage for health worker and those in the education sector , but unfortunately , give the current Barnett consequential for Northern Ireland , that will not mean 5 % for those worker in Northern Ireland . will the Secretary of State urgently look at that issue to ensure that health and education worker in Northern Ireland deserve the same increase in their wage as those on the mainland do because , quite clearly , I be here for they ? as the hon . Gentleman will be well aware , decision about pay in Northern Ireland be a matter for the Executive . any additional spending in England will apply through the Barnett consequential to Northern Ireland in the normal way . I welcome the Secretary of State ' s commitment to needs - base funding for Northern Ireland . do he agree that how funding be allocate and how further revenue might be generate be matter for the devolved Administration and the Assembly ? I certainly do agree . all government , include the Northern Ireland Executive , have the money they have come in , the money they can raise in addition , and how they will prioritise their spending . the Northern Ireland Executive have more funding per head of population than England , and it be for the Executive to take decision about what their priority be , and allocate funding accordingly . I call the shadow Minister . I welcome the Secretary of State and the Minister of State to their position , and thank they for their gracious phone call last week to welcome I and my hon . friend the Member for Brentwood and Ongar ( Alex Burghart ) to our position . on Monday , the Business Secretary slip out a write statement , rather than come to this House , reveal that the Government have decide not to proceed with an export development guarantee , or emergency loan that would save Harland and Wolff , despite its unique role and outstanding defence contract . will the Secretary of State use his position to continue the support that the previous Government give to Northern Ireland , and make it clear to the Treasury that the people of Northern Ireland expect the Government to intervene in this case , and support Harland and Woolf , as be desperately need ? I congratulate the hon . gentleman on his appointment . the reason for the Government ' s decision about Harland and Wolff be clearly set out in the write ministerial statement that my right hon . friend the Business Secretary lay before the House . Harland and Wolff be now talk to its main supporter , Riverstone , about potential additional financial support . we be committed to shipbuilde across the United Kingdom , include in Northern Ireland , and as that write ministerial statement make clear , Harland and Wolff be an essential part of the £ 1 . 6 billion contract for the fleet solid support ship . Public Services what step he plan to take to support public service in Northern Ireland . I be delighted to be appoint to this role , and I look forward to work closely with Executive Ministers to see public service transform in Northern Ireland . I will be meet the First and Deputy First Ministers tomorrow in Stormont , as well as the Northern Ireland Health Minister , Mike Nesbitt . I welcome the Minister of State and Secretary of State to their position . I be delighted to see they in post , and I know they be commit to effective public service and stability of the institution in Northern Ireland . may I caution that in a number of response that we have receive from the Front Bench , we be have a recur conversation that the fiscal framework that be announce back in December on an interim basis do not solve the problem we have ? even the stabilisation money that be agree back in December have already be forecast as necessary to sustain pay in Northern Ireland . will the Minister of State engage earnestly not only with what the Government — both of this hue and the previous Government — have be say for the past six month , and recognise that to provide good public service in Northern Ireland we need not only to sustain , but to transform ? I agree with the right hon . member . money be allocate specifically for transformation of public service to improve service delivery outcome . in Northern Ireland , three in 10 people be on an NHS waiting list ; that number be one in 10 here in England . that figure need to be transform for health outcome . I will be talk about funding when I meet Executive Ministers , but I will also be talk about other way in which our door , and those of other Government Ministers , too , be open . we be determined to work together to transform public service . Northern Ireland Troubles ( Legacy and Reconciliation ) Act : repeal what step he be take to repeal and replace the Northern Ireland Troubles ( Legacy and Reconciliation ) Act 2023 . what step he be take to repeal and replace the Northern Ireland Troubles ( Legacy and Reconciliation ) Act 2023 . as set out in the King ' s Speech , the Government be commit to repeal and replace the legacy Act . as well as scrap conditional immunity , we will set out step to allow trouble - era inquest and civil claim to resume . we will consult with all interested party on a way forward that can obtain the support of victim and survivor , and comply with our human right obligation . I congratulate the right hon . gentleman on his appointment . clearly , any delay will in - build a legacy for the victim and their family , who have wait a long time for closure on these issue . I understand absolutely the need to create consensus across Northern Ireland for what will be propose , but will he set out the timeline and the plan for achieve that and agree to come back to the House to update we when that plan be ready ? I be happy to give the hon . member that assurance about keep the House inform and report to it on my plan . as far as the independent commission be concern , the Government have decide that we will retain it . that be because the Stormont House agreement — we want to return to the principle that it set out — envisage both information recovery and continued investigation . those two function be in effect combine in the independent commission . I meet Sir Declan Morgan yesterday to talk about how that work can be take forward . the commission be now open for business and available for family to approach to find an answer , for which many of they have be look for so long . the former Member for Plymouth Moor View be a strong advocate for veteran in Cabinet and in government . will the right hon . Gentleman assure veteran in Basildon and Billericay and across the country that any future legislation will protect now - elderly veteran from vexatious legal action in the future ? I pay tribute to the work that veteran and member of the police and the security service do over many year during the trouble in try to keep people safe from terrorism . I undertake , as part of the consultation that I have already set out to the House , to consult veteran ' organisation . I welcome the Secretary of State to his position . will he far outline what discussion he be have with group and organisation who represent innocent victim ? will he assure the House that in repeal this legislation , there will be no pander to those who be the victim maker ? what meaningful engagement be he have with the Irish Government , who oppose the Act but have disgracefully refuse to deal with the many allegation of state collusion with the provisional IRA ? I be think specifically about the long - await public inquiry into the Omagh bombing . I discuss the matter with Miche á l Martin when I see he early after my appointment , and he have express the hope that a way forward can be find that might lead to the withdrawal of the interstate case that Ireland have bring . I will certainly engage with victim ' organisation — I meet a number of they during my time as shadow Secretary of State — because I be committed to try to find a way forward . in the end , if this be to work , it must work for the victim ' family , because they be the people who say , " what go before hasn ' t give we what we be look for . " Windsor Framework Agreement whether he plan to review the Windsor framework agreement . no . we be committed to implement the Windsor framework in good faith in partnership with the EU , and to take all step necessary to protect the UK internal market . we be also look to negotiate a sanitary and phytosanitary veterinary agreement with the EU , which could help . will the Secretary of State commit to all the provision of the " safeguard the Union " agreement ? I already set out my answer to that in response to the hon . member for Brentwood and Ongar ( Alex Burghart ) . we be take forward those commitment , but we can make progress by work in partnership with the European Union . what be achieve recently on dental amalgam be a good example of precisely that . Veterinary Medicine Supplies what step he be take with Cabinet colleague to help ensure long - term access to veterinary medicine supply in Northern Ireland . I understand how important and urgent this issue be . I thank the hon member for his contribution to the veterinary medicine working group , whose work we have commit to continue . he will know that a grace period for veterinary medicine will remain in place until the end of 2025 , which provide continuity of supply to Northern Ireland . the Government will make progress on this issue as quickly as possible . I thank the Minister for her answer . the Windsor framework secure by the previous Government extend that grace period to veterinary medicine in Northern Ireland until the end of December 2025 . that include vaccine and anaesthetic , so it be vital for biosecurity and both animal and public health that access continue . will the Minister assure the House that the Government will strain every sinew to secure permanent access to veterinary medicine in Northern Ireland , and will they continue the Cabinet Office ' s veterinary medicine working group , on which I sit , which be work so hard to find a solution ? I can confirm again that the veterinary medicine working group will continue . we recognise its importance , and we will continue to work at pace on a long - term solution , because continuity of supply and know about it well in advance of next December be very important . I call the liberal Democrat spokesperson . I welcome the Secretary of State and his team to their place , and I associate myself with the remark of the hon . member for Belfast South and Mid Down ( Claire Hanna ) . I can only hope that the success of the hurling at the weekend mean that the BBC will consider show the shinty - hurl international that take place every year . I welcome attempt by the new Government to continue to rebuild trust with Northern Ireland political party and to improve relation with the European Union , which offer the opportunity to reduce trade friction between Great Britain and Northern Ireland . could the Secretary of State set out what he be do with ministerial colleague and other Departments to open the door to secure a veterinary agreement with the EU , which will far reduce those barrier to trade ? the Government be commit to work at pace on a long - term solution , include a veterinary agreement . that might change the relationship with the EU and build more trust , and so a bespoke agreement may be need , but we be work at pace to secure that . relation with Ireland whether he have have discussion with the Irish Government on UK - Ireland relation . whether he have have discussion with the Irish Government on UK - Ireland relation . a fortnight ago , the Minister and I meet the t á naiste Miche á l Martin in Hillsborough , where we discuss strengthen relation between our two government , give the importance of our relationship with Ireland . the Prime Minister and the Taoiseach also hold a bilateral meeting ahead of the European Political Community meeting last week . Duchess China , which I believe be the supplier of your excellent commemorative china service , Mr Speaker , be base in my constituency . the Republic of Ireland be an important export market for the company , and Northern Ireland be an important part of its domestic market . how will relation across the Irish sea and the Northern Ireland - Ireland border be enhance for the benefit of company such as Duchess China ? I congratulate my hon . friend on the company that she mention and the product that it produce . we be committed to protect the integrity of the UK internal market , so that great firm in Great Britain and in Northern Ireland be able to sell right across the United Kingdom and internationally . Northern Ireland in particular have extraordinary opportunity and so much potential , which we need to build on . one of the most important contribution that the Executive can make be to ensure stability , because that be what investor be look for . I congratulate my right hon . friend on his position , and I hope that he will be able to rebuild those relation that be strain through the Brexit process . small and medium - sized business in Milton Keynes Central have go under because of the additional paperwork and restriction cause by our strained relation with the EU . will he confirm that he be talk to the Irish Government and other about how to reduce those barrier to trade ? there be no doubt that the change in our trading relationship with the European Union have bring additional cost and paperwork for business , whether they be sell to the EU or into Northern Ireland . the Windsor framework be the mean by which we be try to manage that . I support the Windsor framework , negotiate by the previous Government , because it represent an important and significant step forward . the reason why we have to continue to implement it be because if we be go to get the veterinary and SPS agreement , and other agreement we be seek with the European Union — Order . we still have other question . the anglo - irish agreement be absolutely vital , and the meeting between the Prime Minister and the Taoiseach be to be welcome . Prime Ministers ' diary become very full ; will the Secretary of State use his good office to ensure that that dialogue between Taoiseach and Prime Minister continue to build on that relationship to see it flourish still far ? I can indeed give that assurance . my right hon . and learn Friend the Prime Minister have agree there will be an annual summit . final question . do the Secretary of State agree with I that it be important that , in discussion with the Irish Government , they understand that the vast majority of people in Northern Ireland , whether they consider themselves to be british , irish or northern Irish , can see that it be the United Kingdom context that allow they that diversity , and that improve the life of present generation be the good way to preserve the life of everyone for the future ? I join the hon . gentleman in that commitment to improve the life of the people of Northern Ireland . as a government , we be commit to work on that with he and all his colleague in Northern Ireland . I welcome the Prime Minister , the Leader of the Opposition and all new member to the first question to the Prime Minister in this Parliament . Prime Minister the Prime Minister be ask — Engagements if he will list his official engagement for Wednesday 24 July . I know the whole House will be shock by the news that a soldier have be attack in Kent . our thought be with he , his family and our armed force who serve to keep we safe . we wish he a swift recovery . [ hon . member : " hear , hear . " ] the whole House will also want to join I in wish Team GB good luck as they travel to Paris for the olympic game . this morning I have meeting with ministerial colleague and other , discuss how this Government will bring about the change the country have decisively vote for . in addition to my duty in this House , I shall have further such meeting today . may I begin by welcome the Prime Minister to his first question as Prime Minister ? I associate myself with his remark about the soldier in Kent , and , of course , send my wish to the british Olympians . at Combe in my constituency , Thames Water pump sewage into the River Evenlode for over 2 , 600 hour last year . Thames Water be allow by Ofwat to withdraw £ 7 billion in dividend , yet now want to jack up my constituent ’ bill . I welcome the water Bill in the King ' s Speech , but do the Prime Minister agree with my constituent and I that the system be break , and will he now commit to scrap Ofwat and replace it with a tough regulator that will finally put people and planet ahead of water company profit ? I welcome the hon . member to his place and thank he for raise this important issue in relation to water . customer should not pay the price for mismanagement by water company . we have already announce immediate step to put water company under a tough regime . the Minister responsible for water , the Under - Secretary of State for Environment , Food and Rural Affairs , my hon . friend the Member for Kingston upon Hull West and Haltemprice ( Emma Hardy ) , will meet the boss of fail company to hold they to account for their performance . after 14 year of failure with our river and beach , it fall to this Government of service to fix the mess of that failure . I welcome the Prime Minister to his place . many young tran people and their family be extremely concerned about the restriction on puberty blocker implement by the last government . one of my constituent , a parent of a trans child , tell I : " I ' m so worried about my child . I ' m terrify for what this mean for they and where Britain be go on these issue . " will the Prime Minister meet young trans people , their family and organisation support they , so he can hear why they feel so strongly that the restriction must be reverse ? I welcome my hon . friend back to her place . our guide principle must be the wellbeing of child . this be a serious government , and we will approach that question with care , not with inflammatory dividing line . the Cass review be clear that there be not enough evidence on the long - term impact of puberty blocker to know whether they be safe . the Health Secretary will consult organisation support young people and family , and I will ensure that there be a meeting with my hon . friend and the relevant Minister as soon as that can be arrange . we now come to the Leader of the Opposition . I join the Prime Minister in express my shock at the attack on a british soldier . our thought be with he and his family as we wish he a speedy recovery . I also join the Prime Minister in his warm word about our olympic athlete . I have no doubt that after year of training , focus and dedication they will bring back many gold medal — although , to be honest , I be probably not the first person they want to hear advice from on how to win . [ interruption . ] I be glad that in our exchange so far we have maintain a cross - party consensus on important matter of foreign policy , and in that spirit I want to focus our exchange today on Ukraine and national security . the UK have consistently be the first country to provide Ukraine with new capability , such as the long - range weapon that have be use so effectively in the Black sea . those decision be not easy , and I be grateful to the Prime Minister for his support as I make those decision in government . in opposition , I offer that same support to he . will he continue to be responsive to Ukraine ' s new request , so that it do not just stand still but can decisively win out against russian aggression ? I thank the Leader of the Opposition for not only raise the question of Ukraine , but do so in a way that can maintain the unity across the House that have be so important to the ukrainian people . I can assure he that we be , of course , talk to Ukraine about how it deal with the russian aggression that it be face and have be face for many , many month . I will continue to try to do that in the way that he do , which be to reach out across the House to share such information as we can to maintain the unity that be so important . I thank the Prime Minister for that response . I also find that one of the United Kingdom ' s key role as Ukraine ' s close ally be to encourage other country to follow our lead in provide new military capability . in that vein , I be sure that when the Prime Minister see Chancellor Scholz recently he thank he for the considerable air defence that the Germans be provide to the Ukrainians , but do he also raise with he the issue of the Germans perhaps provide long - range missile , just as the UK , America and France have now do ? I have the opportunity in Washington , at the NATO council , to talk to our german counterpart . there be a strong theme there on Ukraine , discuss with all our ally , and part of my message be to urge all our ally to provide further support for the ukrainian people where they can . that be well receive , and there be unity come out of the NATO council that that be what we must all do . I be glad to hear the Prime Minister raise the NATO summit , because I very much welcome the message that come out loud and clear from that summit , and indeed in the Prime Minister ' s word from the Dispatch Box on Monday , about Ukraine ' s irreversible path to NATO membership . do he agree that fatuous russian claim on ukrainian territory must not act as a block to Ukraine ' s join the NATO defensive alliance ? I wholeheartedly agree . it be for NATO ally to decide who be a member of NATO — form 75 year ago , a proud alliance , and probably the most successful alliance that have ever be form . that be why it be so important that at the summit we be able to say that there be now that irreversible path to membership . it be a step forward from a year ago , and President Zelensky be very pleased that we have be able to make that successful transition . thank to the complex legal and diplomatic work that the UK have lead over the past several month , together with our ally Canada and America , I hope the Prime Minister will now find that there be a sound and establish legal basis to go far on sanction , seize russian asset and use they to fund ukrainian reconstruction . that work have take time , but I hope he be able to take a look at it . can he confirm to the House that this work be something that he will take forward ? if he do , I can assure he that the opposition will support he in do so . again , I be grateful for this opportunity to say how united we be on the question of sanction across this House . the use now make of what have be seize and frozen be an important issue on which I think we can move forward , and I know the Chancellor be already begin to have some discussion about how we can take more effective measure . again , I will seek to reach out across the House as we do this important work together . I very much welcome the Prime Minister ' s response . I also welcome both his and the Defence Secretary ' s recent emphasis on the importance of the Tempest fighter jet programme . it be a crucial sovereign capability , as he mention , and important for our alliance with Italy and Japan . furthermore , however , other country also wish to participate . in government , we have begin initial productive discussion with our friend and ally Saudi Arabia about its desire potentially to join the programme , so could the Prime Minister confirm that he will continue those initial positive conversation with Saudi Arabia ? again , I can assure he that he will have our support in do so . let I make this absolutely clear : this be a really important programme . significant progress have already be make , and we want to build on that progress . I have have some initial discussion , not least in Farnborough , where I be just a few day ago . finally , in the dangerous and uncertain world in which we now sadly live , I know at first hand how important it be that our Prime Minister can use his prerogative power to respond quickly militarily to protect british national security , sometimes without give this House prior notice . these be perhaps the most difficult decision that a Prime Minister can take , and I welcome his support when I make they . I want to take this opportunity to assure he of the Opposition ' s support if he deem it necessary to take similar action in the future . do he agree that while the use of the prerogative power be sometimes politically controversial , it be essential to ensure the safety and security of the british people ? I agree that it be essential , and our security be the first duty of government . I be grateful to the Leader of the Opposition for reach out to I personally when action have to be take , to ensure that I be brief on the sensitive issue that lie behind the decision that he have to take . as I mention to he last week , I will endeavour to ensure that we proceed in the same way so that he have access to all the information that he need to come to a determination , which I hope will be to support the position that this Government take . welcome back , Mr Speaker . may I congratulate the Prime Minister on such as positive start to his premiership , and on reset the dial on politic as public service and a force for good ? irrespective of our different view and opinion in this Chamber and beyond , it be a very important message . as such , will he join I in wish the very good of luck to the 83 cyclist who have set off from West Yorkshire this morning on the ninth Jo Cox Way bike ride ? they be travel 280 mile down the country to London and celebrate all that we have in common through the power of cycling — include , sadly for the cyclist , probably quite a lot of sore leg and ache muscle . of course I wish they good luck . I admire they ; I be not sure I envy they — it be 280 mile — but it be a brilliant cause . the whole House miss our dear friend Jo , and I know that she would have be incredibly proud to have see this Government in place and would have play a big part it in . I welcome my hon . friend back to her place , and I know that she will continue in Jo ' s spirit , with the same dedication and determination . I think I be right in say that her parent — and , of course , Jo ' s parent — be in the Gallery today to see this first pmq . we will always have more in common than that which divide we . I call the leader of the Lib Dems . I welcome the Prime Minister to his place for his first Prime Minister ' s question . I associate myself and my party with the comment he make about the appalling attack on the soldier in Kent . our thought be with his family , friend and comrade . I also associate my party with his comment on Team GB — we want they to succeed in Paris . the Prime Minister have inherit many mess , and one be the scandal of the carer ' s allowance repayment . an example be my constituent Andrea , who be a full - time carer for her elderly mum . she go back to work part time — mainly for her mental health , she tell I — and be earn less than £ 7 , 000 a year . she have be hit by a bill from the Department for Work and Pensions for £ 4 , 600 . Andrea be just one of the ten of thousand of carer face these repayment . they be be punish for work and earn just a few pound more than the earning limit . will the Prime Minister agree to meet I and other family carer to try to resolve this matter ? I thank the right hon . member for raise this matter . he of course have be a tireless advocate for carer , and I do not think any of we could have be other than move when we see the video of he and his son that be put out during the election campaign . he talk about Team GB . I be glad that he be in a suit today , because we be more used to see he in a wetsuit . in relation to this issue , we have a more severe crisis than we think as we go through the book of the last 14 year and we must review — [ interruption . ] I know the Conservatives don ' t like it , but there be a reason the electorate reject they so profoundly . we will review the challenge that we face . we want to work with the sector and , where we can , across the House to create a national care service cover all these aspect , and we will start with a fair pay agreement for carer and those who work in the care sector . I be very happy to work across the House with all the people that care so passionately about this issue . I be grateful for the Prime Minister ' s response . I hope he will look at the matter of carer ' s allowance . family carer save the taxpayer £ 162 billion a year . if we get this right , many could go back into work . but there be another care crisis that be even big , and that be the crisis in social care . I be sure that , like I , he have hear about the million of people around the country for whom this be their big issue , as it have be for decade . after a once - in - a - century election , do he not think there be a once - in - a - century chance to fix social care and thus help our NHS ? I ask he to set up a cross - party commission on social care so that we can address this urgent matter . the right hon . member be right . it be a crisis , and I be sorry to have to report to the House that it be not the only crisis that we have inherit . there be crisis and failure absolutely everywhere , after 14 year of failure , that this Government of service will begin the hard yard of fixing , include in social care . we will work across the House , and we do endeavour to create a national care service . that will not be easy , but we can begin the first step and we will share that across the House where we can . for decade , my constituent Jack Taylor have be continuously ignore by previous government . he and other nuclear veteran have be deny access to their medical record and compensation . the Prime Minister have rightly say that these national hero deserve full accountability and justice . will he therefore consider support a special tribunal with statutory power on this 70 - year - long scandal ? can I first express my gratitude to the service personnel who participate in the british nuclear testing programme ? it be right that , I think , nearly 5 , 000 have now get their nuclear test medal in recognition of their service and that the veteran have the right to apply for no - fault compensation under the war pension scheme . I will ensure that a meeting on this issue be arrange for my hon . friend with the relevant Minister . may I again warmly congratulate the Prime Minister on end Tory rule ? in his campaign to do so , he be of course — [ interruption . ] the Tories be too close for comfort now . in his campaign to do so , he be join by Gordon Brown . just five day before the general election , on the front page of the Daily Record , Gordon Brown instruct voter in Scotland to vote labour to end child poverty , yet last night Labour mp from Scotland be instruct to retain the two - child cap , which force child into poverty . so , Prime Minister , what change ? I be glad that the right hon . Gentleman mention Gordon Brown , because the last Labour Government lift million of child out of poverty , which be something we be very proud of . this government will approach the question with the same vigour , with our new taskforce . we have already take step , include introduce breakfast club , abolish no - fault eviction and review the decent home standard — rise — order . prop be not allow — put it down . we do not need any more . we have already set up a taskforce to put that vigour in place , as well as introduce free breakfast club in every primary school , abolish no - fault eviction , review the decent home standard , adopt Awaab ' s law and have a plan to make work pay . before the right hon . Gentleman lecture everyone else , he should explain why , since the SNP come to power , there be 30 , 000 more child in poverty in Scotland . I be pleased to see the Government ' s swift action in officially call for an immediate ceasefire , the release of all hostage , a rapid increase of humanitarian aid into Gaza and the restoration of fund to the United Nations Relief and Works Agency , as well as their commitment to comply with potential International Criminal Court arrest warrant and to recognise a palestinian state , but too many innocent people be still die every day . nowhere in Gaza be safe , so what further pressure can the Prime Minister apply to bring about an urgent ceasefire ? both the Foreign Secretary and I have set out the urgent need for a ceasefire to Prime Minister Netanyahu . we want a pathway to a two - state solution , with a safe and secure Israel alongside a viable , sovereign palestinian state . I use my first overseas trip as Prime Minister , particularly at NATO , to raise this subject with world leader . under a Labour Government , it will be discuss , negotiate on and fight for at the high level on the world stage . the alternative be protest on street corner . ultimately , only one of those will deliver change . I congratulate the Prime Minister and welcome he to his place . I be sure he will want to reassure the many parent and teacher in Edinburgh West who have express concern about the implication for our state education system in Scotland of his proposal to levy vat on independent fee . Edinburgh city council , lead by the Labour party , have produce five - year projection that show we do not have capacity in the city to accommodate pupil who may leave the independent sector . moreover , how will he ensure that the vat raise from fee in Scotland can be reinveste in Scotland ' s already hard - press education system ? obviously , I understand the aspiration that parent who work hard and save hard have for the child they send to private school , but every parent have that aspiration , whichever school their child go to . I be determined that we will have the right teacher in place in our state secondary school to ensure that every child , wherever they come from and whatever their background , have the same opportunity , and I do not apologise for that . I welcome last week ' s announcement that the Government will introduce a new publicly own company , great British Energy . it will be critical to ensure this country ' s energy security while meet our climate goal and lower energy bill . will the Prime Minister assure community up and down the country that they will benefit from the good , skilled job opportunity that great british Energy promise to unlock ? I be pleased that great British Energy will be own by and for the british people , to invest in the energy system of the future . that mean cheap bill as renewable be cheap , it mean security so that Putin can not put his boot on our throat , and it mean the next generation of job for year to come . the Prime Minister have achieve something that we do not think would be possible in such a short period of time . in few than three week , he have have a significant rebellion and suspend seven of his member of Parliament — all for stand up against child poverty . and this from a Labour Government . the headline be awful for the Prime Minister this morning . poverty campaigner be furious with he . be his honeymoon over before it have even begin ? the SNP leave for the election campaign with a significant number of member and have come back with a small handful , so I do not think we need these lecture on what the electorate in Scotland be think . I be very proud of our Scottish Labour mps . I simply repeat the point that I make to the SNP leader , the right hon . member for Aberdeen South ( Stephen Flynn ) , that perhaps the SNP need to account for the 30 , 000 extra child in poverty in Scotland . the previous Conservative Government cut the funding for the police in London by one third , take £ 1 billion out of the budget for London ' s police and force the closure of both police station in the Chipping Barnet constituency . do the Prime Minister agree with I on the importance of our police station and on the need to rebuild local policing ? I welcome my hon . friend to his place . he be the first ever Labour MP for Chipping Barnet , and I know that he will serve his constituency with pride . our guarantee will put 13 , 000 extra neighbourhood officer and police community support officer back on Britain ' s street , and that be a fully fund plan . my hon . friend be right to say that the last government absolutely hammer police number and he will have see the impact of that in his constituency . it be tell that the former Justice Secretary say at the weekend that that could perhaps have be do differently . I be glad to see that the people of Chipping Barnet agree with that assessment and return my hon . friend for that constituency . my constituent in Great Yarmouth have little doubt that uncontrolle legal and illegal immigration since 1997 have damage and disrupt their community and undermine their public service . do the Prime Minister agree that import million of people with no thought whatever to the brutal consequence have fail our country ? I know the good people of Great Yarmouth would much appreciate a yes or no answer to this straightforward question . I be not sure that I agree with the hon . member ' s number , but I do think that it be serious that the previous Government lose control of our border . record number have cross the channel . when the Leader of the opposition be Prime Minister for 18 month , 50 , 000 people cross the channel . it be a serious issue that require a serious answer , which be why we will set up our border security command to take down the gang that be run this vile trade . what we will not do be waste further time on a gimmick that cost a fortune and remove just four volunteer . the Liverpool city region have one of the big concentration of offshore wind in the world , and 100 , 000 home could be power by the Mersey tidal project , yet some Opposition Members want to block the job , the low bill and the energy security that come with renewable energy . may I encourage my right hon . friend to resist the siren voice opposite and support a range of technology , include the Mersey tidal project , to maximise the benefit of clean energy for our country ? clean energy be at the heart of this mission - drive government . boost home - grow renewable energy be the good way to create new job and give we energy independence and low bill for good . that be why we will change the planning rule to make sure that we can get Britain build again — not just the house , but everything we need , include prison , to make sure that we can deal with the mess we have inherit . I be pleased to hear of the viable project that be be advanced , such as the Mersey tidal project , and we will look at they carefully . it be a privilege to be the first Conservative Back - Bench Member to ask the new Prime Minister a question at pmq . can he assure I and my constituent in Broxbourne that they will have not just a say , but a meaningful say , over new development in the green belt in their area ? I welcome the hon . member to his place . let I be clear : we intend to get Britain building . we will change the planning regime in order to do so ; it have hold we back for far too long . young people have not be able to own a home until they be way past the age of 35 , deny they the basic dream of home ownership . of course we will work with community , but we will take the tough decision that the last Government run away from . we have much to be proud of in Ipswich , from a thriving art and culture scene to beautiful park and a stunning waterfront . unlike our friend over the border in Norfolk , we also now have a premier league football team again ; the Prime Minister be very welcome to join we when Arsenal visit next year . despite all those positive , after the last 14 year , our town centre be really struggle and desperately need help . can the Prime Minister set out to this House the step that he will take to revive town centre like Ipswich ' s ? I welcome my hon . friend to his place , and congratulate Ipswich on their promotion . I think it be on box day that they will visit Arsenal . I be go to resist the temptation that he put in front of I to choose between Ipswich and Norwich , but on town centre , he be right that we need vibrant high street . we need to make the change that we be vote in to bring about . that be why we will replace the business rate system to level the play field , and we will absolutely address regional inequality through our local growth plan . the UK be one of the most nature - deplete country on Earth , so I welcome the Government ' s signal that they be commit to nature recovery . that be critical to humanity ' s future , as it affect everything from food security to public health and wellbeing . please could the Prime Minister tell we how he will show leadership personally on this existential issue ? in particular , will he attend the 16th biodiversity cop later this year , and will the UK Government be launch a bid to host a future UN nature summit ? we be commit to nature recovery ; it be a really important issue that this Government will tackle . the hon . member talk about leadership . I would ask he to show some , because it be extraordinary that have be elect to this House as a Green politician , he be oppose vital clean energy infrastructure in his own constituency . we will put the plan before this House . I ask he to back those plan . on Sunday night , at a community event in north Kensington attend by hundred of people , 15 - year - old Rene Graham be shoot and kill in a senseless act of violence . my heart go out to his family and the wide community , who be feel anxious , frightened and shocked . can the Prime Minister ensure that north Kensington get support from the Government at this difficult time , and can he outline what measure the Government will take to tackle gun violence and prevent young life like Rene ' s from be take in the future ? I welcome my hon . friend to his place , and thank he for raise this awful case . the loss of a teenage boy in west London be shocking , and our thought — I be sure I speak for the whole House — be with his family and friend . I urge the public to support the Metropolitan police with any information that could help in their investigation , which be ongoing . make street safe be one of the five central mission of this Government , and this be a shocking reminder of just how important that mission be . we have an ambition to drive down this sort of violence in our community . we do not want intervention like this , as we have have over the last few year . it be shocking to hear of this particular incident . the last Government invest massively in Teesside , most recently commit £ 1 billion to improve transport in our area . that money will protect the future of our iconic transporter bridge , upgrade Thornaby train station , create a new transport hub at Teesside Park , and much , much more . can the Prime Minister confirm whether we be still get our £ 1 billion , or be labour turn its back on Teesside ? the hon . Gentleman talk about Labour turn its back ; I think he be the sole remain Tory MP in the north - east or Teesside . I have already take an early opportunity to make our commitment clear to the plan that we need for economic growth across the country . we will be work with all the mayor who be in place , include those who wear a different rosette . that be the way we will take this forward . in a week when the National Police Chiefs ' Council declare violence against woman and girl a national emergency , Sky News have today publish appal account of sexual harassment and violence against woman paramedic . can the Prime Minister please update the House on progress towards the mission board to finally tackle this scourge in our society ? I thank my hon . friend for raise this ; it be such a serious issue . we have make a commitment — a mission — to halve violence against woman and girl . I know from my experience deal with these case , as a prosecutor and subsequently , just how hard that will be to achieve . we will have to deliver in a different way ; we will have to roll up our sleeve and do difficult thing that have not be do in the past . in answer to the specific question , we have already start work on the delivery board , and I look forward to update my hon . friend and the House on our progress on this really important issue . final question : Sir Roger Gale . thank you , Mr Deputy Speaker — Mr Speaker . [ interruption . ] another freudian slip ! the old dog be off the leash . may I first thank the Prime Minister and the Leader of the Opposition for their supportive policy in relation to Ukraine ? their expression today will have be of great comfort to the thousand of ukrainian resident in the United Kingdom who simply wish to return to their lawful home . far to the answer to my hon . friend the Member for Broxbourne ( Lewis Cocking ) , can the Prime Minister tell the House how his planning reform , which will smother with house field in east Kent that currently yield wheat for bread , be compatible with the desire of his own Secretary of State for Environment , Food and Rural Affairs to achieve sustainability ? I thank the right hon . gentleman for that question . we have to get economic growth in this country . we have have failure over the last 14 year to build the infrastructure , the house and the prison we need , and the failure on economic growth have be central to that . there have be failure , and I think the whole House can see the consequence . we have prison overcrowding ; emergency measure have have to be take because the building of prison have not keep pace with the sentencing of people to prison . we have a housing crisis ; for most young people , the dream of home ownership be simply go under the previous Government . for someone to be over the age of 35 before they can get a secure roof of their own over their head be a huge dashing of dream . [ interruption . ] we be not go to listen to the Conservatives . they put their case to the electorate , and the electorate reject they profoundly . have stand at the Opposition Dispatch Box for four and a half long year , my advice be that when you get reject that profoundly by the electorate , it be good not to go back to they and tell they that they be wrong ; it be good to reflect , and change your approach and your party . point of order on a point of order , Mr Speaker . in his question to the Prime Minister , the newly elect hon . member for Chipping Barnet ( Dan Tomlinson ) make what be , I be sure — I be certain — an inadvertent inaccuracy in his claim about the funding of the Metropolitan police , which be the well - fund force , both in absolute term and per capita . the Mayor of London be offer £ 62 million with which to fund it , which he fail to use because of lack of recruitment . my broad point be whether advice can be give to new and , indeed , return member about how to correct the record when they make an erroneous claim on the Floor of the House . first , the right hon . Gentleman have put on record his view . we be not go to continue the debate , and it be up to individual member to correct the record if there have be an error in what have be say . International Immunities and Privileges 12 . 40 pm I beg to move , that the draft Global Combat Air Programme International Government Organisation ( Immunities and Privileges ) Order 2024 , which be lay before this House on 23 May , in the last Session of Parliament , be approve . it be my pleasure as the Minister responsible for the Indo - Pacific in the Foreign , Commonwealth and Development Office to speak on behalf of the Government . in December 2022 , the UK , Japan and Italy launch the global combat air programme , know as GCAP , to deliver a next - generation aircraft by 2035 . the Prime Minister reaffirm the Government ' s commitment to promote co - operation and collaboration between the UK and Italy on 5 July with the italian Prime Minister , Giorgia Meloni , and between the UK and Japan on 6 July with the japanese Prime Minister , Fumio Kishida . in the call to Japan , our Prime Minister concur that the security of the Euro - Atlantic and the Indo - Pacific be indivisible . his Majesty ' s Government be commit to ensure the security of the Indo - Pacific , work closely with our ally . for the UK , the aircraft will sit at the heart of a wide system ; it will be network and will collaborate with a range of wide air capability , include the F - 35 , and broad military capability . it will use information system , weapon and uncrewed collaborative combat air platform to complete the capability . replace the capability provide by Typhoon , this system will sustain the UK ' s operational advantage . in addition , GCAP will attract investment in research and development on digital design and advanced manufacture process , provide opportunity for our next generation of highly skilled engineer and technician . will the Minister give way ? I will continue , if the right hon . Gentleman allow . the signing of the convention on the establishment of the GCAP international government organisation , commonly know as the GIGO , by the party of the UK , Japan and Italy take place in December 2023 and be conduct by the Defence Secretaries of those three nation . the GIGO will function as the executive body , with the legal capacity to place contract with industrial partner engage in GCAP . through the GIGO , the UK will lead on the development of an innovative stealth fighter jet with supersonic capability and equip with cutting - edge technology , and will facilitate collaboration with key international partner that raise the profile of the UK ' s combat air industrial capacity . the GIGO headquarters will be base in the UK , employ personnel from the UK , Italy and Japan . the chief executive and director post shall be fill by national of different party accord to a mechanism that shall preserve a balance between the party . give the nature of the GIGO as an international defence organisation , the Ministry of Defence , with support from the Foreign , Commonwealth and Development Office , have be lead on trilateral engagement and negotiation on its establishment . the convention , once in effect , will enable close collaboration between the party — the government of Japan , Italy and the UK — and support the development of his Majesty ' s Government ' s defence capability , stimulate by development of the UK - base headquarters . that will enable further collaboration with key industry partner , with the headquarters support hundred of job , and work in close partnership with Rolls - Royce , Leonardo UK , MBDA UK , and hundred of other company across the UK in the supply chain , to deliver GCAP . will the Minister give way ? I be come to an end , and then there be 90 minute for debate . this order in Council be a statutory instrument and form part of the secondary legislation need to confer legal capacity and privilege and immunity on the GCAP international government organisation and accord certain privilege and immunity to the organisation ' s personnel and the representative of the party to the convention . the order be lay in draft before Parliament on 23 May 2024 — rise — order . to clarify , it be not my decision whether to allow intervention ; it be up to the Minister . I would say that normally the shadow Secretary of State would get in , but it be up to the Minister whether she give way . if the shadow Secretary of State want to say something , I would be happy to allow he , follow your advice , Mr Speaker . I be very grateful to the Minister . can she confirm that there will be no delay to the Ministry of Defence ' s currently plan spending on GCAP this year ? to be clear to Members new and old , this instrument be the legal framework within which the programme will sit . it do not have specific funding recommendation attach to it because it be the scaffolding , or the nest , within which all the work will happen . this order be lay before Parliament in draft on 23 May 2024 . it be subject to the affirmative procedure and will be make by the Privy Council once it be approve by both Houses . subject to approval and ratification , the treaty will enter into force on the deposit of the last instrument of ratification or acceptance of the party . that be anticipate to be in autumn 2024 to meet the 2035 in - service date . this order confer a bespoke set of privilege and immunity to enable the GIGO to operate effectively in the UK . the Government consider those privilege and immunity both necessary and appropriate to deliver on the interest and commitment that the UK have towards the organisation . I be not a Minister , but I be for three year . will the Minister give way ? as the right hon . Gentleman have so much experience on the Defence Committee , I be happy to take his point . I thank the Minister for give way . she be a Foreign Office Minister head this up , I believe , not a Defence Minister , which be interesting , but it be an international agreement . can she tell the House whether , because of the threat to the programme from the defence review , she have have any representation from the japanese Government or the italian Government , our two other major programme partner , to express their concern about any threat to GCAP ? the right hon . Gentleman ask an important question . I can confirm that this be the legal framework around which the programme will sit . I can also confirm that the Defence Secretary yesterday meet with his japanese counterpart at the show and they be able to have far interesting discussion . the right hon . Gentleman will be able to continue his questioning when he be surely once again a member of the Defence Committee in the autumn . many job in our constituency depend on contract with the Kingdom of Saudi Arabia , which be also interested in GCAP . what conversation have be have with Saudi Arabia , particularly in the light of the procrastination by the Prime Minister on this programme — reaffirm , if I be honest , by the Minister today in her remark ? the right hon . Member ask an important question , but there have be no procrastination . within a month of be elect , we have get the legal framework to the House of Commons for a debate , expedite all the important organisational arrangement so that the programme can proceed at pace . he talk of procrastination , and after 14 year , I be sure he be a master of procrastination as part of the last government . the privilege and immunity confer on agency personnel and representative be not for their personal advantage , but to ensure complete independence in the exercise of their function in connection with GCAP . to be clear , agency personnel have no personal immunity if they commit a crime and there be a clear carve - out ensure that they have no immunity in any vehicle incident . the immunity in respect of the GIGO cover immunity from suit and legal process , inviolability of premise and archive , and appropriate tax exemption and relief in relation to official activity . in respect of representative of the party and staff , the provision cover functional immunity and an immunity waiver . additionally , the order include an exemption from the legal suit and process immunity in the case of a motor traffic offence or damage cause by a motor vehicle . that be a standard clause include in statutory instrument and treaty to provide for privilege and immunity . the support for the GIGO ' s establishment ensure through the order be a unique opportunity to showcase UK leadership and innovation in the air force defence industry on a global stage . through the GIGO the UK will lead on the development of an innovative stealth fighter jet with supersonic capability and equip with cutting - edge technology , and facilitate collaboration with key international partner that raise the profile of the UK ' s combat air industrial capacity . there be much to be welcome in the Minister ' s speech . at the very beginning , she refer to a number of aircraft company that will be involve across the whole of the United Kingdom . my understanding — maybe she can confirm this — be that Spirit AeroSystems will also be involve . if that be the case , it mean that everybody in this great United Kingdom of Great and Britain and Northern Ireland will benefit from the job and opportunity . obviously the specific of the supply chain and so on be not really part of the order , but we be aware that that be an important part of our industrial puzzle , and I be sure that there will be some knock - on benefit for Northern Ireland . the hon . Gentleman be a fierce defender of job and opportunity in that wonderful place . the first duty of Government be to keep the country safe . under this Government , defence will be central both to the UK ' s security and to our economic prosperity and growth , include by harness the strength of our well - establish defence industry . the GIGO be key to GCAP , and the UK Government continue to make positive progress with our partner Japan and Italy . I commend the order to the House . I call the shadow Secretary of State for Defence . may I associate the shadow Defence team with the remark from the Prime Minister and Leader of the Opposition about the terrible attack on a british solider in Kent ? our thought be with his family . I can confirm that we support the measure before we and recognise that they be necessary to deliver into law the administrative governance of the global combat air programme . although this be a Foreign Office measure , the statutory instrument be prepare with strong input from the Ministry of Defence — it certainly cross my desk when I be Minister for Defence Procurement . may I put on the record that it be a great honour to serve in that role — with significant responsibility in relation to GCAP — alongside the two previous Secretaries of State , Ben Wallace and Grant Shapps . it be a privilege to engage with our international gcap partner from Italy and Japan , whom I have the pleasure of host last September in Lancaster House for trilateral discussion . this be not just about deliver UK military capability in the crucial area of combat air , but about do so to the benefit of two great partner , and , in the case of Japan , one that face the threat of China and Russia right on its doorstep . since that trilateral , the project have achieve significant goal , not least the signing of the international treaty last December that we be legislate for today . the treaty establish the legal basis for the formation of a new GCAP international organisation , the GIGO . I be delighted that we be able to agree that the international HQ of the GIGO will be in the UK , but that , in keep with the spirit of equal partnership that underpin GCAP , the first chief executive of the GCAP agency and joint venture be from Italy and Japan . as such , the SI before we effectively enable this international treaty to enter into effect , with further important measure on immunity and privilege that be necessary for the effective operation of the GIGO . all that say , although the SI be necessary to deliver GCAP ' s governance arrangement , it will not directly deliver a single aircraft . alongside this SI , we need the Government to back the GCAP programme wholeheartedly by ensure that it have the funding necessary to deliver our sixth - generation fighter capability . indeed , it would be quite extraordinary for the Government to ask we as a House to approve the regulation if they be at the same time seriously contemplate scrap UK involvement in GCAP . yet that prospect have figure prominently in the press in recent day . while the good of british defence aviation have be gather at the Royal International Air tattoo and Farnborough , incredibly the Government have not be able to repeat the wholehearte backing of GCAP that they give prior to the general election . in respond to the statement from his predecessor Grant Shapps on 18 December last year , when he confirm the trilateral agreement for the GCAP treaty , the now Defence Secretary say : " develop a sixth - generation fighter will ensure that we can continue to safeguard our UK sky and those of our NATO ally for decade to come . it will inspire innovation , strengthen UK industry and keep Britain at the cutting edge of defence technology . " I totally agree with his remark . yet fast - forward to the present , and , as we have just hear at Prime Minister ' s question , the Prime Minister be only able to say that the programme be " important . " meanwhile , the Minister for the Armed Forces , the hon . member for Plymouth Sutton and Devonport ( Luke Pollard ) , who be on the Front Bench and for whom I have great personal respect , say : " it ' s not right for I to prejudge what might happen in the defence review " . he thus imply that the defence review might not continue the UK ' s commitment to GCAP . we now need clarity from the Government for Parliament , industry and our international partner . we be be ask to approve this SI to deliver a key step - stone to the GCAP project , so be the Government still commit to it ? this be my guess about what be currently happen . I would be truly stagger if the Government be to withdraw from a programme that they have previously give such full support — not because theirs be a party that do not know a good u - turn , but because it would bring international ramification that do not bear think about either for the Foreign Office or the Ministry of Defence . rather , in my view , we need to have in mind another Department — one that I have also have the pleasure of serve in — the Treasury . I suspect that the overall question of whether the Government be commit to GCAP be a red herring . what really matter be whether they be commit to fund it this year , with important spending decision to be make right now . they will be in the inbox of the Secretary of State , under " funding decision on GCAP . " we want the Government to continue that funding in the year beyond , and we want to know whether they be use the review as a chance to shift spending decision to the right . it be not unprecedented in the history of the Treasury for it to work in that way under successive government , probably . it might offer illusory short - term saving , but it would cause immediate and lasting pain to the most important conventional defence programme of our time . to be clear — and I mean this — I have the great respect for the way the Treasury have to balance the book and be responsible for the nation ' s finance . I be delighted that the previous Government propose move to 2 . 5 % once it be affordable — we be prepared to make difficult decision to fund that 2 . 5 % by reduce the size of the civil service to pre - pandemic level — and once it be sustainable . far from this Government inherit what the Chief Secretary to the Treasury have describe as the " bad economic inheritance " since world war two , we do what we promise and move to 2 . 5 % only once the economic condition allow — namely , when inflation be back to target , with healthy economic growth and a deficit head towards a little over 1 % over the forecast period . that be our clear pathway to 2 . 5 % versus Labour ' s uncertainty and delay , which make the real difference . to understand the direct short - term importance of 2 . 5 % and its relevance to GCAP and this statutory instrument , we need only go back to what the Secretary of State say the response to the statement from his predecessor Grant Shapps in December . he say : " this month , the National Audit Office report on the MOD ' s equipment plan . it expose a £ 17 billion black hole in Britain ' s defence plan and show that Ministers have lose control of the defence budget . " — [ Official Report , 18 December 2023 ; Vol . 742 , c . 1137 . ] it be not so much that we lose control of the defence budget ; rather , Putin invade Ukraine and send inflation soar all around the world . in a world that be then in a rush to rearm , that context cause an inevitable hit to the cost of major defence project and mat é riel . I have never pretend otherwise . bear in mind that the equipment plan — the MOD ' s forward inventory — account for over 10 year , the NAO ' s assessment of a black hole do not take account of one thing : move to 2 . 5 % by 2030 . as I say in my wind up to the Thursday ' s debate on the Gracious Speech , by set out a fully cost and clearly timetable pathway to 2 . 5 % , we be able to deal with those funding pressure head on , and ensure that our large two programme — the nuclear deterrent and GCAP — would be stabilise , and , as a result , properly fund into the future . I ask the Foreign Office Minister who respond to my to confirm that the Government ' s timetable would not put funding of either programme at risk . there be no answer , and we have have no answer today , either . that be the problem . the Government can afford to bring forward this SI and to continue build the administrative apparatus for GCAP , but we fear that they can not afford to approve the funding requirement for the next stage of build the actual aircraft , because of their vacillation on reach 2 . 5 % . we Conservatives be clear that we support the SI on the basis that we be also support GCAP as a whole , include by put in place the funding necessary to deliver its requirement over the urgent timescale that all three member nation require . that be a key point : for all three nation , GCAP be all about pace and timetable . for the UK and Italy , that mean replace the Typhoon before it be withdraw from service towards 2040 ; for Japan , with equal urgency , it mean replace the Mitsubishi F - 2 . that be why any delay or deferment , whether cause by the lack of a clear timetable to 2 . 5 % or otherwise , be so important and critical . overall , it be my view that withdraw from GCAP now would be the equivalent of scrap the spitfire programme in the 1930 . it be that serious . however , if such an outcome be seriously under consideration — and we know that there be those in government who be hugely sceptical — I will explain why we be ultimately support this SI . it be because we on the conservative Benches believe that GCAP be a military necessity that will bring enormous economic and strategic benefit to the United Kingdom . to start with the military capability argument , if there be one key lesson from Ukraine , it be that in the absence of air superiority we face the prospect of terrible attritional warfare with huge casualty , reminiscent of the bad battle of world war two . I know it be think very far into the future , but do my hon . friend accept that one of the lesson from the Ukraine conflict , where we have have to give indirect support , be the importance of maintain aircraft that we have withdraw from service — in mothball , if necessary — so that they can be make available to ally , should they ever face a crisis such as this one ? when the happy day come that we have these great sixth - generation aircraft , can we be certain that we have not unduly dispose of their predecessor , in case someone else need they in future ? my right hon . friend ' s question be an interesting one . whenever I be in front of the Select Committee — it be always a great joy and privilege to be cross - examine , particularly by my colleague on the conservative Benches — there be always a debate about when we withdraw platform and when we bring in their replacement . that will never go away , and I wish the Armed Forces Minister well when he have the unique privilege and experience of go in front of the Committee . what I would say to my right hon . friend be that we have to accept that , as a matter of avionic reality , the Typhoon will reach the end of its service life , and we as a country have to replace it . GCAP be key to that , with the construction of the new core platform . while invest in the good combat air capability do not guarantee air superiority in the future , it offer we the chance to deny adversary such potentially deadly freedom of operation by maintain technological competitiveness . however , there be those who ask , " why don ' t we simply go off - the - shelf and buy more f - 35s ? " I notice similar view be express in the Daily Telegraph this very day , and there be even a rumour that some Government Departments , such as those I mention early , may take a view along those line . we must be clear that the F - 35 , while a brilliant and highly capable aircraft , be a fifth - generation platform , not a sixth - generation one . it be not optimise for the battle space that be likely to pertain by the late 2030 , and the United States — which , after all , possesse and manufacture the F - 35 — be itself invest in a sixth - generation programme , as be our adversary . I commend the shadow Minister for what he be say : his great focus on the issue of modern technology , our company and what they be involve with . I know that he have a tremendous interest in Northern Ireland — he visit there regularly in his former role in government . can he give we some suggestion about the role that aerospace in Northern Ireland could , and will , play in find a way forward ? I be very grateful to the hon . Gentleman , who be an absolute champion of the defence industry in Northern Ireland . he be right : one of my last visit be to the Thales factory in Belfast , which of course be home to the next - generation light anti - tank weapon , the lightweight multirole missile , and other key munition . in term of aerospace , the first small and medium - sized enterprise forum that I hold as Defence Procurement Minister be in Larne in Northern Ireland , on Armed Forces Day last year . Spirit be one of the attendee , and I be confident that it have a strong place in the future of british aviation in the defence sector , as long as we put the funding in place and keep with the programme . have say all that , there must obviously be debate when we be spend this amount of money on a capability , and I understand why there be those who question the sum of money involve , the timeframe and so on . to be clear , as a former Defence Procurement Minister , I would not support a programme that be purely about spend such a vast amount of money just on a new core platform to replace Typhoon . that bring we to what GCAP be really about , which the Minister mention in her opening remark , to her credit . on one of my last visit to a land company — a company manufacture armoured vehicle for this country — the chief executive I speak to refer to the GCAP of land . the point be that , although the " a " stand for air , when we talk about GCAP in military capability term , it be equally about how we work with autonomous and uncrewed system . that be the key to the sixth - generation concept . I be very passionate about this issue — I be proud to bring forward the first defence drone strategy at the Ministry of Defence — and although there be those who be concerned about the timeframe , I would just make the follow point . first , the timescale for deliver GCAP be very ambitious compare with that of Typhoon ; secondly , we can gain capability benefit from GCAP on a much short timescale . we have hear the Chief of the General Staff talk about the need for the Army to be able to fight a war within three year , and when I be Defence Procurement Minister , I be keen to ensure that all the service be look at what they could do to boost lethality and survivability in the near term . surely , the key to that be how we make use of uncrewed system . the United Kingdom be incredibly well place in that regard : we jointly lead the maritime coalition in respect of Ukraine alongside Norway . of course , Ukraine ' s great military success have be naval , have push back the russian fleet use what we might describe as innovative weapon rather than traditional naval deployment . likewise on land , the incredible importance of drone can not be overstate , include the psychological impact on those who be fight out there . I totally agree with what the former Minister be say about the requirement for and necessity of sixth - generation aircraft , as well as about maintain sovereign capability . however , do he agree that it seem peculiar that the Americans be develop their own sixth - generation aircraft with Lockheed Martin , the French and the Germans be develop their own sixth - generation aircraft as well , and we have forge this strange partnership with the Italians and the Japanese to develop GCAP ? do the Minister think that make sense , in term of pool effort and make sure that our ally have at least one good sixth - generation fighter aircraft ? I be grateful to the hon . gentleman for his question , but I do not regard it as a strange partnership . all my experience of deal with GCAP and meet my italian and japanese counterpart , particularly industry representative from all three country , and work so closely together — there be already so much work go on — tell I that this be about develop a brilliant platform that be need by all three nation . there will always be a multiplicity of platform from different country , which I think be perfectly healthy . what be good about the hon . Gentleman ' s question be that he have open up the debate about sovereign capability , which I will come to shortly . I just want to finish my point about the uncrewed domain , and what it mean to be sixth - generation . before my hon . friend do so , would he give way very briefly ? of course — it be a pleasure . my hon . friend be a very good Defence Procurement Minister , and we on the Committee like he because , crikey , he actually answer the question . he will know from that experience that even the Americans , who have a new thing call the next generation air dominance fighter , be struggle to afford it ; there have be medium report in the US that they may even cancel that programme , because even the Americans can not afford to do everything unilaterally anymore . in the light of that , do my hon . friend believe that a three - way programme represent good value for money ? my right hon . friend , who not only serve on the Committee but be an Armed Forces Minister , make an excellent point . there be those who argue that we should go beyond 2 . 5 % ; I would argue that 2 . 5 % be still a significant jump for this country . we have a fund plan , and that 2 . 5 % — crucially and critically , with the pathway we set out , which become an accumulation of significant additional billion of pound for the MOD — enable we to afford GCAP and stabilise that programme . I want to make one crucial point about the uncrewed domain . to be frank , for the uncrewed side of the Navy , Army and Air Force , those programme be not fund : hitherto , the funding have come primarily from support for Ukraine . that be entirely logical because , under the defence drone strategy , we be very clear that there be no point in the Army , for example , order large - scale drone now ; it might order they to train with , but the technology be change so fast . what we as a country need to build , as I set out in the drone strategy , be the ecosystem to develop those drone , and we be do that . I have always say — I say it during my statement on the integrate procurement model — that my most inspiring moment as Defence Procurement Minister be visit a UK SME that be build a drone for use in Ukraine . it be a highly capable platform , but brilliantly , it be get feedback and spiral it — as we call it — the very next day . on GCAP , it should be a technology for the whole of defence — it should be a pan - defence technology of how we team with uncrewed system , how the Navy fight with an uncrewed fleet above and below the surface , for the Army and of course for the Air Force . I have two final point on military capability , as a couple of point have be float around in the press . the first be that the Army be put out its opposition to GCAP . I find that idea impossible to believe . of course , if the Army want to succeed , it need the support of the Air Force and so on . that be why an integrated approach to procurement be so important , not single service competition . there have also be the point that we should choose between GCAP and AUKUS , as if , when the next war come , the Russians will step into our dressing room and ask if we would like to bowl or bat : would we like to fight on land or sea — what be our preference ? the fact be that we do not know where the threat will come from , but we know that it be grow , so we should support both GCAP and AUKUS , not least for the enormous economic benefit they bring . you will be pleased to know , Mr Speaker , that that bring I to the last part of my speech , on the economic benefit of GCAP . there be those who say we should buy off the shelf . we would stress how , in a state of ever great war readiness , it pay to have operational independence and sovereignty . in particular , invest in the great tradition of UK combat air offer huge economic gain for every part of the country . in 2020 , PricewaterhouseCoopers estimate that the Tempest programme alone would support an average of 20 , 000 job every year from 2026 until 2050 . those be well - pay job in every constituency up and down the country — include many in Lancashire , as you will know , Mr Speaker . scrap GCAP would hit our economy hard . even delay or defer GCAP expenditure would undermine our brilliant aerospace industry , which be on display this past week at the Royal International Air tattoo in Farnborough , and cast doubt over the vast sum of private investment that be wait , from which hundred of UK sme stand to benefit . an interesting point be raise by the Leader of the opposition when ask the Prime Minister about export and discussion with the Kingdom of Saudi Arabia . it be an incredibly important point . I be clear that , in reform procurement , we have to have exportability at the heart of it because otherwise industrial supply chain wither . it be as simple as that . the demand from this country be not big enough . this have be the french lesson for many year , which be why they have put so much effort into export , and we need to do the same — whether it be GCAP , or any other platform or capability manufacture by the United Kingdom . to undermine GCAP be to undermine our economy , our future war - fight capability and relation with our close international partner . the Government should instead embrace GCAP wholeheartedly and confirm that they stand by their previous position of steadfast support . then they should commit to a clear timetable on 2 . 5 % , so that we can turbocharge the programme by invest not only in the core platform , but in the associated technology of autonomous collaboration and a digital system of system approach , enable the mass and rapid absorption of battlespace datum . to conclude , the good way to win the next war be to deter it from happen in the first place . part of our overall deterrence posture be to signal to our adversary our preparedness to always be ready to out - compete their technology . how can we send that deterrent signal if we have such mixed message on our large conventional military programme ? we support this statutory instrument , we support GCAP and we support the powerful gain it will give to the United Kingdom ' s economic and military strength . order . can I gently say that I welcome the very thorough response from the opposition , but the shadow Minister do take twice as long as the Minister ? I do have other speaker on his own side who also want to get in , so please just work to make sure we can get everybody in . we now come to a maiden speech — I call Calvin Bailey . I thank the shadow Minister for his speech . Mr Speaker , thank you very much for give I this opportunity to speak . it appear that for once my sense of timing have be impeccable . have complete 24 year and seven month of service in the Royal Air Force , I have arrive on time , uniquely place as the only person who could sequence their maiden speech in amongst a debate about military aircraft . unfortunately , as my hon . friend the Member for Bootle ( Peter Dowd ) suggest in his riposte to the King ' s Speech , I will not be wear a silk smoking jacket . it be a life of service to this House that also characterise my predecessor ' s career . a loved politician , John Cryer give 14 year of service to the constituency of Leyton and Wanstead , and nine year as Member for Hornchurch before that . he be a fine parliamentarian and , more importantly , a fine socialist , like his mother and father before he . his incredible commitment to the parliamentary Labour party as its chair for the past nine year be instrumental in help we get to where we be today . while he now move on to the other place , I be certain that his child , and his family ' s legacy , will follow in his footstep in year to come . this sentiment of service be something that resonate deeply with I . service be fundamental to who I be , and it be fundamental to the Government and to my commitment to the wonderful constituency of Leyton and Wanstead . I be here because my constituent place their trust in I , a trust for which I be grateful , and which I will repay with service and a commitment to ensure they be represent in this place to the full of my ability . at the centre of my constituency be Leytonstone , at the heart of which be our beloved Whipps Cross hospital . whipp have serve our constituency for 121 year , during which time its NHS staff — quiet professional — have give selflessly for those in need within our community . yet this hospital be emblematic of 14 year of fail Tory commitment and lack of investment . its rebuilding be central to my tenure as an MP . Leytonstone be also a cradle for talent , have be home to notable figure such as my namesake David Bailey and Cartrain , and sport star Jo Fenn , Andros Townsend and David Beckham . Leytonstone be the home , of RAF pedigree , of Douglas Webb DFM , the front gunner in the famous dam buster raid , and more lately , of James Sjoberg , the officer command 47 Squadron . leverage this rich heritage to inspire our youth and give they pathway to success be a personal commitment of mine . opportunity like these be scarce for young people like I . create similar pathway for our youth will be central to my service . Leytonstone be also home to one of the most financially deprive area in the country , but it be a spirited community that seek to heal itself . community leadership from Cann Hall mosque ensure the provision to all local people of a much - need food bank and a youth group . similarly , at St Margaret with St Columba , other gather to preserve a sense of community despite their obvious hardship . community spirit be also strong in South Woodford and Wanstead . if Whipps be the heart of our constituency , Wanstead park be its lung and the river rode its vein . wanstead park be part of our historic Epping forest , which be save by campaigner such as Octavia Hill , founder of the National Trust , and the spirit of activism and preservation continue in the Wanstead Community Gardeners , the South Woodford Society and the ever - popular Wanstead fringe festival . to the south be Leyton , home of Leyton Orient football club . the o ' s and their trust embody the good of our community . from their sacrifice in the pal regiment in the first world war to their work with Waltham Forest Age UK , they support our vulnerable veteran . the club be also proud to celebrate our diverse community , epitomise by Laurie Cunningham , the club ' s first black player . his legacy continue to inspire , as do the leadership of Omar Beckles in improve representation in football . such leadership be reflective of the club ' s leadership in the establishment of governance for our footballe world . effort such as these be key to I . visible role model and leadership be essential for diverse community . without these inspirational character , young black people like I will not see themselves in place of power . I reflect on the very low number of black man in our politic , despite an increase in representation across all ethnic group . address this be key to fix the inequality that face young people , particularly in the area of knife crime . a pivotal moment in my upbringing be the murder of Stephen Lawrence . while we be aware of the continue failure to provide justice to my friend Stuart ' s family , we all know of the institutional failing that have lead to this . I want to point all member to a number of thing surround this that be formative for I . first , the absence of representation inhibit our ability to hear voice and understand the challenge face by other like we . I reflect during the campaign that when I be young I carry a knife , not because I wish to attack anyone , but because I be scared and feel that the fate that have befall my friend ' s brother could happen to I and other like I . mistakenly , I assume that I could look after myself similarly , but sadly , we know that be not the case , and that those who carry knife be more likely to be kill themselves . we need people like I to translate those experience into policy . secondly , and in some way most importantly , I look back with great upset and anger on how this matter be politicise by extreme group . our anger and upset be channel by populist who manipulate we for their own political end . those voice be present in our House and vocal in our politic , and we must challenge they openly to prevent those actor from foster anger , hate and division within our community . I fear it be our great threat to democracy , and we must be fundamental in our moderation . we must challenge those behaviour without fear , openly , separate they from the underlie issue . finally , what see I through that period in my life , and through a highly decorate fly career in the Royal Air Force , be the two thing I value most : first , my friend ; and secondly , my family . my mother and father instill in I the value and virtue of service and humanity ; my sister shape I and help I to see the world through the eye of a woman . my friend shepherd I through school , college and university , and through every difficult challenge in my life . but it be my wife who have support I steadfastly through a military career and grow our wonderful family . I love she deeply and will never be able to thank she enough . the reason I be here be my service not just as a Member of this House but to our nation in the RAF . I have choose to speak in this debate because I recall as a young engineering student learning of the failing of the Duncan Sandys defence review , which do deep and lasting damage to our aerospace industry and industrial base . already we have hear voice state that our commitment to this programme be a fallacy , but acceptance of that be merely acceptance of a failure to manage defence programme and the company contract to deliver they . it be not gcap that be a fallacy , but the way we contract and manage such programme . our interaction with defence prime must change . we must encourage risk taking , because without it there be no innovation . we must not allow the customer to set the demand for technology that the customer itself can not conceive . we must be a Government who well understand science , and we need an industry that be incentivise with accountability . we have the sixth large defence budget in the world . we must get our money ' s worth , and we must make sure that our money lead to our security and not to excess corporate bonus . for that reason , the remark by the Minister for the Armed Forces about the sanctity of the defence review be key . we can not allow defence simply to be buy out of its overspend . this be an exciting programme with two close and value partner , and the Government ' s defence review be critical to it . I call the liberal Democrat spokesperson . it be an absolute honour to follow the hon . and gallant Member for Leyton and Wanstead ( Mr Bailey ) . he have deliver an excellent maiden speech , and it be an example to every new , and old , Member of this House that he should set out his love and affection for the place where he live and where he have clearly spend many happy year . it be obviously a custom in this House to use the term " honourable and gallant " for somebody who have serve , but in the case of the hon . member it have particular resonance , because he receive an MBE a decade ago in recognition of meritorious , gallant , and distinguish service . he make a tremendous speech , and the whole House will have hear he talk about the importance of a new hospital to his constituency , and about the scourge of knife crime , and his own personal reflection on why young people carry knife . we will all reflect on his thought and comment as he make they in the month and year to come . I welcome the Minister of State to her place , and congratulate she on her new role at the Foreign , Commonwealth and Development Office . give that she shadow that role for some time , I feel hopeful that she have a good understanding of our partnership not just in Europe but in east and south - east Asia , and that they be safe with she . on behalf of the Liberal Democrats I welcome the Government ' s announcement that they remain committed to the global combat air programme . I also welcome the presence in the King ' s Speech of the strategic defence review . reflect on the speech that we have just hear , it be essential that we go through a strategic defence review every time we have a serious change of Government , as we have have after 14 year . it be encouraging to hear that the review will be publish soon , within the first half of next year . Professor Michael Clarke point out that this be the 12th defence review to have take place since the end of the cold war , and that most have " not be very strategic " . he say that most review have be cost - cut exercise , and that only a couple of they could be describe as genuinely strategic . he go on : " I think this one have an ambition to be more genuinely strategic . " I entirely agree with the hon . Gentleman ' s analysis of past strategic defence review , and I particularly remember the 1998 SDR , which be after a labour landslide . it be strategic and outlined concept that stand the test of time . one reason for that be that it give other people the opportunity to contribute to the review . I be hope that Labour Ministers might pay a little attention to the idea that if they want their strategic defence and security review to do well , they should open up the process so that people on a non - partisan basis can have serious input to it — [ interruption . ] I be delighted to see my friend the Minister for the Armed Forces nod his agreement . I be grateful to the right hon . member for that intervention , and so far I gather that the Government be prepared to listen to external expertise . I be encourage to hear that Fiona Hill will be very much at the pinnacle of this review , and I know as an example that she have a great deal of insight into matter Europe , and in particular in relation to Russia . the defence review will need to look not only at mean , which be what we be discuss today , but at end and way , so that it come to think about mean only after think about end and way . the problem with pre - empte a review and leap straight into talk about particular procurement programme be that it only serve , at this stage at least , to start to raise question about what programme have not be confirm so far . in this , the week of the Farnborough airshow , lot of question have be raise about GCAP , or " Tempest " as the fighter aircraft will be know in the UK . on Saturday , one headline warn : " RAF jet may never get off the ground " and on Monday a subheading read " question be be ask about whether it should be scrap to save money . " on Tuesday an opinion column warn : " the Government ' s silence over the future of the Tempest fighter be deeply concern . " sometimes the question be not as simple as whether to spend , but whether to spend in the near term or the long term , or on procure equipment today or in the future . there be a trade - off in combat power between the near term and the long term . I appreciate that the Government will be seek to confirm to our ally that GCAP will proceed , and they will want to reassure Italy and Japan , as well as offer reassurance to commercial partner . those of we from the west country need look no far than Yeovil to see what a success Leonardo have be for industry in our region . defence export from Yeovil amount to £ 1 . 6 billion in 18 month . this issue clearly do matter a great deal to UK industry , but we must think about what else be happen in the commercial space . we have hear about the european future combat air system — SCAF — consortium make up of France , Germany and Spain , which be develop a fighter jet in parallel . I urge the Government to consider whether the two system can be as interoperable as possible . the pyramid open system architecture that we anticipate will be part of GCAP would do well to be able to speak with whatever the SCAF come up with . aside from GCAP , the strategic defence review should consider the UK ' s exist capability , and exist combat air in particular . twenty - six tranche 1 Typhoon fighter aircraft be due to be retire from service at the end of next March . the option remain for those tranche 1 aircraft to be bring up to the standard of tranche 2 or tranche 3 . bae system provide the previous Government with the structural and avionic modification that would be require , but they choose not to take that up . instead , they intend to put the 26 tranche 1 aircraft on to a so - call reduce to produce programme to strip they of usable part for the Typhoon fleet ' s inventory of spare . I wonder whether consideration also could be give to whether they could become tranche 2 or tranche 3 aircraft instead . an initial order of 150 F - 35 Lightning aircraft have already be scale back to 138 , in part to release funding to GCAP . we can see that there be always a trade - off between think about future combat air in 2035 versus what we might need today . upgrade the 26 tranche 1 fighter aircraft would grow the UK ' s Typhoon fleet from 107 to 133 . of course , they will not have the late air - to - ground capability of the F - 35 , and they certainly will not have the range , payload or stealth capability that we will expect of GCAP and Tempest , but they would be available soon . in recent month we have see Typhoon intercept russian long - range maritime patrol bomber north of the Shetland island within NATO ' s northern air policing area . now do not seem to be the time to cannibalise Typhoon tranche 1 for spare part . I recall from my own service the phrase use in the armed force that we should " deal with the crocodile near the boat . " in announce that GCAP will go ahead , I trust that the defence review will also appraise those near - term risk in our near abroad rather than simply carry on with exist programme because they be already in train . in closing , I will pose three question to the ministerial team . first , be GCAP still too link to the assumption about geopolitic from the 2021 integrated review ? be it take into full account the integrated review refresh of 2023 , and particularly the russian invasion of Ukraine ? secondly , if there be to be a parallel development of GCAP and SCAF by other european ally , will the Government reassure we that consideration be be give to interoperability such as in relation to open system architecture ? thirdly , if there be not enough money in the pot to upgrade Typhoon tranche 1 , buy more F - 35s and develop GCAP , which of those three initiative be the UK unlikely to do ? I call Mark Francois . Madam Deputy Speaker , may I begin by congratulate you on your election and welcome you to the Chair ? I be sure that you will chair our proceeding excellently . we wish you all good luck . may I also thank the hon . member for Leyton and Wanstead ( Mr Bailey ) for a fine , fluent and — if I may say so — at time poignant maiden speech ? he speak well on behalf of his constituent . I have it on good authority that when my hon . friend the Member for South Suffolk ( James Cartlidge ) be the procurement Minister , the hon . Member take he on a tour of Brize Norton and help to brief he on the a400 M . my hon . friend have ask I to pass on his thank . as a former Army officer , may I say to a former RAF officer what a great pleasure it be to see the RAF turn up on time ? there be indeed a first time for everything . [ laughter . ] the purpose of the order be lay out clearly in paragraph 4 . 1 of the explanatory memorandum , which state that it " give effect to the Convention between the Government of the Italian Republic , the Government of Japan and the Government of the United Kingdom … establish the Global Combat Air Programme International Government Organisation sign on 14 December 2023 " . it point out that " the Convention be negotiate by the Ministry of Defence . " my third welcome be to the Minister ; it be good to see she in her place . however , as the convention be nominate by the Ministry of Defence , could she explain for clarity why the FCDO and not the MOD be handle this statutory instrument ? the Minister kindly nominate I for a place on the House of Commons Defence Committee . as today appear to be a day for people take up nomination , I will gladly accept that and announce that I be go to run — for that Committee . I also point out that in the explanatory memorandum the policy context for the order — this be important — be describe as follow : " in December 2022 , the Prime Ministers of UK , Japan and Italy launch GCAP to deliver a next generation aircraft by 2035 . the signing of the GCAP Convention between the partner take place in December 2023 and be conduct by the respective Defence Secretaries of the three nation . the GIGO will function as the executive body with the legal capacity to place contract with industrial partner engage in the GCAP . " so far , so good . the debate take on some additional resonance , however , because we now have a defence review , which some people have interpret as a sword of Damocles hang over this important programme . my fourth welcome be to the new Minister for the Armed Forces , the hon . member for Plymouth Sutton and Devonport ( Luke Pollard ) , who represent a military constituency ; it be good to see he in his place , too . a few minute ago at Prime Minister ' s question , the Prime Minister describe GCAP as a " really important programme " . it be . it be good that he be able to go to Farnborough , see the mock - up of the aircraft for himself and receive a briefing . when I serve on the Defence Committee in the last Parliament , in March 2024 we travel to Japan to examine the programme as good we could from the japanese perspective . we speak to politician , civil servant , industrialist and the japanese air self - defence force — its military . we be go to write what I believe would have be a very positive report , and then someone go and call a general election . we can not blame the Minister for that , but she and some of her colleague do somehow appear to benefit from it . I would like to stress three theme from that trip , which come out strongly . the first be the absolute unanimity of purpose among the Japanese to deliver the programme . as one politician put it to we , " we live in a tough neighbourhood , include three autocracy with nuclear weapon . we need to strengthen our defence , and this programme be fundamental to that . " I think that be a very good summary of the japanese perspective . secondly , we be strike by the willingness of the Japanese to consider third party export of GCAP to make the aircraft affordable by increase its production run . my hon . friend the Member for South Suffolk be always hot on that when he be the procurement Minister . for various historical reason , I do not think that the Japanese would necessarily have take that view even a few year ago ; that be important . thirdly , the Japanese have an absolute determination to achieve the in - service date of 2035 , which be refer to directly in the memorandum . the japanese air self - defence force use a mixture of F - 15J Eagle aircraft and the F - 2 , which be sort of a soup - up version of the American F - 16 . they be both good and capable aircraft , but they be get rather long in the tooth . the Japanese have to plan forward against a threat from the Chinese J - 20 or the Russian Su - 57 . the risk be that by the mid - 2030 those aircraft will be outmatch by those two powerful new combat aircraft . reference have be make to the F - 35 . it be a fine aircraft , but it be expensive to buy and very expensive to run . the Americans have find that to their cost — the F - 35 be nickname by the american medium " the plane that eat the Pentagon " . it might not necessarily be the answer to the Treasury ' s dream . moreover , for the record , delivery of the F - 35 to the United States force be suspend for nearly a year — they have only just be resume — because of problem in upgrade the computer and the software . if we be to talk about the reality , the F - 35 have be quite a troubled programme and , to some extent , continue to be so . what would be the implication of cancellation of GCAP ? this be an international agreement and , as it say in paragraph 7 of the explanatory memorandum : " no external consultation be undertake as the instrument implement provision of an international agreement to which the United Kingdom will be oblige to give effect as a matter of international law once it enter into force . " the first implication be we to cancel it be that it would put back anglo - japanese relation and anglo - italian relation , arguably for decade . I would not want to be the ceo of a british company try to sell something to the japanese Government in the aftermath of the cancellation of GCAP . secondly , give the scale and the prominence of the programme , there would be a serious risk that we in the United Kingdom would achieve a reputation as an unreliable partner in major military collaborative programme — everything from AUKUS through to collaboration in space . in an era when thing such as a sixth - generation combat aircraft be so expensive that , as I intimate early , even the Americans be struggle to afford one on their own , the reality for we as a medium power be that we need to collaborate . we would find it very difficult to find future partner if we suddenly cancel such an important and sizeable programme for financial reason . thirdly , it would make a nonsense of the UK ' s so - call tilt to the Pacific , which be inherent to the so - call integrate review and be reinforce when the review be refresh before the general election . how can we tilt to the Pacific if we then cancel a major collaborative programme with a critical Pacific partner , which face challenge from Russia and China even more immediately than we do ? bluntly , our name would be mud in that theatre of operation if we be to do that . fourthly , there be what one might call the prosperity agenda . as they say in the King ' s Speech , the Government be very committed to growth — let we not debate building and the green belt now , but focus on this issue . in the last few year , about 80 % of the UK ' s defence export have come from combat air — mainly sale of Typhoon or our 15 % workshare on the F - 35 . that have average roughly £ 6 billion a year . again , what would be the threat to our export and our reputation as a reliable supplier if we be to cancel the programme ? what should we do ? the GIGO , which this memorandum establish , will incorporate prominent representative from all three country — the UK , Japan and Italy — and it will be headquarter here . if the programme be to survive , which I strongly believe it should , the GIGO have a vital role to play as the management organisation . it will have to be lean and less bureaucratic than its predecessor organisation , which oversee the Tornado and Typhoon programme — two wonderful aircraft with a proud heritage in the Royal Air Force . I think everyone in the industry would admit that those organisation be a bit too bureaucratic . the GIGO will have to be a lot lean and mean to get the job do . the principal industrial partner — BAE Systems , Rolls - Royce , Mitsubishi Heavy Industries and Leonardo , among other — will have a real challenge . historically , the answer to such a dilemma might have be , " look , it ' s a very complicated programme . it will take year to achieve , and it all depend on how many country join , how many aircraft they buy and what configuration they go for . will the Saudis participate ? will they want it build in the Kingdom of Saudi Arabia if they do participate ? there be lot of imponderable , so we will come back to you in about five year ' time with a unit price . " that will not wash . I would submit that one of the first task of the GIGO , work with those industrial partner and the three government , be to come up with at least a realistic pricing envelope for the programme , which the Treasury can look at and , hopefully , take a positive view on . if they do not do that , there can be no blank cheque , even for this . to conclude , there be no such thing as an uncancellable defence programme — although I still hope for Ajax — but this come close . to cancel this programme for short - term financial reason would be a disaster militarily , politically , diplomatically and industrially . if it come down to GCAP , AUKUS or Ajax , for I , Ajax have to go , and I say that as a former soldier . we need to understand how extremely serious the implication be of cancel this programme . I be a soldier , but the Royal Air Force have a proud tradition in the defence of this country and its interest , go back to the Battle of Britain and the first world war — when it grow out of the Army , I hasten to say . and the Navy . and the Navy , in which my father serve , for completeness . the Royal Air Force need this aircraft . we need it . the Japanese , the Italians and the west need it . by all mean , let we control the cost , but let we keep it . we be not go to scrap the Spitfire of the future . it be a great pleasure to see you in the Chair , Madam Deputy Speaker . I look forward to you extend your authority to unruly fourth party , even if they be new to that role . I welcome this statutory instrument , which give effect to the convention on the establishment of GCAP . GCAP be not important but vital to a range of different priority , to which I urge the new Government to pay very close attention . it be vital to the United Kingdom ' s ability to play its role in defend our value against peer or near - peer adversary and the threat that they present to our way of life . we will not do that in the very near future if we can not command a sixth - generation capability . it be vital to develop and maintain sovereign air capability . if we have no legacy of manufacture complex combat air system , we could not start it . that enterprise can not be begin from nothing . the flipside of that inevitable truth be that if we neglect what we have develop , at great cost to the public purse over the past 100 year , we defeat the legacy of world - lead extraordinary aircraft , civil and military , that have come out of the United Kingdom over the past 100 year . we also create an extraordinary gap in our ability to defend the realm — the first duty of any Government . the programme be vital for the 600 stakeholder in the UK alone who have be engage with GCAP to date , and it have not even get up to speed yet . those be just a few element of why this be vital . in a geographical sense , it be extraordinarily important to defence manufacturer in the central belt of Scotland and the north - west of England , but I see no reason to disbelieve the claim that it have positive effect for constituency all across the United Kingdom . I seek to impress on the Minister for the Armed Forces — who I know get it , and I be glad that he be here today — that he should challenge any rise in Treasury dogma when it come to GCAP . it be an opportunity for the United Kingdom to repeat the world - lead performance of Harrier and the Blackburn Buccaneer , the extraordinary capability of the Panavia Tornado and the exceptional ability of the BAE Typhoon . that be what it can do . what it expressly must not do be repeat the incredibly self - defeat cost to the public purse and defence capability of the TSR - 2 fiasco in the 1960 . unfortunately , an incoming Labour Government scrap that at huge cost to our defence capability and huge cost to the public purse . it be a demonstrable exercise in a Treasury obsess with the price of everything and myopic about the value of everything . I repeat , in case I sound political , that I know the Minister for the Armed Forces get it . we trust he to do the right thing . the hon . Gentleman be quite right to highlight what happen to TSR - 2 , which be a generation ahead of its time and a world beater . it be scrap because the Treasury want to buy the F - 111 instead , which be an american aircraft , and then it do not end up buy it . there be a lesson from history there too , be there not ? if we take , as the United Kingdom have , an extraordinarily complex programme somewhere down the road , then the opportunity cost , much less the financial and operability cost , of turn back on that must be well set out . I be afraid that those be the detail the Treasury have a history of not be that interested in . it be more focused on the number at the bottom right - hand side of the balance sheet , but this be far too important to yield to that level of priority . it be much to be regret that the future combat air system and GCAP be proceed in the european theatre in parallel . that be a grossly expensive duplication . I greatly fear that there be nothing we can do about it now . nevertheless , it be much to be regret . I be not certain that the partner in the compete French - lead FCAS programme will be happy partner throughout , but that remain to be see . the Minister for the Armed Forces must ensure that the door be leave open for any latecomer or laggard who want to get on board with GCAP . I would appreciate his assurance , either today or at a later date , on that willing acceptability and acceptance . as it be a Foreign , Commonwealth and Development Office Minister who be lead today , let I say that the one thing the extraordinary aircraft I list do not enjoy be particularly healthy export success . GCAP must have exceptional export success because , quite apart from the standard avionic engine and air frame that we have to deal with in conventional traditional aircraft , this aircraft be a breed apart in term of its electronic warfare capability . it be a combat system , which happen to be in an aircraft , that be extraordinarily expensive . if the price of that be leave to the Italians , the UK and the Japanese , we will face no small measure of difficulty . on the statutory instrument itself , article 34 ( 2 ) of the convention make provision for host country experience " serious balance of payment " issue . I draw member ' attention to the sovereign debt liability of both Japan and Italy — and the UK itself , although it would be the third of that list . but the convention merely seek — to inform the Minister — to " consult " in such circumstance . it would be appreciate if we could know what type of consultation that would involve . far , article 19 ( 1 ) ( c ) clarifie that fund from each party will " be set out in a further arrangement " . however , the convention do set out that the steering committee will have equal representation from each of the party . how will the convention decide what the funding will be base on ? will it be base on order , or on the number of national employee employ in the steering committee ? how will that work ? it be unclear . in closing , Leonardo in Edinburgh be the brain and nerve centre of GCAP ; it be the central nervous system of this world - lead capability . the system be be design and finalise in Edinburgh , and it will be build in Edinburgh at Leonardo . that bring I on to the final provision in the SI , which state that the headquarters of GIGO will be establish at a later date , but that it will be in the UK . it be really important that wherever it be establish , it have close connectivity with the key prime manufacturer of GCAP : Rolls - Royce , Thales , BAE and Leonardo . it must be in a part of this island where an outstanding quality of life can be enjoy , with access to good school , good quality of life , transport infrastructure , an international airport and good link with London . that place be Edinburgh . I congratulate you , Madam Deputy Speaker , on your victory . you will be brilliant and I look forward to serve under your chairmanship in the three or four year ahead . may I say how very much I support the statutory instrument ? I do not support the Prime Minister ' s lukewarm word at Farnborough . I think the concern we have on the conservative Benches be to do with the hare he set run not by what he say , but by what do not say . my advice to Ministers would be , " for goodness ' sake , up the rhetoric around this . " no Government in their right mind would cancel this project . this project be not only essential to our defence ; it be the bridge to the unmanned future of defence that will come by mid - century . kick away that bridge and we be leave with very little : we undermine fundamentally the defence of these island ; we destroy the reputation of this country not just with the Japanese and the Italians , but with practically any partner in defence , present and future , that we can imagine , not least the Saudis ; and it mean that we will not be able to successfully translate our defence industrial base to the future , which we all appreciate be largely unmanned in each of the four domain that defence these day have to consider . word mean what word say , except when they trip from the lip of politician . then , it be very often what be not say that influence the conversation , particularly in the medium . my plea , in the very short time available to I , be for Ministers , senior Ministers and the Prime Minister to correct what be say this week and , in particular , to ramp up the rhetoric on our support for this fundamentally important programme that be vital to our defence and our defence base . I appreciate that the Prime Minister have a problem , in that he have fail to commit to 2 . 5 % of gdp within a recognisable timeframe , which be no commitment at all , and he have launch a largely unnecessary defence review , which will be a distraction for at least 12 month . I be confident in the sound good sense of Lord Robertson and Richard Barrons . I can not image that they will be party to the cancellation or delay of this programme . I call the Minister to respond . thank you very much , Madam Deputy Speaker . I congratulate you , on behalf of the Government , on your accession to the throne — not literally , but to the Speaker ' s Chair , which be actually a gift of the country of Australia to the House of Commons follow the 1940 . I thank my opposite number , the hon . member for South Suffolk ( James Cartlidge ) , in particular for his comment regard the dreadful attack on a soldier outside the Kent barrack this week . I thank he for put that on the record . I also thank all member across the House for support the SI without a vote . I will conclude briefly on some of the very important point that have be raise . if I do not cover they all , it be because I will be send a copy of Hansard to those in charge of the review , include the Minister for the Armed Forces , my hon . friend the Member for Plymouth Sutton and Devonport ( Luke Pollard ) . all the point that have be raise be crucial in think through the next five year of defence spending . as I say at the beginning , this debate be about the international treaty part of the programme , so I will be very brief . first of all , I thank the right hon . member for Rayleigh and Wickford ( Mr Francois ) for his recommendation from his visit to Japan . there be nothing like visit a country and get to know the whole team there to give really good feedback , so I will be pass that on . we also have very supportive comment from the hon . member for Strangford ( Jim Shannon ) . there be a big plea from Edinburgh by the SNP spokesperson , the hon . member for Angus and Perthshire Glens ( Dave Doogan ) , for some defence job . that have be hear . I praise fulsomely the maiden speech by my hon . friend the Member for Leyton and Wanstead ( Mr Bailey ) . he have enormously big shoe to fill . our friend have leave the green Benches and will probably go the red Benches at some future point — who know ? — so he have very big shoe to fill . perhaps his predecessor have already be ennoble . I love my hon . friend ' s description of grow up with the challenge of knife crime and how he come through that . what an excellent role model he be for so many people who be watch our debate today ! I also admire his commitment to value for money ; that could prove very useful , give his particular area of interest . a question arise in the debate relate to the role of other partner . the order name the United Kingdom , Japan and Italy because we need to get on with this . we be the first to deal with this at this level in our parliamentary process . Japan and Italy will then engage in their own process because of the reciprocity involve , and I be sure that after that , when we be all up to speed , discussion about further partnership will be ongoing . in grant these privilege and immunity we will be able to bring the GIGO into force , and in do so , we will be well position to support the achievement of GCAP ' s aim and the fulfilment of the Government ' s objective . we will also be well place to work with international partner and to influence the air combat industry as a result . I hope that the House will support the order . question put and agree to . resolve , that the draft Global Combat Air Programme International Government Organisation ( Immunities and Privileges ) Order 2024 , which be lay before this House on 23 May , in the last Session of Parliament , be approve . education and Opportunity I beg to move , that this House have consider education and opportunity . it be a pleasure to see you in the Chair , Madam Deputy Speaker , and I congratulate you on your election . I be grateful for the opportunity to speak about the Labour Government ' s mission to break down the barrier to opportunity . we be bring change to this nation . however , I know that any change we deliver will be bring about in partnership with our wonderful workforce , so let I take this opportunity , at the end of the academic year , to thank they for all that they do for our child , our young people and our country . let I begin by say two thing . first , I welcome my new opposite number , the right hon . member for East Hampshire ( Damian Hinds ) , to his place . in the previous Government he stand out for his commitment to his brief , his passion and dedication , and the collegiate and effective way in which he work with colleague in all part of the House . we have disagree on many thing , and I be sure that we will go on to disagree on many thing , but I hope that whenever we can , we will work together to build a country where child come first . secondly , I want to make an announcement , here and now , because our mission be urgent . I be pleased to announce that the Department will undertake a short pause and review of post - 16 qualification reform at level 3 and below , conclude before the end of the year . this mean that the defunding schedule for next week will be pause . the come year will see further development in the roll - out of new T - level , which will ensure that young people continue to benefit from high - quality technical qualification that help they to thrive . I will update the House with more detail tomorrow . I welcome the Secretary of State ' s announcement ; I know it will also be welcome by college throughout the country . teacher in my constituency , like teacher everywhere else , do an extraordinary job in support our young people , but it be vital for they to be pay properly for it . can the Secretary of State update we on the work of the independent pay body and the Government ' s response to it ? we take the work of the pay review body extremely seriously , but the previous Government do not act responsibly in that regard . they sit on the report , and then they call an election . I understand the frustration that school leader and teacher be experience , but as my hon . friend know , we be move as quickly as we can on this important issue , and the Chancellor will set out our position before the end of the month . we understand the importance of get this right . let I reiterate , once more , our thank to our brilliant teacher and support staff for their work during this academic year . we be put education back where it belong , at the heart of change . after year at the margin under the Conservatives , after year of ministerial merry - go - round , after year of opportunity for our child be treat as an afterthought , education be back at the forefront of national life . I know the power of education to transform life , because I live it . standard be my story , and now I want standard to be the story for every child in the country , not just in some of our school but in all our school . I want high and rise standard for each and every child , but for 14 long year that have not be the story in our education system . I think often of child bear in the month after the Labour party last win an election , some 19 year ago . they enter school in September 2010 , in the first autumn in which Conservative Members serve as Ministers . by then the damage have already begin . labour ' s ambitious Building Schools for the Future programme have already be cancel , and that be store up problem for the decade ahead . as the year go by , those child see opportunity strip away . they see not just resource drain from their childhood , but also hope . they see the child ' s centre they have attend be close by the hundred . they see fall investment in the school building in which they learn , and in the staff who teach and support they . they see a change in the support for child with special educational need — a situation that , in a moment of unusual candour , my predecessor , the former MP for Chichester , describe as " lose - lose - lose " , though she do almost nothing about it . a generation of child in social care be fall far and far out of sight . my right hon . friend have mention the inequality experience by child with special educational need and disability . what be she able to say about what we will do , and the difference that we will make to their life ? I recognise the concern express by my hon . friend , and by member throughout the House , about that important issue . I will say more about it later in my speech , but let I say now that not for a second do I underestimate the challenge that we face . I give my hon . friend this commitment : I want to ensure that we deliver a well system for child , family and school — one that be a long way from the broken and adversarial system that too many people experience at the moment . young people in unregistered school be miss out on not just the education but the childhood that they should have have , and as that generation grow old , the Government response to a once - in - a - lifetime pandemic make it clear to they that they be , quite simply , an afterthought . pub be reopen to punter before school welcome back child . examination grading be first a farce and then a fiasco . we have a Government who forget almost altogether about further education , and see apprenticeship start tumble year after year . early this month , the people of this country turn the page on that Government and that era . they turn to Labour , and to the hope , which drive we and so many who work in education , that tomorrow can be well than today , and that our good day lie not behind we but ahead of we . they turn to Labour in the belief — today a distinctively labour belief — that the role of Government be not merely to administer , but to transform , and to deliver for all our child the freedom to achieve , thrive , succeed and flourish , which have be withhold from so many of they for so long . the Secretary of State have talk about turn a page , and about opportunity . she will be aware that young people today have few opportunity than our generation enjoy , owe to disastrous Tory policy that remove their freedom of movement as well as Erasmus , which include apprenticeship . will she turn the page on that disastrous Tory policy ? I can tell the hon . Gentleman that I welcome the opportunity to meet my opposite number in Scotland recently , and I want to find area on which we can reach agreement constructively and collaboratively . as for his specific question , I be afraid I can not give he that commitment , but I want to ensure that all young people have the chance to travel , learn and study . the hope that I want for our young people come from the opportunity that this Government will deliver . as member know , opportunity be a journey that last a lifetime , and the first step be in early year education , because the barrier to opportunity appear early in a child ' s life . we will bring about a sea change in our early year system , begin right now . I be fully committed to roll out the childcare entitlement promise to parent , but I need to be frank with the House : the challenge be considerable , and the last Government do not have a proper plan . the irresponsibility that we inherit be shocking . I act immediately to get to grip with the task at hand , but I must be honest : the disparity across the country be severe , which mean that some parent will , sadly , miss out on their first - choice place . they and their child deserve well , and I be determined to get this right . we will create 3 , 000 nursery in primary school to well connect early year with our wide education system . by the time we be do , we will have thriving child , strong family , and parent who be able to work the hour they want . the foundation for a love of learn be lay early , in primary school , but child poverty put up barrier at every turn . it be a scar on our society . the need to eradicate child poverty be why I come into politic , and it be why the Prime Minister have appoint I and the Work and Pensions Secretary to jointly lead the new child poverty taskforce . together , we will set out an ambitious child poverty strategy , and I will introduce free breakfast club in every primary school . they be about more than just breakfast ; they be important for drive up standard , improve behaviour , increase attendance and boost achievement . what child be teach once they be in the classroom matter , too . we must start early with math , and inspire a love of number in our young learner , and this Government be commit to fully evidence - base early language intervention in primary school , so that all child can find their voice . I want high and rise standard across all our school and for all our child , but I mean that in the broad and most ambitious of term . we should be grow a love of learning , and encourage child to explore the world around they , to be bold , to dream and to discover their power . our curriculum must reflect that . that be why I have announce the Government ' s expert - lead review of the curriculum and assessment at all key stage , in order to support our child and young people , so that they succeed tomorrow and thrive today . by work with teacher , parent and employer , we will deliver a framework for learn that be innovative , inclusive , supportive and challenging , that drive up standard in our school , and ensure that every child have access to a broad and rich curriculum . however , any curriculum be only as strong as the teacher who teach it . today , those teacher be leave the classroom , not in drib and drab but in their drove — and too often , opportunity follow they out the door . I be work tirelessly to turn that around . we will back our teacher and support staff , and we will partner with the profession to ensure that workload be manageable . we have already begin recruit 6 , 500 more expert teacher . together , we will restore teaching as the career of choice for our very good graduate , and we will invest in our school and service by end the tax break that private school enjoy . accountability be vital and non - negotiable , but Ofsted must change , and change it will . our reform will start with end one - word judgment . we will bring in a new report card system . that be part of our plan to support school and challenge they when need in order to deliver high and rise standard for every child . I have speak to colleague from across the House about their concern about how the system be fail learner with special educational need and disability . I share those concern ; the system be break . I be delighted to see on the government bench my hon . friend the Member for Dulwich and West Norwood ( Helen Hayes ) , with whom I work so closely on this issue in opposition , and who share entirely my focus and concern . all family want the good for their child , but parent of child with special educational need often face a slow struggle to get the right support . they be bogge down by bureaucracy and an adversarial system , and entangle by complexity . it be not good enough , and we will work relentlessly to put that right . we be committed to take a community - wide approach in which we improve inclusivity and expertise in mainstream school , as well as ensure that special school cater to those with the most complex need . I have already restructure my Department to start deliver on this commitment . there can be no goal more important and more urgent than extend opportunity to our most vulnerable child , which also mean reform child ' s social care . young people and adult deserve high - quality route to build the skill that they need to seize opportunity , and business need staff with the skill to help they grow . those be two side of the same coin , and the key to our future prosperity and growth . we need a skill system fit for the future , but we have a fragmented system that frustrate business , let down learner and grind growth into the ground . it be time for a comprehensive strategy , and for our country to take skill seriously , so this week , alongside the Prime Minister , I announce Skills England , a new body that will unify the fractured landscape . it will bring together central Government , combine authority , business , training provider , union and expert . business have tell we that they need more flexibility to deliver the training that work for they , so we will introduce a new growth and skill levy to replace the fail apprenticeship levy . Post - 16 education be all about give learner the power to make choice that be right for they . for many , that choice will be university , and I be immensely proud of our world - lead university . they be shine light of learning , but their future have be leave in darkness for too long . this must and will change . there will be no more talk down our country ' s strong export . under this government , university will be value as a public good , not treat as a political battleground . we will move decisively to establish certainty and sustainability , secure our university as engine of growth , excellence and opportunity . this government will break the link between background and success . we will create opportunity for child and learner to succeed . we will give they the freedom to chase their ambition , and the freedom to hope . this Labour Government be return hope to our country after 14 long year , and there can be no great work than build a country where background be no barrier to opportunity . that work of change have already begin . I call the shadow Secretary of State . Madam Deputy Speaker , may I first welcome you to the big Chair on behalf of the opposition ? it be great to see you there , and may you have much success . we will no doubt all enjoy serve under you . may I also welcome the Secretary of State and her entire team to their place ? they have among the most important job in government and , without doubt , the good job in government . while their colleague will be out visit wind turbine and distribution shed , they will be spend time with child and the inspirational adult who teach they , which be a much well way to spend a day . although we have our difference , we do not for a moment doubt the ministerial team ' s commitment to this crucial endeavour , and our exchange across the Dispatch Boxes will always be in the spirit of seek the very good for child , and for our society and country . we want the Government to succeed , because the success of the British Government be the success of Britain . that be true in every discipline , but it be especially true in education , where the effect of what happen be feel for many year to come and over the course of multiple change of Government . we will scrutinise and hold they to account , as they know , but we will also support they where they look to build on what have be achieve . listen to the Secretary of State , I be wonder from which country or era she be draw her material , because what have be achieve be that we now have nine in 10 school in this country rate good or outstanding — up from just over two third when there be last a change of Government — with 27 , 000 more teacher , 60 , 000 more teaching assistant , a major upgrade in technical and vocational education through t - level , high - level technical and reform apprenticeship with employer - set standard , minimum length week and minimum off - the - job training time . we have also be rise up the international result table . at secondary school , England ' s young people have rise from 27th in the world to 11th in mathematic , and from 25th to 13th in reading . at primary school , England ' s child be the good reader in the western world . do the shadow Education Secretary accept the Institute for Fiscal Studies ' recent report ? it say that although we have see an improvement in average attainment , there remain educational inequality , particularly for child on free school meal , child from ethnic minority background and disabled child . we have not see any improvement , and the educational inequality be stark the hon . Lady , as ever , make important point . it be the mission of conservative Governments from 2010 onwards always to pursue two goal : first , to raise attainment overall and , secondly , to narrow the gap between the rich and the poor — between the advantaged and the disadvantaged or those with particular need . although those gap be still too big , there be a decade of progress , as she know . I think the IFS report that she mention will almost certainly have say that there be a decade of progress right up until covid . I be afraid that covid strike a blow — [ interruption . ] Labour Members may shake their head , but believe I , covid strike a blow to education right throughout the world , include in our country , and there be yet more — [ interruption . ] I think my point stand . there be yet more work to do . the point I be make before the hon . Lady make her important intervention be that a great deal have be achieve but there be still challenge . in the aftermath of covid , we know that there be particular challenge on the attainment gap and attendance — by the way , those two thing be relate — but a great deal have be achieve . so my ask of the Government be that , while we acknowledge that they have just win the election with a big majority , we nevertheless ask they to be mindful and careful not to change thing just because they can . of course , minister do not educate child . it be the teacher who educate child , and those great achievement be their achievement , but teacher exist within a framework and a system . there be dedicated teacher not just in England but in Scotland and Wales , but in those two country we have not see the same advance that we have see in England . indeed , in Wales , with a Labour Administration run education , we have see decline . we have long have dedicate teacher in England , too , but the fact be that in the labour year before 2010 , England ' s result actually decline relative to other country , even though — some Labour Members may remember this — in new Labour ' s target - rich but I be afraid highly gameable environment , it be make to look like the result be all get well . first , may I congratulate you on your appointment , Madam Deputy Speaker ? far to the point that the right hon . Gentleman have just make , I think it be fair to boast that scottish education use to be the envy of the world , yet we now have so many staff vacancy in four of our highland secondary school — Ullapool , Kinlochbervie , Farr and Gairloch — that the kid simply be not be teach what they ought to be teach and be have to rely in some case on online learning , which be scarcely satisfactory . that be why the parent have band together to form the Save our Rural Schools campaign . be that not a damn comment on the Scottish Government ' s delivery of education north of the border ? as ever , the hon . Gentleman make an important point incisively and speak up powerfully for rural community — he be here the other night talk about rural health service and the challenge that they face — but this be already go to be a wide - range debate and I think I might try your patience , Madam Deputy Speaker , if we move into a debate about the scottish education system and the SNP Administration , much as he and I would relish that opportunity . however , he be quite right to say that scottish education have have massive historical strength but have be let down by the SNP Administration . when politician on the left talk about a progressive agenda in education , I understand how that can sound beguiling and benign , but we must not forget that the legacy of the last Labour Government be for England to be the only country in the developed world where the generation approach retirement be more literate and numerate than the young adult just enter the workforce and those who have just go through their education under new Labour . but that be the past , and this team and this Government will be assess and judge on the present and the future . will the right hon . Gentleman give way ? at the risk of widen the debate , I will very briefly give way to the hon . Gentleman . I hope the right hon . Gentleman will welcome the scottish success in have more child and student go on to positive destination after school . do he also acknowledge the damage that have be do by year and year of Tory austerity and by remove the right and opportunity we have through freedom of movement follow our withdrawal from the EU , which , accord to Labour figure , have cost £ 140 billion ? he should have some reflection on his own record . I admire the hon . Gentleman ' s ability to turn everything into a discussion about Europe , but I have to tell he there be other thing at play . if I be an SNP politician , I would not come to the Floor of this House boast about the record of the SNP Government give their woeful performance on behalf of underprivileged child in Scotland . nor , by the way , would I be complain about the finance , when the Scottish Government be well finance for the thing that they should and must do . until recently it be we sit on the Government Benches make these point , but now it will be Labour Members . this be a debate about opportunity , and the point of great leverage in spread opportunity be what happen in the very early year , as the Secretary of State say . since 2010 , we have have five major extension in early year and childcare entitlement , and a sixth be now on its way . I think I hear the Secretary of State say that she be commit fully to our plan in each of its phase . unless she correct I now , that be certainly how I will interpret it . she then go on to say there be some difficulty and so on — [ interruption . ] I can assure the Secretary of State , who speak from a sedentary position , that there be indeed such a plan , and we look now to the Government to see that plan through . I would also like to hear from her colleague the Minister of State , Department for Education , the hon . member for Newcastle upon Tyne North ( Catherine McKinnell ) , when she sum up , about the 3 , 000 nursery to be establish in primary school . it be important for we to know what proportion of those she expect to be full - time , year - round nursery as oppose to term - time only . we know that however much time young child spend in nursery or in childcare , they will spend more time at home , and the social mobility literature be clear that what happen at home make a big difference to opportunity later in life . this be a difficult area for government and require great care , but I hope that this new Government will look to build on the home learn environment programme — Hungry little Minds — that we put in place and then reprise during covid , and do so in a supportive and non - invasive way . I also hope that the Government will continue with the family hub , recognise that while they be vital for the 0 to 2 age group , many issue go on right through childhood and adolescence . the support family programme be actually a cross - party story because it be bring in during the Cameron Government from 2012 follow a pilot under the previous Labour Government . with its key worker approach it have so much potential , and it now cover 300 , 000 family , not the original 120 , 000 . bring it into the Department for Education present a great opportunity for the Secretary of State , and I hope she will make the most of it . in school , the success story we have be discuss , which can be see in the result in the programme for international student assessment , the progress in international reading literacy study and other study , have be base on three leg of a stool . the first be school autonomy , with transparency and accountability . the second be a knowledge - rich curriculum and prove learn method such as phonic and math mastery , with the Education Endowment Foundation evaluate and accredit programme . the third be the spreading of good practice through academy trust and through school learn laterally from other school , with teacher learn from teacher rather than thing be impose top down , through a nationwide network of hub in key subject and in key area such as behaviour . it be not yet clear exactly what the new Government ' s plan be in each of those three area , but if they seek to undo what have work and what do work , we will argue the counter case robustly . the Government have , as the Secretary of State say , announce a review of the curriculum , as of course they can , and as we do in the past . but again , I would urge they to reflect on what have work and what do work , and in particular not to see a conflict between skill and knowledge . clearly , when child be grow up , develop and be educate , they need both , but it be through have a depth of knowledge that they well develop skill . as to what knowledge , I hope the review will also acknowledge that a strength of our national curriculum be that , unlike what a lot of people think , it be not in fact a detailed specification of everything a pupil will learn in history or literature . rather , it be a framework . that guard against political interference , and that be a principle that absolutely must be maintain . I hope that Labour do learn the lesson of the literacy hour and the numeracy hour — that seek to set out to school in 10 or 15 - minute segment exactly what should be teach to child be a Bad Idea , with a capital b and a capital I . on behaviour , a calm and ordered environment be a basic requirement for learn , and that be what child tell we they want . of course , no one want pupil to be suspend , still less expel , but that option need to be available as a last resort . yes , we must think of the child ' s wellbee , but we also need to think of the wellbeing and life chance of the other 27 child in the class . have school leader in the drive seat be essential , but that also bring a need for transparency so we can see whether child in some area be not get as strong an education as child in other . progress 8 , which we bring in , measure the progress of all child equally and be far well than the blunt and much - game approach of measure how many child get over the five - plus C - plus at GCSE hurdle . it be also materially well than the old contextual value add measure , which effectively lower expectation for entire group of child . we also need a threshold to trigger intervention , so that underperform school can be move into a strong trust that can well support they . that be stand up for parent and child , who will get only one shot at schooling . there be challenge to address and , as I say to the hon . member for Oldham East and Saddleworth ( Debbie Abrahams ) , high on that list post covid be attendance . it be much well than it be , but there be furth to go . I hope the Government will keep and build on the measure that we put in place , together with school and the wide education family . we always need to strive to do more to support child with special educational need and disability and enable they to maximise opportunity . I be encourage by what the Secretary of State say . I call on she and the Government to keep and grow our capital programme for more special school place , as well as , as she rightly say , to strive to support inclusion in mainstream education , where that be possible and beneficial . today there be a great prevalence of mental ill health in young people . crucially , this issue be not specific to this country . we see it in most comparable country , or at least those where there be datum we can look at ; we see a similar trend there . the labour manifesto speak about have mental health professional in school . when we be in government , with the Department of Health and Social Care and the NHS , we be already roll out mental health support team to cluster of school and I urge the Government to look at that . of course , we and other country must also ask why there be this increase prevalence of mental ill health in young people . because it be international in nature , some of the ready answer that might otherwise be throw about can not be correct . we will work constructively with the Government as they work to build on the landmark Online Safety Act 2023 , for example , and ensure its most effective implementation . school be all about teacher and we welcome the Government ' s plan to recruit 6 , 500 more . of course , 6 , 500 be a large number , but it be not quite so large in the context of the total number of teacher , which be 468 , 000 , and it should be note that the increase in the number of teacher over the last Parliament be considerably more than 6 , 500 — in fact , it be more like 15 , 000 . however , it be true that it have be tough to recruit for some subject , such as computer science , physics and modern foreign language , and I welcome the Secretary of State ' s focus on that area . will the right hon . Gentleman give way ? if the hon . Member will forgive I , I have well press on , as I might be stretch Madam Deputy Speaker ' s patience . early in my time face she in the Chair , I do not want to get off to a bad start . we will be look to see exactly what the 6 , 500 target cover , by when and , crucially , how it will be achieve . the one subject in education that get a lot of coverage in the medium and elsewhere during the election campaign be the taxation of independent school . we recognise that that be in the labour manifesto , but it be still wrong - headed . it will not hit the famous big - name school , but it will hit small - town school , family of child with special educational need and certain religious faith . Most of all , in the big way , it will hit state school . we do not know how big the displacement effect will be of family who can no long afford to send their child to their independent school , and we can not know because there be no precedent , but we know that it will be a material number . will my right hon . friend give way ? I will , with apology . one thing that have not be discuss in this debate about extra taxation on private school be that they generate £ 1 billion a year in export win : this could have an effect on the country ' s current account deficit . we must not get into a long debate on this , but my hon . friend be absolutely right that export earning be part it , as be multinational ' choice of this country to site their headquarters . all these thing be consideration , include the Ministry of Defence . I inadvertently skip over the hon . member , so I give way to he now . I thank the right hon . member for take my question . his figure on teacher number be very interesting . do he not recognise that , over the last Parliament , the teacher retention rate be at an all - time low , with a third of teacher leave within five year of go into the profession ? again , I must not get into too lengthy a debate on this — [ interruption . ] but I can . in the last couple of year , we actually find that retention be well than have be anticipate . we want teacher to stay long in the profession , which be one of the reason why , during my first spell in the Department for Education , we bring in the early career framework specifically to address that issue . the Secretary of State have say that the Government will continue to evolve that , which I welcome too , but the fact of the matter be that we have 468 , 000 teacher in the profession . part of that be to do with retention , and part of it be to do with people return to the profession , which at time have be well than anticipate . it be also to do with the significant programme to get people into teaching in the first place through bursary and scholarship . return to taxation and independent education , I ask the Minister of State , Department for Education , the hon . member for Newcastle upon Tyne North ( Catherine McKinnell ) , at the very least today when she sum up , to confirm that the Government will not bring the measure far forward so that we end up with in - year disruption for family , and for state school try to cope with a potential influx of large number of child . can she also guarantee that the large number of spending programme that have be link to this taxation income stream , include the 6 , 500 teacher , be protect , regardless of what happen on that vat income ? I be close to the end . we set about a major upgrade in technical and vocational education . the Secretary of State say something important and , I think , new about what be go to happen . I hope the Government will see through t - level and the reform of technical and vocational education on the blueprint — we always do this in government : we take a cross - party approach — of Lord Sainsbury . the Secretary of State mention that she will update the House tomorrow . will the Minister of State confirm in sum up that that will be an oral statement , give hon . and right hon . member a chance to question the Minister on exactly what be propose ? we will also scrutinise the Government ' s propose change to apprenticeship and the levy . I understand that business want more flexibility on what they can do with levy money , but the two crucial thing about the apprenticeship levy be that , first , it deal with what economist call the " free rider problem , " under which some business historically invest strongly in train their staff , while other do not , but benefit when staff leave those business to join they after two or three year . secondly , the levy ensure that human capital investment go into incremental training ; it do not just rebadge training that would have happen anyway . in whatever reform the Government undertake , those two thing will have to be deliver . on Skills England , we just need to know what it be . we understand the desire of a Labour Government to say , " in an emergency , break glass , reach for quango " but what will it do that be different from what be do today by the Institute for Apprenticeships and Technical Education , by local skill improvement plan and by the Unit for Future Skills ? I be proud that disadvantaged youngster be now much more likely to go on to high education than they be — despite of course prediction of the opposite at the time the student financing system be bring in . I remember very well that , when in opposition , Labour Members of Parliament say repeatedly that fee should never go as high as £ 9 , 000 , or £ 9 , 250 , and we will be watch for consistency in their approach in the month and year ahead . we need to ensure high - quality provision for student . it do no favour to a young person to go to university if it be for a course where we know a high proportion of student do not even complete the course . we speak during the election campaign of our plan to build on our foundation of the Office for student to ensure that , in whatever subject it might be , student could be confident that their course be of high quality . the new Government need to set out how they , in their way , will ensure that that quality be guarantee . to conclude — [ hon . member : " Hooray . " ] come on . it be often say — it be say early this afternoon — that the first duty of Government be to defend our country and our national security and to keep people safe . it be the most fundamental function of Government to have sound management of the economy and the finance . the noble drive in government be to strive to spread opportunity as far and as equitably as possible . ultimately , education be the key to almost everything . we wish the new Government and this team of Ministers well . we will work positively and constructively with they . we will scrutinise what they say , monitor what they do and hold they to account for what they deliver . may I start by congratulate you , Madam Deputy Speaker , on your election , and say what a great pleasure it be to see you in your place ? I also congratulate the Secretary of State on her appointment . I know how deep her commitment be to increase opportunity and adjust disadvantage for child across our country . education from the early year through school and on to further and high education be arguably the most important tool in the Government ' s box for address disadvantage . I be therefore delighted to see that break down the barrier to opportunity at every stage be one of the core mission of this Labour Government . Labour have always recognise the importance of education as a route to address poverty , disadvantage and inequality , as well as to drive economic growth . it be at the heart of what we believe in and at the heart of what we have always deliver in government — from comprehensive school to the Open University , from sure start to the London Challenge for school improvement . this new Labour Government will continue in that proud tradition of deliver for our child and young people with free breakfast club in every primary school ; new nursery place across the country ; open access mental health support in school and community ; more teacher in our school ; a new fit - for - purpose curriculum ; a further education sector to deliver the skill that young people need to thrive and our economy need to grow ; and new support to protect young people from serious violence . I wish to highlight today , as we discuss the commitment of this new Government and also the mess that they have inherit after 14 year of conservative cut to child ' s service , some of the issue that be most press in my constituency . service be now really stretch to the limit as they seek to support child , young people and their family . the first issue be the funding crisis face maintain nursery school , which often provide a gold standard of early year education . some 64 % of they be locate in area with the great deprivation . I have two in my constituency : effra nursery school and child ' s centre and Dulwich Wood nursery school . they be constitute as school , and therefore have the additional expertise — and also the additional cost — of fully qualified headteacher and teach staff . the number of maintain nursery have already drop dramatically and only 400 now remain , many of which face severe financial difficulty . I therefore urge the Government to bring forward measure in the Budget to ensure that the depth of knowledge , expertise and quality in our maintained nursery school be not lose , and that they be put on a sustainable financial footing . the second issue be special educational need and disability support . I be grateful to the Secretary of State for mention the work that I do in this regard when we be in opposition . in the context of the decimation of local authority funding since 2010 and with increase presentation of additional need across the country , local council and school be simply buckling under the pressure of resource that they do not have and need that they can not meet , while family be suffer the consequence . at a recent visit to an outstanding school in my constituency , the headteacher break down as she describe the conflict of seek to be an inclusive school with the reality of simply not have the funding that she need to deliver for child with additional need . increasingly , local authority be be drive to the edge of financial viability by the cost of SEND support and SEND transport . I really welcome this Government ' s focus on the inclusivity of mainstream school , but they will need to work very closely with the Ministry of Housing , Communities and Local Government and the Department of Health and Social Care to ensure that there be a sustainable approach to fund SEND support , which school can not deliver in isolation . thirdly , the outcome for care - experienced people after 14 year of Conservative Government be utterly disgraceful . the system be so broken that frequently the state take the decision to remove a child from their family because they be not consider to be safe , and place they in an environment in which they be even less safe and secure . care - experienced people be so over - represent in both the criminal justice system and the homeless population because they be be so badly fail . if the Government be serious about tackle these challenge , they must turn their attention to deliver well support and well outcome for care - experienced people . one way that this situation could be turn around be through the development of a new care experience covenant , place on a statutory footing , require every part of the public sector to take the responsibility of corporate parenting seriously , support by a national care leaver offer . I wonder whether the Minister be able to make any commitment in that regard today . finally , the Conservative Government change the school funding formula to remove the disadvantage weighting . that have the effect of proactively funnel funding away from school in constituency such as mine with high level of deprivation to more affluent area of the country , and my local school be really feel the impact as they seek to provide an excellent education for every child . will the Minister give an undertaking to look at the school funding formula , to ensure both that school in the most disadvantaged area of the country have the resource they need to deliver for every child , and that the formula itself be no long pit different area of the country against each other , but represent a genuine levelling up of the resource for our school ? I know that this Government will transform the life chance of child and young people across our country and make sure that no child be leave behind . I look forward to see further plan come to fruition , as child , young people and their life chance be once again place where they should be — at the centre of our national life . as we have many maiden speech to enjoy and Back - Bench contribution , may I ask those on the Front Bench to keep their speech short ? I call the liberal Democrat spokesperson . may I warmly welcome you to the Chair , Madam Deputy Speaker ? it be a pleasure to see you . I also warmly welcome the Education Secretary and all her Ministers to their post . as the right hon . member for East Hampshire ( Damian Hinds ) say , they absolutely have the good job in Government . I be very jealous indeed , but I be look forward to work with they constructively over the course of this Parliament to deliver the good possible start for child and young people . I be delighted to be speak today on behalf of the third party in the House from the vastly expand liberal Democrat Benches . I be grateful for the Government make time today for a dedicated debate on education and opportunity . over the past few year , child and young people ' s education have frankly be sideline in the political agenda . it be no surprise to I that his Majesty ' s loyal opposition do not seek to allocate specific time for this area during the King ' s Speech debate , instead bundle all public service , welfare and the economy into a single evening ' s debate . today ' s debate be therefore very welcome indeed . education be the great investment that we can make to ensure that every child , no matter their background , have the opportunity to flourish to their full potential . as a result , it be also the great investment that we can make for our economy and our society . the King ' s Speech and Government announcement in the past three week have include some encouraging measure that the Liberal Democrats welcome . on that note , I very much welcome the Education Secretary ' s announcement on the level 3 qualification review . the Liberal Democrats have long be say that BTecs should not be fund until T - level have properly bed in . actually , T - level be squeeze so many young people out of the system and leave they without option that we need a good range of option , so the review be very welcome . I also welcome the curriculum review that she announce . the devil , of course , in all the announcement so far will be in the detail . I hope that Ministers will work collaboratively , cross - party , on the area where we be in agreement , though there be area where we be not in agreement . one area where we be in violent agreement be the state in which the Conservative Government leave our school and college . shortly before the election , I speak to a school governor in my constituency who tell I that their school be at rock bottom . their school budget have be so squeeze that they be reliant on Amazon wish list from which parent be ask to provide basic essential such as whiteboard pen and glue stick . that have become the reality for so many school up and down the country . not only be school struggle to afford basic supply , but they lack the resource to maintain their building . it be now well document that the Leader of the Opposition , when he be Chancellor , repeatedly refuse to fund the investment in school building that the Department for Education make clear be need . the result ? child be be teach in classroom with leaky window , broken heating and crumble concrete . where even to start with special educational need ? we hear about this issue from the hon . member for Dulwich and West Norwood ( Helen Hayes ) . I suspect that every member across this House , new and return , have a bulging inbox of SEND casework . the system be in crisis . local authority be stretch to the limit and our most vulnerable child be struggle , with their parent stick in an adversarial system , fight day in and day out to ensure that their child can get an education and the support that they deserve to thrive . inadequate support for SEND child in mainstream school , couple with a lack of specialist provision , mean that too many child be languish at home without proper access to education , or travel huge distance at great cost to overstretch local authority because there just be not enough local provision . the lack of provision be have an impact on not only our pupil but our teacher . many be be drive out of the profession because of the pressure that they face . they often tell I that they be act as the fourth emergency service , because all the support service outside our school be crumble . not enough new teacher be enter our classroom , despite the figure that the shadow Secretary of State give . the previous Conservative Government miss their own secondary schoolteacher training target for 10 out of 11 year . that mean not only that many child be not be teach by a specialist in their subject but that exist teacher be have to take on inordinate workload due to the lack of staff . a study conduct this year find that 86 % of teacher believe that their job have negatively impact their mental health , with an increase workload be the main cause of stress . over the past nine year , the Conservatives neglect our education system , and our child and young people be now pay the price . for the sake of our future generation , we must prioritise fix it . [ interruption . ] I will mention the coalition shortly , just to cheer up the hon . member for South West Hertfordshire ( Mr Mohindra ) . the Liberal Democrats welcome the announcement in the King ' s Speech of a child ' s wellbee Bill . we have long argue that wellbee should be at the heart of our policymaking for child and young people . hungry child struggle with their mental health will not be able to achieve their potential , either academically or socially . we know that poverty and mental ill health be significant contributor to the staggering number of child miss from school . we welcome the long - await introduction of the child - not - in - school register , a measure that have have cross - party support for several year and feature in the liberal Democrat manifesto . this be particularly important give that last autumn term there be 33 , 000 child miss from education , with vulnerable child slip under the radar . the change be long overdue , and I hope that the Government implement it without delay . that register be very important for safeguard , but we must address the underlie cause of school absence . we have see an explosion of mental ill health among child and young people in recent year . it be estimate that one in five child have a probable mental health disorder — that is six in every classroom . a lack of available mental health support mean that many child be leave languish at home , miss out on key learning time . it also have much more serious consequence . the day after the election be call , I speak to a local secondary headteacher in my constituency ; several child in recent month have end up in A & E after attempt suicide . a broken mother , whose teenage daughter have tragically be successful in take her own life early this year , approach I in a local park and speak to I about how local service have let her daughter down . prevention be well than cure . the liberal Democrats welcome the Government ' s commitment to introduce a mental health practitioner in every secondary school , but we must start at a young age . that be why the Liberal Democrats have long call for the introduction of mental health practitioner in every primary and secondary school . I recognise the mental health support team introduce by the previous Government , but they be share across far too many school . the average primary school get half a day a week , and the average secondary school get maybe one or two day a week . those school need full - time dedicated support , give the level of need in school . we know that 50 % of all lifetime mental health disorder develop by the age of 14 . put mental health practitioner in every primary school would allow we to address those issue before they become permanent , ultimately save our health service money in the long term . another underlying cause of absence from school , and pressure on school staff , be the grow number of child live in poverty . it be disappointing that the Government continue to refuse to lift the two - child cap on benefit . the Liberal Democrats will continue to campaign for that cruel policy to be remove , which would immediately lift 300 , 000 child out of poverty . child up and down the country can not afford to eat , with some child be force to pretend to eat out of empty lunchboxe , or reportedly even eat rubber out of desperation . in a country as wealthy as ours , no child should be go hungry at school . that be why I be immensely proud that it be the Liberal Democrats in Government who introduce free school meal for every infant schoolchild . [ interruption . ] it be a liberal Democrat policy that we have to fight for in Government . the benefit of free school meal be immense . they save parent time and money , help child to eat more healthily , and have even be prove to boost educational outcome . although Labour have propose free breakfast club for child in primary school , which will be beneficial , often the child most in need be those live very far from school in temporary accommodation , who have extremely long journey and simply can not get to school in time for breakfast . free school meal guarantee that those child have access to a hot , healthy meal in the middle of each school day to give they the energy that they need to learn . most importantly , hunger do not stop at the age of 11 . accord to the Child Poverty Action Group , an estimate 900 , 000 child in poverty miss out on free school meal , and many of they be in secondary school . that be why the Liberal Democrats be commit to roll out free school meal to every child in poverty , whether they be primary or secondary school age , in line with Henry Dimbleby ' s recommendation to the previous Conservative Government , which they completely ignore . sadly , research show that the inequality within our education system be deepen . as we have hear , accord to datum publish by the Education Policy Institute just last week , by the time student from a disadvantaged background leave secondary school they be 19 . 2 month behind their peer . that be the high attainment gap in over 10 year . establish by the Liberal Democrats in Government , the pupil premium be once a vital fund to support disadvantaged child . unfortunately , we have see that value erode by some 14 % in real term since the Tories be leave to their own device in 2015 . one prove method to tackle the attainment gap be tutor in small group and one to one . in fact , research conduct by the Education Endowment Foundation show that over the course of a year an average four month of additional progress be make because of tutoring . although flaw in its delivery , the national tutoring programme , which be introduce during covid , and the 16 to 19 tuition fund have a transformational impact for many pupil . talk about his experience of tutoring , Aiden from London South East Colleges say that he be aim only for a 4 the third time he retook his English GCSE — he just want to get it over and do with — but he now have a 6 , and it be all thank to his tutor . he be go on to do high - level qualification , and he hope to go to university and become a paramedic . it be not just Aiden whose grade improve ; there be 62 , 000 additional pass in GCSE English and math over the two year that government - fund tutoring be in existence . sadly , at the last Budget , the Conservative Government refuse to continue fund for the national tutoring programme or the 16 to 19 tuition fund . the funding run out today , pretty much , because it be the end of the academic year . give the new Secretary of State ' s state commitment to extend opportunity to all and narrow the attainment gap , will she look at the programme urgently and ensure that tutoring funding continue ? will my right hon . Friend allow an intervention ? I be not right honourable just yet , but I give way to my hon . friend . apology . give what my hon . friend be talk about , it be important to note that apply vat to independent school will have a significant effect on their affordability for parent who make that choice . in my Mid Dunbartonshire constituency , not all parent will be able to afford the extra 20 % per child . we hear about the pressure that the state be already under . do she agree that there will be significant additional cost to the state in Scotland , as well as in England and Wales — Order . I thank my hon . friend for her important intervention . she pre - empt what I be about to say about the issue of vat on private school fee and the pressure that it will create for some family and school . I have set out a range of target measure that I think would help tackle the disadvantage gap . they be part of an ambitious package that the Liberal Democrats put forward at the election to ensure that our education system enable every child to thrive and that the local state school be the school of choice for every family in this country . but as liberal , we champion choice , and it be important that parent can choose the good and most appropriate option for their child . importantly , and fundamentally , we believe in the principle that education — whether we be talk about private school , music tuition , private tutoring or childcare — should not be tax , so we oppose the Labour Government ' s policy to introduce vat on independent school fee . I do not think the policy will do much at all to boost our state school . in fact , it risk reduce the brilliant partnership work — the sharing of staff time and facility , for example — that we see between so many private school and their local state school . I have see that vividly , with Hampton school and Lady Eleanor Holles school in my constituency work with the Reach academy in Feltham , in a very deprived area . they have really help to boost the life chance of many of those child in Feltham , include by help with coach for university and medical school interview . my hon . friend be make an excellent speech . do she agree that in many local authority area , such as mine in Buckinghamshire , school be already oversubscribed , so the place in the state sector simply do not exist for independent school parent who find they can no long afford the fee ? I thank my hon . friend for her intervention . I hear repeatedly that there be area across the country where school be full and parent be wonder where on earth they will be able to send their child to school . it be simply not true that it be just the ultra - wealthy who send their kid to private school . I be particularly concerned about those parent who , for whatever reason , feel that the local state school be not well suited to their child ' s need . that particularly apply to the 100 , 000 child in the independent sector with special educational need who do not qualify for an education , health and care plan and will not be exempt under the Government ' s propose policy . I have hear too often from parent , on the doorstep and in my inbox , " I really want to send my child to the local state school , and we try it , but it just couldn ' t meet my child ' s need , so we be now make all sort of sacrifice to send they to a much small , more pastoral independent school , where they have be transform . " it be those family , who will be penalise under this policy , that I be particularly worried about . the vast majority of independent school be small , with few than 400 pupil , and a number will struggle to survive as parent be price out , put pressure on state school , as we have hear . today ' s debate be focus on education and opportunity . as Liberal Democrats , we recognise that education be the ultimate creator of opportunity and empower every person to build a well future for themselves and contribute to our economy and society , yet our young people have be let down for far too long . I desperately hope that , with a new Government , that will change , and I look forward to work constructively with they wherever possible on meaningful action to ensure that it do . we come to our first maiden speech this afternoon — I call Darren Paffey . thank you , Madam Deputy Speaker . may I begin by congratulate you and wish you well as you take the Chair ? I also congratulate my right hon . friend the Secretary of State on her new position . People in my constituency — parent , teacher , pupil and professional alike — will be hearten by the vision she set out for how this Labour Government will build opportunity once again . as I stand here as a new MP — I have to keep say it to believe it — I want to thank the people of Southampton Itchen for the incredible privilege that they have give I . in fact , this feel like a moment heavy with lot of privilege . one be the privilege to be in the Chamber as many of my colleague make their maiden speech , and I congratulate they in advance on the excellent speech we be go to hear this afternoon . another privilege be to be one of only three darren ever elect to this place . since the summoning of the first Parliament over 750 year ago , there have be no mps call Darren , but , like bus , three of we have turn up in the last few year . the big privilege of all be to make my very first speech as the Member of Parliament for Southampton Itchen in this debate about education and opportunity , because , like my right hon . friend , that be my story . as a former university lecturer marry to a secondary school teacher , with child in secondary school , primary school and preschool , I feel like I have some skin in this game . none of the privilege that I feel at the moment be anyone ' s birthright ; they be privilege for which I and many other people — my team and activist — have work very hard , so I do not take they for grant . in addition to be part of the small crack squad of Darrens , I find myself in an equally small cohort of only a few mp know to have grow up in foster care and to have be adopt . the public service that we be talk about today , and that this Government will rebuild , be the service that make I who I be — the NHS staff , the social worker and the inspire teacher . when I be make cabinet member for child ' s service in Southampton , it feel like life have come full circle , and it really do so again just a few week ago during the campaign when Peter , who be the social worker for the first 10 year of my life , get in touch to wish I well . it be excellent to hear that he be a lifelong labour supporter . as a cabinet member , I work to get well support for our care - experienced young people , because too many do not get the start they deserve or the help they need , and we must do more to fight for they . I look forward to work with , among other , my hon . friend the Member for Whitehaven and Workington ( Josh MacAlister ) , who have do excellent work on the need to review social care . I know that he will continue to be a great champion for care - experience child . in the Gracious Speech , his Majesty set out the Labour Government ' s mission to " break down barrier to opportunity " and to " promote child ' s wellbee " . the Secretary of State have say : " I will help working - class child defy the odd to succeed — just as I do . " as someone who grow up as a working - class foster kid , I will do everything I can to back that mission , especially for my constituent . if I achieve just one thing as an MP — obviously , I intend to work hard and achieve more than that — I hope it will be to say to those whose background look anything like mine , " let those challenge time and that stigma that often come with social care never ever hold you back , but instead forge in yourself a steely determination to achieve your full potential . " I would not be here without some measure of that . I certainly would not be here without my wonderful wife , child and sibling , who have support and often tolerate my journey to Parliament , or my parent , who be no long with we to share this moment , but whom I thank for the value they instill in I and the opportunity they provide I with in life . I pay tribute to my predecessor , Royston Smith . before he be an MP , Royston be the conservative leader of Southampton city council , and it be as council leader that he visit HMS Astute when it be in port . a dreadful and fatal gun attack break out , and Royston show enormous bravery by tackle and disarm the gunman , prevent further bloodshed . for this , he be rightly award the George Medal by her late Majesty . Royston fight in Parliament for those constituent affect by the cladding scandal over the year , and I hope to carry on his important work . party politic aside , I be touch to receive a gracious letter from he , congratulate I and offer some wise word of advice . I think that that be a measure of the man . there be another accolade for Royston , as he be only the second conservative to beat Labour in Southampton Itchen since the war . he succeed the right hon . John Denham , my labour predecessor , who serve our city for 23 year and attain high office in Cabinet . John have be a role model , mentor and friend to I . turn to my wonderful constituency , it sit on the near - tropical south coast of England . the River Itchen , which give my constituency its name , have shape our landscape and community since the establishment of Saxon Hamwic and roman Clausentum . we be a port city and the cruise capital of northern Europe , but we be also a bustling hub of culture , commerce , and maritime heritage . from the medieval Bargate and city wall to the groundbreaking Ocean Infinity , Starling bank , and the National Oceanography Centre , Southampton be a place where history and innovation walk hand in hand . we be an outward - look city ; we be the gateway to the world , as we have often be call . the pilgrim father sail from Southampton , as do our brave d - day troop . spitfire and military ship be manufacture on the shore of the Itchen in Woolston . we have two world - lead and civic - focus university , and marine and green tech enterprise abound . Southampton be a place where public servant and labourer , stevedore and student , entrepreneur and artist all contribute to the rich mosaic of daily life . our people be resilient , diverse , welcoming and warm . our city face challenge , like many other , include health inequality , and child poverty level be far too high . many compare we demographically to a large northern seat , but one that happen to be in the south . we be also a microcosm of the country ' s broad ambition and a beacon of the potential still to be unleash . indeed , our vision be to be a city of opportunity . we be a premier league football city , after a short interlude in the championship , and I congratulate the team on win promotion in May . when the Saints go march in to Wembley to win the play - off , I be proud to be in that number watch their victory . commiseration to any Leeds fan in the Chamber . it be fantastic to see the Leader of the Opposition , a fellow Saints fan , also in that number , cheer on a victory for the red team — something that keep happen this year . in closing , I return to my starting point . it be a phenomenal privilege to be here . many see this Chamber from the outside and think of combative Punch and Judy politic , but as I join these Benches , I look over at the plaque remember our colleague Jo Cox and recall her word that " we be far more united and have far more in common than that which divide we . " — [ Official Report , 3 June 2015 ; Vol . 596 , c . 675 . ] to every constituent , whether they vote for I or not , Jo ' s inspire word be the spirit in which I intend to work hard for they , together with colleague across the House , for as long as I enjoy the privilege to serve . as a former maritime Minister , I visit tropical Southampton Itchen very often . I call Sarah Dyke . thank you , Madam Deputy Speaker . I welcome you to the Chamber , as I do the Secretary of State and her team . I congratulate the hon . member for Southampton Itchen ( Darren Paffey ) on his maiden speech . he join two other darren . I be one of many Sarahs in the House ; until recently , we form nearly 30 % of the Liberal Democrats . I be happy to say that we be now more diverse in our name . I welcome the opportunity to speak about education and opportunity , but the sad reality be that many child across Glastonbury and Somerton be miss out on the opportunity to have an education , as they have additional requirement that their school be simply unable to accommodate . after the Conservative Government ' s cut to school and council budget , education , health and care plan have become the only avenue for family seek to access support . they face a postcode lottery and be force to wait month to get the support that they need . demand for ehcp have triple since covid , and local authority be struggle to meet demand . only half of ehcp be issue within the statutory 20 - week timeframe . at this point I must declare an interest as a serve Somerset councillor . today , North Yorkshire council have move to restrict the service that it offer for home - to - school transport , which will have a disproportionate impact on rural school and family . the Conservatives have be sweep from power in Parliament , but they be still have a damaging impact on local government in area such as mine in North Yorkshire . do my hon . friend agree that we should provide rural family and school with more support , not less , to tackle the challenge that they face ? my hon . friend make a really powerful point . likewise , Somerset council be forecast to spend £ 140 million this year on child and family service , include on special educational need and disability provision — a 14 % increase on last year . the increase in ehcp have also increase the cost of home - to - school transport . the high cost be far exacerbate in Somerset because it be such a large , rural county , like Yorkshire . the average cost to Somerset council of travel for one passenger with SEND be over £ 7 , 000 a year . cumulatively , the local authority high - need budget deficit be estimate to be £ 2 . 3 billion , and the figure be ever increase ; the late estimate be that the deficit will increase to £ 3 . 6 billion by 2025 . there be many local authority work with the Department for Education through intervention such as the safety valve programme . those programme demonstrate that local authority , despite employ good practice , be still struggle to cover the deficit , and any saving make be likely to be lose through inflation . the Liberal Democrats want to end the SEND postcode lottery that family face by give local authority extra funding to reduce the amount that school pay towards child ' s ehcp . this be urgent , because child be suffer . they be unhappy , they be miss their friend , and they be miss their education — and as a result , their family be suffer , too . I speak recently to the parent of a child in Wincanton who have an ehcp that need an urgent review . it do not happen , and the child ' s school could not meet their need . that result in they be absent from school and missing month of crucial education . I have also be work with a group of parent of child with SEND , and one mother from Curry Mallet tell I that she believe our education system will see a rise in attendance problem and adverse mental health , and an increase need for SEND support , due to the inflexibility of the system and its inadequacy for meet the need of young people in modern time . it be a total disgrace for any child to be leave without an education , because — if I may return to the title of this debate — it strip they of opportunity . child with SEND will continue to suffer as a result of the lack of place at special school . government statistic from early this year reveal that around two third of special school be full or over capacity , with Department for Education datum show that there be around 4 , 000 more pupil on roll in special school than there be report capacity . in Glastonbury and Somerton there be two special school , and I hope that a third will be ready to open near Ash for the start of the new school year , provide much need extra provision . child and their family across the country face a crisis cause by the lack of specialist provision , and it will not go away . cut to council budget under the Conservatives have make the situation intolerable , and we must act urgently to reverse they . liberal Democrats will work with the Government to ensure that all child can access the tailor learning and support that they need . I believe that we must set up a dedicated national body for SEND , to act as a champion for child with complex need and ensure that they receive tailor support . I commend the hon . Lady for what she have say . she be right to focus on SEND . in the press last week , it be indicate that if child who have autism have early diagnosis and treatment , and an education system put in place , the autism , no matter how severe , can be reduce to a level that mean that the child can have an education and a job . if we get it right early , we prepare that child for the future . I thank the hon . gentleman for that important and valid point . I briefly shift my focus towards the forthcoming curriculum and assessment review . I have be speak to the principle of Strode college in Street , which have around 550 student on BTec course that will be de - fund follow that review . I know that the Government ' s policy be to pause and delay the defunding of applied general qualification ; I encourage the Secretary of State , who be no long in her place , to ensure that that remain the case , to prevent any unnecessary interruption to student ' education . I believe that every child , no matter their background , can achieve great thing , and we must give they the opportunity to do so . congratulation on your election , Madam Deputy Speaker , and on take your place . it be wonderful to see you here . I also congratulate my hon . friend the Member for Southampton Itchen ( Darren Paffey ) on his maiden speech . it be very moving , informative and funny , exactly as maiden speech as ought to be , and I hope that he have a successful time in this place . I welcome the Secretary of State ' s comment on child with special educational need , but I want to raise an issue that have already be mention a number of time : the lack of available school space for child with special educational need . I want to talk about two school in my Great Grimsby and Cleethorpes constituency , Cambridge Park academy and Humberston Park school . the parent of child there with special educational need be very concerned about their education , because the school lack capacity and the place to meet the need of the area . the parent also have concern that if their child can not go to local school , they will have to go out of area . that add pressure to child , who will perhaps have to move away from friendship group , and to family , because there would be additional travel time , and they would be far away if issue arise with the child in that out - of - area placement . that be incredibly difficult for family . we should also mention the problem when child with special educational need or disability reach the 16 - plus point in education . they can become trap in a never - end cycle of try to achieve level 1 or level 2 qualification in math and English — qualification that sometimes they be just not go to achieve . that just set they up repeatedly for failure . I urge the new Secretary of State and her team to take a look at that and perhaps consider be more flexible . we should view education in the light of support young people to achieve their maximum potential , and not focus on that very narrow academic path . I associate myself with the comment of my hon . friend the Member for Dulwich and West Norwood ( Helen Hayes ) on state - maintain nursery . we have the state - maintain Great Coates village nursery in my constituency , and Scartho nursery school sit just outside my constituency , but service child within it . both face an increasingly challenging environment . during my previous time in Parliament , I champion those nursery school and secure additional funding for they , but that be only temporary ; again , our local conservative council be seek to reduce the number of state - maintain nursery , due to a funding shortage . I ask that that be look at as a matter of urgency . as have just be mention , the Conservative Government have start the process of scrap BTecs — a decision that the Protect Student Choice campaign have describe as " reckless " . it will be welcome across the sector that this new Labour Government have decide to pause and review that decision . btec qualification be well understand by employer . applied general qualification lend themselves well to young people who be not sure about their career path but have an interest in a particular sector or industry . I talk about young people with SEND whom the cycle of repeat math and English do not suit ; BTecs may be the right route for they . they be flexible , they sit well alongside other academic qualification such as a - level and apprenticeship , and they can be study as stand - alone course . when we in labour talk about opportunity , surely flexibility and a range of option to support young people through their learning and education must feature . the Secretary of State speak of break the class ceiling , and BTecs enable that very thing . for those for whom the stricture of the current school system have not capture their skill or energy , BTecs allow for broad exploration of a work area and provide another route into university or employment . Franklin sixth form college in my constituency — which be my college — have have great success . its BTec student have go on to work as paramedic , in nursing and in engineering . I take this opportunity to commend the outgoing principal , Peter Kennedy , on his excellent work during his time at the college , when it have go from " require improvement " to " outstanding " in its ofsted inspection . I know that he would want I to recognise the excellent support that he have have from his governor and staff , who have support his vision for the growth and improvement of the college . they have do amazing work and provide an outstanding education establishment for a grow number of young people . I wish he well in his retirement . I welcome the incoming principal , Wendy Ellis , who I be confident will continue that excellent work and — like Peter — will never lose her enthusiasm for young people . it be imperative for the young people of Great Grimsby and Cleethorpes that a plan for BTecs be put in place swiftly to ensure that there be sufficient time for college to advertise course and for student to know what be available in time for the 2025 term . I be go to ask how long the review process would take , but the Secretary of State take the wind right out of my sail by say that it will be complete by the end of the year , that be excellent and welcome news , and I congratulate the team on take that process seriously and put a set of measure in place swiftly . as part of that review , the Government could consider allow student to enrol on all 134 exist apply general qualification — the agq that have be mention — up to and include the 2026 - 27 academic year . if it help the Government make a decision , that would cost nothing because funding be not due to be withdraw until 1 August 2025 , and it would avoid the concern about young people disengage entirely from education without option such as BTecs be available . I ask the House to give I a little leeway to talk specifically about academisation . I would not ordinarily rise to speak in favour of academy as a broad - brush educational principle , but that be the landscape that we currently find ourselves in — one that Franklin college would like to explore as an empty multi - academy trust . it would be a local , substantial system - lead MAT for northern and coastal Lincolnshire . that status have be apply for via a very exceptional route , as I understand it , but the application be currently sit with regional director of the DFE , despite the proposal be widely support by local stakeholder . the principle behind the move towards academisation be to build on the college ' s strong track record of support for local school and academy , and engagement with employer and other organisation on initiative to materially change young people ' s life . the change in status would allow the college to support the area ' s school and employer to meet future need for highly educate , highly skilled young people . for grow local industry , such as clean energy , that be absolutely necessary . perhaps the Secretary of State or her team could write to advise I on how that process can be move along to the next stage . that would give confidence and clarity to the college and potential future partner , and would be of benefit to the whole of northern Lincolnshire and beyond . the future of young people in Great Grimsby and Cleethorpes be a concern not just for I but for the local authority and the wide community . there be a strong desire across the constituency not just for available and plentiful opportunity for child and student , but for the provision to get they into those opportunity easily . the young people of Great Grimsby and Cleethorpes have all the same ambition and talent as young people anywhere else in the country , and I want that ambition and talent to be nurture , with the right structure in place to enable and lift every single one of they . I call Aphra Brandreth to make her maiden speech . I congratulate the hon . member for Southampton Itchen ( Darren Paffey ) on his maiden speech . this be my maiden speech , Madam Deputy Speaker , and I must tell you that I arrive in this place fire with enthusiasm — so much so that my Whip have warn I that I need to be careful that that be not how I end up leave this place : fire , with enthusiasm . I be a new woman represent a new constituency : Chester South and Eddisbury . it be without doubt one of the most beautiful , extraordinary and inspiring part of the United Kingdom , encompass the southern ward of the great city of Chester , those below the River Dee , and many and varied village in the heart of Cheshire . Audlem , Bunbury , Wybunbury , Wrenbury , Weaverham , Lache , Handbridge , Christleton and Huntington , Tarporley , Tattenhall , Tarvin , Kelsall , Cuddington , Farndon , Malpas — those be just some of the very special place with which you , Madam Deputy Speaker , and this House be go to become quite familiar in the come year , I hope . much of my constituency be rural , which be one reason why I find the King ' s Speech so disappointing . this government profess an ambition for growth ; if so , it be simply extraordinary that there be no mention of the contribution of farming to our national economy . food be fundamental : the contribution of the countryside to our country be incalculable , and a Government who be so metropolitan in their outlook that they fail to understand that and reflect it in their agenda be , to use the context of today ' s debate , both miss an opportunity and in need of an education . my constituency be both urban and rural , as be our country . understand the importance of both , and the necessary balance between the two , be key to our country ' s future economic and societal success . the joy of my constituency be that it include a rich range of dynamic village community and a swathe of one of the great historic city in Europe , the matchless city of Chester . it be a business and tourism hub that face challenge , of course — from basic connectivity to burdensome business rate — yet boast many success , among they the major employer in the Chester business park and the University of Chester , whose business school fall within my constituency and at which no few than 27 Commonwealth country be represent among its staff and student . in the 2023 international barometer survey , the university be name in the top 10 nationally in 20 category , include a top three placing and four top five category placing . Chester ' s potential be unlimited , and I shall seek to ensure that this government give it the full chance to bloom . there be also fantastic school in Chester South and Eddisbury , some of which I have already have the pleasure of visit and many more that I look forward to go to over the come month . alongside our excellent state school , we have two independent school educate over 1 , 600 pupil , include nearly 400 student with SEND support who do not have education , health and care plan . those student will face vat under the Government ' s current plan — plan that will reduce choice for parent and increase pressure on the state school system , with no clear benefit to any of our young people . Chester South and Eddisbury have much to offer , from the glory of Delamere forest — which welcome more than 750 , 000 visitor each year — to the excitement of Oulton Park racetrack and Peckforton castle , the home of civil wedding in England . I say that advisedly , because it be the then owner of Peckforton castle who inspire a former Member of Parliament for the City of Chester to introduce a private member ' s Bill that become the Marriage Act 1994 . for the first time , that Act allow civil wedding in this country to take place in venue other than registry office , include castle , historic house , hotel and Chester zoo . some might argue that that single piece of legislation have contribute more to happiness in England than any other legislation of its type . the former Member who introduce that legislation , who I know quite well — in fact , I have know he since I be bear — remind I regularly that his 1994 Act illustrate how , in this place , an ordinary Back Bencher can make a difference . I hope to make a difference in the year to come , not only by badger the Government about deliver local bus service and improve mobile phone and broadband connectivity , and demand that they back our farmer and ensure the investment and infrastructure our village and city need to thrive , but perhaps by introduce legislation of my own in the fullness of time . I draw inspiration from my constituency and from my predecessor : not only my father , who be the Member for City of Chester in the 1990 — Mr Speaker will know both how marvellous and , sometimes , how irritate it can be to have a parent who be themselves a Member — but the newly elect hon . member for Chester North and Neston ( Samantha Dixon ) , who sit on the Government Benches and who previously represent the City of Chester . I look forward to work with she on matter of mutual benefit to our constituent . I particularly share with my predecessor in Eddisbury , Edward Timpson , his inspiring passion for education and his concern for the care and development of young people . another of my distinguished predecessor from whom I have learn be Stephen o ' Brien . in his maiden speech a quarter of a century ago , he say something that I , as someone who serve in the civil service for more than a decade and go on to run a small business , can wholeheartedly echo as I visit the many small and medium - sized business in my constituency : " the prosperity of those business be primarily dependent on less government , less tax , less interference and , above all , a release from the stranglehold of regulation , choke as they do a business ' s ability to compete and an entrepreneur ' s incentive to take the risk " . — [ Official Report , 28 October 1999 ; Vol . 336 , c . 1159 . ] with such a constituency and such predecessor , I know that I stand on the shoulder of giant , with much to do and prove . the House of Commons Library , which I have to say I be already find invaluable , have advise I that I be the first Member of Parliament in its entire history to have the forename Aphra . I be name after Aphra Behn , the 17th - century playwright , poet and author , who be the first british woman to earn she living as a writer . the great 20th - century novelist Virginia Woolf say of she : " all woman together ought to let flower fall upon the tomb of Aphra Behn … for it be she who earn they the right to speak their mind . " what a privilege it be to be in this place , in the 21st century , able to speak my mind on behalf of my constituent across Chester South and Eddisbury . I call Catherine Atkinson to make her maiden speech . thank you , Madam Deputy Speaker . I congratulate you on your new position , and I congratulate the hon . member for Chester South and Eddisbury ( Aphra Brandreth ) on her first speech . I begin mine by pay tribute to my predecessor , Amanda Solloway , who be a committed advocate for those struggle with their mental health , and part of the generation of parliamentarian who have help to make it acceptable to talk about . I also want to pay tribute to a woman who have be an incredible inspiration to I for her work represent our city and as the first woman leader of the Labour party and the first woman Foreign Secretary , the right hon . Dame Margaret Beckett . I be very pleased that we will continue to benefit from her wisdom in the other place . look out from the top of the Derby cathedral tower , to the north you can see the River Derwent , which wend its way to Darley Abbey and the magnificent mill in the Derwent valley , the birthplace of the industrial revolution . you can see the community of Mackworth , New Zealand , Mickleover , Littleover , Stockbrook , California , Chaddesden , Breadsall Hilltop , Normanton , Oakwood and Darley , each with their own distinctive character and with a wonderful diversity of faith and background . my own background , a mix of lancastrian and Mexican American , be perhaps an unusual one , but I have never feel out of place — many community , but one Derby . you can also see the Royal Derby hospital and the medical school that my right hon . friend the Health Secretary have visit , which will benefit from the doubling of medical school place . you can see some of the site where building work be regenerate the city , include the new Derby University business school . if you look over to the constituency of my hon . friend the Member for Derby South ( Baggy Shanker ) , you can see some of the industry in which many Derby North constituent work . Rolls - Royce , which my right hon . friend the Chancellor rightly call " the very model of a great british business " when she be there a few week ago , be one of the business in Derby championing new technology , excellence and expertise , and it be at the frontline in the fight against climate change . you can see Pride Park stadium , home of Derby County , back in the championship , ready to bounce back like our city and our country . it be one of this country ' s true community club that I hope will be protect for the future by the Football Governance Bill . why have I describe Derby North and its surrounding as if stand on top of the cathedral tower ? because I have be there . my nine - year - old son and I abseil down it a year ago for the child ' s hospice charity rainbow . the reward be that awe - inspire view , but the feeling be very similar to the fear I be experience now . People might assume that , after 17 year as a barrister , speak in this place would be easy . they would be wrong . speak here for the first time , there be a very special sense of responsibility and humility , and neither role would have be possible without the good state education that I have . want to give back be why I use to be a chair of governor at a nursery school and child ' s centre . it be why I help to lead the successful campaign to stop the closure of Ashgate nursery school . it be why I be commit to champion all the nursery , school and college and the university in Derby North . it be why I be so excited about the child ' s wellbee Bill that will break down barrier to opportunity for all our child and young people . the legendary Derby County manager Brian Clough sum it up : " I think everyone should have a book . I think everyone should have a nice classroom to go to . I think everyone should have the same opportunity … the chance to have a few bob and get on . " who could disagree ? Derby have a deep labour tradition , return the first Labour MP in England . now Labour represent every corner of Derbyshire , and I feel that the voter have send I not as an individual , but as part of a team . there be also a proud tradition of rail manufacturing that I will champion too . two century of train building in Derby ground to a halt this year . job be lose and , at the train manufacturer Alstom , nearly 1 , 000 year of welding experience walk out the door in a single day . worker , their representative and many other , not least my right hon . friend the Transport Secretary , call for action . there be now a new order for train for the Elizabeth line . the Mayor of London call my lobbying for new train " a little intense . " I be afraid that be something this House may have to get use to . in Derby , great British Railways will bring rail back into public ownership and help create the condition for rail to thrive again . with its headquarters in Derby , Derby will be the rail capital of Britain . it be clear that we need an industrial strategy that commit to the midland . the economy that be break in Whitehall can only be rebuild in the region . the actor Robert Lindsay , who have support I since I be a candidate in his home town of Ilkeston , be one of many who I need to thank for their endure support . he congratulate I on my election use the word of his character Wolfie in " Citizen Smith " — " power to the people . " there be no great power that you can give to people than through education . it be a power that could ensure that everyone in Derby North fulfil their potential , so it be with pride that I support the Government ' s strong emphasis on education , skill and opportunity . that be what will bring real power to the people . I hope to play my part in bring about the change that Derby North and this country vote for . I call Dr Al Pinkerton to make his maiden speech . Madam Deputy Speaker , I be grateful to you for allow I the opportunity to intervene in this important debate and , in so do , to give my maiden speech . I also congratulate you on both of your recent election success and welcome you to the Chair . it be a privilege to follow the hon . member for Derby North ( Catherine Atkinson ) . I be delighted in particular to hear about her recent abseiling exploit . I wonder whether she be give a maiden speech or make a pitch to be the next Lib Dem party leader , but it be wonderful to hear her rich and powerful evocation of Derby North — I thank she very much . I also pay tribute to the other maiden speaker today and last week . the quality of speech and the intellectual energy of those new member suggest that this Parliament will be enhance by a new generation of thinker and doer who will serve this place and their constituent well . Madam Deputy Speaker , I be especially grateful to you for allow I to catch your eye on an occasion when education be place in the parliamentary spotlight . I have dedicate my work life to teaching and research in high education , most recently as a Professor of Geopolitics at Royal Holloway , University of London , where I work with generation of incredible student who have go on to incredible thing in the public , private and charitable sector . I be proud to say that three of my former student be candidate in the recent general election , at least two be current head of office or special adviser to senior member of the House , and one be a rise star of the lobby press . I take no credit for what they do — what they have achieve , they have achieve themselves — but I hope that they will forgive I if I feel some pride in what they do and the contribution they make , even if those contribution be all too often disproportionately favour towards the conservative party . Surrey Heath be bless with an extraordinary state and independent school system within and local to our constituency . I take this opportunity to pay tribute to the work that teacher and senior leadership do in support generation of young people , provide they with knowledge and the critical and practical skill that be vital preparation for further learning and successful career . as be reinforce in the recent general election campaign , Surrey Heath ' s state school achieve all of that while edge ever close to financial crisis . I welcome and will support any initiative put before the House that will raise educational standard and drive opportunity . education , after all , be the engine of social mobility and our country ' s future economic prosperity . I sincerely hope that , with this change of Government , the hostility that have be direct towards the UK ' s genuinely world - lead university will end . the new Government now have an opportunity to walk the sector back from the brink of financial crisis — indeed catastrophe , as I see in the newspaper this week — and to recognise again the intrinsic value of high education , and the role of our university as powerful instrument of local economic growth and the foundation of our national success in research , innovation and skill . Surrey Heath be a wonderful place to live . we be bless with strike and historic landscape . as the name of the constituency suggest , we be define by ancient lowland heath : last remnant of prehistoric woodland clear over the century and keep clear by graze , burn and cut . although not strictly natural , these heath be the preserve of unique ecosystem and biodiversity . Chobham common be one of the fine remaining example of lowland heath leave anywhere in the world . Wildfires be common — increasingly so — as we be grip by the climate crisis . we be grateful to the brave man and woman of Surrey Fire and Rescue , who battle the tough of condition to keep resident and their property safe . they deserve our full support , especially now as they go into battle again , face another round of cut to that vital - to - life service . Surrey Heath be a borough and a constituency with a long and proud military tradition , from the development of Chobham armour in the 1960 to the present - day home of ATC Pirbright — a place that any new recruit to the British Army will come to know all too well . Surrey Heath be also home to Gordon ' s school , found in 1885 , which be both an award - win state boarding school and a national monument to General Gordon of Khartoum . the Royal Military Academy Sandhurst , where british Army officer be train , straddle the boundary of Surrey Heath and nearby Bracknell Forest — although most of the RMA ' s building be technically in Berkshire , I will claim they a little for Surrey Heath today . there can be no doubt of the connection between Sandhurst and Surrey Heath ' s main market town of Camberley . Camberley be a product of the Royal Military College , which be form in Sandhurst in 1812 . in the year that follow , settlement form at the margin of the college , include the plan community of Cambridge Town , name after the Duke of Cambridge , the head of the british army at the time . as the town grow , so do confusion between Cambridge Town and Cambridge , its much less well known and less distinguished namesake somewhere in the midland — apology to hon . member represent Cambridge . this problem be especially feel by user of the postal service , whose letter would frequently find themselves long delay and hundred of mile from their intended destination — 150 year have go by , and little have change . Royal Mail request a name change , and it be the new upstart Cambridge Town that relent , change its identity in 1877 to Camberley : a portmanteau reference the River Cam , which still run underneath the town ; " Amber " , in reference to nearby Amber Hill ; and " ley " , which be the Anglo - Saxon for a forest clearing and commonly use as a suffix in nearby placename such as Frimley and Bisley , also in Surrey Heath . Surrey Heath have a rich musical and artistic tradition . Camberley be the childhood home of Sir Arthur Sullivan and Bros — rich musical tradition — and today be home to musician , astrophysicist and animal welfare activist Dr Brian May . Daphne du Maurier write " Jamaica Inn " while live in Frimley , and we be hopeful that a blue plaque may soon mark that spot as Surrey Heath ' s contribution to british literary history . we be home to extraordinary local , national and international business too numerous to mention , as well as a vibrant charitable and voluntary sector and a community of multiple faith tradition , ethnicity and nationality , include a large and historic Gurkha community . during the pandemic , resident self - organise into a remarkable community - wide response to covid - 19 . Surrey Heath Prepared deliver essential food parcel and thousand of prescription to the isolating and vulnerable — an expression of community resilience and solidarity when it be most need . I hope that contribution by the like of Surrey Heath Prepared and mutual aid group will not be forget in the inquiry under way into how the UK respond to the pandemic . follow the recent boundary review that bring the beautiful village of Normandy and Pirbright into the constituency , Surrey Heath be officially the rest place of at least two significant figure of empire . Sir Henry Morton Stanley be bury in Pirbright , near the home he create for himself after his return from Africa . perhaps worthy of great celebration be John Pennycuick , an extraordinary engineer and colonial administrator with the vision and skill to construct the Mullaperiyar dam . since its construction in 1895 , the dam have be credit with save ten of thousand of life by protect community from seasonal flooding , and for bring nearly a quarter of a million acre of land into crop - bear productivity . today , Pennycuick be revere in the indian state of Tamil Nadu — child be give his name in his honour — yet he be almost unknown here in the UK . I hope that his mention in this House today may be a small contribution to address that historical absence . today , driver on the M3 motorway slip quickly and efficiently — when it be not clog up — through Surrey Heath as they travel between London and the south - west , often without even realise that they be pass through this fine constituency . on the other hand , Surrey Heath road user may be more aware of the less smooth and much less efficient point of entry on to the M3 , at the junction with the A322 . my predecessor Michael Gove — more on he in a moment — spend many an hour at that particular road junction over the past few year , but even his formidable talent could not resolve this serious , shared , local frustration . I hope I can make some headway on that issue in the month and year to come . in Restoration England of the 1600 , hold - up on the highway of what be now Surrey Heath be of a rather different kind . the Great West Road , know less prosaically today as the A30 , be the main connect route between London and the great port city of the south coast . it be a lucrative prospect for highwayman and opportunistic cutpurse , especially on the long , isolate stretch around Bagshot Heath . William Davis , the so - call Golden Farmer , and Claude Duval be two of the most notorious and noteworthy of the 17th century land pirate . duval be recall as a " gentleman of the road " . gracious to the point of obsequiousness , he would relieve you of your jewel while dance with your wife and compliment you on the finery of your apparel . an abhorrer of physical violence , the history book recall he as a master of politeness , smile pleasantly to your face while metaphorically stick the knife in . now , the sharp - eared among you may recognise a pass — one might even say limited and specific — similarity between Duval and another more recent gentleman of Surrey Heath ' s road . I refer , of course , to the former Member for Surrey Heath , my predecessor , Michael Gove , who serve the constituency and this House with considerable distinction and flair for just shy of 20 year . both be man possess of a singular vision , note for their grace and observance of the high courtesy and manner . unlike Duval , there be no evidence to suggest that Michael ' s outing to the A322 involve any public display of dancing . those , as far as we can tell , he save for the nightclub of old Aberdeen . conservative Members to my right may go far , but for my part I be certain that that be where any similarity end . Michael Gove will rightly be remember as a transformative Minister , even by teacher — this be a debate on education — who will consider he transformative , but not necessarily beneficially so . he be a talented parliamentarian . his oratorical skill mark he out as a once - in - a - generation performer at the Dispatch Box . he will be greatly miss in this House by both his friend and his opponent , and I be sure they will want to join I in wish he well in whatever his future have in store . personally , I be hugely indebted to the people of Surrey Heath for elect I to be the first non - Conservative MP for our constituency in 118 year . this be a vote to be take seriously again — one for a local MP who will work in this place to further the cause of a great community . and we need that now more than ever . Surrey Heath ' s road and rail infrastructure require significant investment . it can not be right that it take long to travel between Camberley and London in 2024 than it do a century ago . we need to end the postcode lottery of health , and to address the deep inequality in life expectancy and life opportunity that scar and divide our community . I welcome the commitment of the Secretary of State for Health to prioritise the rebuilding of RAAC - affect hospital , such as Frimley Park hospital in my constituency , but we need reassurance that the new Frimley Park will be the right hospital provide the right service and site in the most appropriate location , accessible by road , rail and bus , and that it do not come at the expense of lose vital green or amenity space . we also need a fair deal for our young people , with genuinely affordable home , and new educational and training opportunity . we urgently need to fix Surrey ' s break special educational need provision . in the spirit that there be always more that unite we than divide we , I look forward to work with member across the House to achieve those thing for Surrey Heath and in support of community across the UK . finally , our family all too often pay a high price — indeed , the high price — to enable we to do what we do in this House , and to participate in the long and stressful campaign that go before and which , soon enough , will come again . in closing , I express my love and thank to my wife , Philippa , and to my child , Jamie and Will , for put up with I , for their limitless support , and for be the good team anyone could ever hope to be part of . rise — Order . before I call the next speaker , Members may have notice that this debate be very oversubscribed . due to time constraint and to get as many people in as possible , I be now impose a six - minute time limit on all Back Benchers who be not make their maiden speech . it be great to see you in your place , Madam Deputy Speaker — a strong Yorkshirewoman , no less , which be exactly what we need in the Chair . I thank the hon . member for Surrey Heath ( Dr Pinkerton ) for his excellent maiden speech . he have do his constituent proud , and it be great to hear from he , and , indeed , from all who have make maiden speech today . the right hon . member for East Hampshire ( Damian Hinds ) mention the literacy hour . as a child , I be lock out of education . I have dyslexia , attention deficit hyperactivity disorder , dyspraxia , and a host of different medical need that make it very difficult and challenging to lead a normal life . I remember not be able to read or write legibly — some may say that I still do not write legibly — and I remember the great influence that the literacy hour have on I when I be seven and eight year old . the change model of education , involve 15 minute of carry out different task , suit I to a t , and give I a lifelong love of literature . it mean that by the time I take my gcse , instead of fail and be lock out of education , I get an a in English literature . I be still proud of that today , because it happen against all the odd . I have be chair the all - party parliamentary group for special educational need and disability because I think it important for we to give young people that opportunity . the narrowing of the curriculum that we have see over the last 14 year horrify I . I be a scientist , and I love drama and art at school . they unlock creativity , which allow I to go on to become the scientist who be creative , think outside the box and do great thing . I want all child who be experience the struggle that I have face to have the opportunity that I have , under a Labour Government — but I be go on about myself too much , because what we be here to talk about be the opportunity for our young people and our community . it may sound like a clich é , but it be still true to say that education be one of the main way to create opportunity in our community , so it be excellent that we be have this debate so early in the new Parliament , and it be good to hear from my colleague on the Government Front Bench about the positive step that they be take to create an education system that be fit for all . I want to focus my comment on provision for special educational need and disability , and on how we can create opportunity for everyone in the education system . it be no secret that the new Government have inherit a SEND system in crisis , underfunde , under - resource and understaffed . estimate from f40 suggest that the total level of underfunding in the last Parliament be £ 4 . 6 billion , with the last Government promise only a fraction of the expenditure need to bridge the gap . when that be combine with the chronic underfunding of local authority , it be easy to see why there be so many story about authority that have be unable to meet their statutory obligation . it be also no wonder that parent who rightly want to fight for what be good for their child have end up go to tribunal , and more often than not they win . in only 1 . 7 % of case have a tribunal find in a local authority ' s favour . that be a damn statistic , in two sense . first , it demonstrate the tenacity that parent need in order to secure the basic right to education for their child . it be not I but the former Education Secretary who be mention by the Secretary of State early who say that the system be " lose , lose , lose " for family , and she be right . a tribunal decision in your favour be a bitter victory when all you ask be that your child have the same opportunity as everyone else . secondly , the extent of the skew in the tribunal figure show that the problem be endemic and need a systemic response . unfortunately , that be not the approach take by the last government : too often we see a massaging of statistic , rather than a serious approach to tackle the underlie reality face too many young people . we see the same with the target to cut the number of education , health and care plan , which be rather skirt around . it be right that we aim to reduce the reliance on ehcp . all child should have the opportunity that they need , whether or not they have a formal diagnosis , and we also need action to ensure that people do receive the diagnosis that be so important , especially for young girl and woman who often have to wait , as I do , until their late 20 or 30 , or in some case their 50 or 60 , to receive a diagnosis to explain why they have be struggle throughout their life . a key task for the new Government will be to rebuild the infrastructure for early year intervention that we lose over the last 14 year . the cut to sure Start have be dramatic , but we also need more health visitor out in the community . the Institute of Health Visiting estimate that there be a shortfall of 5 , 000 in England , with 48 % of health visitor say they will leave the profession in the next five year . shockingly , over a quarter of those survey say that they be service the need of 750 child — three time the recommend ratio for health visitor . it be simply not good enough . early intervention be so important , because they can change the life course of a child . they can open opportunity that can be cut off if the right support be not in place . early year staff with the right training can be the passionate people who spot something in a child that no other have notice . I really appreciate the hon . member ' s remark . indeed , I be think about young child , possibly with a SEND diagnosis , who struggle post 19 . one of the thing I have learn from the Northern Ireland Assembly , where I sit , be that a much more holistic model , which combine health and education , help young people post 19 . do the hon . Member agree that we need such a model throughout the UK , and that post - 19 career advice should be do in a holistic way ? I completely agree that we need a more holistic approach . I recently visit Whirlow Hall farm in my constituency , which provide alternative provision , but also far education , in an agricultural setting . it be great to see the opportunity for the young people who go there , especially those with emotional distress and similar issue . it be really important that we see all of this in the round and make sure that there be quality in all our service — whether that be AP , education in a local mainstream school or get access to diagnosis , which be so important for so many young people . I must not forget salt , or speech and language therapist ; otherwise , I will get in trouble with they . I will draw my remark to a close . I be pleased to see the good signal and direction that we have have so far . the new approach will treat people as people , and start from the premise that whatever their need or disability , they be entitle to the same quality of education and opportunity as everyone else . I look forward to hear from the Government what far plan they will be bring forward to make that a reality . I call Neil Shastri - Hurst to make his maiden speech . thank you , Madam Deputy Speaker . may I start by congratulate you on your election , and on take up the Chair today ? may I also congratulate those on the Government Front Bench on take up the burden of ministerial office ? I wish they the good of success with that . it be with no little pride and a great sense of honour that I rise to give my maiden speech in this House . I be indebted to my constituent for send I to this place , and I will do my utmost to ensure that I repay the faith that they have put in I . it be a particular pleasure to follow so many excellent maiden speech over the last few day . I would like to commend the hon . member for Surrey Heath ( Dr Pinkerton ) for his magnificent speech . his constituency be a place that I hold dear , have train at the Royal Military Academy , and I wish he well in his stewardship of it . I think he will make a great contribution to this House . my constituency be Solihull West and Shirley . like many other , it be newly create follow the boundary review . while it be very much base on the old Solihull seat , the ward of Silhill and Elmdon have move into the new Meriden and Solihull East constituency . in return , Blythe ward have move into mine , join Olton , Lyndon , St Alphege and Shirleys West , South and East . therefore , I have not one but , technically , two predecessor . as I have allude to , Blythe ward be represent in the last Parliament by my hon . friend the Member for Meriden and Solihull East ( Saqib Bhatti ) . I be delighted to join he in this place , and I thank he for his support and help over the last few week . Julian Knight serve as the Member of Parliament for Solihull for nine year . he give particular service as Chair of the Culture , Media and Sport Committee . I be sure that hon . member on all side of the House will join I in wish the whole Knight family the very good for the future . I also pay tribute to Julian ' s predecessor in this place . lorely Burt be still hold in great affection by resident , who remember she as a proactive constituency Member of Parliament . the late John Taylor , an avuncular man , be Solihull through and through , and he be fondly remember for his dedication to public service . his widow , Ann , be still a stalwart of the local community . before John come a fellow member of the Bar , Percy Grieve QC . famously , Percy once have the campaign slogan " grieve for Solihull " . I be delighted to tell the House that there be no need to grieve for Solihull any long . for those hon . and right hon . member who have not have the good fortune of visit Solihull West and Shirley , we may be compact , be a mere 40 sq km in area , but we pack a good punch . we be a diverse community , welcome to all . we benefit from our confluence of culture , which serve to create a great societal bond . together , we be great than the sum of our part . I be particularly proud that several thousand Hong Kong british national overseas have choose to make the area their home . the land now form Solihull West and Shirley be once cover by the ancient forest of Arden on the bank of the River Blythe . the early settlement in the area can be date back to the iron age . the density of the forest of Arden be such that even the Romans find it impenetrable , for throughout the roman occupation of these isle it be hold that no roman road pass through it . by the time of the Anglo - Saxons , the forest of Arden be part of the kingdom of Mercia . a clearing in the wood be establish , and the settlement of the manor of Ulverlei be found . it be here that the town of Shirley now sit , the name Shirley mean a bright clearing . the town of Solihull be think to take its name from the site of the stunning Arden church of Saint Alphege , which can be date back to the 13th century and be build on a mound of marl . this soily hill give rise to the name Solihull . of course , over the year the two town have change somewhat . they be a bustling centre for business and enterprise . we be the home of the Touchwood Centre , we have fantastic business such as Gymshark , and nearby Jaguar Land Rover remain a significant employer for many of my constituent , and a major economic driver for the local area . we be bless with good and outstanding school , provide our young people with the skill and opportunity to succeed in life . through the enterprise and leadership of the local council and the former West Midlands mayor , Andy Street , there have be an ambitious brownfield - first housing policy , deliver sustainable home for the future while protect the green belt . however , while many will associate Solihull West and Shirley with prosperity , there be pocket of deprivation , and I will therefore work tirelessly to ensure that those part of the constituency have the investment and opportunity to shine in the year to come . when you first enter this place , it be impossible not to be strike by the history that come before you . it make you reflect upon your own place in the annal of time . there have be many doctor who have enter this House before . there be several of we in this new intake alone . there have be a number of soldier who have stand up and serve again — indeed , there be almost a platoon of we enter the House for the first time . and as for lawyer — well , frankly , we could be an extension of the Inns of Court . however , it strike I the first time I enter this place that there be a chance that I might be the first Member to have do all three . and that rather flatter the ego . well , how wrong could I have be ? like the bubble burst in the back garden by my young son George , my illusion be quickly burst . a former member for Wimbledon , Charles Goodson - Wickes , have do all this before , and he add be chairman of the Countryside Alliance to boot . so , alas , my place in the history book will have to wait , for the time be . I do hope , however , that my professional experience will allow I to contribute effectively to this place on behalf of the people of Solihull West and Shirley — by be a critical friend on the issue of health and social care , so that we improve patient outcome ; by protect the rule of law and ensure access to justice ; and by uphold the military covenant , and continue the commendable work of the former member for Plymouth , Moor View , who be sadly no long in this place , and other to ensure that Britain be the good place in the world to be a veteran . I be painfully aware of the good fortune and opportunity I have have in life . I have benefit from a love family and be provide with the opportunity to fulfil my potential . sadly , that be not the case for all , so during the course of my time in this House I will seek to champion the early year agenda , so that we give young people the good chance in life . I will also seek to work with member from across the House to improve SEND provision in this country , so that we can move the conversation away from the level of disability and focus instead on the level of intervention , and ensure that every child can access the curriculum and achieve their potential , irrespective of the hurdle they face , because it be only by invest in our young people that we invest in our society . those of we who choose to enter the political arena have a duty to conduct ourselves with tolerance , dignity and respect . these be the value that the public rightly expect of we , and in this , my maiden speech , I make a promise to my constituent that these be the value that I will uphold for as long as they be gracious enough to send I to this place . I call Chris Vince to make his maiden speech . I thank the hon . member for Solihull West and Shirley ( Dr Shastri - Hurst ) for his excellent and very emotive maiden speech . I welcome you to your new role , Madam Deputy Speaker . thank you for call I to speak in this important debate . above all , I thank the people of Harlow . it be a diverse constituency that include not only Harlow but the village of Roydon , nazeing , sheering and , follow the recent boundary review , Hatfield Heath , Hatfield Broad Oak and too many other to name . I thank everybody for give I the incredible opportunity to serve as their Member of Parliament . the new Prime Minister use the word " service " throughout the election campaign , and he have use it in this Chamber . in fact , the Leader of the opposition even use it in his opening remark on the Humble Address . Harlow be a constituency that demand and deserve the utmost service from its member of Parliament , and in my direct predecessor , Robert Halfon , it have an MP who constantly champion and work hard for the constituency . I genuinely thank he for his service . likewise , his predecessor , Bill Rammell , who be a good friend and a mentor of mine , be still remember fondly on the doorstep by resident he have support . both of they have show how to persevere in the face of obstacle and beat the odd . although my story be far less inspiring , I hope I can live up to the high expectation that they have both set . I also thank Bill ' s predecessor , Jerry Hayes , who believe in the importance of public scrutiny . finally , I pay tribute to the late Stan Newens . I get to know Stan quite well in his later year , because all our Co - operative party meeting be hold at his house . if anyone enjoy a trip back in time through literature , I would recommend a visit . at the end of every Co - op meeting , Stan would come over to I and whisper into my ear , " you ' ll be an MP one day . " Stan , I do not believe it at the time , but it turn out that you be right . my background be one of service . I spend 15 year as a secondary school math teacher , and more recently I work for a charity in Harlow call Streets2Homes , which support homeless people , and for Action for Family Carers , which support unpaid carer , particularly those who be young . a while ago , I have a conversation with the leader of the Liberal Democrats , the right hon . member for Kingston and Surbiton ( Ed Davey ) , about his excellent contribution to the report on young carer . I also pay tribute to razed Roof , a wonderful charity of which I be a trustee . it be an inclusive theatre company , and I have to say a big hello to Simon . like many member , my experience have shape my politic and my interest in politic , but my priority be also shape by the constituency of Harlow . many member will know that Harlow be a post - war new town , design by Sir Frederick Gibberd . Sir Frederick design Harlow to be a place of community ; every community have its own shopping area , playground and green space . a local historian describe Harlow as be design — excuse I for this , Madam Deputy Speaker — on socialist principle . it be a place where people can see a Barbara Hepworth or a Rodin while just walk down the street . that sense of community be put to the test during the pandemic , when we see dark time not only in this country but across the entire world . I be proud to report to everybody in this House that during those dark time , Harlow ' s community step up ; they pass the test . they support the most vulnerable people across our town and community . perhaps that be no surprise , give that our town invent the fibre optic cable , and be the home of Harlow college and the birthplace of Rupert Grint — I have no idea why I put those thing in that order . apparently , Harlow have the low density of pub per head of population . that be okay , though , because there be one five minute ' staggering distance from my house . it be the convention to talk about a non - controversial issue in one ' s maiden speech . that be tricky when you find yourself in a room with people with oppose view . I think that I might talk about football , but I be a Leeds supporter , and my hon . friend the Members for Southampton Itchen ( Darren Paffey ) , and for Derby North ( Catherine Atkinson ) , go before I , so I think I shall leave the subject alone , but I be sure this House will join I in congratulate the mighty Harlow Town on their league cup victory last season — let we not worry about what league it be . instead , I decide to talk about young carer , a subject very close to my heart . as I have say , I be a secondary school math teacher for 15 year . in one school , I have a boy in my form — I shall call he George , but that be not his real name . he be a lovely lad . every Friday , it be my job to check that pupil have get their homework planner sign by their parent , so that we know that the pupil be do their homework and record it properly , but George never get his planner sign . anyone who know I as a teacher would say that I be a bit of a softie , so I let it go , but over time , I have to keep he back at break time and lunch time because his planner be not get sign . he never argue . he just turn up , do his five - minute detention and go on his way . it be only at parent ' evening that I find out that both George ' s parent be severely physically disabled , and that George and his sister be young carer . I feel terrible . it be probably that experience that inspire I to become more involved in support young carer . the solution to George ' s issue be really easy . George , like many young carer , do not want to be treat differently . what we do be say , " your sister can sign your planner for you . as long as your sister get it sign , there be no problem . " lo and behold , he get it sign by his sister — he get a detention if he do not . he be happy with that . I be pleased to say that that story be about 10 year old . I think we have progress quite well in our recognition and understanding of young carer . I thank member from across the House , the leader of the Liberal Democrats and my own Prime Minister for bring their experience to this House . in a recent school census , 72 % of school say that they do not have any young carer . I can tell Members that , from my experience of support young carer , that can not be correct . it be predict that there be more than 10 , 000 young carer in Essex alone . Essex county council have identify roughly 3 , 700 of they , so there be a huge number of young carer whom we have not identify , let alone get the resource in place for . I would like to end my maiden speech on a positive : I ask the House to join I in thank all the young carer I have work with , and all young carer across Great Britain and Northern Ireland , for the incredible job that they do . many of they do not even think of themselves as be young carer because it be just what they do — they help a love one — but I want to put it on record that , to I , they be absolute hero . I congratulate you , Madam Deputy Speaker , on be elevate to the position of First Deputy Chairman of Ways and Means . those of we who know you be very pleased to see you in that position . I believe that you will be impartial and fair to everyone , as you always be . I look forward to you call I to speak and intervene in debate on many occasion . what a pleasure it be to see the Ministers in their place . the Secretary of State be here early , and the Minister of State , the hon . member for Newcastle upon Tyne North ( Catherine McKinnell ) , be here now ; I look forward to she sum up . the contribution of the shadow Secretary of State , the right hon . member for East Hampshire ( Damian Hinds ) , be also excellent . we have have wonderful maiden speech today from Conservative , liberal Democrat and Labour Members . the House have be enrich by the combination of contribution , include the intervention of the hon . member for Lagan Valley ( Sorcha Eastwood ) , who will make her maiden speech at a later stage , as other member from Northern Ireland have . I especially thank the hon . member for Harlow ( Chris Vince ) , whose story about young carer resonate with I in particular , as I have have an interest in this area over the year . I think it resonate with everyone , to be truthful , but it resonate with I because I know young carer in my constituency . perhaps they be not the good student , but they have reason for it . the story that he tell may be 10 year old , but it be still relevant today , and I thank he for it . it be so important that we have debate on education . I have say in this place so many time that our young people truly be the future . to ensure that they have the tool need to succeed , we have to make difficult decision . education be devolve in Northern Ireland , so Ministers here do not have respond on it . they do not have to take any notice , and they do not need to say to themselves , " I must reply to the hon . member . " they might wish to say something , but they do not have any responsibility for our education . however , I want to give a Northern Ireland perspective , as I always do , and make two point . there be so many opportunity out there for young people . some may know what route they want to take in life , and for those who do not , there be other option . education may not be everybody ' s option , as the hon . member for Harlow say , but there be other thing that we need to do through education as well . minister will no doubt take that on board . whether in employment , further education or apprenticeship , there be opportunity for people to avail themselves of . furthermore , I be a big supporter of work experience and the prospect that it can bring for young people , especially in their education and future employment . it can give young people a taste for work and the possibility that it can lead they to . I try to offer it every year in my office , as I do when I be a Member of the Legislative Assembly and when I have my own business . two of my young staff member , one aged 29 and one aged 24 , both do their work experience in my office , one back in 2012 and the other in 2017 . we never realise that they would one day end up work for I . they go and do another job in between , but end up come back to I . whether they think I be a soft touch , or what it be , I be not quite sure . I be sure that they do not think that — the fact be that they love what we do in the office . like other elect to this House , my whole life have be about help people and make their life well . that be our job . it do not matter what political party we be in ; we have to try to do that in every part of life . year later , an opportunity come up for new staff , and know the skillset that those two people be able to bring through their work experience , they be able to come into the job like they have always be there . that stick in my mind . whether it be in aerospace ; healthcare ; science , technology , engineering and math ; government ; law ; medium ; trade such as mechanic or plumbing , and so on — the list be endless — it be no secret that more need to be do on funding for the devolved nation . it be reveal last year that Northern Ireland student number be reduce with funding cut . indeed , it have be indicate that the teaching grant for Northern Ireland ' s university will be reduce by 10 % to save around £ 14 million . it be also plan that funding for further education college would be cut by 4 % to save an additional £ 9 million . in the limited time that I have leave , I want briefly to discuss the opportunity that apprenticeship provide for young people . I mention early that not every person can have a civil service job or be in university or another form of education , but they can have opportunity out there in society . our university be incredible , but there be young people out there who do not see university as a path for they to go down . the number of people age 16 to 24 pursue an apprenticeship have be increase consistently since 2013 , showcase how the world of work can provide opportunity for young people who perhaps do not want to go to university . apprenticeship be provide in so many industry ; there be always something that can be find to give young people the good start on their employment path . the issue always lie with funding , and that be why it be so important that these issue be represent . Northern Ireland have suffer for too long from ill thought - out budget and lack of funding . it be time for our word to be listen to and for budget to be reconsider for the betterment of young people and their future . I believe , as everybody participate in this debate do , that our young people be the future , and I want they to get many more opportunity than I get . we be responsible for ensure that education and employment opportunity be available to all young people across this United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland , because , as you know , Madam Deputy Speaker , we be always well together . I call Catherine Fookes to make her maiden speech . thank you , Madam Deputy Speaker , and llongyfarchiadau , as we say in Wales . it be wonderful to have you preside over my maiden speech . I also thank the hon . member for Strangford ( Jim Shannon ) ; it be a pleasure to follow he . I congratulate member on the amazing maiden speech we have hear this afternoon . I particularly enjoy the story of such an inspirational math teacher from my hon . friend the Member for Harlow ( Chris Vince ) . I be really pleased to speak in this debate about education , which be so important . I be a governor at my son ' s primary school in Monmouthshire , Cross Ash , as well as at his secondary school . it be so important , as we come to the end of term , to say thank you to all the governor , teacher and headteacher at all the school in Monmouthshire . I think I be the first of the new Welsh mp to make their maiden speech , so I hope I do our country proud . I want to give one more congratulation , to Eluned Morgan MS , who have just be announce as our new Welsh Labour leader — another strong woman lead we in the Labour party . I have the honour to represent the beautiful , glorious county of Monmouthshire , and I be its first ever woman MP . as former chief executive of the Women ' s Equality Network Wales , where I campaign to get more woman into politic , I can finally boast that I be practise what I preach . I would like to pay tribute not to one predecessor or to two , but to three . David T . c . davy , the former Monmouth constituency MP , serve in four Parliaments . despite our fundamental political difference , we have one thing in common : our child go to the same fabulous school , Monmouth comprehensive . I say diolch yn fawr iawn to David for his dedication to public service and to his constituent . with the redrawn boundary , Monmouthshire have inherit part of the Newport East constituency : Caldicot , Magor , Rogiet and Undy . that mean that I owe a huge debt of thank to my hon . friend the Member for Newport East ( Jessica Morden ) for her legacy of service to those community , and for the exceptional generosity and support that she and her team have give I , both during the campaign and as I start my journey in this place . she be a brilliant MP , and if I become half the MP she be , I know I will be do exceptionally well . technically , I have a third predecessor , because Monmouthshire be a constituency many year ago , and its last MP be John Rolls , a local man who take his seat in 1880 . my hon . friend the Member for Derby North ( Catherine Atkinson ) mention Rolls - Royce early , and I will mention it too . Rolls be father not only to Charles Rolls of Rolls - Royce fame , but to Eleanor Shelley - Rolls , a founder of the Women ' s Engineering Society , an early campaigner for the electrification of Britain , and founder , 100 year ago , of the Atlanta Company , an engineering business with a real difference — it only employ woman . that combination of the technological cutting edge and socially progressive view still represent some of the good of Monmouthshire today . monmouthshire , particularly the Magor technology corridor , be in many way a 21st - century economy . we be also proud of our agricultural and farming tradition . some 80 % of the land in Monmouthshire be dedicate to farming , much of it carry out on small family farm . as a smallholder and a farmer ' s daughter , I know the joy and the huge challenge of rural life , as well as the vital role play in food production and environmental stewardship by our skilled farming family . monmouthshire be also a haven for tourist , home to the renowned Abergavenny food festival , the Wye valley national landscape , part of the Bannau Brycheiniog national park , and the Offa ' s Dyke long - distance path , not to mention our incredible historic border castle . I say to Members : please come and visit in the summer holiday . we have Raglan castle , Grosmont castle and many more . Monmouthshire have a proud history of fighting for democracy , as home to the Chartist movement of the 1830 . the Chartists make shocking and radical demand — how very dare they demand universal suffrage , secret ballot , salary for mps ? — so that ordinary people , not just the super - rich , could enter Parliament . those be now the pillar on which our democracy be base . the same spirit be alive and kick in a constituency where , in 2024 , I be proud to say turnout be 30 % high than the UK average . as a border county , Monmouthshire be instinctively a place of welcome . one of the early action in 2022 of our incoming labour - run county council , on which I have be proud to serve , be a formal application to become a county of sanctuary , welcome and celebrate the contribution of refugee and asylum seeker . perhaps it be not entirely a coincidence that many of our leader in Monmouthshire be woman , from our inspirational council leader — another female first — to the three woman who bring such tenacity and passion to run our chamber of commerce in Monmouth , Chepstow and Abergavenny . despite its great strength , Monmouthshire be , I be sorry to say , one of the most unequal county in Wales , with great wealth and great poverty exist side by side . as its MP , my first priority will be to support the Government ' s drive for economic growth and keep household bill down so that we reduce that inequality . talk of the drive for equality , I be only here because of the incredible woman who come before I and because of the support I have have from far too many individual woman to mention . I must shout out about the work of mentor programme such as the fabian Women ' s Network mentoring programme , the Labour Women ' s Network , and organisation such as Elect she and 50 : 50 Parliament . it be thank to they that we now have a House in which 40 % of mp be woman . we still have a long way to get to 50 % and true equality , so I pledge , as my second priority , to continue my work to ensure that we do get an equal Parliament . I will work with every single relevant Secretary of State and every parliamentarian across the House to ensure that we reduce all the inequality that woman face , from end the gender pay gap , to halve violence against woman and push forward the menopause mandate campaign . I will , of course , do all that I can to support Monmouthshire ' s fantastic charity and community group , from Cyfannol , a charity work to support those experience violence against woman , to reach out , a group support those with addiction . as a keen environmentalist , I will do everything I can to ensure we champion our environment and our river , include the River Wye and the River Usk , which flow through our beautiful county . the people of Monmouthshire have make it clear that they expect I to work cross - border and cross - party , with all the regulator , campaigner and action group , to bring our river back to full health . monmouthshire be back on the Westminster map for the first time in a century and a half . my determination be to make sure that the legacy of this Government for Monmouthshire be a more equal , more prosperous and greener future . it be great to see another former Leeds city councillor in the Chair , Madam Deputy Speaker . the value that sport and art have in people ' s life can not be overstate and , in this speech , I want to talk about their importance in education . the sad reality be there be significantly few access point for people from low socioeconomic background , who have a disability or who be black or from other minority group in to sport and the art . my constituency be home to a very special organisation call MAP , which stand for Music & Arts Production . it be an alternative provision offer access to creative subject for young people age 11 to 16 . student gain qualification in art , design and music as well as in functional skill , and be welcome into a creative community . they can see that they could make a career from pursue something creative and be introduce to a range of role model relevant to their life , who they would not have meet without attend MAP . for young people who be struggle to fit in with our mainstream education system , that can be life change and the effect on society overall be immense . if we can reduce school exclusion rate by provide meaningful creative alternative , we will be able to reduce youth violence , young people will be less involve in crime , and some of the strain on child and adolescent mental health service and other mental health service will be lessen . when I visit MAP , staff tell I of the confidence that attend provision such as MAP can instil in student . have access to art subject allow people to develop a strong sense of identity and transferable social skill , and to build a strong base of friendship and community . child who have be push to the fringe be celebrate rather than punish . I be so pleased that Labour plan to commission an urgent , expert - lead review into curriculum and assessment , and I hope that will mean a broad , more inclusive curriculum . MAP be mainly fund by commercial activity , which be not sustainable ; we must ensure that alternative provision that focus on creative education receive fund similar to mainstream provision . I invite the Minister and the Secretary of State to visit MAP with I in Leeds . the issue around provision be not limit to 11 to 16 - year - old . by September , 2 , 500 more 16 to 19 place will be need in Leeds . leed will have enough a - level place , but there be a huge shortage of place for alternative qualification . that be cause a number of problem for our young people , who , through no fault of their own , be on waiting list for technical , level 1 and level 2 course and be therefore officially not in education , employment or training . that be add to our skill gap and undermine the Government ' s growth target . my view be that the great single challenge for our growth and energy mission be not investment or tax , but skill . I look forward not only to the new growth and skill levy , but to a strategy for create the post - 16 vocational place that we so desperately need . sport be also crucial to the health of our nation and save the NHS £ 1 billion a year by prevent disease and improve wellbee through participation in community sport . we be see a crisis in the number of people who have active lifestyle , and that start with school and education . I be hearten to know that the Secretary of State understand that and be protect sport time . I hope that will mean that we can reach the target of 60 minute of physical activity a day for all young people . I welcome the approach my right hon . friend be take . we can not just tell young people about the benefit of sport and celebrate successful athlete , although I love the Olympics and professional sport . we also need to reimagine — as Labour be do — the role that sport play in people ' s life and have it at the heart of decision making . I hope we can see new funding for community coaching and equipment , especially in sport that be widely play at grassroot , but less so at elite level in the UK , such as basketball . music education be also a vital area . we know how much music enrich people ' s life , but if they do not have the mean to buy the equipment and to get music tuition , it be impossible to access music , to progress and to enjoy all that musical entertainment and education provide . we need to offer that in our school and give that additional enrichment . therefore , I hope to see an uplift in provision of music teaching , improve access so that family can afford the high cost of many instrument . science , technology , engineering and math subject be really important — I be a former community scientist — but we can not neglect the issue around creative education , I be pleased that we will carry on with the creative GCSE , and I hope that we will see a huge uplift in the uptake of art , sport and creative subject in our school and around the education system . that be my hope for enrich our country and our curriculum . I call Baggy Shanker to make his maiden speech . thank you , Madam Deputy Speaker , and congratulation on your new role . a number of we on the Labour Benches know what it be like to be on your first day at work . I thank and congratulate my hon . friend the Member for Monmouthshire ( Catherine Fookes ) on her excellent maiden speech . she raise the important issue of equality , and I be sure that she will continue to press on such matter . I thank the many House staff and official for make our start here so welcome and informative . I also thank my colleague , family and friend , and the resident of Derby South , for their incredible support during the campaign to get I to this place . I be immensely proud to represent the people of my home city as a Labour and Co - op MP . it mean so much that the resident of Derby South place their confidence and trust in I , and it be the honour of my life to amplify their voice in this place . I be bear and raise in the constituency that I now represent , where my parent settle in the 1950 to help rebuild the country after the devastation of the second world war . my father exchange his simple farming tool , on which he rely to feed his family in the Punjab , for overall in a local engineering foundry . just one generation later , I stand here deliver this speech in this place . it still feel a little surreal . alongside honour , I must confess that I also feel the weight of history in take this seat — I be only the fourth person ever to do so . Derby have a proud political history and have be home to many significant political figure . Derby elect England ' s first ever Labour Member of Parliament , Richard Bell . however , so as not to alienate any of my Welsh colleague so early on , it pain I to make it clear he be not the first Labour Member of Parliament in Britain . after the creation of the Derby South constituency in 1950 , it be win for Labour by Philip Noel - Baker , who be the only person to have be award an Olympic gold medal and a Nobel prize . he be follow in 1970 by staunch trade unionist Walter Johnson , who serve the constituency for 13 year , after which a woman who have make history several time over win the seat for Labour . her name ? the right hon . Dame Margaret Beckett — hon . member may have hear of she . as we have already hear , Margaret be the first female leader of the Labour party , the first female Foreign Secretary , and Britain ' s long - serve female Member of Parliament , to name just a few of her achievement . among her many first , Margaret be the first to encourage I to seek selection for this seat . she have be a political mentor and a friend to I for many year , and I will always appreciate her unwavering support . her dedication and duty to our city over the 40 - plus year that she represent Derby South be unmatched , and she continue to inspire many generation of political activist . as we have hear , we be fortunate to be able to continue draw upon the wisdom that she will offer from the red Benches in the other place . it would be remiss of I not to mention a man who many new and return member across the House will have know , and who could always be find by Margaret ' s side : the extraordinary late Leo Beckett . we will always miss he dearly . from the leafy surrounding of Britain ' s first public park , the Arboretum , to the good high - tech aero engine testbe facility and the place where small modular reactor be be design as I speak , Derby South be a place where tradition and tomorrow meet . the history of our city be rich , vibrant and steep in engineering excellence : it be widely think that Derby ' s historic silk mill , locate on the River Derwent , be the first fully mechanised factory in the world . derby folk have always lead the way with their industrious and hard - work nature , but they also appreciate fairness and co - operation , value that extend to the rest of our county and be reflect in the return of Labour Members of Parliament in every one of Derbyshire ' s 11 seat . I be delighted to hear in the King ' s Speech confirmation that legislation will be bring forward to establish great British Railways , an outcome that I and my hon . friend the Members for Derby North ( Catherine Atkinson ) and for Derbyshire Dales ( John Whitby ) — yes , I say Derbyshire Dales — have campaign for in earnest . I be thrilled that we now have a Government who be committed to deliver its headquarters in Derby . we also campaign to save the train maker Alstom , which employ so many highly skilled worker in my constituency . the closure of Alstom ' s historic Litchurch Lane site would have leave the UK as the only G7 nation without essential design , manufacturing and testing facility for rail , an outcome that we simply could not countenance . Marketing Derby , our city ' s award - win inward investment agency , and our local Derby Telegraph be integral in secure the support of hundred of business around Derby in the campaign to save that train manufacture plant . I would not have the time to name in my speech everybody who help . thankfully , we do retain so many of those job , and now we must build on our significant rail heritage for future generation . we must harness the industriousness of place such as Derby and couple it with bold and ambitious legislation to build a Britain that work for work people once again . nowhere be that vision more need than in my home city and many other city across the UK . we have significant challenge with social mobility in Derby , and unfortunately those divide have widen over the past 14 year , in term not just of income but of life expectancy . recent information suggest that people live in Derby city centre have the low life expectancy anywhere in Derbyshire , a statistic that we must change . access to decent home , good education and secure job be key driver of health equality , and I will be fight for those thing for the people of my city . I begin an engineering apprenticeship at the age of 16 , lead to a rewarding career , and recently spend over a decade at the iconic Rolls - Royce . I want Derby ' s young people to have access to similar opportunity , not just in engineering but in other sector , include the expert design and manufacture of sporting apparel by company such as huub in Derby ; architecture , design and construction with company such as Wavensmere Homes ; and the cultural and entertainment sector at place such as QUAD , D é da and Derby theatre . in addition to the growth ambition outline in his Majesty ' s Speech , Derby people will be particularly pleased to hear that the Government be take forward plan to introduce an independent football regulator . that regulator will promote the financial sustainability of football club , ensure that they make prudent financial decision . when our beloved Derby County — a founder member of the Football League — run into financial difficulty , it be save from administration by a local man and fan , David Clowes , preserve the club for its supporter . the new regulator will significantly reduce the risk of Derby County or any other club be face with a similar prospect , and our cherished club will be save . Derby have so much to be proud of in what we have give the world and what the world have give Derby . as I have say , I be so excited about what we can achieve in Derby with a thrive public and private sector partnership , now a Labour council , a Labour police and crime commissioner , a Labour East Midlands Mayor and a Labour Government . we must work together to retain what be good about city such as Derby and to develop what be need . the content of the King ' s Speech be just the start of that journey . once again , I thank you , Madam Deputy Speaker , for this opportunity . I call Tony Vaughan to make his maiden speech . thank you , Madam Deputy Speaker , for allow I to make my maiden speech today . may I congratulate you on your election ? it be a privilege to follow my hon . friend the Member for Derby South ( Baggy Shanker ) . he speak about his constituency with eloquence and passion , and I congratulate he on his speech . I pay tribute to my predecessor , Damian Collins , who serve as the Member of Parliament for Folkestone and Hythe for the last 14 year . he work tirelessly here in Parliament , most notably as the Chair of the Digital , Culture , Media and Sport Committee , which he lead for several year up to 2019 . he spearhead several significant inquiry into press issue , include doping in sport , football governance , combat homophobia in sport , tackle online disinformation and examine addictive technology . as a father of two boy , I be well aware of the parenting challenge that be pose by online gaming and social medium , so I know that the work Damian do to hold tech company to account perform a vital public service , for which we be all grateful . recognise his expertise and contribution in this area , Damian be appoint the Parliamentary under - Secretary of State for tech and the digital economy in 2022 , and that appointment follow two parliamentary private Secretary role in the Northern Ireland Office and the Foreign Office . I be sure the whole House will join I in wish Damian all the good for his future endeavour . I would also like to acknowledge my second predecessor , Michael Howard — Lord Howard — who represent the constituency for some 27 year . he remain a much respected figure locally , and many voter talk of he fondly on the doorstep during the short campaign . it be the honour of my life to be elect as Folkestone and Hythe ' s Member of Parliament . I thank the member and volunteer of Folkestone and Hythe Labour party who move heaven and earth to get I elect . without their effort , I simply would not be here . I also want to thank my wife and my family , who have be behind I all the way . I have the privilege of be the first Labour MP ever to have represent the constituency since its creation in 1950 . before that , the constituency cover its approximate area , Hythe , have return conservative mp continuously since 1895 . as a further piece of history , such be the strategic importance of Hythe and the town of New Romney — two port that be among the original Cinque port on the south coast — that they have be represent continuously ever since the Simon de Montfort Parliament of 1265 , which be usually regard as the first Parliament in England . I first visit Folkestone and Hythe in 2007 as a baby barrister send to folkestone magistrate court , apparently draw the short straw . the fee be not much more than the train fare to get there , and the two - hour journey down be bumpy and slow . the upside be that I get fish and chip for lunch , a sea view and a breath of sea air . by the time I move to folkestone in 2014 , the high - speed line HS1 have cut the journey time to 53 minute , and as hon . member can imagine , the dream of seaside living be no long a distant thought for many . folkestone and Hythe today be a cultural hub . we have art festival , comedy , theatre , open studio , open garden , the Folkestone Music Town initiative and live music to suit every taste . the Royal Gurkha regiment be base in the constituency , and we have one of the large nepalese community in the UK . it be hard to beat a nepalese curry from Folkstone . the constituency have around 20 mile of beautiful coastline , from the border with Dover down to the Kent - Sussex border near Camber . it be little wonder that Folkstone and Hythe be a tourist hotspot , a creative and digital magnet , and a place to find solitude and peace . we also have a large windfarm in Romney Marsh , which be open by the Secretary of State for Energy Security and Net Zero , my right hon . friend the Member for Doncaster North ( Ed Miliband ) , in 2009 . it be a privilege to visit it with he early this month , follow his announcement about drop the ban on onshore wind . what I love most about Folkstone and Hythe be the strong community spirit , and the drive of so many to make the area the good that it can be . there be Romney Marsh community hub , where the elderly can socialise and access service , and hythe youth centre support young people in the area . the New Folkestone Society and the Sandgate Society be safeguard the heritage of the area , and Napier Friends welcome , integrate and assimilate refugee who come to our area from all over the world . sadly , however , far too many people in Folkstone and Hythe be be leave behind . some of the most deprived area in Kent be in my constituency , and the system have be hold community back . opportunity be spread unevenly , sewage pollute our sea , unaffordable mortgage rate and rent be face by everyone , and public service just do not work as they be suppose to . have live on Folkstone and Hythe ' s coastline , like many resident I have see overload small boat arrive on our shore — boat organise by organise criminal network that trade and commodify human being . on too many occasion than I care to remember , I have join local resident to remember life lose in the channel . indeed , as the Home Secretary remind we , 90 life have be lose so far this year . I be proud to be a Labour MP support this transformative Labour Government who will pass the law we need to turn Britain around and break down barrier to opportunity . the 35 Bills in the King ' s Speech be just the start of that . as a barrister of 17 year ' standing , I particularly welcome the Government ' s reinstatement of the rule of law , which be the foundation of our constitution and democracy . the Government ' s decision to treat human smuggling and trafficking as a national security issue be long overdue . I have represent many victim of those criminal gang , and I know that such be their sophistication and resource , that nothing short of the full force of our national security expertise will do . we must never forget that the victim themselves need justice . I be the son of one of the first Filipinos who migrate to the UK . my mum come here in the 1970 and work in the NHS , which I think make I the first person of filipino heritage to stand in this Chamber . I understand how easy it be for vulnerable people to be exploit by powerful other — Filipinos around the world know that all too well — and we can , and must , break the business model of these sophisticated criminal . for a corner of east Kent that often feel leave out and a long way from Westminster , Labour ' s devolution plan represent a rare opportunity . coastal community , include those all along the south coast , face similar challenge . East Kent have the second high level of economic output of Kent ' s five region , and devolution would open the door to great power , and with they a strategy for regional economic growth and solution to the problem that my constituent face every day with housing , bus , health , skill and work . the strength of Folkestone and Hythe lie in its people . every person I speak to during the general election campaign reinforce my belief that there be so much untapped talent and so much that people have to give , and that with an extra help hand from the Government the potential of every person can finally be realise . to everyone in Folkstone and Hythe , I say this : I stand here ready to help you , whether you vote for I or not , and I promise to use all the energy , expertise and dedication to be your advocate and your voice , wherever it be need . my parent ' value of compassion and public service run through everything I do , and those be the value that will today , and every day , guide my action , my decision and my work in and across this House . I call Jim Dickson for his maiden speech . thank you , Madam Deputy Speaker , for allow I to make my maiden speech . I welcome you to your place . I commend the brilliant speech of my hon . friend the Member for Folkestone and Hythe ( Tony Vaughan ) . we envy his sea view , but it be great that he and I be part of a group of 12 Kent Labour mps — up from one before the election — and I be delighted that my speech be likely to be follow shortly by that of my hon . friend the Member for Gravesham ( Dr Sullivan ) , who be also one of our number ; it be brilliant to see she here as well . it have be say that when Labour be strong in Kent , we be strong in the country , and I think we be prove that with our presence in Parliament . I very much welcome the new team of Education Ministers , and particularly their promise of new investment and additional teacher for Kent and Dartford school . I welcome the priority give to education under this new Government . investment can not come soon enough , particularly at a time when Kent county council be look at reduce the right of parent of special educational need pupil . again , the arrival of a Labour Government could not come soon enough . I would like to say a very warm thank you to the elector of Dartford for place their trust in I to represent they . it be truly an honour for I that they have do so . they do not change their Member of Parliament often — there have be as few as eight since 1945 — and , needless to say , return the same MP for many year be a tradition that I strongly approve of and hope to see continue long into the future . that prompt I to remember the contribution of two of my immediate predecessor as Member of Parliament for Dartford . Gareth Johnson , who represent the constituency for 14 year until the recent election , be a former Dartford grammar school pupil whose commitment to the constituency and its resident can not be question . to his great credit , he have already provide assistance to I as I start in this role . I really do wish he well . I first come to Dartford more than 20 year ago to knock on door for the constituency ' s last Labour MP , local GP Howard Stoate , a member whose commitment to public service above all else be still warmly remember by resident and whose example I will do my very good to emulate . among other thing , I have spend many year both as a council leader and more recently as a cabinet member for health in the south - east London local authority of Lambeth , so I stand here as a passionate advocate for well public health and for central and local government action to prevent ill health for all our population . that be why , in addition to the really welcome step that the new Government be take to restore the NHS , I be particularly supportive of their decision to retain the Bill propose by the last government to prevent all those bear after 2009 from start smoking . in Dartford , nearly 10 , 000 people — almost 12 % of the population — smoke , with result health and care cost of more than £ 24 million a year accord to action on Smoking and Health , and of course , tragically , many early death . when it come to smoking , it be vital that we stop the start . it have be rightly observe that Dartford have at this election continue another tradition , which be the long in the country : that of elect an MP of the same party as the Government . I know that Dartford resident be rightly proud of the canniness and common sense that that reveal in their outlook . it be a place where strong value co - exist alongside , thankfully , an openness to change . it be worth note that it be nearly 63 year since two former pupil of Wentworth primary school in Dartford bump into each other on platform 2 of Dartford station and begin discuss their share interest in black american blue music . the sequel to that chance meeting of Mick Jagger and Keith Richards be one of national and global success . it be pleasing to note that , even as we speak , they be tour the United States . so Dartford remain a bellwether constituency and the Rolling Stones be still play live — you could say , Madam Deputy Speaker , that those be two reason why we can be confident that the sun will go down tonight and come up tomorrow morning . their story , and that of Dartford , be not just one of continuity , but one that be very much about embrace new culture and change . Dartford be a historic market town that , alongside its beautiful surround village of Darenth , Longfield , New Barn , Joyden ' s Wood , Greenhithe , Swanscombe , Bean , Stone , Ebbsfleet and Southfleet — I think I get they all in — have an unquestionable place in the story of our country . it be where Henry VIII keep a grand residence , later provide as a home to Anne of Cleves , the wife who I think we can all agree have the good sense to get out early . it be also the location for much of the life ' s work of Richard Trevithick , father of the steam engine , which power the UK ' s 19th - century industrial might ; his presence be still commemorate in the Royal Victoria and Bull pub in Dartford . even in the digital age , paper produce in Dartford , as it have be over the century , still send vital information across the UK and around the world . Dartford and its people be a true marker of our past and our history . it be also the fast grow town in the UK , with new resident arrive all the time from a multitude of place , make Dartford more diverse and bring fresh energy and new way of think to our town . we have a grow and much cherish Hindu community join our Sikh and muslim population , an increase african - caribbean population , and a Nigerian and west african heritage community emerge impressively quickly . many resident have recently arrive from Southwark , Lewisham , Greenwich and across the river in east London , seek home that they and their family can just about afford , and bring their strong cultural influence to bear . however , action be sorely need to make the new home be build in the constituency more affordable and accessible to all . I strongly welcome the Government ' s plan to address that issue . if the Government can help we set in place the infrastructure in new community such as Ebbsfleet , include new hospital and GP capacity — our wonderful Darenth Valley hospital be overrun — investment in school and the well transport that these community need , as well as address the stubborn inequality still feel by our long - term less affluent resident , Dartford can be a model — the kind of multicultural community that demonstrate just how our country can succeed . regrettably , Dartford ' s road be frequently gridlocke . a new Thames crossing be need to cope with the volume of traffic use the Dartford crossing , and to meet the requirement of the grow north Kent economy . our station at Ebbsfleet must be give back its status as Ebbsfleet International , and cross - channel service should stop there once more . resident of Swanscombe need action to restore the A226 Galley Hill Road , which be partially collapse , and to end the nightmare of large vehicle divert down its narrow street . for the new community live on estate run by management company , reform of leasehold law and strong regulation of management company can not come soon enough . to complete the picture , we also need Dartford and its Princes Park stadium back in national league south , and look upwards to where they belong , follow last season ' s relegation to the isthmian league . I fully appreciate that that may be beyond even your power , Madam Deputy Speaker . the dart — alongside Dartford cricket club , one of the old in the country , build and start in 1727 and about to have its 300th anniversary , and Dartford Valley community rugby club — be anchor of our community in Dartford , alongside our Orchard theatre , which be suffer from reinforce autoclaved aerate concrete and be currently close , but which we hope to see reopen as soon as possible . notwithstanding the need for those improvement , I look forward to be a strong voice in this place for Dartford , and to be a champion for the town , our village and all our resident . I call Steve Witherden to make his maiden speech . I congratulate you on your election to your new role , Madam Deputy Speaker , and congratulate Eluned Morgan on become First Minister of Wales , echo the sentiment express by my hon . friend the Member for Monmouthshire ( Catherine Fookes ) . I also thank my hon . friend the Member for Dartford ( Jim Dickson ) for his speech . it be lovely to listen to someone who be so knowledgeable and passionate about their constituency . as this be my first time speak , I would like to pay tribute to my predecessor . I say " predecessor " as my constituency be a 35 % - 65 % split between two former constituency . first , I pay tribute to Craig Williams for all his excellent work represent the people of Montgomeryshire . Craig be always affable , gentlemanly and respectful towards I and my wife on every occasion we meet . on polling day at the count , he conduct himself with decency and dignity at what must have be an extremely difficult time for he and his family . he be a credit to both himself and his family , and that need to be acknowledge . secondly , I pay tribute to Simon Baynes , the last ever MP for Clwyd South , which be partition four way . the large piece , Glynd ŵ r , and all of south and west Wrexham go into my constituency . I salute Simon ' s work in bring Llwyneinion Woods near Rhosllanerchrugog into community ownership . I grow up in Glynd ŵ r , but four mile outside the constituency , the pre - 1996 Glynd ŵ r not have identical border with the current incarnation . I have live in the constituency for 15 year , have long put down root there . Glynd ŵ r have an incredibly rich industrial heritage . until relatively recently , Air Products and Monsanto , which straddle the village of Acrefair and Cefn Mawr , dominate the landscape , the famous Ruabon red - brick dominating many town and village within and beyond the boundary of the constituency . go back far , I would argue that Chirk be second only to Bournville in the history of chocolate production in the UK . Bersham colliery be the final coalmine to close in north Wales , in 1986 . it be also in Bersham , on the River Clywedog , that british ironmaking begin in 1670 and smelt iron ore with coke begin in 1721 . Montgomeryshire make up the large part of the constituency and also have a fantastic history . it be here that Robert Owen , the pre - marxist socialist , be bear in 1771 and die in 1858 , in Y Drenewydd , the large town in my constituency . Montgomeryshire have be at the forefront of environmental and green initiative . it be the home of the Centre for Alternative Technology , of which my father be a founder member in the 1970 . to this day , Montgomeryshire produce approximately 96 % of the power it use through renewable energy source . that take I on to what have to be one of my objective , and one of the priority for this government : the creation of great British Energy , a publicly own energy company which will see a vast increase in renewable . what else be my objective ? until early this month , I be a national executive member of the NASUWT teacher ' union , so our new deal for work people be incredibly close to my heart . the banning of fire and rehire , and even more so the abolition of zero - hour contract , be thing that this country desperately need . we will bring they about in the first 100 day of Government . as a teacher since 2005 , and have be a community governor , a parent governor and a teacher governor at multiple school , plus have hold an array of elect teacher trade union role since 2009 , I feel that I be qualified to speak on matter pertain to education . our education system be in crisis . the number of teacher vacancy , especially in key subject specialisms , and the number of teacher leave the profession , be alarming . I thoroughly welcome the Government ' s proposal to recruit thousand of new teacher , but retention of they once they have qualify be of equal importance , if statistic on teacher leave the profession within five year of qualifying be anything to go on . the underfunding of school , especially secondary school , be a tick time bomb . my own experience make I want to become a teacher . I be statemente dyslexic and dyscalculic at a time when a lot of people do not believe in such term . I be completely illiterate until the age of 11 , and be place in bottom set at school for many year and write off by many . I join the profession to not write off anyone , and to fight for child to believe in themselves and realise their potential . that have gradually become more and more difficult for even the most dedicated teacher , as hungry child can not realise their potential . this House need to do everything in its power to ensure that there be no hungry child in the sixth - rich country in the world . finally , I thank the House , all the staff and all the political party for the kindness and support that I have receive since the death of my mother a fortnight ago today . I think that in the final week of the short campaign , my mother perhaps do not tell I how ill she be . even when she be deathly ill , she may have use her unforgettable influence — a three - line Whip of her own — to try to persuade my sister and father not to tell I just how ill she be . I would have do the same have our role be reverse . I think we have week , but on 9 July , after Black Rod ' s summon and during the Speaker ' s speech , I be call out of the Chamber and tell that we have hour . thank to the efficiency of the staff in this building , to whom I be eternally grateful , I be able to get straight on a train back to Wales in time , and thank to the exemplary care of Dr McAndrew , Nurse Kathryn and their colleague at Wrexham Maelor hospital , I be able to see my mother before she die , not suffer or in distress , to tell she I love she , and to hold her hand while she pass away . when nearly everyone think that Montgomeryshire would remain the only seat in Wales never to have a Labour MP , my mother believe that I would win it . she never give up on I , just as she never give up believe , when I be a boy , that I would be able to read one day and to make something of myself . I be glad that she get to see I elect , because I know that it make she very happy — and if it be permissible , Madam Deputy Speaker , I would like to dedicate this maiden speech to my mother . Diolch yn fawr . I call Laura Kyrke - Smith to make her maiden speech . thank you , Madam Deputy Speaker , for this opportunity to address the House , and I congratulate you on your election to the Chair . I be sure that the House will want to join I in extend our deep sympathy to my hon . friend the Member for Montgomeryshire and Glynd ŵ r ( Steve Witherden ) . I be very sorry and sad to learn of the death of his mother . I congratulate he on a wonderful maiden speech , and on speak with such passion about our child and the potential of the next generation . I want to pay tribute to my predecessor , Rob Butler , who I know have great affection for Aylesbury , and who serve the constituency with great loyalty and good will . it be a true honour to be here as the new Member of Parliament for Aylesbury . give that my constituency house the county town of Buckinghamshire and have return a long line of Conservative Members to Parliament , as might be expect from that county , I be particularly proud to be here as Aylesbury ' s first ever Labour MP , and its first female mp . my constituency be very diverse geographically ; it cover the rapidly grow town of Aylesbury , many lovely village , such as Whitchurch , Wing , Cheddington and Edlesborough , historic woodland and farmland , and the chiltern hill . it also have very diverse community , with people of Christian , Muslim , Hindu and other faith , and people of asian , african and eastern european heritage , live alongside elderly resident and young people whose family have call my constituency home for many generation . we be an historic constituency , too . Britain ' s old road , the Ridgeway , cross through to Ivinghoe Beacon ; the remain of an iron - age hill fort lie beneath Aylesbury town ; and an Aylesbury constituency have exist in some form since 1554 . it be from Aylesbury that John Hampden defend Parliament against Charles I in 1642 , and his statue overlook Market Square in the town centre still celebrate the parliamentary freedom that he champion . perhaps I will not dwell for too long on our conservative - lean political history from then onwards , but I want to highlight three other way in which history shape my brilliant constituency today . first , there be our vibrant culture . Roald Dahl make Buckinghamshire his home , and today we host the Roald Dahl child ' s gallery at Discover Bucks museum . we be the birthplace of the Paralympic movement , and host the first competition for people with spinal injury in Stoke Mandeville back in 1948 . for decade , Aylesbury be home to the iconic Friars nightclub , where act like Queen and U2 perform . David Bowie ' s first performance of " Ziggy Stardust " there be now mark in the town by a bronze sculpture , which burst into song , catch visitor by surprise . secondly , my constituency have a history of offer a friendly welcome , include to many evacuee from London in world war two and the exile Czech Government , who operate out of Old Manor House , between Wingrave and Aston Abbotts . you can still see the bus shelter that the Czech President instruct to be build on that road , have take pity on the local schoolchildren wait in the rain . we have see the same welcome to many people who have move into the constituency in recent decade , and particularly into the many new housing development in the area . thirdly , I want to highlight the inequality in income and wealth that exist in the constituency . member of this House may be surprised to hear that Aylesbury have high level of deprivation . in fact , one in eight child in the town live in poverty , and we have always have a history of people struggle to get by on a low wage in the print and car factory , or as agricultural labourer . I pay tribute to the local food bank and to fantastic charity such as Youth Concern and Aylesbury Homeless Action Group , which make life more manageable for those who be struggle most today , but they should not have to exist . that take I to the four point that I will prioritise as the Member for Aylesbury , and to the reason why I want to speak in today ' s debate on education and opportunity . above all , I want my constituent to feel a sense of opportunity and optimism again . first , I will focus on the desperate need to improve healthcare . we be home to Stoke Mandeville hospital , where my son be bear , and its internationally renowned spinal injury unit . I have the deep respect for everyone who work in the healthcare sector across the constituency , but we have to make it possible for people to get basic healthcare and to see their gp again , and we have to tackle the awful and pervasive mental health crisis in my constituency and across the country . one of my most brilliant and good friend , Sophie Middlemiss , be not here to witness this moment of great change and opportunity for our country , because she take her own life when her little girl be 10 week old . I do not want anyone to suffer from post - natal depression and anxiety in the way that she do , and I will fight to get well help for people in her situation . secondly , I will focus on education for our child , and I will fight to ensure that all child , whatever their background and circumstance , get the opportunity that they deserve in life . I be particularly concerned about SEND child — I be pleased to have hear a lot about that in the House today — and their parent , family , carer and teacher , who be not get anything like the support they deserve . that have to change . thirdly , I will help our business to thrive . I will support the small business that I hope will be part of a revival of Aylesbury town centre . we have to make it a safe and attractive place to spend time again , and we have to make it possible to get in , across and out of town without spend hour in traffic . I will also support the farming business in the rural part of our constituency , within a wide , careful approach to protect and manage our nature - rich and agricultural land . finally , I come to this job conscious not just of the challenge and the opportunity for my constituency and my country , but of the very challenging moment that we be in globally . before come to Parliament I be lead a humanitarian aid agency , and I will continue to be a voice for , and do right by , the most vulnerable people around the world . there be record number of people catch up in conflict and crisis , at a time when geopolitical rivalry be on the rise and the global institution set up after world war two no long offer the protection that they use to . a strong and principled Britain can make a real difference in the world , and I know this matter to my constituent , most pressingly in their concern about the awful suffering in Gaza and the suffering of the israeli hostage and their family . let I conclude with one final point . I mention that Aylesbury be home to the Roald Dahl Children ' s Gallery , so I will end with some inspiration from Matilda , perhaps Roald Dahl ' s fine character — certainly that be my daughter ' s view . Matilda say : " have power be not nearly as important as what you choose to do with it . " every day , in this place of power , we all make choice . I will know if I have make the right choice if people in crisis around the world and , most importantly , people struggle in my constituency tell I that I have play my part in make a positive difference to their life . I call Emily Darlington to make her maiden speech . thank you , Madam Deputy Speaker , and I welcome you to your role . can I also say how fantastic it be to have an all - woman Deputy Speaker team ? thank you for call I to speak in this debate on education and opportunity . in it , I would like to pay tribute to my great - grandmother , Emily Jones , who marry Thomas Thomas and make sure that her seven child could read . this start our family ' s journey from the mine of the Welsh valley to her namesake stand here in the Chamber today . Malala Yousafzai tell we : " one child … one book and one pen can change the world . " I pay tribute to the other member who have make their maiden speech here in the House today . I say to my hon . friend the Member for Derby South ( Baggy Shanker ) , it be great that you have great British Railways , but if you come after Network Rail in Milton Keynes , we will have word . I say to my hon . friend the Member for Montgomeryshire and Glynd ŵ r ( Steve Witherden ) that I know what it be like to have those strong Welsh woman role model . I give he my condolence , but I be sure his mother would be so proud of he here today . my hon . friend the Member for Aylesbury ( Laura Kyrke - Smith ) , one of five Labour mp now represent Buckinghamshire , share with I a passion for international development . finally , my hon . friend the Member for Monmouthshire ( Catherine Fookes ) can count I in on her ambition to get 50 % of woman into this place and I suggest that we have our first meeting in Usk , where I be married . I be the first MP for the new constituency of Milton Keynes Central . it encompass half of Milton Keynes North and half of Milton Keynes South , and I be sure that my hon . friend the Members for Milton Keynes North ( Chris Curtis ) and for Buckingham and Bletchley ( Callum Anderson ) will pay tribute to their predecessor , but I would like to wish Ben and Iain luck in their future and thank they for the collegiate way we have always interact over the year . I would also like to pay tribute to the late Brian White and to Phyllis Starkey , fantastic former Labour mps for Milton Keynes , and to the late Kevin Wilson , the good MP Milton Keynes never have . another former MP for my seat be Robert Maxwell . I have very little in common with he , except that in his maiden speech in 1964 he plead against the closure of the Oxford - Bletchley - Cambridge line , which we now know as East West Rail . he be right . he also argue that science , research and technology would be how the UK would become an economic success and how we would improve our NHS . he recognise the challenge of translate those discovery into product and service , and that challenge remain today . I wonder what he would think of the new town of Milton Keynes , which embrace innovation . we have robot that deliver our grocery . we be at the forefront of driverless technology . we be at the heart of AI , and of regulation , with the British Standards Institution base in my constituency . we be the home of the Open University , the vision of Harold Wilson and deliver by the fantastic Jennie Lee . it be the first university to do distance learning , with learning and opportunity for all at its heart — a true labour institution . Milton Keynes college deliver opportunity for young people , but hon . member might not be aware that it also deliver the big education to prison across our country . it be innovation that have lead to our economic success , but we have also be innovative in our approach to build our city . we be all pioneer . we have all choose to live in Milton Keynes . we have move from across the UK or from across the world to build a well life for our family and ourselves . as member may have realise from my mid - Atlantic accent , I too have move around many time . I be bear just across the river at St Thomas ' s , then my father and I emigrate to Canada when I be young due to a lack of science funding in the UK . my summer be spend in south Wales , learn about my heritage and learn from the strong woman in my family . I move back 24 year ago to care for my gran , and she would be proud that I be here . I now call Milton Keynes my home with my husband and two child . perhaps it be the lack of history in Milton Keynes that allow we to embrace change . we be different by design . we be build a new kind of city and , as we deliver our manifesto commitment to build new town , we from Milton Keynes have this advice : it be not just about home , roundabout , hospital and school . it be about community and green space . it be about place of spirituality and worship . it be about place to gather to celebrate and commemorate . it be about place to explore and exercise , and place to reflect and heal . from Campbell Park to the Milton Keynes Rose and the country ' s first ecumenical church , which host the community iftar , Milton Keynes value these space . the cohesion of a city be base on its community , its culture and its people , and it be do by design , not by happenstance . in Milton Keynes , we work hard to celebrate our city by celebrate our diversity . in just the past few week , I have have the pleasure to attend the african diaspora festival ; Nelson Mandela Day ; art in the Park , organise by Islamic Arts and Culture ; MK India Day , which 15 , 000 people attend ; the midsummer festival , celebrate our pagan past ; and the Tamil sport day . these event be open to all , in that Milton Keynes spirit , bring together people from all background to bind we as Milton Keynes citizen , to learn about the plurality of our ancestry and to celebrate the diversity of our patina , but bind by our british value , which encompass the ideal of democracy , the rule of law , individual liberty , mutual respect and , most of all , tolerance . a society be judge by how we treat our most vulnerable , include our child in care — my hon . friend the Member for Southampton Itchen ( Darren Paffey ) speak so passionately about his experience — our child with SEND and the grow issue of mental ill health , our refugee , our rough sleeper , our carer , our elderly , our young people at risk of knife crime and all those who suffer from sexual violence and domestic abuse . the previous Government present these crisis as consequence outside their control , but if that be true , why be we here ? I be here because I have work on all these issue in Milton Keynes with colleague from the amazing city council , which be the only local authority to reduce rough sleeping in the past few year — no one have to sleep rough in Milton Keynes . Milton Keynes be the first city to state its ambition to become a white ribbon city . there be more youth support to prevent knife crime . community , parish council and group be deliver food parcel , and we be support our child in care with housing and employment . there be new support for unpaid carer , who be our hero . People have the right to have end - of - life care in their own home , and there be the big retrofitting and building of council housing in a generation . but there be limit to what can be do locally , so I have make my way to Parliament to get the change that Milton Keynes both need and deserve . on my journey here , I have find that the reputation of this place be at an all - time low . even bad , it be a place that cause fear for some people because of the divisive language use both here and on the campaign trail . when a country be divide , it make it weak . when argument lead to violence , it make our citizen scare . when the right of one be play against the right of other , it weaken all of our right . when we focus on what divide we rather than what we have in common , we lose good mp like David Amess and my friend Jo Cox . let all of we who seek to unite our country focus on the " United " in United Kingdom and the " Great " in Great Britain . I be only the second Emily ever to be elect to this House and , like the first , my right hon . friend the Member for Islington South and Finsbury ( Emily Thornberry ) , I will speak my mind . I end my speech with another Emily , Emily Davison , who be never elect but do find herself in a closet in this House . we will be judge by the british people for our deed , not our word . I call Sam Carling to make his maiden speech . thank you very much , Madam Deputy Speaker , for call I to make my first speech in this place today and in a debate on education , a subject that be very important to I . as this be my first contribution , I ought to start by thank the people of North West Cambridgeshire for elect I to represent they in this House . I congratulate my hon . friend the Member for Milton Keynes Central ( Emily Darlington ) on her maiden speech , as well as all the other we have hear today , particularly my hon . friend the Member for Montgomeryshire and Glynd ŵ r ( Steve Witherden ) , whose speech be very moving ; I be sorry to hear of his loss . I have thoroughly enjoy hear maiden speech from member on all side of the House over the past few day , and I be honour to be part of a clearly very eloquent and passionate intake of new mp . I look forward to the debate that we will have over the come year . my constituency of North West Cambridgeshire have not have a new Member of Parliament in many year , as my predecessor , Shailesh Vara , be elect to represent it in 2005 , when I be only three year old . over that time , he make significant contribution to the work of this House , for example , through campaign to broaden the age of routine breast cancer screening and , on a local level , fight for new infrastructure to support resident as new development continue to come forward across the constituency . he be very kind to I over the election campaign , which be fight fairly and cleanly , and I wish he well for the future . North West Cambridgeshire be a constituency with an enormous variation of different community . it have a large urban section in those part of Peterborough south of the River Nene , such as Fletton , Woodston and Stanground , as well as new area , such as the Hamptons , which continue to develop . that urban section also contain the former village of Orton Waterville and Orton Longueville , which grow into one another and expand when Peterborough be designate as a new town . despite that growth , the village atmosphere of those area have be beautifully retain . my constituency also have a number of semi - urban town , with Yaxley be the large and join by other such as Ramsey . and it have a large number of small village — far too many for I to name now — but I look forward to hold constituency surgery in as many as possible and engage with their rich history as I work to represent and support their community . North West Cambridgeshire have a very strong military tradition , with one in 20 of my constituent report in the 2021 census as have previously serve in the armed force . I be proud to have within my constituency the ground of RAF Wittering , a station that be extremely active during the battle of Britain in the second world war . I look forward to play my part to support the cause of those personnel actively serve , as well as the veteran I now represent . continue on the theme of the community across North West Cambridgeshire , it would be remiss of I not to pay tribute to the large farming community that I now represent . I be pleased to meet representative of that community during the campaign and be thoroughly look forward to continue that engagement now . a large proportion of the land in my constituency be use for farming and that play a significant role in provide food for our country . our farmer face numerous challenge , from the impact of rural crime to the effect of climate change on crop and livestock , and I be committed to advocate for farmer ' need and support sustainable practice . I will be take part in the National Farmers ' Union ' s new fellowship programme for Members of Parliament to strengthen their knowledge and understanding of the farming industry and the problem it face , and would strongly encourage other colleague to do so too . now , if I may turn to the subject of today ' s debate , as I be the young member of this Parliament — [ hon . member : " hear , hear . " ] I thank member — it will not surprise many member to hear that I have not be out of the education system for that long . indeed , I be in the first cohort of student whose a - level exam be cancel during the pandemic . in many way , it be that experience that politicise I . I grow up in a deprive rural area and be concern from a young age to see a progressive decline in local high street , alongside grow problem in public service , notably within school . when I be in my final year at a rural school , budget cut force the closure of its sixth form , leave I and many other have to find alternative provision at short notice , which be not easy for many , who face very long journey indeed to the near alternative . the closure not only disrupt education but fragment the community , as student be scatter to different institution , but I never connect those issue to politic and the decision be make in this place until I see the direct impact of those decision on school during the pandemic . the response to the crisis , the decision about exam , and the support , or lack thereof , provide to student make it clear to a great many previously disengage young people that political choice have real and immediate consequence . we have to work across this House to improve engagement with our democracy , and a large part of that must revolve around rebuild trust in politic , and get to a position where we disagree respectfully and work together to make life well for the people we represent . my background be in science — biology in particular — and that have instill in I the importance of have solid evidence behind the decision that we make here . we see during the pandemic that communicate the rationale behind decision take by the Government be very difficult , which highlight why there be such a need to improve how we teach science in school , and I will champion that . I intend to use my direct experience of the problem in our school to contribute to the Government ' s agenda to revitalise they . go far , we must deliver a robust skill system as part of facilitate lifelong learning as we seek to break down the barrier to opportunity , as our manifesto outline . on that front , I pay heed to Anglia Ruskin University Peterborough . while just outside the boundary of my constituency , it be deliver a huge amount for resident in the community I represent , as , prior to its delivery , Peterborough be the large city in our country that lack a university , as I understand it . I be proud that a Labour combine authority have make expansion and development of that university a real priority , and I look forward to championing that cause in this place . that be a real example of how devolution work . have serve as a councillor and council cabinet member , I hope to be an ally and champion of local government and the insight that councillor and other locally elect representative have into local community . I have highlight just some of the issue that my constituent in North West Cambridgeshire face , but of course there be so many more that I do not have time to go into . a lack of affordable housing . Insufficient and unreliable public transport . the dental desert that we face in Peterborough , with no adult dental clinic accept new patient , and people have to travel as far as Stevenage and Kettering . the list go on , but I will end this speech by reaffirm my commitment to do all that I can to address these issue , both in my constituency and more broadly , through deliver with colleague the change that we be elect to bring . I call Johanna Baxter to make her maiden speech . thank you , Madam Deputy Speaker . I congratulate you on take your place . I also congratulate all the member who have make such eloquent maiden speech this afternoon , particularly my hon . friend the Members for North West Cambridgeshire ( Sam Carling ) , for Milton Keynes Central ( Emily Darlington ) and for Montgomeryshire and Glynd ŵ r ( Steve Witherden ) — please accept my sincere condolence for the loss of your mother . I be grateful to have the opportunity to make my maiden speech . it be an honour to stand here as the new representative for Paisley and Renfrewshire South . I thank every person who put their faith in I at the election . the people of Paisley and Renfrewshire South have vote decisively for real change and a Government in their service , and that be what we will deliver . I also thank you , Madam Deputy Speaker , and all the staff of this House for the professionalism and kindness that they have show to every one of we who be a new MP . I pay tribute to my predecessor , Mhairi Black . it can not have be easy for Mhairi to enter this House as the young MP of her time , with the country ' s press hang on she every word . I follow her career with interest and , while we disagree profoundly on how we get there , I have no doubt at all that her desire have always be for a fair and more equitable country . I wish she well in all her new endeavour , particularly her upcoming debut at the Edinburgh Fringe — though she may need to encourage her colleague in the Scottish Government to settle their now annual pay dispute with the local government workforce if she be to avoid step over the city ' s rubbish to get there . I also pay tribute to my hon . friend the Member for Lothian East ( Mr Alexander ) , who serve my constituent in Paisley and Renfrewshire South with distinction as their MP for 18 year , between 1997 and 2015 , before be return to this House again this year . the help and support that he provide to so many across my constituency be mention frequently and fondly at many of the door on which I knock during the election campaign . that he have already be appoint as a Minister of State in the Department for Business and Trade in this Government be testament to the talent and experience he bring to our Benches . both Mhairi and Douglas leave large shoe for I to fill . I be just glad that that be a metaphor rather than a physical requirement , because it might have be a challenge that elude I . Madam Deputy Speaker , size be not everything , as I be sure people will appreciate . my constituent do not vote for I on the basis of my height . in the word of one of my constituent when I knock on their door , " we be vote for you — you ' re not get any tall . " but no one in this House should mistake my height or size for the scale of my ambition for my constituency . I be pleased to make my maiden speech in this debate on education and opportunity , because without good education , opportunity be reduce for many and inequality widen . in do so , I remember fondly my modern study teacher , who , almost 30 year ago now , bring a class of working - class kid from the west of Scotland down to London on a bus to show we this mother of all Parliaments and remind we that , whatever our background , this place be as much our place as it be anybody else ' s . his passion and belief in the power of politic to improve people ' s life give I the confidence to fight for the value that I believe in , and I will forever be grateful to he for that . my value be shape by my grandad , Tadeusz Sadowski . he be a polish migrant who come to Britain and work down our pit . the loss and trauma that he experience by the war wage at home lead he to seek a well life here and in Scotland . his experience teach I that no matter their background or birthplace , everyone deserve the opportunity to live a decent life , free from persecution and prejudice . that be why I have spend my entire working life until now in the service of the trade union movement and ordinary work people . my constituency lie on the west of Scotland , cover the southern portion of the Renfrewshire council area . it include much of Paisley , Scotland ' s large town , the small town of Johnstone and Linwood , and the beautiful village of Kilbarchan , Elderslie , Lochwinnoch , Howwood and Brookfield , among several other hamlet and farmland spread across the rolling Renfrewshire hill . it have a proud and rich industrial history : the mill of Paisley , the carpet factory at Elderslie and the establishment of the first machine tool foundry in the world . while the industry people work in may have change — many now work in our vital public service and at the nearby Glasgow airport — it remain a place where people work hard and rightly expect to be treat fairly in return . a fair day ' s pay for a fair day ' s work should not be much to ask , but wage have lag behind cost in recent year . too many people who be in work have have to claim benefit just to get by , and the number of those claim unemployment benefit in my constituency be above the scottish average . for too long , our community have be fail and forget by two government — but no more . I be proud of the commitment set out by our new Labour Government to improve people ' s life , particularly the commitment to a new deal for work people . make work pay , end insecure work and extend employment right will make a huge difference not just to people ' s pocket but to the quality of their life . they will be the big transformation of worker ’ right in generation , restore dignity to work and prepare people for the change world of work . my constituent have never be afraid of stand up for what they believe in , and neither have I . we be , after all , the birthplace of William Wallace . it be our persistence in the pursuit of equality , opportunity and justice for all that bind we like the thread of the Paisley shawl . it be the spirit of persistence in the pursuit of equality that prompt the early uprising of the weaver who seek recompense for the sma ' shot thread — an invisible thread without which the Paisley shawl would fall apart . that industrial dispute be win by the worker , whose story live long in our memory and continue to inspire we today . it be persistence in the pursuit of opportunity that bring my constituent together to provide for other , as exemplify by the brilliant work of Thorn Athletic ; the community bus service launch by Kilbarchan ' s John McBarron , who step out of retirement to help fellow resident by fill a hole in local transport provision ; and the West end Growing Grounds Association , which provide raise bed to help grow food and prevent food poverty in the local community . it be persistence in the pursuit of justice that give we the infamous Paisley snail , which form the basis of tort law . these be all ordinary people do extraordinary thing , and they be hero , every one of they . my constituent know that good work should provide not simply the bare necessity that people need to live , but the mean by which they enjoy a good life — like our famous poet , Robert Tannahill , who know how to weave thread and verse alternately . St Mirren football club provide huge enjoyment to many people across the constituency , and I hope that the entire House , include my hon . friend the Member for Inverclyde and Renfrewshire West ( Martin McCluskey ) , whose constituency include St Mirren ' s arch rival , Greenock Morton , will send its good wish to the club as it head to Iceland tomorrow to face Valur FC in the UEFA conference league second qualifying round — its first european tie since 1987 . I know the value of people be able to spend time appreciate the beauty of the natural world . we have the beautiful Gleniffer Braes , with its highland cow , the Clyde Muirshiel regional park , and the tranquillity of the Lochwinnoch RSPB nature reserve , one of the few remain wetland in the west of Scotland , where people can watch whoop swan , widgeon , goldeneye and , if they be very lucky , the elaborate display of the great crested grebe . it would be remiss of I if I do not mention the enrichment provide in everyone ' s life by the pet of Paisley and Renfrewshire South , many of whom I have the pleasure of meeting on the doorstep during the campaign . let I conclude with this message to the voter of Paisley and Renfrewshire South . I will fight for you every day with every fibre of my being . I will work with everybody in the House who have a genuine desire to improve the life of the most vulnerable people in our community , because one person live in poverty be one person too many , and we must work together to do everything in our power to combat that . JFK once say : " let we never negotiate out of fear . but let we never fear to negotiate . " that be the motto to which I hold true as a trade union negotiator . we must ensure that we do everything we can to lift people out of poverty and provide good job with decent term and condition that allow people to thrive , not just survive , because people need bread , but they need rose too . I call Dr Lauren Sullivan to make her maiden speech . thank you very much , Madam Deputy Speaker , and may I congratulate you on your new post and wish you very well ? I pay tribute to the excellent speech make by my hon . friend the Member for Paisley and Renfrewshire South ( Johanna Baxter ) ; she may be small , but incredibly mighty thing will come from she stand up for her constituency . I offer my deep sympathy to my hon . friend the Member for Montgomeryshire and Glynd ŵ r ( Steve Witherden ) , and say to he , " your mum would be so proud , and you move many people in this Chamber today . " I also welcome my new colleague from Kent , my hon . friend the Members for Folkestone and Hythe ( Tony Vaughan ) and for Dartford ( Jim Dickson ) , to their seat in Parliament . they speak with passion about their constituency and I look forward to work with each and every one of the member who have make their maiden speech today , and member across the Chamber . I begin by thank the resident of my Gravesham constituency for put their faith in I . I will work to the very good of my ability to raise their concern and issue in this House . I also pay tribute to the Member for Gravesham who serve before I , Adam Holloway . Adam serve the resident of Gravesham for 19 year and he and his office provide much support , advice and guidance to a range of constituent over those many year . I will seek to enhance and build on that work by hold surgery and have an office in the borough to fulfil my promise of be an accessible MP . we may have disagree on much , as hon . member would expect , but , as a former soldier , Adam serve his country , and his dedication in this House to those who serve be something I wholeheartedly support and will continue to champion . Gravesham be a great place , encompass the town of Northfleet and Gravesend , which be bind by the River Thames to the north , 20 mile that way . they be surround by the beautiful rural village of Meopham , Higham , Istead Rise , Shorne , Cobham , Sole Street , Luddesdown , Culverstone , Harvel and Vigo . we have a blend of manufacturing and industry close to the river , such as refined metal and paper making , and farming and agriculture . we be proud to have not only one of Europe ' s large — if not the large — gurdwara , but two gurdwara in Gravesham , and I commend and pay tribute to the incredible voluntary work they do before , during and after the covid pandemic . for many community during covid , we see a come together , whether in church , mosque , temple or other voluntary organisation . we see the very good of people , and I be proud to represent a diverse constituency of many faith and culture . I recall the recent celebration of the Windrush generation , whose relative dock across the river — they can not get there at the moment because the Tilbury ferry be down , but we be work on that . they have enhance our borough and they choose Gravesend and Gravesham for their home . one such legendary woman be Sister Ursula Sullivan , also know as Sully , who be know for have birth and care for most of the population in my constituency , include my husband . Gravesham have a rich history date back to before the roman settler . I pay tribute to the Gravesend Historical Society — 100 year old today — and to Christoph Bull , Victor Smith , Sandra Soder and many other for document our proud history , as have be do since the Domesday Book . one of Gravesend ' s claim to fame be that it be the final resting place of the native american princess Pocahontas , or Rebecca Rolfe , as she be know later in life . a fictionalise story of her early life be immortalise in a famous Disney animate movie , in which Pocahontas be not only a Disney princess , but a strong female leader . that be a part of Gravesham , and as the first woman MP for Gravesham , I can draw on she for inspiration . however , I can assure the House that , while I admire the strong female role model that Disney provide , such as Mulan , Merida from " Brave " or even Elsa , I be no Disney princess . certainly nobody in this Chamber would want to hear I sing — so , Madam Deputy Speaker , I will just let it go . there be so much to admire about Gravesham , but there be also much to admire about Labour ' s plan for education and opportunity , so I will turn back to the subject of the debate . I welcome the Secretary of State and Ministers to their position . have campaign alongside many of they , I know their passion for all our young people and child . as well as be a scientist work on neglect tropical disease under the supervision of regius professor Michael Ferguson at the University of Dundee — particularly african sleeping sickness , or trypanosomiasis , which be transmit by the tsetse fly — and have work more recently on malaria with Jean Langhorne at the Francis Crick Institute in London , support by a brilliant Daphne Jackson fellowship , which return its fellow to science after a break , I be also a qualified secondary school science teacher . I know full well that lesson should instil the excitement and inspiration need for young people to choose to pursue a scientific career — one that our nation ' s growth depend on — so I welcome the propose modernisation of the curriculum , and especially the curriculum for life . so many of our young people in Gravesham tell I that they do not feel that the current school curriculum prepare they for life ' s many challenge . although my child attend a great state school , the stress and pressure of the system , and the constant testing even at primary school , be leave less time for play , creativity and socialisation . at time , our education system seem focus on evidencing for Ofsted ' s need rather than on the education and wellbeing of child — especially those with special educational need . academic achievement be important , but we must ensure that our young people be include in an education system that leave they well - rounded and ready for life with practical skill . a fully equipped , statutory , universal and open - access youth work system will be vital to achieve that aim . I thank the resident of Gravesham , my wonderful campaign team , and my family , who be with I today — and have behave incredibly well ! [ interruption . ] I would not be here without their love and support . I call Peter Swallow to make his maiden speech . it be a privilege and a pleasure to follow my hon . friend the Member for Gravesham ( Dr Sullivan ) , who , like I , work in teaching and the university sector before enter this place . my background be in humanity while hers be in science , and I know that we will both have to resist the urge to tell anyone off for speak at the back of the class during our time here . it be the honour of my life to rise and offer my maiden speech as the Member of Parliament for Bracknell , Crowthorne , Sandhurst and Whitegrove . I be the first ever Labour MP to represent this corner of Berkshire . I offer my thank to my constituent who have put their trust in I , and in this new Labour Government , to serve they . it be now for I and colleague on the Labour Benches to deliver the change that we have promise . I take that duty seriously , and although change can not come overnight , it be time to begin the steady task of build a well future for Bracknell and for the country . my predecessor , James Sunderland , represent Bracknell through a challenge Parliament dominate by a global pandemic and two major international war . I pay tribute to the manner in which he serve during that difficult period . James be an advocate for the eradication of malaria , a disease that he see in action while serve overseas in the Army . he be also a champion for special educational need — a cause that I will be proud to take up as his successor . in his maiden speech , James remark that " politic be ultimately about service . " — [ Official Report , 9 March 2020 ; Vol . 673 , c . 98 . ] we disagree about many thing during the election campaign , as member would expect , but on that we be and be agree : politic be ultimately about service . this year be the 75th anniversary of Bracknell be designate a new town . in 1949 , after the war , Britain be face a housing crisis , and a Labour Government establish new town such as Bracknell to address a burn need for more social housing . I be proud that in 2024 , a new Labour Government face a new housing crisis be again commit to develop the next generation of new town , in order to build a well future for family struggle to find safe and secure housing . this next generation of new town would do well to look at the success of Bracknell : a sense of community have be embed by good town planning ; transport link and active travel have be design into the fabric of the town ; and we be home to many national and international business , include in the tech and life science sector . my constituency ' s long and proud history do not start in 1949 . the new town of Bracknell be originally a small market town in the parish of Warfield , some of which lie within the new constituency boundary . I be also proud to be the MP for Crowthorne , which be a beautiful , peaceful village , yet one that have a long history of automotive innovation . everyone in this House will have benefit from the new road sign , mini - roundabout , zebra crossing and speed hump that be design and test at the Transport Research Laboratory base in Crowthorne . in the south of my constituency lie the town of Sandhurst . it be , of course , home to the Royal Military Academy Sandhurst , where british Army officer receive their training . the close relationship between the academy and the town be commemorate every four year with the Sandhurst freedom march , mark Bracknell Forest council ' s decision in 1997 to grant the freedom of the borough to the academy . I be privileged to attend this year ' s march , which happen to take place in the middle of the election campaign ; it be an important opportunity to pause and honour those who serve . as I have say , before my election I be a university lecturer , and before that I be a secondary school teacher . I have also be a primary school governor , so I have work in education at all level . give that , it be no surprise that I would be keen to make my maiden speech on a topic that be of great importance to I and to this whole House : that of education . I welcome the Secretary of State for Education ' s commitment to break down the barrier to opportunity for all child , her announcement today of a pause and review of the defunding of technical qualification , and her laser - like focus on raise standard in early year education . we be lucky to have a number of excellent school across Bracknell Forest , and as this week be the start of the school holiday , I take this opportunity to thank teacher , teach assistant and the wide school staff across my constituency for another year of hard work and dedication , and wish they a pleasant summer . the measure set out by my right hon . friend the Education Secretary be badly need in my constituency . despite their heroic effort , teacher be find it hard than ever to offer an excellent education while support the increasingly complex mental health need of their student . alongside that , there have be grow child poverty and real - term cut to funding . nowhere be education reform more need than in the area of special educational need provision ; a long - term failure to grapple with SEND have threaten local government finance and have mean , frankly , that we be let our child down . during the election campaign , I be privileged to get to know a young man call Fred . Fred be 13 year old . he have autism and ADHD , and for the past 18 month , he have be out of school because mainstream education be not suitable for he and he be still wait on a place in a special school . Fred want to go to school . he want to learn — he be an inquisitive kid . I know that because Fred help I with the research for this speech . but because the system be not work , he have be lock out . Fred be not alone . there be far too many child like he in Bracknell and across the country — so - call ghost child who be miss education because the right support be not in place . this be a national crisis and require national solution . I welcome the Secretary of State ' s acknowledgement of that fact today , since the first step towards solve the problem be admit that it exist . let I conclude with this commitment : for as long as I serve in this place , I will do everything I can to fight for well educational opportunity for all , and to speak up for kid like Fred , who just want a chance to learn . I call Al Carns to make his maiden speech . thank you , Madam Deputy Speaker , and congratulation on take up such an important role . we look forward to work with you . thank you very much for allow I to vacate the Front Bench and come to the Back Benches to make my maiden speech ; I really do appreciate it . I also thank my hon . friend the Members for Bracknell ( Peter Swallow ) and for Gravesham ( Dr Sullivan ) for their fantastic maiden speech . I will try to live up to they and get the third one do okay , but they be really well do , with a fantastic story to tell . before I delve into my speech , I think it would be worthwhile step back and take a look at the position globally . first , I do not know any country in the world that have high education standard and a weak economy , and I would argue , as we sit here in this debate , that well education and have more opportunity relate directly to the economy , and that the two be mutually support . secondly , I would like to say , as Veterans and People Minister in the Ministry of Defence , that the Army be one of the big provider of apprenticeship in the UK ; there be 13 , 000 to 14 , 000 across the whole service — and that be just in the Army , not necessarily across the MOD . I and other ex - military individual here be testament to the fact that the military provide people with a fantastic opportunity to realise their ambition . it be a true privilege to stand before you , Madam Deputy Speaker , and an honour to be in this historic place . I be deeply grateful to the constituent of Selly Oak for place their trust and confidence in I . I will work tirelessly to deliver change for the people of Selly Oak , and indeed this great nation . it would be remiss of I to stand here without thank the man who hold the seat before I , Steve McCabe . Steve be a devoted public servant and an esteemed MP , a role he hold for over 27 impactful year . to name but a few of his achievement , he work to improve the NHS and social care , and champion small business in our constituency . his legacy in these great hall and in Birmingham Selly Oak will be endure . I be also personally grateful for his guidance , and indeed his friendship throughout the campaign , which , as I take to knock on door , feel very alien to I . I use to joke with he that if he do not know it , it generally be not worth know . on the doorstep , people would often chastise I by comment that it be one in , one out . indeed , the scot be slowly take over . I would like to outline my heartfelt sympathy for the Army officer involve in the shocking incident outside Brompton barrack in Kent yesterday evening and his family . our thought , collectively , be with they all . importantly , I would like to extend my gratitude to the extraordinary and unflagge volunteer in my constituency from all walk of life . their drive and dedication help I , and help our election victory become achievable . the generous spirit with which they commit huge amount of their personal time genuinely humble I . I have never see so many people give up their time to support the cause . it be one of the many reason why I be really proud to stand here represent Selly Oak constituent , and to drive forward change for they . I have the privilege of be the MP for Birmingham Selly Oak , which be a constituency rich in working - class heritage . its historical development be interweave with Birmingham ' s industrial story , but it also blaze its own unique trail in , I would argue , industrial and social relation . the Cadbury family , for example , be not just any family , and theirs be not just any business . that business see the value in invest in the local workforce by build hundred of home , social space and school , not only secure a legacy , but make selly Oak a far well place to live when time be exceptionally tough . imagine if big business mirror even a small fraction of that same spirit , or indeed that self - generate leadership , in today ' s society . when walk around knock on door and speak to constituent , I often describe Selly Oak as a United Kingdom squeeze into a constituency . we have different culture , different character and hundred of small business . we have the Cadbury factory , and we have the Cadbury attraction , which have over 500 , 000 visitor every year . we have the great Birmingham University , which be so fantastic . we have many NHS worker and teacher , and an abundance of entrepreneur , micro - brewery and charity . much to my dismay , when I find out that I be to be a junior Minister , I learn that I could not attend the all - party parliamentary beer group . I can only apologise . selly Oak be still develop . I apologise to the rest of the west midland MPs , but it be no wonder to I that a reputable newspaper name Stirchley , a small part of my constituency , one of the good place to live in the west midland . we have one of the most stable and diverse population in the UK , and as I be sure the Secretary of State for Health and Social Care be acutely aware , we have the second big medical university in the UK , lead hospital in our backyard , and an upcoming life science facility that make Selly Oak and Birmingham a centre of gravity for the mission to transform and invest in the NHS , and for championing and harness the spirit of this immensely innovative nation . selly Oak not only have wonderful leafy suburb , but be home to one of the big council estate in Europe . I look forward to work with the Deputy Prime Minister on the home and community agenda to ensure that the regeneration of Druids Heath be in keep with the indomitable spirit of those who live there . I also want to do everything in my power to deliver on the Chancellor ' s mission for growth , so that we reduce the requirement for food bank , increase police number , support our NHS more effectively , and release the pressure on our education system . there be much to do , but I have complete confidence that Labour Members will be able to do it . the work of the small army of volunteer — people who step in to care for each other when past government forget they — have my deep admiration . they keep so much afloat — no Navy pun intend — support Acorns child ' s hospice , which be one of the big in Europe ; oak and other primary school , which be the backbone of opportunity throughout our constituency ; the Shed in Cotteridge Park ; and many social garden and food bank across the constituency . their energy , commitment and selflessness be truly remarkable . what be most noticeable on the campaign be the Brummie culture , and I be amazed and humble by the willingness to engage , discuss and debate throughout . the constituent of Selly Oak want to talk and have a voice . they have the energy , hope and ingenuity to build a well life , and it be our job to help they get there . selly Oak and countless other place across the nation deserve our respect , our support , and our steady leadership in enact meaningful and lasting change . this general election result see democracy in full swing , which I be deeply proud of , but as many in the House will have witness , there be a rise in threaten , malicious and intimidatory behaviour in our politic . just as the constituent who put we here deserve respect , I commend those on all side of the House who have put themselves in this place , in difficult circumstance , ready to volunteer , stand up and serve . I salute you all . in that spirit of service , it be an honour and a great privilege to accept the Prime Minister ' s offer of the role of Minister for Veterans and People , and to take up the mantle of work not only for the people of Selly Oak as their MP , but for veteran and family who have sacrifice so much for our nation , and who have stand and fight , often in the face of the unimaginable . I will stand with they , as one of they , to deliver the high duty of care , commensurate with the risk and rigour that we expect from those who have defend , and continue to defend , the nation on the frontline . achieve that will deepen the effectiveness of our service overall . it be therefore a huge thrill to announce yesterday in Birmingham , in my capacity as Minister , and to share here today that the 2027 Invictus game , which provide opportunity to those who have be wound in service in any way , shape or form , will be host in the great city of Birmingham . what well way to demonstrate the unconquerable soul and unity of our veteran , their family and those serve , and of Birmingham and indeed Great Britain ? I would like to step back and give the House a reflection from my experience over the last 24 year that may be relevant to the rest of the year . after spend the past 24 year in the far corner of this world , fight to uphold and protect our democratic value , member can not imagine — I genuinely mean this — how humbling it be to participate in this democracy , to go out on the campaign trail , to knock on door , to vote , and to see the democratic process at work , and now to stand here among this fantastic cohort . I see this election victory not only as a moment for I , or from the perspective of Selly Oak or of all of we ; I think it be a moment for all democracy . our deed must be as strong as our word . the world have become tough and far more unstable , with insecurity surround we . as his Majesty allude to in his speech last week , we live in an increasingly fractious world ; one where autocratic regime seek to erode the universal freedom that our parent and grandparent fight to protect . I have be on some of those frontline and see that at first hand . I can tell the House that there be little doubt in my mind that the tapestry of the international order be fray , and in some case now threadbare . the rise of populism and extremism and the assault on value such as the rule of law , self - determination and democracy itself should be of the great concern to we all . I welcome and support the call for a ceasefire in Palestine , and we watch with a wary eye the development in the Asia - Pacific . most important though , from my perspective , be acknowledge and counter Russia ' s despicable and illegal invasion of Ukraine . Russia have not only bring war to Europe , but even question whether Ukraine have the right to exist and govern itself . it be worth consider that if four year ago I have stand here on either side of the House and explain that today in Ukraine there would have be 900 russian casualty by this time , and that by the time hon . member have have lunch there would have be 500 , and perhaps a similar number of ukrainian casualty , member would have probably tell I that I be a scaremonger , a dramatist or , at worst , a belligerent Scot , but here we be . we have a war on the edge of Europe of a scale and of such devastation that be inconceivable to we . indeed , it be take place at such a pace that it be change the very character of warfare . that be why I welcome the defence review , because the only thing consistent about change be that change be consistent . we must adapt and keep pace with the shift character of conflict . if not , we risk fall short of our mission and indeed our duty and our responsibility to serve . in my career , I have never stand idly by and do nothing in dangerous or uncertain time . the United Kingdom have not , either ; we lead the way . after fight for democracy all over the globe for so long , it be a great privilege to be stand here in this great Chamber and carry that fight forward not only on behalf of Selly Oak , defence and our veteran , but on behalf of all the people in the United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland . I would like to call the Front - Benchers at 20 minute to 7 . that give we time to get in John Slinger for his maiden speech . thank you , Madam Deputy Speaker . may I warmly congratulate you on take up your position and warmly welcome the Secretary of State and her ministerial team to their position , too ? I express my deep condolence to my hon . friend the Member for Montgomeryshire and Glynd ŵ r ( Steve Witherden ) for his loss . I congratulate my hon . friend the Member for Birmingham Selly Oak ( Al Carns ) on his sobering and powerful word , and other colleague across the Chamber on their speech today . I start by thank my family for their love and forbearance in recent month , my labour and other friend for their support , and the people of Rugby and the village for give I the honour of represent my constituency , which have be my home for the last 17 year . as the MP represent the only seat with a sport name after it , I hope that the House will indulge I the occasional rugby analogy . the rugby ball have be pass to I , notwithstanding a couple of minor maul during the election campaign , which I overcome . I want to pay tribute to Mark Pawsey , my predecessor , who run with the ball — literally and metaphorically — as a member of the Commons and Lords rugby team . Mark be an honourable , decent and kind man who serve the House with distinction , work tirelessly for his constituent and promote the game of rugby internationally . I also put on record my respect for the former Labour Member Andy King , whose distinguished service continue to inspire I . Rugby be a market town that have grow rapidly in recent year , surround by many small village — too numerous to mention one by one — set in the beautiful Warwickshire countryside . to the north of the constituency be Bulkington , which some say be one of the large village in England , although my right hon . friend the Member for Kingston upon Hull North and Cottingham ( Dame Diana Johnson ) may disagree . rugby ' s population balloon when the Oxford canal be construct in the 1770 , and the railway hastened industrialisation . I say to any Front Benchers listen that be on the west coast main line can very much hasten any ministerial visit that they may or may not want to make . [ interruption . ] no , stop at Rugby . the confluence of the M1 , the M6 and the M45 near Rugby place we firmly in the logistic golden triangle . notwithstanding this logistical good fortune , Rugby ' s potential lie primarily with its people . we have be bless , and still be , by people who innovate , challenge norm and think creatively . let we take sport : a plaque at Rugby School record that , in 1823 , the legendary local schoolboy William Webb Ellis , " with a fine disregard for the rule of football , take the ball in his arm and run with it " . although my connection with the game of rugby as a player be , I confess , somewhat underwhelming , I be proud to say that my dad , who be in the Gallery , play for England as a schoolboy . I will not join the House rugby team , but I might join a reform House rock band . I be acutely aware of how dangerous such statement can be , give that yesterday I wander innocently into a meeting of an all - party parliamentary group , and wander out slightly bewildered as vice - chair . as a classically train violinist and semi - retired rock musician , I be glad to represent a constituency fill to the brim with talented people . I will bang the drum and strum a chord for they . Rugby be the birthplace of the poet Rupert Brooke , whose word " that there ' s some corner of a foreign field that be forever England " epitomise a quiet , contemplative english patriotism . we have spawn famous rock band and musician , from Spacemen 3 to James Morrison . the creative art scene be thrive , with fantastic local band of all genre , an orchestra , dance school , Rugby theatre for amateur dramatic , gallery and much more . the sporting scene be vibrant , with several rugby football and football team , and a plethora of club in the town and village , where selfless volunteer offer pretty much every sport to the community . Rugby also have a proud track record of technological innovation . as hon . member get on a jet plane this week , they should think of Rugby , as the prototype of the first jet engine be build by Sir Frank Whittle at the British Thomson - Houston work in the town in 1937 . at the same site a decade later , a young hungarian refugee Dennis Gabor invent holography . I live in hope that holographic technology advance so far that , one day , mp can be beam into multiple location , to assist with our busy diary . until recently , dozen of giant mast form part of the world ' s most powerful radio transmitter . in 1927 , the site be instrumental in the first transatlantic telephone call . I believe in maintain the strong possible transatlantic alliance , so I be proud that Rugby play its part in deepen the tie between our two great nation . that pioneer industrial and scientific prowess persist . today , GE Vernova build world - lead advanced generator , include for Royal Navy vessel . at Ansty Park we have the Manufacturing Technology Centre , the London Electric Vehicle Company — which make the electric cab in which many of we newbie may have be move around in recent day — and FANUC UK . when I visit the mtc recently with my right hon . friend the Deputy Prime Minister and the West Midlands Mayor , it strike I that in order to unleash potential , we need partnership between business , the education and skill sector , local and national Government , trade union and much more . we meet apprentice , beam with pride at their achievement and in anticipation of a bright future . we also need investment , most importantly in education . I be therefore delighted that the King ' s Speech include measure to raise standard in education , reform the apprenticeship levy and establish Skills England . have visit so many of our excellent state secondary school and the brilliant local college , I be confident that the people of our area will do the modern - day equivalent of invent a sport , design an engine or write an immortal poem . Rugby be a place that be at ease with itself . we be a very diverse town , and that be unequivocally a huge strength . we learn from one another , celebrate one another ' s tradition , break down barrier and focus on our common interest , something epitomise by the late Dr James Shera MBE , a mentor of mine who be sadly miss across the constituency . our charitable sector be strong . I will take the liberty of mention two local charity that inspire I : the Our Jay Foundation , which install defibrillator ; and Back and Forth Mens Mental Health , an issue close to my heart . the church , temple and faith group be at the heart of our community . the Street Pastors , who I shadow on a late night shift , show kindness in action — kindness be a much underrated virtue . the people of Rugby and the village be compassionate . they warmly welcome refugee from Ukraine . I pay tribute to the thriving Rugby Ukrainian community , its ukrainian member bravely forge their new life away from home , and all from the constituency who be help they . the Benn Partnership ' s " meet and eat " on Fridays , cater for by recent immigrant who not only cook the food but be learn English there , show our cohesion . our community invest in our young people , with fabulous youth centre , such as Hill Street and the Bradby Club . there be too many voluntary group and organisation for I to mention ; I simply salute they all . we thrive more when we work together and when the Government be truly an enabler . I want to put on record my appreciation as a councillor of the work of council officer and all public servant in serve our community in difficult circumstance . I campaign to become a labour candidate use the phrase " together we can " . I believe that be the only approach that will truly unleash the potential of the constituency . we now have a brilliantly lead Labour council , a Labour MP and a Labour Government commit to empower place with a strong vision . I will do all I can to bring together people in this constituency , urban or rural , factory or farm worker , whatever their background , to tackle the problem we face , whether the lack of infrastructure such as GP surgery , the need for more service at the superb Hospital of St Cross , insufficient affordable and social home , town centre regeneration or the need to make our street safe . in do this , I be inspire by the late , great Ann Clwyd , for whom I work , and the late , great Frank Field , with whom I work . order . I now have to call the Front Benchers . thank you for call I , Madam Deputy Speaker . it be a real pleasure to have you in the Chair . this be a first time for both of we . I thank each and every Member for some awesome maiden speech . I remember , four and a half year ago , how daunting it be . I still wake up today in a cold sweat thinking that I have to redo it . I will start with the hon . member for Southampton Itchen ( Darren Paffey ) , whose journey to this place be enlightening . this place be well when we bring our life experience here to create well policy and to ensure that the next generation ' s life be well . I think that be honest about our own journey help other to feel as though they be part of our great country . one of the pleasure as a Member of Parliament be go into school and speak to school kid . I be dyslexic , and when I speak to they I ask , " do anyone struggle to read or write ? " — and I always stick my hand up . if someone like I can do this job , it hopefully give the child I speak to the confidence to think high . there be a lot of member here with an education background . I ask they to please bring that experience to the forefront . every single government , of whatever stripe , want to make sure that our child do well . politic be a team sport . you be all critical friend — I can say that because I be on this side now — but as a former Whip I can also say that your ability to communicate be what differentiate you on the Government Benches from the opposition : speak to your whip ; feed in your view . none of we want to create bad law or regulation . I say " well do " to my hon . friend the Member for Chester South and Eddisbury ( Aphra Brandreth ) , because I think it be only the other side that make politic a family business . I look forward to her own private Member ' s Bill , which will be life - change . I say to the hon . member for Derby North ( Catherine Atkinson ) that I be not sure you be allow to let your child abseil on behalf of rainbow child ' s hospice . I know the area well because I have family member from that part of the world , and I look forward to your legal skill be helpful . not mine ; those of the hon . Lady . oh , I be sorry . excuse I : I be a newbie at this bit . as for the hon . member for Surrey Heath ( Dr Pinkerton ) , you have some big shoe to fill in replace my old boss , Michael Gove , but you have start very well . your experience as a lecturer will be very helpful . not " your " ; the hon . member ' s . the hon . member ' s experience of be a professor will be very helpful to this place . my hon . friend the Member for Solihull West and Shirley ( Dr Shastri - Hurst ) have significant experience of three separate career , and I know he will be a strong advocate for his community . I applaud his focus on early year . I now come to the hon . member for Harlow ( Chris Vince ) . I be a councillor in the neighbouring area before I come to this place , so I know your patch well . your experience as a teacher — [ interruption . ] the hon . member ' s experience as a teacher will be extremely helpful . he highlight the important issue of young carer . that be probably below the radar for many of we as constituency Members , and we all need to spend a bit more time focus on it to ensure that our community be support properly . I now come to the hon . member for Monmouthshire ( Catherine Fookes ) . I applaud her ambition to have 50 : 50 in this place . when I speak to my niece , and indeed my nephew , it be always a disappointment to we that while 51 % of our great country consist of woman , only about a third of my colleague be woman — although the proportion be probably great now — and , similarly , many boardroom throughout the country be still very male - dominate . the hon . member for Derby South ( Baggy Shanker ) talk about great British Railways . as my in - law continually say , Derby remain the centre of the United Kingdom geographically , and I be surprised that neither of the new Derby Members mention that . as for the hon . member for Folkestone and Hythe ( Tony Vaughan ) , his filipino heritage be a matter of passion and importance . when I be grow up and look at Parliament tv — well , I didn ' t really , but let we suppose that I do — this place do not reflect what I think the country do , and today it do . we be on a journey towards get well in that regard , and with his help and , hopefully , subsequent general election and by - election — and , also hopefully , with a few more member elect to my side — this place will become truly reflective . the hon . member for Dartford ( Jim Dickson ) speak about the Rolling Stones . music be a strong theme in Parliament ; he will figure that out in the bar and the all - party parliamentary group . his significant experience in local government will be very helpful . I offer the hon . member for Montgomeryshire and Glynd ŵ r ( Steve Witherden ) my sincere condolence about his mother . we realise that we be all human . share that personal background with this place humanise we and make sure that we all have " more in common " . all of we will have have a difficult general election , and I hope that the tone of politic return to what I think it be mean to be about 20 year ago , when politician be hold in high esteem . when I speak to individual member of my community , they still seem to consider politician to be public servant , but unfortunately social medium may not always reflect that and unfortunately you will all experience that ; so make sure you communicate with colleague , because they will all be go through it as well . the hon . member for Aylesbury ( Laura Kyrke - Smith ) speak about Roald Dahl . I have the poem " if " on my wall at home , and I read it every single day . we have a really rich heritage in our great country , and when member talk about thing that inspire they , it will only inspire the next generation to be inquisitive . I hope that Stoke Mandeville will be improve , because it be a hospital that I will have to use , if and when necessary . I be conscious of the time and that the Minister will need to say a few word , so I be go to wrap up my comment on maiden speech . I know that I have not address every single one , but I will buy member a drink at the bar in the next few day , week and year . please do enjoy this job . it be the good job in the world , and you really be life - change . on that note , I welcome those on the Government Front Bench to what be a phenomenal brief , and I look forward to support they where they be change people ' s live for the well . I call the Minister . thank you , Madam Deputy Speaker . I warmly welcome you to your place in the Chair , and I warmly welcome the hon . member for South West Hertfordshire ( Mr Mohindra ) to his place . I also welcome the shadow Secretary of State , whom I previously shadow . I thank hon . member who have make contribution to this afternoon ' s debate , and pay tribute to those who have make their maiden speech today . they do themselves and their community proud . I pay tribute to my hon . friend the Member for Folkestone and Hythe ( Tony Vaughan ) , the first Member of Filipino heritage to stand in this Chamber ; my hon . friend the Member for North West Cambridgeshire ( Sam Carling ) , the young Member of the House , who speak about his education , which be fairly recent ; my hon . friend the Member for Birmingham Selly Oak ( Al Carns ) , who have rightly be recognise in this place for his experience ; and my hon . friend the Member for Rugby ( John Slinger ) , who be forgive for all his rugby analogy after make an excellent speech . in this House , we come together with a common goal : to give every child the good start in life and equip they with an education that set they up for their life . we be the Department for opportunity at the Department for Education . we be bring education back to the centre of national life again , and we will work tirelessly to spread opportunity across our country , so that every child can thrive in a school with high and rise standard , and with a broad and rich curriculum that they can enjoy . like every parent , I want that for my child , and I be so pleased that we have a Labour Government who be ready to deliver it . I know what a brilliant school and education can mean . unlike my hon . friend the Member for Southampton Itchen ( Darren Paffey ) , who make an excellent maiden speech today , I be not one of three darren , but I be a Sacred Heart girl , and I be not the only one in this Parliament . the parliamentary Labour party boast three alumnus of my old school , Sacred Heart catholic high school in Newcastle ; my hon . friend the Members for Newcastle upon Tyne East and Wallsend ( Mary Glindon ) and for Cramlington and Killingworth ( Emma Foody ) go there , too . my hon . friend the Member for Derby North ( Catherine Atkinson ) , who make an outstanding maiden speech today , also attend a Sacred Heart school . it mean that there be now as many state - educate Sacred Heart girl in the House of Commons as there be old etonian boy — a tangible demonstration of the radical redistribution of opportunity that this Labour Government represent . my hon . friend the Member for Paisley and Renfrewshire South ( Johanna Baxter ) give an account of her school trip to Parliament , which remind I of my own trip at the age of 17 , when I get in trouble for sit down on these Benches . clearly , such trip work to break down barrier to opportunity . the journey start in a child ' s early year , when their development and education begin . under successive conservative government , however , the attainment gap have widen . it be now some year since I serve on the Treasury Committee , but I still recall our inquiry into childcare as a part of national infrastructure . it be ground - breaking at the time and acknowledge that childcare be a fundamental service to our economy ; it be not a " nice to have " . it be fundamental to allow parent to work long hour to provide for their family , and it be fundamental to people ' s life chance . that be why this Government will deliver 3 , 000 more primary school - base nursery , make they widely accessible to parent and unlock opportunity for our young . in answer to the shadow Secretary of State ' s question early , that will be deliver in partnership with the sector to ensure that it meet the need of child and parent . we know that childcare need do not end when school start . when a child move up to primary school , in England , they will benefit from the roll - out of free breakfast club in every primary school in England . this will drive up attainment , improve behaviour and attendance , and enable parent to start work on time and support their family . it will set child up for the day and set they up to achieve , because it be as much about the club as it be about the breakfast . be in the classroom at the start of the day matter . school have a unique power to open up enormous opportunity for their pupil , with teacher and support staff who make a mark on every child ' s life . that include support child with special educational need and disability to flourish , but across that system we have to acknowledge the many challenge that we face . our building be substandard , our child be too often unhappy in school and our support staff feel underappreciated . we have to do well . so many member today have touch on the crisis in support for those with special educational need and disability , include my hon . friend the Member for Dulwich and West Norwood ( Helen Hayes ) , who I know have work tirelessly on this issue for many year , and my hon . friend the Member for Dartford ( Jim Dickson ) , who also speak passionately today . this government will help school to take a community - wide approach to SEND , improve their capability to accommodate pupil in mainstream setting and support they to flourish . last week , I visit the brilliant Croftway academy in Northumberland . it demonstrate how child of different ability and need can have the high standard of education in a mainstream setting , but we also need to ensure that special school can cater for those with the most complex need . for those struggle with the pressure of school life , this Labour Government will fund mental health support in every secondary school and in every community so that they can access support before problem escalate . I know that mental health be a priority for many in this place , as be powerfully describe by my hon . friend the Member for Aylesbury ( Laura Kyrke - Smith ) in her speech . as shadow Schools Minister , I hear many story of decision be take about our school that just do not factor in the need of community . there be delay that turn to disappointment and frustration . I have see this in my own constituency with a lack of proper planning cause chaos to school admission in Gosforth this year , and countless story of failure be replicate across the country . so under Labour , school will need to co - operate with their local authority on school admission , on SEND inclusion and on place planning . no more of the chaos that we have see over the last few year . we want child to leave school with the skill and knowledge to set they up for life . that mean a broad and balanced curriculum that encourage they to try new thing , ask question , express themselves and be creative while also gain an excellent foundation in reading , writing and math . so we be establish an expert - lead review on the curriculum and will collaborate with the sector to allow school , teacher , parent and student to contribute and to plan ahead . on the question of remove exemption for private school , which have be raise , this change will enable vital investment in more teacher and improve nursery provision . I commend the contribution from my hon . friend the Member for Harlow ( Chris Vince ) , a former math teacher . while we be delighted that he be in his place , we need to ensure that we have more math teacher in our state school . my hon . friend the Member for Monmouthshire ( Catherine Fookes ) speak about be a school governor , and we need more of those too . my hon . friend the Member for Montgomeryshire and Glynd ŵ r ( Steve Witherden ) give a powerful testimony to his dear late mother . we share his grief and we share her pride . ultimately , education be about prepare child and young people for life and give they the skill they need to get on , but these opportunity do not end at the school gate . for too long , post - 16 education have be poorly match to the ambition of young people and the need of business and employer , allow talent to go untapped and the economy to flag . that be why , early this week , we announce Skills England , a transformative new body to match post - 16 education to the need of the economy . by deploy skill investment strategically , we will bring employment opportunity to the part of the country where young people need a break and business need their skilled labour . my hon . friend the Member for Derby South ( Baggy Shanker ) speak powerfully about his apprenticeship and his passion for ensure those opportunity for other . my hon . friend the Member for Milton Keynes Central ( Emily Darlington ) speak about the need to not have to leave the place you love to get on in life . my hon . friend the Member for Gravesham ( Dr Sullivan ) want to see a curriculum for life . my hon . friend the Member for Birmingham Selly Oak have rightly be recognise , as I mention early . all of this work will require a partnership approach . none of the challenge we face can be address by one person or one body alone . that be why we be reset the relationship between Government and the sector . we be listen to professional . we be learn from good practice . we be work to improve standard across the board . it be also why I want to take this opportunity today to pay tribute to all those who work in our school , to thank they and to wish they a restful and restorative summer break . under this Labour Government , neither a person ' s place of birth nor the income of their parent will determine what they can achieve , how they find fulfilment , how they discover their skill and talent , or how they grow in confidence , because break down the barrier to opportunity be Labour ' s guide focus . it be the job of this Government , and it be one that we be commit to deliver . question put and agree to . resolve , that this House have consider education and opportunity . business without Debate Estimates 2024 - 25 Motion make , and question put forthwith ( Standing Order no . 55 ( 1 ) and ( 3 ) ) , that , for the year end with 31 March 2025 : ( 1 ) further resource not exceed £ 463 , 737 , 669 , 000 be authorise for use for current purpose as set out in HC 108 , HC 139 , HC 568 ( session 2023 – 24 ) , HC 734 ( session 2023 – 24 ) , HC 741 ( session 2023 – 24 ) , HC 750 ( session 2023 – 24 ) and HC 777 ( session 2023 – 24 ) , ( 2 ) further resource not exceed £ 103 , 197 , 519 , 000 be authorise for use for capital purpose as so set out , and ( 3 ) a further sum not exceed £ 463 , 992 , 280 , 000 be grant to his Majesty to be issue by the Treasury out of the Consolidated Fund and apply for expenditure on the use of resource authorise by Parliament . — ( Christian Wakeford . ) question agree to . order , that a Bill be bring in upon the foregoing resolution ; that the Chairman of Ways and Means , the Chancellor of the Exchequer , Darren Jones , Tulip Siddiq , Emma Reynolds and James Murray bring in the Bill . Supply and Appropriation ( Main Estimates ) Bill Presentation and First read James Murray accordingly present a Bill to authorise the use of resource for the year end with 31 March 2025 ; to authorise both the issue of sum out of the Consolidated Fund and the application of income for that year ; and to appropriate the supply authorise for that year by this Act and by the Supply and Appropriation ( Anticipation and Adjustments ) Act 2024 . Bill read the first time ; to be read a second time tomorrow , and to be print ( Bill 4 ) . flood Defences : West Worcestershire Motion make , and question propose , that this House do now adjourn . — ( Christian Wakeford . ) it be a pleasure to see you in the Chair , Madam Deputy Speaker , and what a pleasure you have have in listen to such an excellent array of maiden speech this afternoon . I thank Mr Speaker for allocate I one of the first Adjournment debate in this new Parliament . my speech will be more of a reiteration of certain point and less of a novelty , as I be lucky enough to get an Adjournment debate on the same flood defence at the beginning of the last Parliament . during that winter , we suffer not only from coronavirus but from Storms Ciara and Dennis . I congratulate the flood Minister , the hon . member for Kingston upon Hull West and Haltemprice ( Emma Hardy ) , on her appointment . she and I be colleague on the Treasury Committee , and I know how passionately and genuinely she care about flooding issue , so I look forward to work with she . my constituency be in a part of the world that flood frequently , and we realise that we will flood a lot in West Worcestershire . we have the River Severn run through the middle of the constituency , and the Rivers Avon and Teme flow into the Severn just south of Worcester , so we accept that flooding be a part of nature and part of what we have in West Worcestershire . in the year that I have be fortunate enough to represent the area in Parliament , and before , I have try to mitigate some of the problem that arise from be in a very flood - prone part of the world . last winter , we again see how difficult it can be when there be a very wet winter . many local farmer , resident and business be very grateful for funding from the flood recovery fund after Storms Babet and Henk . rural area be often the bad impact by flood damage , yet they be often deem less of a priority for flood defence than urban area . do the hon . Lady agree that the flood defence grant in aid cost - benefit analysis must be review to ensure it sufficiently value agricultural and rural community ? the hon . Lady highlight something that I have grapple with throughout my time as a Member of Parliament . I will now move on to the situation in Tenbury Wells in my constituency . seventeen year ago this month , in the middle of summer , we have the most severe flooding for many , many year . it cause massive damage and misery across West Worcestershire . in fact , it be the right hon . member for Leeds South ( Hilary Benn ) who be the Environment Minister at the time . in 2007 , he come to see the devastation in Tenbury Wells . it be at that time that I first start to look into these cost - benefit analysis and the formula that the hon . Lady raise . while accept that , in West Worcestershire , we will flood regularly , I think that there be many thing we can do to mitigate the misery of be flood , and of be flood regularly . I congratulate the right hon . member for Romsey and Southampton North ( Caroline Nokes ) on be elevate to Deputy Speaker . she be well - respect and her appointment be well - deserved . everyone in this House be very encouraged to see she in that position . may I also congratulate the hon . member for West Worcestershire ( Dame Harriett Baldwin ) on secure this debate ? be she aware that inadequate flood defence mean an increase in homeowner ' insurance premium ? that increase have be note in her constituency , as it have be in mine of Strangford . do she agree that this House and Government must work on a UK - wide approach to ensure that insurance premium be not hike because defence be inadequate ? the hon . Gentleman raise an important matter . indeed , it be after the 2007 flood that the idea of a flood reinsurance scheme come about . it be something that be establish when the last Government come into power in 2010 . it have now become somewhat easy to get insurance , but it do continue to be a challenge , and I shall highlight example of that in my speech . it will be interesting to hear if the Minister can confirm from the Dispatch Box whether Flood Re will continue to be a priority for the new Government . I have campaign successfully for many flood defence scheme in West Worcestershire over the year . we have make real progress . in particular , the two scheme that protect Upton upon Severn have be deploy year in , year out . in fact , they have successfully protect Upton upon Severn from flood something like 40 time since they be open in 2013 . we have have a bund build along the Defford Road in Pershore ; a flood defence gate instal in Kempsey ; a gate barrier instal at Uckinghall ; a bund build in Powick ; and a community scheme be now in place in Callow end , so there have be real progress . we have see the cumulative impact of the many million that have be spend on flood defence across West Worcestershire in the resilience that the community show last winter when it be so very wet . I would like to take this opportunity to put on record my thank to previous flood Ministers , to the team at the Environment Agency , to Worcestershire county council and to the regional flood defence committee , which have help over time to get these flood defence scheme fund and build . I be very grateful to my hon . friend for give way . she describe the huge amount of investment that have be go into the River Severn . she have an awful lot of the River Severn in her constituency . she will be aware that , in Bewdley , about £ 11 million be be spend on flood defence . she may remember that Daniel Kawczynski , the former Member for Shrewsbury , set up an action group because he recognise that the whole of the River Severn be a cohesive watercourse , which require a lot of effort and attention . that role in the action group be now vacant and I be wonder whether she would be enthusiastic to take it on . she would have a lot of support from all of those Members of Parliament represent constituent on what use to be the blue River Severn , which be now , I think , a bit red and orange in place . I think my hon . friend be make a good pitch to take on that role himself , and I would certainly support he in that . none the less , he be right : all of we who live along the severn catchment and the river that flow into the Severn have a responsibility to work together to make sure that we make progress . with the very wet weather that we have this winter , we discover that some of the road that we accept will close once or twice a year be now close more frequently . I have ask for an analysis from both our county council and the Environment Agency to explore the projection of the frequency with which those closure might happen . I be look to find a solution to the situation with the Hanley Road outside Upton upon Severn and also the historic Eckington bridge , where the floodplain be also flood more frequently . we need to see whether we need solution to these infrastructure challenge over the decade to come . on the impact on local people , I wonder whether the hon . member be , like I , very concerned about the proposal of the Conservative - run Newcastle - under - Lyme borough council to build on Keele golf course ? many of my constituent be very concerned indeed about the potential impact of flooding that may come with such development . do she agree that , when it come to building , council have to factor in the climate and our natural world ? I think the hon . member need to have a word with his Deputy Prime Minister about that . he and I may share some concern about the ability of whitehall to determine where concrete be pour across our country . let I turn to two scheme that be still not build . they be the subject of my Adjournment debate back in 2020 . I think that we can make progress in this Parliament on the Tenbury Wells and Severn Stoke flood defence scheme . I would like today ' s Minister to be the Minister who see those scheme complete . Tenbury Wells be the most beautiful town , but it be build on a floodplain century ago , so protect it be a very complicated project that comprise flood gate , bund and wall . after my Adjournment debate in 2020 , to my delight a fund scheme be agree , with £ 4 . 9 million allocate to move it forward . on top of that , last year I secure another £ 2 . 5 million from the frequently flood community fund , because inflation have take its toll and construction cost have spiral . we be now in a situation where some of those million have be spend on consultant and adviser , but the flood defence scheme itself be still stick on the drawing board and have not yet go to planning . I ask the Minister for an update on that . Severn Stoke — the clue be in the name — be another community that sit on a floodplain . the village , its popular pub , its church , and the busy A38 road be frequently flood . in fact , the village hall have to be pull down because the parish could no long afford to insure the property . the church be now struggle with insurance . in the last Parliament , I be pleased to win funding for that scheme as well , include from the frequently flood community fund , and arrange the transport of local topsoil to the place free of charge , but I would now also describe that scheme as stall . in fact , there be a forlorn pile of topsoil in Severn Stoke that sit there while the village flood again last winter . will the Minister tell I how we can get both scheme move again and , importantly , how we can get they finish ? in April , I have a very helpful meeting with the Environment Agency chief executive Philip Duffy and the Environment Agency team . I have another one schedule for June , but of course the general election intervene . I ask the Minister whether we can reschedule that meeting at the early moment , to identify how to unblock the two scheme . I know that the last Government be on track to spend over £ 5 billion on flood defence over the spending review period . my hon . friend be give an excellent speech , and make a very strong case for why we need to invest in flood defence scheme . under the last Conservative Administration , we increase the amount of investment in flood defence scheme from £ 2 . 6 billion to £ 5 . 2 billion over the next six - year period . do she agree that the new Government should adhere to those funding increase so that we can ensure that scheme such as the one for which she be advocate be deal with and fund ? I thank my hon . friend for his intervention . he point to a fact that I acknowledge : cumulatively , we have become more resilient to flooding in West Worcestershire over the last 14 year , but there be still these two scheme . that be go to be my next question to the Minister : will she confirm that the new Government will continue with the same level of spending that my hon . friend mention ? be there anything that I could do , other than lead debate such as this and meet with the chief executive of the Environment Agency , that would help locally to unblock any of the issue ? I know that these scheme , particularly the one in Tenbury Wells , be complicated . I just want the Environment Agency to be able to find its way through the obstacle . the local community know that in order to make the omelette that be the flood defence of Tenbury Wells , a few egg will need to be break , with a few road closure at time and potentially some loss of road space down some side road . I just want to say on behalf of the community that it be prepared to put up with that level of inconvenience and some traffic disruption for a while in order to protect its beautiful town . as can be see from the other example in West Worcestershire that I have mention , particularly Upton upon Severn , the long - term benefit of protect the town be immeasurable . will the Minister join I in an effort of share persistence and determination to protect these two community by finally get the two scheme build , preferably before the inevitable arrival of the next serious flood ? finally , will she confirm that she will press ahead with the expand offer of the farming recovery fund ? farmer in my constituency and elsewhere think it be very important that the offer include those who experience damage due to extreme rainfall , and not just those who experience flood land . on that point , will the hon . Lady give way ? I have give way once already to the hon . Lady . I be go to allow the Minister to use the remain time to respond . I call the Minister , Emma Hardy . thank you and congratulation , Madam Deputy Speaker . it be a night of first — I be give my first speech as Minister and we have you here for the first time as Deputy Speaker — but of course we have the continuity of the hon . member for Strangford ( Jim Shannon ) be here to intervene in the Adjournment debate . as so many thing change , so many thing remain the same . long may that continue . I be delighted to respond to the hon . member for West Worcestershire ( Dame Harriett Baldwin ) , who I hold in high regard and esteem . I enjoy our time together on the Treasury Committee . I be pleased , in my first debate as Minister , to be able to talk to she about something that we have conversation about before I take this role . I want to state at the beginning that I will be very happy to continue the conversation ; I recognise that she request a meeting and I will be more than happy to follow that up . the hon . Member allude to 2007 , which we remember very well . she talk about the challenge and the impact in her constituency , and it be the same for I in Hull — absolutely devastating . as she mention , people continue to feel the trauma , which have a long - last impact not just on the economy and the state of people ' s property , but on people ' s mental health . I therefore want to make it abundantly clear that this Government be commit more than ever to protect community from flooding . it be one of our top five priority in the Department for Environment , Food and Rural Affairs , and the good news be that the work have already begin . I want to be as open and honest as possible with the hon . member , so I have look in detail at the two scheme that I be aware she would raise tonight . although I have be inform that the Environment Agency have complete some work since 2007 and progress have be make — I be sure we both want to acknowledge that — these two scheme do seem to be particularly difficult . I recognise that she raise the same issue with the previous Minister . I extend my sympathy to all the community of West Worcestershire who be affect by the winter flooding , which be an awful thing for anyone to experience . I enjoy and share the hon . member ' s persistence . in fact , I believe that this place only work when we have persistent and talented woman lead the way , so I be absolutely with she on that . let I turn first to the Severn Stoke flood alleviation scheme . I understand that the hon . Member be involve in secure some of the soil require for the embankment . my understanding of the situation be that if the scheme be complete , it will well protect 18 home and business and the Rose and Crown pub , which I have hear good thing about , but the difficulty seem to be make sure that the scheme be within the funding envelope that have be allocate . my understanding — I will make a comment on the funding formula — be that the benefit of the scheme , as assess , can not be great than the cost of deliver the scheme . the funding envelope that have be allocate be base on the benefit that be mean to be give , so the scheme have to be deliver within that envelope , even though payment in kind have be receive , in term of the provision of the soil . that be the difficulty with that particular scheme . the good news be that the Environment Agency be still work on find a contractor ; it be still go out there and talk to organisation that could deliver the scheme within the budget available . the hon . Member mention the role that she could play . she have knowledge and experience of business in the area , and that might be one avenue to explore with contractor , who would learn the benefit that they would bring to the city and how they would be celebrate . we would need to make sure that they could deliver within the funding that be provide . that be the particular difficulty , as I understand it . I recognise the frustration that the hon . Member express . there can be nothing more frustrating than , to use her word , a forlorn pile of soil sit there do nothing . I share her frustration , and I hope that we can find the contractor that be need . do the Minister agree that many flood scheme have not be complete , include a number in my constituency of Carlisle , as a direct result of the economic chaos create by the previous Government , which have force the Environment Agency to cancel a quarter of the plan scheme ? it be great to see my hon . friend in the Chamber . she be right . the economic chaos that we face , and which continue as we change Government , Prime Ministers and Chancellors , do not provide the stability need to get on with these scheme and deliver they . the change that people require have now take place , and we have stability and new Ministers — hopefully , I be not go anywhere quickly — so I hope we can get on and deliver . I hope that my hon . friend will be persistent in pursue this issue . I have a careful look at the Tenbury Wells scheme mention by the hon . member for West Worcestershire and how complicated the measure would be . as she say , it would potentially involve people have to move house and , at time , part of their garden be remove and road be close . I understand that the necessary consultation have be undertake with resident , in the detail need . nobody want a scheme that will be expensive and disruptive , or that do not perform as expect . anything put in place must also be in keep with that beautiful part of the country . as a result , design cost have increase repeatedly . there be always the difficulty that we want something that be as good as possible at ensure flood alleviation , design in the good possible way , in keep with the character of the town and that cause minimum disruption . my understanding of the situation be that the scheme have become much more expensive as time have go on ; that be something that we might want to discuss in more detail when we meet . it be important that we get it right , and that it be affordable , give the amount of money that have be allocate . I be happy to take forward that conversation . I would not want to be the Minister for deliver something that resident would not want to have in their community . as the hon . Member will know from the National Audit Office report , " resilience to flooding " , which be publish last November , we have inherit a flood capital programme that face extreme delivery challenge . as have be mention , the NAO cite a number of project that have not go through , partly because they could not be deliver within the timeframe , partly because of inflation , and partly because of covid and other challenge in government . that have have an impact , so I be review absolutely everything that be go on in the Environment Agency and look at all the scheme . I want to update hon . member on all that as quickly as possible , and if anyone wish to see I about individual scheme , they be more than welcome to do so . I congratulate the Minister on her new job ; she be do a fantastic job so far and say all the thing that I , as a neighbour of this scheme , want to hear . she talk about review the project , and I think we would all agree that there be no harm in that , but it be probably worth bring up my experience just down the river from Tenbury Wells in Bewdley , where flood defence scheme be be put in place very successfully , and be work well for the town and the community . however , one issue keep come up : the disruption cause by have to switch to one - way traffic on the bridge result in a slight drop - off in trade in the town . it be very early day for the Minister , but as part of the review , it might be helpful to reassure trader . perhaps her Department could look at not necessarily financial compensation , but something that could help business that struggle with cash flow during lean period because of the work , in order to get they through . ultimately , we will get far well economic value from a town that have flood defence , because it will not flood any more , but in the interim , this issue be problematic . I ask she respectfully to have a look at that in her review , so that we can help trader to get over the hump — that difficult moment — of the flood defence work . I thank the hon . gentleman for his kind word , and I recognise the difficulty that these work cause to business . that go to the point that I make to the hon . member for West Worcestershire : the design have to be right , and work have to be do in conjunction with the community . that be why work sometimes become more expensive . however , I will take away the point the hon . Gentleman make . on the funding formula , I say many time in opposition that I be keen to look under the bonnet , and now I be delighted to get that chance for a detailed look at exactly how thing work . that be something I be review . as be always the case , pull one lever can have unintended consequence elsewhere , so I hope the hon . Gentleman will forgive I for not give the detail of exactly which lever I intend to pull . however , I be actively gain a clear and transparent understanding of how the funding work , who the winner and loser be under the formula that we have , and our priority . in my intervention on the hon . member for West Worcestershire ( Dame Harriett Baldwin ) , I refer to insurance premium . if we sort the flooding out , insurance premium will fall and there will be less cost . that must be a factor for constituent and their living cost . be that something the Minister will look at , please ? I thank the hon . gentleman for his second intervention in this Adjournment debate ; we be do well . I have be passionately supportive of the Flood re scheme , but it be mean to come to an end in 2039 , and I be look at that in real detail . the whole point of the Flood Re scheme be that we would be able to build resilient property , which would not be reliant on it , but that have not happen — I think we need a level of honestly about that — so I be look at the Flood Re scheme at the moment . we want to ensure that wherever people live in the United Kingdom , they be able to find affordable insurance for their property . that have to be a priority . in the last few minute that I have , I will touch on one of the other big problem we face , which be the maintenance of exist flood defence . we have talk a lot in this debate about the capital building , and the need to build new flood defence , but we have a significant issue with the flood defence that we already have , and it have be exacerbate by the problem we have as a result of the two storm . one of my big concern be the deterioration over the past few year of some of our key infrastructure . that be another priority for I . in opposition , I talk about our flood resilience taskforce and what Labour would do , and I be pleased to say that Labour be get on with this as promise . we will look to create the taskforce as soon as possible , ahead of the wet season . the flood resilience taskforce will look at co - ordination across Government and across agency on the ground , and will work with stakeholder in fire and rescue service , to inform policy and establish national standard . a difficulty I often notice in opposition be with Government Departments maybe not always work together as one when they should . to finish , this Government be dedicate to collaborate closely with the Environment Agency and , of course , the hon . member for West Worcestershire to advance the Severn Stoke and Tenbury Wells scheme in her constituency . more generally , however , this Government commit to work that will ensure that community throughout England receive the protection that they need , especially as the risk of flood rise due to climate change . I salute she and every other Member present for their persistence on this matter . question put and agree to . House adjourn .