Speaker ' s statement I can now announce the arrangement for the election of the Chair of the Defence Committee . I declare the Chair vacant on Thursday . nomination will close on Tuesday 24 October . nomination form will be available in the Vote Office , the Table Office and the Public Bill Office . only Conservative Members may be candidate in this election . if there be more than one candidate , the ballot will take place in the Aye Lobby on Wednesday 25 October between 11 am and 2 . 30 pm . a briefing note with more information will be make available in the Vote Office . Oral Answers to Questions Home Department the Secretary of State be ask — Refugee and Asylum Seeker Accommodation what step she be take with Cabinet colleague to ensure an adequate standard of accommodation for refugee and asylum seeker . the asylum accommodation support contract ensure the provision of safe , habitable , fit - for - purpose and correctly equip accommodation for destitute asylum seeker . the contract also require compliance with the law , local authority licensing and good practice guidance . we have be work with the Department for Levelling up , Housing and Communities to minimise the potential impact on homelessness , and have agree an asylum placement funding for local authority . we hear the Government talk about £ 6 million per day be waste on hotel , but we do not hear about the billion be fork out on private company such as Serco and Clearsprings Ready Homes , both of which have see score of complaint , include about unsanitary condition , a lack of safeguarding , and sexual abuse . do the Home Secretary think that it be appropriate to entrust those company with taxpayer ' money to run asylum accommodation in hotel and former Ministry of Defence site ? the safety and wellbeing of asylum seeker in our care be of paramount importance at the Home Office . we expect high standard from all our provider , and we have robust governance framework in place to manage the service delivery of asylum accommodation . what we definitely do not do , and do not propose to do , be willingly accept thousand more illegal migrant into the UK from the EU , house presumably in more hotel across the country , as Labour be propose . I campaign for Brexit to take back control of our border , not for Labour to surrender our sovereignty to the EU . one of the justification for use service accommodation such as RAF Scampton be that it be suppose to be cheap , but we now know the figure : it be more expensive over two year , and over three year the saving be absolutely derisory . the figure be , frankly , be fiddle by overcapitalise the value of the base , and be not base on survey . the Home Secretary ' s official be now rip out service . the council have issue a stop order on it . I give notice that I will report the Home Office to the Comptroller and Auditor General for misapplying and waste public money , because use the base will cost more than hotel . the base be Crown land , so the local authority can not enter it . do she accept that she would be act illegally and be liable to be sue if her official disobey the stop order ? I have have several discussion with my right hon . friend about the propose asylum accommodation at Scampton . I thank he for his very energetic campaigning on behalf of his constituent . I very much appreciate the challenge that this nationwide mission pose for we all . I do not agree with his assessment ; we have assess the proposal at Scampton to be value for money . ultimately , it be not right that we continue to house ten of thousand of migrant in hotel , in town and city across the country , cost the taxpayer £ 6 million a day . that be why our work to roll out large site be move swiftly , and we propose to move asylum seeker on to they as soon as possible . I call the shadow Minister . it have be more than a month since all 39 asylum seeker be haul off the 500 - capacity Bibby Stockholm because of the detection of legionella , but the Home Secretary be yet to give a date for when the barge will actually be ready for use . we still do not know why she choose not to wait for the legionella result before plough ahead , and why her Minister be so slow to act once the result come in . we be still yet to hear a denial from the Home Secretary that it be one of the most lethal strain of the bacteria , as report in the medium . today , will she set out her response to those question and confirm the exact cost of the barge ? half a million pound per month to house zero asylum seeker on this float symbol of failure feel utterly extortionate . why be it that the only boat this Government have manage to stop be their own ? I be somewhat surprised by the hon . Gentleman ' s change of tune : he be on the record in the medium as support our use of the barge , so a change of heart be welcome . we have assess the barge — it have be under constant scrutiny — and we will be re - embark people on to that barge as soon as be practical and possible . what be clear be that the hon . Gentleman simply have no answer for how to solve the broad problem . the truth be that Labour ' s policy have not survive contact with reality : it have be denounce by the EU , its shadow Ministers be make it up as they go along , and the leader have have to backtrack — and it have not even be a week . only the conservative party have a plan that be base on reality , deterrence and delivery , and it will stop the boat . I call the SNP spokesperson . OpenDemocracy recently reveal the extent of self - harm and suicide in immigration removal centre — in particular , Harmondsworth and Colnbrook , where 24 self - harm incident occur in March , which be more than over the three previous month combine . Emma Ginn , director of Medical Justice , have say : " we be not confident that the Home Office consider the value of the life of those in its care in detention as fully human . " what be the Home Secretary do to ensure that those in Home Office immigration removal centre do not face such desperate circumstance that they seek to take their own life ? as I say , the safety of all of those in our care be a priority for the Home Office , and the standard of habitation — whether that be in our asylum accommodation estate more broadly , or specifically in our immigration removal centre — be one that always , as far as the law require , meet high standard . those standard be rigorously scrutinise and monitor , and those who have concern have avenue to make complaint via the migrant helpline . Police Resources what step she be take to increase police resource . what step she be take to increase police resource . I be sure that the whole House will join I in send our very sincere condolence to the family of Sergeant Graham Saville , who a week or two ago so tragically lose his life in the line of duty , save another in the constituency of my right hon . friend the Member for Newark ( Robert Jenrick ) . our thought and prayer be with his family . he make the ultimate sacrifice , and we be grateful to he . to answer my hon . friend ' question , total police funding this year stand at £ 17 . 2 billion , a record level . frontline policing receive an extra £ 550 million this year compare with last year , and I be pleased to report once again that we have a record number of police officer across England and Wales : 149 , 566 , which be 3 , 500 more than we ever have under the last Labour Government . as always , the devil be in the detail . in Durham , we see funding pressure on both police and fire service , which be not help by our local tax base be so low : we have a to c in most region . the fire service have a coherent — albeit very challenge — programme , but the Labour police and crime commissioner know 10 year ago that Newton Aycliffe police station be go to be move away from the fire station , and she be still scramble around . do the Minister agree that good plan help cost - effective delivery , and will he meet I to discuss funding and programme delivery for the police and fire service in Durham that cover my Sedgefield constituency ? do he also agree that elect Robert Potts , the conservative candidate for the next pcc election in May , would be a far well outcome for the police in Durham ? I will certainly meet with my hon . friend , and yes , I do agree . I be very disappointed to hear what he have to say about his Labour PCC ' s performance , which contrast with what conservative pcc have do . only today , PCC Donna Jones in Hampshire announce that she would be open 10 new police counter , an example of what happen when we have sound conservative policy in operation . my right hon . friend will recall his recent visit to Uxbridge . will he join I in call for the Mayor of London to guarantee the future of Uxbridge police station as fully operational , include a full custody suite and a 24 / 7 front counter for my constituent ? I welcome my hon . friend to his very well - deserve place . of course , the Mayor of London , Sadiq Khan , have plan to close down Uxbridge police station , along with many other , until my hon . Friend force he into a humiliating u - turn before he be even elect — that be more than most of we achieve prior to come to Parliament . I join he in call on the Mayor of London to keep Uxbridge police station open and to add that custody suite , but also to confirm the future of all those other police station around London that he have threaten to close just a few year ago . in my constituency , we have experience a real escalation in antisocial behaviour and quite violent disorder in recent year , particularly around bonfire night . last year , police have to deploy 100 officer to just one area of my constituency where local community be be terrorise . what consideration have the Minister make of additional power or resource for area up and down the country that be anticipate far unacceptable disorder ahead of this year ' s bonfire night ? the hon . Lady be quite right to raise this issue . antisocial behaviour concern everyone . there be a number of power available to local police , such as community protection notice , and to local authority — I be think in particular of public space protection order — so I strongly urge she to work with her local authority and , if she be concerned about a particular area , to put in place a public space protection order ahead of bonfire night . our antisocial behaviour plan envisage strengthen various antisocial behaviour power . as of next April , we will also be fund every single police force in the country to have antisocial behaviour hotspot patrol . I be not sure whether her force be one of the 10 pilot area , but every force will have that funding from next April , and the sort of situation that she describe sound like the ideal use for those ASB hotspot patrol . the same shop and newsagent on Kilburn High Road in my constituency be constantly target by criminal , who shoplift but also intimidate staff . when I raise the issue with the police , they say they receive 1 , 000 call a day from central north London alone , limit their ability to deal with it . what plan do the Minister have to increase the resource to deal with this sort of crime , especially retail theft ? I strongly sympathise with those affect by shoplift on Kilburn High Road . I be the prospective parliamentary candidate in that constituency in 2010 , and I remember walk down Kilburn High Road with Dominic Grieve when a shoplifter run out of Poundland and straight into our arm . it be a serious issue . the Metropolitan police have a record number of police officer — about 35 , 000 — and I have recently be in discussion with Amanda Blakeman , the National Police Chiefs ' Council lead , to increase patrolling in shoplift hotspot area and to have a more comprehensive response from the police in term of investigation , such as always follow up CCTV footage where it be available . this be an issue not just on Kilburn High Road but around the country . as I say , we will shortly announce further action , in partnership with police . drug policy : Scotland whether she have have discussion with Cabinet colleague and the Scottish Government on further devolution of drug policy to Scotland . I have not have discussion on the devolution of drug policy , which be of course reserve to this Parliament , but I do have regular discussion about co - operate with colleague in the Scottish Government . I have a discussion with the new Minister just a few week ago , and I think we be go to be meet in Cardiff in just a few week ' time with Ministers from the three devolve administration to discuss how we can work constructively and collaboratively together . the Minister will know that the Lord Advocate in Scotland have issue a prosecution statement say that she will not prosecute anyone in possession of control substance in any pilot safe consumption or overdose prevention facility that might be establish in Scotland . can he confirm what the Secretary of State for Scotland indicate in the House last week — that the UK Government will not seek to use any administrative or legislative mean to frustrate or block the establishment of such a pilot facility ? first , it be important to make it clear that the UK Government ' s position on drug consumption room in England and Wales be that we do not support they . we be concerned that they condone or even encourage illegal drug use . I want to put that on the record straightaway . of course , we respect the independence of the Lord Advocate as Scotland ' s prosecutorial authority . provide that that power be exercise lawfully , of course we be not go to stand in the way of it , as my right hon . friend the Scottish Secretary set out last week . I understand that plan may involve a strong integration with treatment and some consideration of each case on its individual merit , but we do not plan to interfere with the lawfully exercise prosecutorial independence of the Lord Advocate . I call the SNP spokesperson . I be glad to hear what the drug Minister say . the Home Affairs Committee ' s report on drug highlight good practice in Scotland , in particular with the naloxone roll - out and the medication assist treatment standard for same - day treatment . academic evaluation have also find our enhance drug treatment service , Scotland ' s only heroin - assist treatment service , to have be successfully implement , in particular with a group with very complex background . will the Minister visit Glasgow to hear more about what Scotland be do to reduce harm and save life ? as I say to the hon . Lady at the Bar of the House last week , I be due to be in Edinburgh in early December , so I would be delighted to accept her invitation to visit the facility in Glasgow . Knife Crime what step her Department be take to reduce knife crime . what step her Department be take to reduce knife crime . this Government be determined to fight knife crime . we have invest over £ 110 million in 2023 - 24 to fight knife crime , include invest in 20 violence reduction unit , and fund hotspot police in the most seriously affect area . I welcome the news that the Government be seek to close the legal loophole around the sale of so - call zombie knife , but do my right hon . friend agree that stop and search and the like be powerful tool for the police to get knife off the street and to save life ? will he also look closely at scan and search to help to detect such weapon ? my hon . friend be quite right that we be look to tighten the law . the Offensive Weapons Act 2019 contain a loophole , essentially , which mean zombie knife without threaten writing on the blade be not illegal . we be go to close that loophole . I agree with he that stop and search be a vital tactic to keep our street safe when use , of course , respectfully . the Metropolitan Police Commissioner tell I that about 400 knife be take off the street every month use stop and search in London alone , so it be an important power . I also agree with my hon . friend ' s second point . the use of scan technology have the huge potential to enable officer to scan people for knife at a distance without have to physically stop they and search they manually . the technology be not ready to deploy just yet , but I hope it will be in the relatively near future . in 2021 , two police officer be attack with machete in West Bromwich town centre . in the same year , a 19 - year - old boy be stab and kill in Great Barr . in 2022 , a teenager from my constituency be stab on his way to college in Birmingham . while the Minister say we have already ban the sale of zombie knife , that have not stop people purchase these dangerous weapon , so I thank the Government for take the next step to close the loophole . will this change be bring forward as soon as possible ? the change certainly will happen as soon as possible . some of it require primary legislation , but other element require secondary legislation , and we be definitely go to do that as soon as we can . as for the sale of these knife , once the Online Safety Bill pass Parliament — I hope very soon — the sale of these knife via online marketplace such as Facebook Marketplace and Amazon will also be prohibit , address my hon . friend ' s point about sale . we absolutely do need to get a grip on knife crime , which be up by 70 % since 2015 alone . be the Minister content with the fact that only 5 % of crime of violence against the person actually make it to court ? if he be not , what be he do about it ? on the crime statistic , the Crime Survey of England and Wales be the only long - term datum series endorse by the Office for National Statistics . since the hon . Gentleman ask about datum , since 2010 — just to pick a date arbitrarily — violence be down by 46 % . that be to say , violent crime be double under the last Labour Government compare with now . Knife - enable crime be 7 % low in the late year compare with the year end December 2019 , accord to police record crime . but we would like to do more , hence the " Grip " hotspot patrol , hence criminalise these remain zombie knife . to actually answer the hon . Gentleman ' s question , I want that figure for prosecution be high , and that be why the Home Secretary and I , together with policing lead , the College of Policing and the National Police Chiefs ' Council , announce two or three week ago that the police be now commit to always follow all reasonable line of inquiry where they exist . order . I love the full answer , but I be really struggle to get even part - way down the Order Paper . I draw the Minister ' s attention to the sad fact that most mp have have the tragedy of knife crime in our constituency . we have a dreadful incident in Huddersfield . be it not time that we understand more the culture that produce it ? this be about the way in which young people communicate on the internet and the fact that we no long have many youth club or youth service . we use to have wonderful police go into school to talk about these issue . can we have that back ? I will try to be brief . we have violence reduction unit design to provide those activity . we be also fund research . we have a social media hub in the Met police that monitor social medium — it be base in Lambeth , and I have be to it . the thing that the hon . Gentleman ask for be be do , because it be essential that we tackle knife crime . I call the shadow Minister . rape at knifepoint be at a record high this year . the number of case have more than double since 2015 . I be currently support a case of a woman violently rape use weapon , and the detective on the case tell I that he be the only detective in his team work on serious sexual violence . the Police Foundation describe the current number of detective as a " chronic shortage " , highlight a staggering 7 , 000 vacancy . be it any wonder that there have be a 60 % drop in the overall proportion of crime be charge since 2015 , include almost 1 million violent crime and 36 , 000 rape ? the Labour party have propose require all police force to have a scheme that directly recruit detective with relevant professional background , so what be the Government do about this chronic shortage of detective and the abysmal charge rate that they preside over ? the rape charge rate be a serious matter , and Operation Soteria Bluestone , which the hon . Lady will be familiar with , have be roll out around the country under the supervision of the safeguarding Minister , my hon . friend the Member for Derbyshire Dales ( Miss Dines ) . in the force that adopt that measure early , rape charge rate dramatically increase by two to three time . as that roll out around the country , those charge rate will increase , but we would like to go far . on the question of specialist train officer , now that we have record number of officer across England and Wales as a whole , we will be target individual force with training and recruit a specified number of specialist officer to make sure that those people be in place to properly investigate these issue , because we want to do a lot more in this area . Police : compensation what recent discussion she have have with the Secretary of State for Justice on the adequacy of compensation for police officer injure in the course of their duty . what recent discussion she have have with the Secretary of State for Justice on the adequacy of compensation for police officer injure in the course of their duty . the police injury benefit scheme provide ongoing and one - off payment to former police officer who have be injure or disable in the line of duty . I be recently shock to discover that police officer be entitle to official compensation only if they be injure while take an exceptional risk , and a risk be consider exceptional only if it would not normally be expect . that sound strange , do it not ? with more than 40 , 000 assault against police in the past year , and many officer ineligible for injury compensation because of that rule , do the Home Secretary agree that these guideline effectively normalise violence against police and must be change ? we certainly do not want to see violence against police normalise . that be why we legislate to double the maximum sentence for assault against emergency worker just a year or two ago . my understanding be that the payment under the police injury benefit scheme can go up to 85 % of salary , but since the hon . Lady have raise the point , I will take a look at it . over recent year , a number of police officer have tragically die in the line of duty , and I acknowledge the service of pc Nicola Hughes , PC Fiona Bone and Sergeant Graham Saville . Labour have support call for a posthumous medal for fall officer . why will the Minister not do the right thing and acknowledge those who give their life to keep we safe ? we do acknowledge that , and it may well be that posthumous award be make . we obviously do not comment on individual case and potential award prior to their be make , but if I say that I strongly sympathise with what the hon . Lady just say , I think she will understand what I mean . Crime Reduction what step she be take to reduce crime . what step she be take to reduce crime . our community be safe than in 2010 , with overall crime on a like - for - like basis down by 54 % . we have put 20 , 000 more police officer on our street — a record number — which be enable we to take action across the board to bring more offender to justice , to well protect victim and to equip our police with the power they need to prevent crime . the fall in crime be welcome , but do my right hon . and learn Friend agree that the police would deter and solve even more crime , such as burglary , the use of quad bike and general antisocial behaviour in place such as Hatfield , Doncaster , Rossington and Thorne in my constituency , if they start put more bobby on the beat and stop promote unscientific ideology ? my hon . friend be quite right . we pay the police to fight crime . whether that be to focus on the antisocial behaviour , the nuisance biker or the burglary he mention , they be there to keep people safe . we do not pay they to wave flag at parade , to dance with drag queen or to campaign . that be why I finally end all association with Stonewall at the Home Office and why I expect all police and crime commissioner and chief constable to focus on cut crime and rebuild confidence , not play politic . I thank the Home Secretary , who recently come to Warrington to meet the chief constable , Mark Roberts , and our police and crime commissioner , John Dwyer . we be now at record number of police officer , and alongside that we be at record number of arrest . Cheshire have the second - high charge and summon rate in England and Wales for all crime in the last 12 month . one of the concern raise by constituent at a recent surgery be the increase in cyber - crime . what step be the Home Secretary take to bolster action against fraud and online scam ? my hon . friend have be an indefatigable champion for his community , and I very much enjoy join he at his local police station to meet his excellent chief constable , Mark Roberts , with the pcc . cheshire be an example of common - sense policing and protect the public . with those arrest rate and a focus on domestic abuse , on which cheshire constabulary have achieve some excellence , it deserve all the praise that it get . when it come to tackle online scam and online fraud , which be a feature of modern - day crime fighting , early this year , with the Prime Minister , I announce our fraud strategy . one hundred million pound from the 2021 spending review have go towards tackle fraud . a portion of that will fund a new national fraud squad of 400 specialist fraud officer across police and the National Crime Agency , who will investigate the most harmful fraudster target the UK public . since 2015 , the proportion of crime that result in a perpetrator face a punishment have go down by two third . be that because the Government have a policy of cut 21 , 000 police officer ? I be incredibly proud of the increase resource for policing , the increase power for policing , with the 20 , 000 new officer on the frontline that the Government have deliver for the british people — a record number ; we be at historic level — and the overall fall in crime since 2010 . yes , there be more to do , but on all those measure , how do labour vote ? it vote against they and against the british public . the Home Secretary talk about tackle online and telephone scam , and she be right to do so . Age UK recently come out with research that show that 43 % of people age over 65 have be victim of online or telephone scam of some kind . will she talk about how she will use that research and extend the resource she give to police authority such as in Cumbria , as well as work with bank and other outfit , to ensure that more people be not victim of this outrageous uptick in scam ? the hon . member be absolutely right — online crime and fraud have become a grave feature of today ' s criminality . that be why our fraud strategy be all about target this emerge threat . whether that be through the national fraud squad that I just mention , ban SIM farm , increase specialism on the frontline , or our police force work with the National Crime Agency , other agency and , importantly , the tech and banking sector , we will prevent fraud from become a reality as well as detect it and enforce against it far down the line . I call the shadow Minister . the Home Secretary seek to paint a rosy picture on crime . in reality , retail crime be , as describe by the Co - op , " out of control " , and with 10 , 000 few neighbourhood police and police community support officer , that be no surprise . across all retailer , there be more than 850 act of violence or abuse every single day . the Co - op also report that even when it detain someone suspect to have commit a crime , 80 % of the time it have to let they go again because the police be stretch too thinly to come and make the arrest . when will the Home Secretary drop this pretence that thing be go well and actually stand up for our shop worker ? we take these matter incredibly seriously . that be why my right hon . friend the Policing Minister meet the Co - op and other major retailer recently to discuss this issue in detail . shoplifting and retail theft have become a challenge for retailer and our community , which be not right . that be why , a few week ago , we make a nationwide commitment whereby all police force have agree to follow every reasonable line of inquiry . that will mean that CCTV footage , online evidence of resale and other actionable evidence will be follow up by the police , lead the investigation and justice process . Illegal Motorcyclists what recent guidance she have issue to the police on apprehend illegal motorcyclist . the illegal use of motorcycle can cause distress and be dangerous to the public . the police have all the power they need to police that , and such use of motorcycle be illegal . the College of Policing ' s authorise professional practice provide advice to the operationally independent chief constable , whom I urge to use their power to the full . dangerous motorcyclist be out of control in my area . we have have one death and one life - threaten injury . we now have six year old ride pillion on motorbike , and people do wheelie down road , pavement and amenity area , with not a helmet in sight . my police tell I that they need urgent guidance on safeguard officer who try to apprehend they , and an urgent review of section 59 of the Police Reform Act 2022 on the requirement that officer be present in uniform at the time of offending . would the Minister get on to those specific issue , please ? I would be happy to look into those specific issue . the police have power to pursue , even where the motorcycle rider be not wear a helmet . we have similar issue with moped in London four or five year ago . for a time , the police do not pursue they , and mope crime shoot through the roof . they now pursue they , and it have go back down . I urge Bedfordshire police to use those power , but I will certainly look into the question that my hon . friend have raise . child in Custody what recent guidance her Department have issue to the police on uphold the right of child in custody . child should be detain only when necessary , and must be provide with an appropriate adult . the College of Policing provide operational guidance for police , and the concordat on child in custody support police and local authority to meet their statutory responsibility . hm inspectorate of constabulary and fire and rescue service also set expectation for the treatment of child in custody . when a child be arrest , they must choose if they wish receive legal advice , just like an adult . but child be not adult , and no one should expect a child age 10 or above to decide whether to exercise their right to a solicitor . will the Minister explain why the Government believe that child should be force to make such a decision ? I remind the hon . Lady that child be involve in crime . child detain in police custody must have an appropriate adult — statistic show that that happen in 99 % of case — who can be of assistance . I want that to be 100 % . police custody remain a core part of the criminal justice system . it be critical for maintain police confidence , bring offender to justice and keep the public safe . we must ensure that adult do not abuse child and be not attract to make child get involve in criminal activity because the police be too scared to put they into custody if necessary . substance Misuse : Harm Reduction Model what recent discussion she have have with Cabinet colleague on the potential merit of introduce a substance misuse harm reduction model to tackle acquisitive crime . we have not have any specific discussion on that , but we have a 10 - year drug strategy , which include spend an extra £ 582 million over three year on 55 , 000 extra treatment place . we want to treat people who be addicted , particularly to opioid , to get they off drug and fully recover . a large number of people be be exploit into criminal activity , whether through drug gang or acquisitive crime . they need help and support from the state . will the Minister look at how to put a harm reduction model in place for those individual , rather than criminalise they , so that they can get the support they need to change the direction of their life ? there be a twin - track approach . there be a comprehensive effort to ensure more addicted people get treatment , be divert to it from police custody , from the court system and when they leave prison . as I say , there be an extra £ 582 million over three year . we be in the second of those three year at the moment . but enforcement , particularly against drug gang and organise criminal gang , be important at the border and in the case of county line . it be a twin - track approach : enforcement , together with treatment . Antisocial Behaviour what recent progress her Department have make on reduce antisocial behaviour . what recent progress her Department have make on reduce antisocial behaviour . what recent progress her Department have make on reduce antisocial behaviour . what recent progress her Department have make on reduce antisocial behaviour . on 27 March , the Government announce the antisocial behaviour action plan , back by £ 160 million of new funding . Police and crime commissioner be be support to increase hotspot policing and to run immediate justice pilot . in July , we announce round 5 of the safe street fund to deliver a range of ASB and crime - prevention measure . I thank the Home Secretary very much for her recent visit to Southend , where she meet the excellent police , fire and crime commissioner Roger Hirst and our excellent chief constable B - J . harrington . she hear about how Southend ' s revolutionary Operation Union have drive down antisocial behaviour across our city by over 50 % . that will be assist by the Government ' s step last week to tackle nitrous oxide — I thank she very much for tackle that menace . however , constituent be raise with I antisocial behaviour in and around pub , include drug - relate incident , so can my right hon . and learn Friend tell I whether she have any specific plan to help local police deal with that particular problem ? I be very pleased to join my hon . friend in Southend , and to meet her chief constable and the office of the pcc . she be right that the success of Operation Union have help to drive down ASB , but there be more to do to tackle the ASB that blight community . that be why I be pleased that her force , Essex , have the most police officer ever and be do very well with its progress on the hotspot policing pilot . my hon . friend talk about drug . part of our plan on ASB be to expand drug testing on arrest , so that police can now test for more substance , class b and C , when they arrest someone on suspicion of drug possession . unfortunately , there be instance of antisocial behaviour in the centre of Keighley — mostly around the bus station , but of course there be other hotspot area . the police and the local community be have to deal with this issue on an ongoing basis . I be very pleased that the Government make extra resource available to our West Yorkshire police via the antisocial behaviour action plan , but will the Home Secretary join I in urge our Labour West Yorkshire Mayor , who be responsible for set local police strategy and our crime reduction action plan in Keighley , to be more laser - focus on antisocial behaviour , so that we can all ensure that the issue be tackle once and for all ? I urge the PCC to take heed of my hon . friend ' s warning and advice . the Government , through our safe street fund , have award the South Yorkshire police area over £ 4 million in recent year — funding that have go towards tackle ASB and reduce crime . it be up to the PCCs to apply in the next round for funding to put forward project that can have a focus on reduce crime , protect victim and secure safety for community . on occasion , people use Wrexham bus station have be subject to antisocial behaviour perpetrate by a small band of disaffect youth . I would like to compliment Inspector Luke Hughes and the Wrexham city police team for their appropriate use of dispersal order . will the Home Secretary join I in praise North Wales police , despite be slow down to 20 mph by the Welsh Labour Government , for their pragmatic and no - nonsense approach to uphold public safety ? I be afraid the litany of ridiculous policy announcement by Labour be reach record level . I mean , we only have to look at the last two day . a period of silence from the Labour party would be welcome . the 20 mph zone be ridiculous . my hon . friend be absolutely right . dispersal order be a regrettable but necessary power that the police have at their disposal . we be go even far with our antisocial behaviour action plan by expand police power such as public space protection order and community protection notice , enable the police to take rapid and effective action to disperse people and to stop nuisance and criminal antisocial behaviour . over the summer , I have speak to many people in Leyland who , although we have manage to get the police station reopen , be still report problem involve antisocial behaviour in Broadfield , Worden and seven Stars . I have be out with the local bobby , who be benefit from the Government ' s police uplift , to see what be be do to tackle those problem . Operation Centurion — our police and crime commissioner ' s attempt to use money seize from criminal to boost local policing temporarily in order to address antisocial behaviour — be about to hit Leyland , but do the Home Secretary agree that we need a whole - agency approach , and that council should use the power at their disposal to issue community protection notice and work with the police to end this blight on the people of Leyland ? I be delighted that my hon . friend have be able to work closely with her excellent police and crime commissioner , Andrew Snowden , who be another example of effective leadership at the police force in Lancashire and whom I have have the pleasure of meeting . it be also good that Lancashire be one of the pilot area for hotspot policing : it be currently deliver 2 , 000 hour a month of additional patrolling in antisocial behaviour hotpot area , and that be set to increase . however , I urge the Labour council to listen to my hon . friend ' s sensible word and ask the police and local authority to use all the power at their disposal to tackle antisocial behaviour through , for instance , public space protection order and community protection notice . constituent , include pupil at Lliswerry High School , constantly raise with I the antisocial and dangerous use of e - scooter and e - bike . I hold a debate on this last December , but little have happen since , and legislation need to catch up with the growth in their sale . will the Home Secretary talk to Ministers at the Department for Transport to see what can be do to address the problem ? the behaviour of nuisance rider , or boy racer — whatever we want to call they — be antisocial behaviour plain and simple . it be criminal , it can be harass , it can bring fear to community , and it can cause criminal damage . the police , work with local authority , have the necessary power to end these problem , and force around the country have organise pilot that have lead to success . I encourage the hon . Lady ' s local police force to look at the good practice that be currently take place around the country . let we get this exactly right : over the next four year , police number in Scotland be due to fall by 2 , 000 . the highland and island police chief have say that " something have to give . " I have think that Barnett consequential would lead to an increase in Scotland ' s police number rather than a decrease . when it come to antisocial behaviour , what a grim message this be for some of the most vulnerable in society . unfortunately — it be incredibly tragic — the Scottish National party ' s obsession with separatism have lead to the high number of alcohol and drug - relate death in Europe on their watch . fall police number in Scotland when number be rise in England and Wales — that be what the SNP bring we , and only good government from the Conservatives can stop crime and protect victim . Irregular Migration : Channel crossing what step her Department be take to reduce the number of small boat transport irregular migrant across the english channel . we remain determined to stop the boat and deter people from make these dangerous journey to the UK , and we be make progress . we have by no mean reach the finish line , but the number of arrival be 20 % down , the legacy backlog have nearly halve , and the number of albanian arrival have fall by 90 % this year . while Labour propose to take thousand of illegal migrant from the EU every single year , let Brussels decide who come here , we be determined to stop the boat with our Rwanda plan and our Illegal Migration Act 2023 , which Labour oppose . a hotel in my constituency be housing illegal migrant . they receive local NHS dentistry service and hospital access , and , of course , their living cost be meet . constituent write to I point out that they do not have access to all those service . what can my right hon . and learn Friend tell they about how soon the use of hotel for illegal migrant will end ? it be totally unacceptable that too many town and city around the country now house the 45 , 000 asylum seeker who be in hotel , cost the british taxpayer £ 6 million a day . that be why we be stand up large site and vessel around the country . we be also maximise the use of hotel , so that we can open few hotel . it be not right that the british taxpayer be fork out the cost . what we be not do be the ridiculous plan set out by Labour Members . they be either grotesquely naive about the problem or they have a betrayal plan to rejoin the EU . after all , most of they want a second referendum . either way , we can all see it for what it be : a plan for open border , unlimited migration and rejoin the European Union . it be the same old labour on the wrong side of the argument . I welcome the shadow Minister , Dan Jarvis . it be good to be back , Mr Speaker . the number of people arrive on dangerous small boat be now 150 time high than it be five year ago . meanwhile , conviction of people smuggler be 30 % down . our border security be not work . the Home Office have already spend £ 140 million on a flawed Rwanda scheme , but would not taxpayer ' money be well spend recruit hundred more police and investigator to defeat the criminal gang network and prevent the dangerous boat crossing ? the reality be that we need a robust and honest approach to deal with this problem . open our door to thousand of migrant from the EU be not the solution . we need a deterrent , and that be why our agreement with Rwanda will work . it be base on what have work in other country such as Australia , and I be confident that we will be able to deliver our Rwanda plan as soon as possible . what be clear be that the Labour party do not even seem to know what its policy be on small boat . previously , it have no plan ; now it have try to put a plan together , but half its shadow minister do not even know how it work . it be only this Government that have a plan , will deliver Rwanda , have deliver our groundbreaking legislation and will stop the boat . topical Questions if she will make a statement on her departmental responsibility . I will make a short topical statement . the range of threat our country face be ever evolve , so I want to set out what we be do to get ahead of it . we have refresh our counter - terrorism strategy , especially by overhaul the Prevent strand so that it recognise and can counter the drive force of ideology . our counter - terrorism operation centre be truly world class and fit for the 21st century . however , the security threat be wide than terrorism , and that be why we have pass the National Security Act 2023 , which also address the evolve nature of the threat and contain several measure to modernise counter - espionage law . our comprehensive economic crime plan and legislation have crack down hard on the russian oligarch upon whom Putin rely . we will give our courageous and capable intelligence and security service all the power they need to keep we safe . I thank my right hon . and learn Friend for that statement . she will know that there be continue widespread concern about the threat to our national security from the whole - of - state approach that the Chinese be take to espionage activity in our country . I urge she to ensure that our response will mirror that , and that China be in the enhance tier of the foreign influence registration scheme . national security be our override priority as a Government , particularly at the Home Office . as Home Secretary , it be my job to oversee the protection of the UK from all type of threat to our national security . as the Intelligence and Security Committee ' s report have say : " the Chinese Intelligence Services target the UK and its overseas interest prolifically and aggressively . " I will not shy away from call out the threat from China for what they be or from make it clear that its agency regularly engage in hostile activity towards the UK . we be currently review the country that should go into the enhance tier of FIRS . there be a strong case to be make for China be put into it , but I do not want to prejudice the process by which those determination will be make , and — order . we really do have a problem , don ' t we ? Home Secretary , I be talk to you . I be bother , because these be topical question and there be people here who want to catch my eye . you can not carry on make statement to every question . Topical mean topical . we be go to be here for some while , so I hope you understand . I call the shadow Home Secretary . on 7 March , the Home Secretary email conservative supporter say " today we ' re change our law — and bring the small boat crossing to an end . " since then , 20 , 000 more people have arrive . she be not apply her own law , because it do not work . the use of asylum hotel be up , with no date to end their use , and foreign criminal return be down . the independent chief inspector of border and immigration have say : " this be no way to run a government department . " he be right , isn ' t he ? be that why the Home Secretary be get rid of he ? I be incredibly proud of the landmark legislation pass by this House , which be oppose by the Labour party every step of the way . this will allow we to detain those who arrive here illegally and remove they to a safe country like Rwanda . the point be that at least we have a policy . I be not sure that anyone on the Labour Front Bench know what Labour ' s plan be for stop the boat . Shadow Ministers certainly seem to be make it up as they go along . there be quota and then no quota . the EU have make it clear that we would be expect to take thousand more migrant from the EU . will there be family reunion ? we already have a scheme for family reunion . they be make it up because they do not have a plan . I think the british people can see exactly what labour ' s plan be — order . I do not think the Home Secretary understand what " topical " mean . could the whip please explain to their Front Benchers that we have to get through the Order Paper ? you be not help I , and I do not know why . what the Home Secretary say be total waffle . she have no answer on the inspector because she be afraid of scrutiny . there be no answer on her failure , just invent garbage about Labour . the Home Office ' s immigration director , asylum director , border director and accommodation director be all go or go because the only people she remove be the people she need to do the job . there have be a 40 % increase in the use of asylum hotel since she become Home Secretary . when will she end the use of asylum hotel ? when will she deal with this shamble , stop the gimmick and get a grip ? the right hon . Lady talk about a shamble , but the last four day have be a great example of a shamble . the EU have call her party " delusional " when it come to its grand plan for stop the boat . labour disagree with the National Crime Agency on how to solve the problem . the reality be that Labour be on another planet on how to stop the boat . it be not base in reality , it be not grapple with this challenge and it be not be honest with the british people . constituent and business be be impact by illegal car racing and meet . the Labour council be drag its heel on implement a public space protection order and Kent police have be work hard to tackle it , but resource be precious . will my right hon . and learn Friend look at how Kent police be fund ? they be have to deal with increase activity in this area and , be so close to London , we be see increase burden from criminality . I thank my right hon . friend for her tireless campaign on behalf of the people of Rochester and Strood . Kent have record police officer number at 4 , 261 , which be about 10 % more than it ever have under the last Labour Government . we intend to review the police funding formula . I strongly urge Medway Council to get on with put that PSPO in place . since we leave the European Union , my constituent — a UK citizen from birth , as be confirm by the British Nationality ( Regularisation of Past Practice ) Act 2023 — have be repeatedly stop by UK border guard and have his citizenship question . be this british Government satisfy that the custom and immigration system be so chaotic that their own citizen be be othere by the Department ' s official , just because their parent be bear in the EU ? I have no idea what the hon . Lady be refer to , but I would be very happy to look into that individual case . over the summer , dozen of Traveller caravans have be illegally pitch in my Warrington South constituency , impact play field in Appleton Thorn , Bewsey and Dallam , and cost thousand to clear up . Warrington ' s Labour council have avoid bring forward proposal , despite have money in its budget . do the Minister agree that local authority need to play their full part so that the police can be effective in use the legislation pass by this House ? yes , I do agree ; local council should be robust in use the power this House grant they , as should the police in term of the Police , Crime , Sentencing and Courts Act 2022 . the police do have strong power under the amend Criminal Justice and Public Order Act 1994 , and I urge police force up and down the country to use those power . we hear a little about retail crime early and it be a real issue in Birmingham , where a number of ugly , violent assault on staff have take place at Co - op store in my constituency . I be pleased to hear the Minister ' s early response . however , with less than 4 % of about 8 million crime actually record by the police , when can we expect to see the tough measure he hint at early ? I thank the hon . gentleman for his question . I meet representative of the Co - op just a week or two ago and his chief constable , Amanda Blakeman , who lead on this for the National Police Chiefs ' Council . at my request , the police be work up a plan to make sure that they always look into the CCTV footage to try to get a facial recognition match , in order to arrest and prosecute shoplifter , and that they patrol a lot more regularly in area where shoplifting be a problem . rise — that complete question . any complaint , please speak to those on the Front Bench . high Speed 2 ( Urgent Question ) : to ask the Secretary of State for Transport if he will make a statement on the plan route and delivery of High Speed Rail 2 . before I begin , I would like to pay tribute to my hon . friend and neighbour the Member for Bishop Auckland ( Dehenna Davison ) for her service in government , and to congratulate my hon . friend the Members for Redcar ( Jacob Young ) and for South West Hertfordshire ( Mr Mohindra ) on their elevation . spade be already in the ground for HS2 and we remain focused on its delivery . the Minister for rail and HS2 , the Minister of State , Department for Transport , my hon . friend the Member for Bexhill and Battle ( Huw Merriman ) , be in the Czech Republic today to sign a memorandum of understanding with the Czech Government and tomorrow he will be in Poland to attend trako , support UK rail supply chain company at a major european rail trade fair . for that reason , I be respond on behalf of the Government . construction continue in earnest , with about 350 active construction site , and we be get on with delivery , with high - speed rail service between London and Birmingham Curzon Street due to commence in 2033 , with the re - scope stage follow . this will specifically drive the regeneration of 1 , 600 acre , deliver 40 , 000 home and support 65 , 000 job in outer London . the benefit of hs2 for Birmingham be already be realise ; the area around Curzon Street station be already become a focal point for transformation , development and economic growth . the Government provide regular six - monthly report on hs2 to the House , and we will continue to keep the House update on the project . thank you very much , Mr Speaker , for grant the urgent question , but if the rail Minister be not available , you would think that the Secretary of State would be bother to turn up to the House on an issue of this importance . here we be yet again : 13 year of gross mismanagement and chaos come home to roost . first , the Government slash Northern Powerhouse Rail ; then they bin hs2 to Leeds ; then they announce that the line would terminate at Old Oak Common for year to come ; and now it look as though they be consider cut the north of England out in its entirety . if that be true , what be we leave with ? we be leave with the Tories ' flagship levelling - up project that reach neither the north of England , nor central London : the most expensive railway track in the world , which , thank to terminate in Acton , will mean a long journey between Birmingham and central London than the one passenger currently enjoy . what start out as a modern infrastructure plan , leave by the last Labour Government , link our large northern city will , after 13 year of Tory incompetence , waste and broken promise , have turn into a humiliating conservative failure ; a great rail betrayal — £ 45 billion and the least possible economic impact from the original plan , £ 45 billion and the north leave with nothing . but frankly , what else would we expect from a Prime Minister who do not travel through the north of England on rail ? he only ever fly over it . today , community and business do not need yet more speculation and rumour from the heart of this broken government — they need answer . will the Minister urgently explain if the photograph leak last Friday reflect his Government ' s position to slash phase 2 altogether ? will he confirm the commitment his boss make in this House just a few month ago that high - speed train will reach Manchester by 2041 ? be his Government plan for train to terminate at Old Oak Common for good , detonate the business case and overwhelm the Elizabeth line ? have run our economy , our public service and our railway into the ground , will the country not now conclude that this be proof , once and for all , that the Tories can never be trust to run our country again ? in response to the hon . Lady ' s question , the Secretary of State be on urgent ministerial business with other Government Departments . at the Department for Transport , we be delighted to see the hon . Lady survive the recent shadow Cabinet reshuffle , albeit she appear to be shadow Secretary of State for Transport in name only , as that job now appear to be cover by the right hon . member for Wolverhampton South East ( Mr McFadden ) . even the liberal Democrats catch the hon . Lady nap this morning by put in their urgent question request before she do . only yesterday , the right hon . member for Wolverhampton South East say on " Sunday with Laura Kuenssberg " : " I want to see what this cost and we ' ll make those decision when it come to the manifesto . " that come only two day after a leak Labour party policy document say that the opposition be commit to " deliver Northern Powerhouse Rail and High Speed 2 in full " . there be no mention of how they will pay for that combine £ 140 billion spending commitment — same old labour . while the shadow Chancellor try to talk up Labour ' s " ironclad discipline " , the hon . member for Sheffield , Heeley ( Louise Haigh ) go around the country , promise hundred of billion of pound of unfunded spending on rail alone . we can not trust a word they say on transport spending , immigration or housing . all have unravel over the last week , as the Labour party say one thing and do another : on immigration , an open door for Europe ' s illegal immigration ; on housing , back the blocker not the builder . [ interruption . ] this House will remember the report by the Institute for Fiscal Studies back in May — Order . I grant the urgent question so we could hear the answer , so less shout . carry on , Minister . the House will remember the report by the IFS in May , when its director say that it be hard to see how the Labour party could bring forward any further policy without tax rise , and that Labour ' s plan would increase inflation and drive up interest rate . but this Government , under this Prime Minister , have make it a priority to halve inflation by the end of the year . that be why I be proud that bus have introduce a £ 2 fare to help hard - work family with the cost of living , which the Labour party have not do during the 25 year it have be in charge in Wales . this government be get on with deliver on rail . we have deliver 1 , 200 mile of electrification over the last 13 year , compare to a pathetic 63 mile under the 13 year of the last Labour Government . there be more to public transport than train . over the last 10 month , I have be around the country support new road scheme fund by this Government , from the a303 to the Preston western distributor road . some £ 500 million have be invest to protect bus service across the country , while we have deliver on our commitment for 4 , 000 zero - emission bus . last week , I announce new funding for HGV truck stop ; meanwhile , Labour have expand ULEZ in London and ban road building in Wales , as well as put a 20 - mile - an - hour speed limit right across that place . [ interruption . ] I be proud that this government be — order . the Minister could have make a statement . I do not have to grant the urgent question , so please bring statement forward — I will always support you . I be proud that this Government be unashamedly on the side of the taxpayer , check the impact on the motorist , HGV driver and bus passenger of every single policy that be put forward . minister will continue to keep the House update regularly on HS2 , as we have do today . I call the Chair of the Transport Committee . while one should always take with a pinch of salt newspaper speculation in advance of budget as to what may or may not be in they , may I put on record that if what have be report be true , it would be an enormous false economy ? whether people support or oppose hs2 in principle , start at Old Oak Common and finish at Birmingham would not realise the full benefit of the line and community will have be enormously impact for no great benefit . Old Oak Common do not have the capacity to handle all the service and just a couple of week ago Network Rail , in its West Coast South strategic advice , note that even with hs2 to Manchester , the west coast mainline will not have the capacity in the decade to come . will my hon . friend take the message to the Treasury to either do it properly or not to do it at all ? I thank the Chair of the Transport Committee for his comment . I shall certainly take that message away with I . I call the SNP spokesperson . I hope the Minister have have time to calm down and perhaps take a breath after that astonishing performance . in attack labour on cost , he seem to be admit what we all know , which be that phase 2 be an utter shamble — financially , operationally and politically . first , it be the north - east and Yorkshire that be let down by this Government on HS2 . now it seem to be the turn of the north - west , let alone Scotland and Wales . in a similar timeframe to that of HS2 , Spain have manage to install 624 km of high speed rail for a fraction of the cost . this include tunnel and bridge through far rougher terrain than that which HS2 pass through . since June 2018 , 233 kilometre of this track have come into operational use . what we have be a gold - plate commuter line of just 100 mile between two city on the south of this island cost nearly £ 50 billion , while the rest of the country be expect to fight for scrap from the table . when Philip Hammond be Transport Secretary he give commitment on hs2 infrastructure reach Scotland , but that infrastructure be barely get to the midland . can the Minister tell I in which decade hs2 infrastructure will actually get anywhere near Scotland ? how do any further cancellation , postponement or water down of HS2 commitment fit with the so - call levelling - up strategy and when will Wales receive its rightful share of Barnett consequential ? I thank the Member for his question . as he will know , this Government have deliver more than 1 , 200 mile of electrification — over 20 time the amount deliver in the 13 year of the last Labour Government . I would also say to he that , just last week , I meet my third Scottish Transport Minister in 10 month and they do not mention hs2 at all . I call the Chair of the High Speed Rail Bill Committee . it should not surprise people that build a high - speed railway line on a very small island through large , populated area with lot of infrastructure be always go to be complex and expensive — that should be a surprise to nobody . if these decision be take place , may I ask my hon . friend to remind his colleague in the Treasury that HS2 also deliver important connectivity infrastructure for Northern Powerhouse Rail , connect Liverpool , Manchester , Leeds , and , perhaps the great city of the north , Hull . I urge he to remind his colleague who may be look at this of that important fact . I thank my hon . friend and other colleague for the work that they do on the Select Committee . I will , of course , take that message back to Treasury colleague . will the Minister give an unambiguous answer to this question : be this Government still commit to build hs2 to Manchester from Euston ? People in the north need to know whether they be be abandon , because it look like that to I from press report , which have not be make up by journalist . be it not the case that the Minister be front a Government who will not dare tell the electorate that they be abandon the north ? there be no question of this government abandon the north . we have put in huge amount of funding , include on bus and new road . I be in Preston a few week ago to open the new Preston Western Distributor road . the Government be hugely invest in the north of England — on rail , on road , and indeed on our important bus network . as I say early , Ministers will continue to update the House regularly on HS2 , as we have do throughout . even when this project have arm and leg and eyebrow go across the whole country , it be always accept that the business case be very weak and that , as a nation , we can not really afford it . I hope the Government do scrap HS2 north of Birmingham and save many more community from the human misery that my constituent endure every day of the week from the construction . if they do scrap it , it would leave the quite literally legless stump from outside central London to outside central Birmingham . will my hon . friend take the message back to his colleague and to the Treasury that we can not afford it and that what be leave of phase 1 should be scrap as well . I thank my hon . friend for his question . spade be already in the ground for HS2 , with over 350 active construction site , and with high - speed service between London and Birmingham Curzon Street due to start between 2029 and 2033 . however , I will pass on his comment to Treasury colleague , as always . frankly , it be a real shame that we have to put up with an ill - prepared office junior instead of the boss , because these be really significant decision . let we be clear : the case for hs2 be always flawed , but ballooning construction cost and change business travel pattern post covid now make it unsustainable . I understand that it would be hugely embarrassing for the Government , and for the Minister ' s Department , to write off somewhere between 10 billion and 15 billion quid , but surely that be well than spend £ 100 billion on this ill - fate project . I thank the right hon . member for his thought ; I will take they back to Government . my constituent have be through absolute misery for 13 year now , ever since the hybrid Bill first start and they try to defend their own area . unfortunately , HS2 have not provide continuity of support , have not provide good customer liaison and have not provide proper compensation . People have be make miserable , and their mental health have be severely damage by this project . they deserve the right answer : be this project go ahead or be it not ? my constituency look like an industrial site right now . I thank my right hon . friend for her question . spade be already in the ground for HS2 , as she well know , and we be focus on its delivery . there be already over 350 active construction site right across the country , include in her constituency . it be go ahead . HS2 face death by a thousand cut . we Liberal Democrats be firmly behind HS2 , but the Government ' s catastrophic handling of the project ' s delivery have mean that the Infrastructure and Projects Authority now rate it as " unachievable " . what will the Government do to fix this mess ? I find it very interesting that the hon . Lady say that the Liberal Democrats be firmly behind HS2 , because that be not what their candidate for Mid Bedfordshire say early today , or what the hon . member for Chesham and Amersham ( Sarah Green ) say just a few month ago . we have a meeting about HS2 with the Minister of State , my hon . friend the Member for Bexhill and Battle ( Huw Merriman ) , a few week ago . it be a very good meeting , lead by myself and other Members of Parliament , and various option be put forward . I pay tribute to Trevor Parkin in my constituency for all his work on the matter . can we have a straight answer about this white elephant ? will there be a continuation of the line from Birmingham to Manchester , or not ? will the Minister be good enough to let we have a proper analysis , in line with all the report that have come out show that , unless the entire project be radically change or scrap , it will continue to be a white elephant ? People in my constituency have be suffer for far too long , to no good purpose . I be glad that my hon . friend have have great engagement on the issue from the Department and from the rail Minister . as I have say , Ministers will continue to keep the House update regard HS2 , as they have be do . I be sure that when the rail Minister return he will be happy to have further such conversation with my hon . friend . when will high Speed 2 arrive in Manchester ? minister will continue to keep the House update regularly regard hs2 , as they have do to date . as we all know , the first stage be set to be complete by 2033 , link London with Birmingham . as a member of the Bill Committee , I have have the good fortune to visit a number of site involve in the construction of HS2 , so I appreciate what a major project it be and how many people be involve . company up and down the country be reliant on the project for the continuation of their business . the future of hundred of job and business depend on it . can the Minister give an assurance that that will be take into full consideration in discussion with the Treasury ? I can certainly give my hon . friend that assurance . there be thousand of people work on site at the moment , with more than 350 construction site up and down the country , and company will be update . even from today this project will last well into the 2030 , if not beyond , so those construction job will be secure for a long time . the Minister say that the Government be hugely invest in the north . for Hull , the decade of northern powerhouse see a privately finance scheme to electrify our railway block by Ministers in 2016 and , in the Government ' s 2021 integrate rail plan , block for the next 30 year . funding apparently be need for Northern Powerhouse Rail and HS2 , which be now be cut . level up be not just about be nice to northerner ; it be about boost an essential part of the UK economy . be I right in think that in these ever - shrink plan we be just see the economic of mismanage decline and an inbuilt vicious circle of stagnation under this Government that be affect the north ? I remember use Northern Rail under the last Labour Government , which have a zero investment strategy for the railway network in the entire north of England . this Government have already deliver more than 1 , 200 mile of electrification , 20 time what the right hon . Lady ' s party do when they be in government . she should also look at the huge amount of investment we have put into bus network right across the country , include in Yorkshire , over the past few month . may I remind the House , journalist and the Chairman of the Transport Committee that the area under discussion be beyond phase 1 ? it do not end in Birmingham — it go beyond Birmingham and then join the west coast main line at a place call Handsacre , just by Lichfield . if hs2 be abandon at that point , high - speed train can still run down from Manchester and join the high - speed line at Handsacre . do that not make good economic sense ? will the Minister please pass that on to the Treasury ? my hon . friend be quite right ; that be exactly what would happen in that scenario . I will pass on the point he make to the Treasury . HS2 have just apply for planning permission for work to enable Old Oak Common station to serve as a temporary terminus . " Temporary " previously mean the 2040 , but now it mean forever . the work propose block the eastern access to the station — just one example of a total lack of coordination . will the Minister commission a report on the implication for hs2 of Old Oak Common ' s be the London terminus ? Old Oak Common itself will deliver regeneration of 1 , 600 acre of London , deliver more than 40 , 000 home and support 65 , 000 job in outer London . the Government will continue to update the House if anything else change with hs2 . in order to unlock economic growth and power up northern productivity , our region must have improve connectivity , both to our capital and through a Northern Powerhouse Rail connect our city across the North . our country will only be truly level up with our connected northern region reach its full potential . uncertainty around phase 2 be unhelpful . I urge my hon . friend to consider the importance of northern infrastructure commitment to business across the region . as a northerner myself , I certainly take note of my hon . friend ' s comment and I be sure they will have be hear across Government as we reflect on the future . can the Minister tell my constituent when they will be able to board a high - speed train from Manchester to London ? as I have outline , the Government will update the House , as we have do consistently , on HS2 . the hon . Gentleman should reflect on what be already be deliver , with 350 construction site already across the country and thousand of job . there be a huge amount of transport investment go on , and it be not all about rail . Greater Manchester have receive more than £ 1 billion of city region sustainable transport settlement , which include potential rail investment . HS2 be behave outrageously by not pay my Stafford constituent on time . it be unacceptable that affected resident be pay outstanding bill on behalf of HS2 — for their agent ’ fee , for example — in order to have representation . will the Secretary of State for Transport please write to I to clarify that HS2 will treat all my resident fairly , and that we expect compensation claim to be pay in a timely manner ? I thank my hon . friend for her comment . I will certainly pass on her request to the rail Minister and the Secretary of State , and I will raise it personally with HS2 Ltd . the Government ' s excuse for deny Wales our fair share of HS2 funding be that the phase 2 connection at Crewe would cut journey time between north Wales and London . we can now only conclude that the Government be plan to scrap the phase 2 connection altogether . Welsh taxpayer be fund this fiasco and get nothing back . will the Minister admit that HS2 be an England - only railway project and that his government owe Wales money ? I do not think the right hon . Lady be reflect on what the Plaid - Labour Government be currently do in Wales : cost taxpayer billion with their ridiculous across - the - board 20 mph scheme , and not deliver for the people of Wales . they be even ban any form of new road programme across all Wales . it be sometimes right to ask our constituent to take local pain for national gain , but do my hon . friend agree that the national gain of HS2 have always be argue to result from its be a network of high - speed rail line , not a single line ? if it be a single line , be we not in danger of the national gain be extraordinarily limited , and the local pain , include to my constituent , be extraordinarily extensive and long lasting ? a huge amount of work be already go on with hs2 at the moment , create ten of thousand of job and support more than 1 , 700 apprenticeship . there be a huge amount of benefit , right across the country , to the investment go into HS2 . I will pass on my right hon . and learn Friend ' s broad comment to Ministers in both my Department and the Treasury . be this not an example of a very bad national planning process ? HS2 do not link up with HS1 ; all the pain and disruption around Euston will have be for naught ; and if it be complete as far as Birmingham , all it will do be join an already overcrowded rail network . surely we have either a high - speed network or nothing at all . the Minister seem unable to answer any question at all . I say to the right hon . member that a huge amount of investment be already go into HS1 , which will deliver transformation , particularly at Old Oak Common , as I have mention , where there will be a huge boost to economic growth in quite a deprived area of London as well as that massive investment . I do not know whether he have be down to Curzon Street and see the transformation happen in central Birmingham . I would have think that job , housing and general prosperity be outcome that he would welcome . let I start by correct the hon . member for Sheffield , Heeley ( Louise Haigh ) , who say that the Prime Minister only fly over the north . he do not ; he be a regular user of the Hitachi Azuma on the east coast main line . for rail and for hs2 , it be all about capacity : we need to get capacity into the rail industry . certainly , in my Sedgefield constituency there be no investment in rail by my predecessor . whether it be hs2 or regional rail — as with the Leamside line and Ferryhill station — delivery and certainty be necessary for supply - chain business . this constant change be not helpful . will the Minister go back to his department and encourage certainty and clarity , whether about HS2 or Northern Powerhouse Rail ? we need certainty for everybody . I thank my hon . friend and constituency neighbour for his question . he be absolutely right : the Prime Minister use those train regularly — in fact , I think they be make in my hon . friend ' s constituency , or very nearby — to travel right across the country . I welcome my hon . friend ' s continue fight for his constituent on rail and transport project not just in his area but across the wide north and north - east of England . I shall take his comment back to colleague . we have see the Government give up on the eastern leg ; we have see they give up on connect to central London ; and we have see the downgrading of Northern Powerhouse Rail . we be now see the Government give up on connect to the north - west and Britain ' s second city of Manchester . why be the Government give up on the north ? as I have say in answer to other hon . member , this Government have put unprecedented investment into our transport infrastructure right across the country . I have no idea at all what labour ' s policy in this area be : it seem to flip - flop from one thing to another daily , make hundred of billion of pound ' worth of unfunded spending commitment . we be a responsible government who be go to make the right decision in the long - term interest of the country , just as we have in support Greater Manchester and the Mayor ' s new upgrade bus network , which we have be delighted to invest in over the past few month . have chair the Select Committee on the first phase for 20 month , I always privately have the view that Old Oak Common be a more sensible place to stop , because the Elizabeth line run straight through Old Oak Common and can deposit people from Heathrow into the city . as for anything to do with Euston , it be a very small site and horrendously expensive . however , the logic of the railway be that it do have to go to Manchester and beyond , otherwise it be not worth start . I thank my hon . friend for his comment . I be sure that the Treasury , no . 10 and the Department will be listen to those wise word from somebody who serve on the Select Committee . Huddersfield be a proud railway town . be the Minister tell my constituent and the rest of the country that this be an abysmal failure of the country — the country of Brunel and Stephenson , the pioneer of railway building ? be he tell we that the £ 100 billion be for nothing ? be that what he be say today ? no , I be not say that . as my hon . friend know , I be proud to host the UK ' s fast - grow port in my constituency , and one of the thing that those port be invest in be more freight connection to transport more container by rail , rather than road . achieve the full potential of those connection absolutely require HS2 to free up capacity elsewhere on the rail network , so will the Minister assure I that all the implication of any change to the timetable for hs2 will be consider ? it impact on net zero , the demand on our road infrastructure , and where thing will arrive . I thank my hon . friend for make that important point — I be delighted to visit some of those freight service in her constituency with she just last week . get freight on to rail be obviously an important objective of the Government , as be support those on the road network , and I will ensure that that be take into consideration in any future decision that the Government take . what estimate have be make of the cost in contract litigation alone if the Chancellor be to conceive of scrap phase 2 of hs2 ? what I would say be that the Government be put a huge amount of money into stage 1 of the scheme . thousand of job have already be create , as well as hundred of apprenticeship , and it be go to deliver transformation to central Birmingham and to a deprived community in outer London . that be investment very well make in those area . for the record , the road Minister be a very good one , who have have to swap lane today at short notice . how many of the HS2 station will have ticket office ? last Thursday in Westminster Hall , there be a train crash of a debate in which not a single Back Bencher from any political party back the Government ' s proposal . as many people have ask the Minister to pass on message today , could I add one more , in all good faith ? " you be under enough pressure on hs2 as it be . do yourselves a favour and drop the bonker proposal to get rid of our ticket office . " I thank my right hon . friend for his comment — he have always be a champion of our road network , and now he be a champion of our rail network as well . I will certainly take his thought back to the Department . I use to live in Wigan in the north - west of England , and I be very disappointed for my family and friend who be still there that this project be not go ahead — disappoint , like the people in Swansea be disappoint that the electrification never get to Swansea . HS2 be an England - only project , so will the Minister stop talk down the Welsh Labour Government and give we what we be due ? I do not need to talk down the Welsh Labour Government ; they do it themselves . they talk down Wales constantly . they have introduce 20 mph speed limit cost ten of million of pound a year to the local economy . they be do no road building — no m4 , no Llanymynech bypass , nothing invest in the road network . the Welsh Labour Government have be in office for 25 year . they be not even deliver a " get around for £ 2 " bus fare like we be do in England . HS2 be already be build in Buckinghamshire , unfortunately , and it be no exaggeration to say that it be a blight on the life of my constituent in Aylesbury . just last Saturday , resident in Walton Court tell I that HS2 ' s contractor be now work well outside their contract hour . normally , we would think that be a good thing , but it be cause massive disruption , especially from noise . will the Minister make it abundantly clear to HS2 Ltd and its contractor that they must comply with the agreement they have make and minimise the harm and distress they be cause ? my hon . friend be a real champion for his constituent . I will certainly take the message back to HS2 Ltd and , if necessary , arrange a further meeting between he and the rail Minister to discuss the matter . for over a decade , I have be highlight in this House how the Welsh taxpayer be be fleece as a result of hs2 . the spurious response I receive from Ministers be that north Wales will be link via Crewe . consider that it be highly unlikely that the line will make it north of Birmingham , be it not time for the british Government to ensure that Wales receive its fair funding for phase 1 of hs2 ? I just point out to the hon . member that I think Welsh taxpayer will feel fleece by the Welsh Labour Government , with the long waiting list in the country , no new road scheme and fall school standard right across the board . when it come to it , the UK Government deliver well value for the Welsh taxpayer than the Plaid / Labour Welsh Government . of course it be right that we discuss investment in our rail network in the north and the midland , but we also have to have a discussion about East Anglia . time and again , Ely North junction and Haughley junction have be deprioritise . both those project would cost a fraction of the cost of hs2 but deliver transformative benefit to the east of England . will the Minister have discussion with his colleague and the Treasury to see how we can get those two key project back at the top of the agenda ? I certainly will . I be delighted to be in East Anglia just last week at the opening of the new A11 road , where there have be £ 65 million of investment , and I have be delighted to visit my hon . friend ' s constituency on multiple occasion , include to see the investment that be go into his local bus network . I will certainly pass on his representation on behalf of his constituent regard Ely junction . we have great news a while ago when the Government say they would scrap the 2b arm of HS2 , which would have devastate hundred of home across Rother Valley in Bramley , Wales and Aston , but many of those home be still under safeguard measure , mean their owner be stick in limbo . I know that the Government still want high - speed train through the area , but the only financially viable way of HS2 get to Leeds be by use exist track . why be it take so long to release the land when everyone know and accept that we will not be build a new track through Rother Valley to Leeds ? will the Minister release the safeguarding and release people ' s home ? I know that my hon . friend have raise this issue multiple time with the rail Minister . I will certainly take it back to the Department and discuss what can be do . my hon . friend have receive a number of challenging question from Opposition Members about Barnett consequential for hs2 . be he aware that the Leader of the Opposition do not support Barnett consequential for hs2 ? I thank my right hon . friend for his question . it be sometimes difficult to know what the Leader of the Opposition support or do not support . we have have a three - way flip - flop in just the last few day . it be interesting that the hon . member for Sheffield , Heeley ( Louise Haigh ) , from the Opposition Front Bench , raise the fact that I be here today rather than the Secretary of State , give that the shadow Chancellor of the Duchy of Lancaster seem to have a very different opinion from the hon . Lady about what be go on with labour policy . I thank the Minister for answer the urgent question . Tata Steel : Port Talbot with permission , Madam Deputy Speaker , I shall make a statement about Tata Steel ' s proposal , which have be agree with Government , to invest in greener steel making at its Port Talbot site in south Wales . I can confirm that the Government have agree on a propose joint investment package to provide £ 500 million to Tata Steel as part of its propose £ 1 . 25 billion project to move to low - carbon steelmaking in Port Talbot , subject to the necessary information and consultation process that will be lead by the company . for I it be always about certainty , continuity and security , and through investment in a state of the art electric arc furnace at Port Talbot the deal will support the UK ' s effort to meet increase demand over the next decade and enable industry to take a significant step towards decarbonisation . it will strengthen our supply chain resilience as well as protect thousand of skilled job across south Wales and the UK for the long term . the Conservative Government have be support the UK steel industry for many year . it will be no surprise that the industry have be acutely impact by recent wide geopolitical and macroeconomic development that have make traditional blast furnace steelmaking financially unviable . the global steel market have become saturate with heavily subsidise carbon - intensive steel , while Putin ' s invasion of Ukraine have dramatically increase energy cost . this Conservative Government will continue to stand by our steel industry and this deal be part of our long - term plan for steel . this ambitious transformation be the culmination of several year of negotiation between the Government and Tata Steel and it have be back by a majority investment by the company . the transition will secure continued production of steel at Port Talbot , enable the industry to take a significant step towards decarbonisation and provide a clear pathway towards a long - term financially and environmentally sustainable business model , remove the repeat need for government intervention . as well as investment , the Government be enable the major transformation and modernisation of the steel sector through key policy change , include deliver the british industry supercharger to make electricity price competitive for energy - intensive industry , include steel , so that they be line with those charge across the world ' s major economy . steel be a strategically significant industry that play a vital role in the UK economy . the sector support ten of thousand of UK job and remain a key driver for local economic growth in region with proud steelmaking history , but it be also an industry in urgent need of modernisation . decarbonise industry be a global challenge to meet the temperature goal of the 2015 Paris agreement . by replace Port Talbot ' s exist coal - powered blast furnace and asset near the end of their effective life with an electric arc furnace , this propose project be expect to reduce the UK ' s entire business and industry carbon emission by 7 % , Wales ' s overall emission by 22 % and the Port Talbot site ' s emission by 85 % . as such , decarbonise UK industry be central to the Government ' s bold plan for tackle climate change and in do so place our country at the forefront of the grow global green economy . we be committed to see a low - emission production steel sector in the UK and be also work with global partner to support decarbonisation of steel production internationally . this agreement with Tata represent the good offer and result for the UK and the people of south Wales . this package represent one of the large support offer in recent history and will secure long - term job not just in Port Talbot but across all Tata Steel site in England and Wales . it be a deal that not only safeguard job but will help to build well resilience in the UK economy and help to create new opportunity in our construction , automotive and energy sector . we have be work closely with the Secretary of State for Wales and the Secretary of State for Levelling up , Housing and Communities to establish a new transition board to help to capitalise on some of the opportunity that it will create . the UK Government will ensure a broad range of support for staff who be affect by the transition , work with the Welsh Government and Tata Steel to provide up to £ 100 million of funding for a dedicated workforce to support both affected employee and the local economy . we will continue to engage with local mp and stakeholder in the area to ensure the project be a success . of course , any Government funding offer to a private company be subject to extensive scrutiny of detailed business plan , vigorous due diligence and subsidy control assessment . it will include strong condition around financial probity , governance and delivery . with that in mind , we be delighted that we have reach this agreement on the Government ' s role in the propose project . as part of the proposal , Tata Steel will also release land in Port Talbot for redevelopment and use for new industrial business . alongside the UK Government ' s proposal for the celtic freeport and the land at Port Talbot which Tata expect to release for transfer or sale follow the transition from blast furnace , this investment could help to unlock thousand of new job in both south Wales and the wide UK economy . the landmark proposal build on other major investment in UK green technology by Tata Group , include the July announcement of a £ 4 billion battery gigafactory create 4 , 000 direct job , and represent a major vote of confidence in the UK . the Government be focus on work with business to get on with deliver key investment , create opportunity across the UK . I commend this statement to the House . I call the shadow Secretary of State . after 13 year of failure , expectation of this Government be not high , but even by their standard , spend half a billion pound to make thousand of british steelworker redundant be a truly remarkable feat . last week , I go to Port Talbot to meet some of the worker affect by this announcement , and like we , they support green steel . they have actually be campaign for green steel for many year , and those worker be promise repeatedly that they would be a part of the process . they rightly feel betray by this announcement and the fact it be be do to they , rather than with they . I know the Minister will come back to say that more job be at risk . I have hear the Government ' s line that all the job would have go entirely , but she must be honest : it be absurd even to countenance the UK be the first major economy not to have a domestic steel industry . the UK steel sector be already much diminish compare with when the Conservatives come to power . the transition to green steel should be about more job , not less . it should be an optimistic , exciting moment for steel community , but instead this have cause anxiety and anguish . I say genuinely to Government Ministers and to all on the conservative Benches that if they allow decarbonisation to become associate with Thatcher - style job loss , it will risk the legitimacy and political support for net zero in a way that court disaster . be level up not a tacit admission by the conservative party that the scar of the 1980 deindustrialisation cut so deep that we still feel they today ? why be the workforce not involve in this process ? why have only one technology — the electric arc furnace — be choose ? what consideration be give to hydrogen and carbon capture possibility ? we already know that this deal be not the company ' s opening proposal , so what other option have be consider ? crucially , what will happen to downstream facility , such as Trostre and Llanwern , that provide packaging and automotive steel that can not currently be serve by an electric arc furnace ? will that steel be supply from India , with a large emission profile than at present , which be what many of the workforce believe ? what be include in this package as regard ongoing industrial energy cost ? crucially , when will a grid connection for an arc furnace be provide ? in addition , how will this £ 500 million of taxpayer ' money be protect ? in the absence of any clear and identifiable criterion , how do we know that it represent good value for money ? finally , what do this announcement mean for the rest of the UK steel industry and , in particular , Scunthorpe ? the plan that Labour put forward for green steel be industry - wide , comprehensive and transformative , and it be design to secure major economic dividend for the UK . we can not secure the future of UK steelmaking with stick plaster . we can not do it on a plant - by - plant basis , and we can not do it without the workforce behind we . this should have be such a positive announcement . it should have be about create job , strengthen national capability and show that we can do decarbonisation in a way that work for work people . I say to every single steelworker out there that it be clear that they will only get the bright future that they know be out there when they get a Labour Government . it be unfortunate that the hon . Member decide to politicise such an important sector . it be not I but Gareth Stace for UK Steel , the trade association for the UK steel industry — the voice of the country ' s steel manufacturer — who say : " this be a really important day for our steel sector in the UK , with the Government show a real commitment to the future of steel making here in the UK . we will get a true transformation of our sector to create steel for the net - zero economy , something which our customer be ask we for . we have the ability to completely transform our sector and boost the net - zero economy in the UK . we can really seize the opportunity to increase production in the UK and increase export . we all know that a net - zero economy will need more steel , not less . " the hon . Member be put on a very poor display over a serious decision that have be in discussion , I be tell , for more than a decade . I have speak to Ministers who have hold the portfolio over many year before I , and they tell I that these matter be nothing new . more importantly , the hon . Member know that the blast furnace be at the end of their life . the right decision be to provide certainty , security and continuity , and that be exactly what we be do . the UK be a world leader in produce steel , but we need to decarbonise , and this be the good way of ensure and guarantee job , of which there be 8 , 000 on the site and 12 , 000 in the supply chain . as well as the £ 500 million , £ 100 million have be put together for a group to consult and work with the union , the staff , the Welsh Government and the Secretary of State for Wales to ensure that the transition be as appropriate as it can be and not so challenging for the people who be impact . the proposal be to go for electric because other energy source be underdeveloped . if the hon . Member will reflect on what be happen in Europe on hydrogen , for example , he will see that nothing else can work at this scale and within the tight timeframe that we want to work in to ensure that the site continue to be viable not only for manufacture steel in the UK and support all the job in the supply chain but to support Wales , too . the proposal will also transform the Welsh community and the Welsh area . a huge amount of work be take place with the freeport , and a huge number of business and job will be come out of the transformation to green steel . it be unfortunate that the hon . Member can not recognise that , without this decision , there would have be continue uncertainty , no security for the staff and definitely no security for the UK steel sector . have the Government ascertain that there be enough old steel and metal around for the recycling facility ? do their wide plan for steel in the United Kingdom include retain capacity to produce new steel ? my right hon . friend be always absolutely hot on these topic . there be enough steel , because we export so much of it and we can now use it on the site . consider the age of the current furnace , the reality be that electric arc furnace be , within the timescale , the good way for we to transition . there be of course a supply chain in place that enable Tata to put the business plan forward , for it to commit a substantial amount of money , and for we to support its plan . I call the SNP spokesperson . Madam Deputy Speaker , " I ' m not go to shy away from the fact that this be still terrible news . " those be not my word but those of the Wales Secretary , who be sit next to the Minister . how do we get to a stage where £ 0 . 5 billion of UK - wide taxpayer ' money be be use to prop up a deal that be class as " terrible news " by a Government Minister ? we know that we need to decarbonise , but with this level of taxpayer investment we should be look at proper , green , virgin steel manufacturing and job creation , not the loss of 3 , 000 job , and not settle for low - grade steel production from recycle . what will the low - grade steel production mean for Port Talbot ' s ability to supply key UK infrastructure programme ? what UK - base supply chain guarantee be be seek for the £ 1 . 25 billion of investment that the Government say be come forward into the plant ? why be the union not involve in the discussion ? why be the Welsh Government not involve ? be it not hypocritical to propose to involve the Welsh Government in the taskforce for job loss but not to have include they in the initial discussion on option for the plant go forward ? not that long ago , the Tata Group also receive a report £ 0 . 5 billion for a propose electric battery factory — another deal lack in transparency at this stage . how can the Tata Group secure £ 1 billion so easily from the Government ? it be the same with EDF , with more than £ 1 billion allocate to the development of the Sizewell C nuclear power station . too many deal be do behind close door , base on who have get the Government ' s ear and where the Government think there be some political capital . do it not prove yet again that there need to be a structured , coherent , long - term strategy to address the competition from the Inflation Reduction Act in the United States and the EU ' s green industrial plan ? do it not also prove that in the current constitutional framework and fiscal straitjacket impose on the Welsh and Scottish Governments , our community will always be at the mercy of decision make at Westminster ? there be so many question , but I will do my good to address the most important one . conversation at Port Talbot have be go on for year — one could argue more than a decade . it be not news that the site need financial support to ensure that it continue to be viable . steel company lose more than £ 1 million a day produce steel , and it be no long viable without Government support . that be a route that many country have take . the blast furnace in Port Talbot can be operate for 15 to 20 year only before a major investment decision be reach , either to be reline or to be rebuild . there be a very tight timeframe ; it be important to find alternative energy — electric — to make sure that it would work with the timeframe of the new furnace come on site . that be why it be electric , not hydrogen — there be no hydrogen alternative that can give we the steel that we need on the scale that we need . this be not only a £ 500 million investment . there be also £ 100 million to deal with the transition . as I say , the transition board will comprise union member , staffer , the Welsh Government and the Welsh Secretary of State . the conversation will take place , and consultation will occur . those conversation have be happen for quite some time . it be important to note that the sector be now secure . in a part of the UK that be incredibly important to we , thousand of job will be create — up to 16 , 000 job in the celtic freeport proposal , which be link to the renewable at Port Talbot . that will create even more job . any transition that require a consultation on job be always sensitive , which it be why it be important that the transition board will be stand up to provide the support need . the site need to make a decision . the good decision be for it to continue to make steel . that be what we will support it to do . tata in Port Talbot and British Steel in Scunthorpe be the last two steelwork in this country that have blast furnace . there be a place for electric arc furnace , but we need to remember that they melt scrap ; they can not make brand - new virgin steel from scratch ; a blast furnace be need to do that . my hon . Friend make the comment about steel be a strategic industry , and she be right . do she agree that , for national security reason alone , we must ensure that we retain the capability to make virgin steel in this country ? my hon . friend be absolutely right on the importance of virgin steel production . she be the good champion for her constituency and her steel plant , which be now uniquely position as the blast furnace to make virgin steel . that will be important in line with our mantra of " continuity , certainty and security . " conversation have be take place with British Steel , the detail of which be commercially confidential . my hon . friend campaign incredibly hard for the steel sector both in the constituency and across the UK . those meeting will continue . she be right that , obviously , we need a place for virgin steel , and that be in her constituency . when all be say and do , the purpose of the deal should have be to protect the current order book and to prepare we for the opportunity of the future . all investment be welcome — I do thank the Minister for her work in this area — but I be afraid that the deal will fail to keep we competitive and to deliver a just transition for the thousand of my constituent whose dedication to our proud steel industry be second to none . could the Minister kindly address the follow question ? why have the Government put all their egg into the electric arc furnace basket ? where be the investment in hydrogen , direct reduce iron and carbon capture technology so that we can continue to produce virgin steel , as the hon . member for Scunthorpe ( Holly Mumby - Croft ) point out ? why be the steel union not consult in advance of the announcement ? there be literally dozen of hydrogen - base steel project ongoing across Europe . they be not necessarily ready to make steel but at least they be out of the trap , whereas we be still in the change room put our trainer on . why have the Government not actually enter the hydrogen race ? the hon . Gentleman , who work with I incredibly well as chair of the all - party parliamentary group for steel and metal relate industry , answer his own question when he speak about hydrogen . he know very well the age of the blast furnace in his constituency and the fact that we need a transition that enable certainty to continue . there be no option other than electric to scale up within the time require . [ interruption . ] my right hon . friend the Member for Wokingham ( John Redwood ) know that . we have speak about this many time , so it be disappointing to see the hon . member for Aberavon be so political about it now . the electric option be a commercial decision for Tata , but it be the only way to ensure certainty to continue . another Member talk about supply chain and make sure that production continue , so that Tata can deliver the contract it have in place . the only way to do that be with electric , and that be the way we be go forward . commercially sensitive conversation can take place in a much tight circle , but the hon . Gentleman will know that discussion have be go on for year and year . there be now a transition board , and there will be a huge amount of consultation . the focus be on ensure that the people impact be provide with the support they need to transition into the job that they should . the fact be that we be secure the future of the steel sector in the hon . Gentleman ' s constituency . without this funding all 8 , 000 job would have be lose , along with 12 , 000 in the supply chain , and we be not see that . we be back steel in his patch . the Minister be absolutely right when she say that steel be of strategic importance to the UK ' s security interest and to our manufacturing base . we need to recognise the scale of this investment , which strictly speak be a devolved responsibility . this be the UK Government come in to support a UK national interest . Tata have long hold an ambition to turn this into an electric arc furnace . what assessment have my hon . Friend make of suggestion that electric arc steel be inferior to virgin steel , which be make in blast furnace ? my right hon . friend , who spend a considerable amount of time as Welsh Secretary , know very well how these relationship work . he be absolutely right : the negotiation and secure the £ 500 million investment have take place via the Government here . it be important for we to make sure that the Secretary of State for Wales and everyone else involve be across this , too . he be absolutely right that there be a difference in the steel produce — my hon . friend the Member for Scunthorpe ( Holly Mumby - Croft ) , the hon . Lady for steel , point out the importance of virgin steel — but there be a grow circular economy for steel produce in electric arc furnace . it utilise scrap metal that be in abundance in the UK — we export tonne of it — so there be a huge amount of work to be do in electric arc furnace . that be why the business model be so substantial and why Tata put in so much money , with our £ 500 million go into the £ 1 . 25 billion commitment in total . the future viability of Tata ' s tinplate work at Trostre in Llanelli depend both on the proximity of Port Talbot and on the production there of the grade of steel that can currently only be produce in the blast furnace process . while I welcome the recognition of the need for increase electric arc furnace capacity in the UK , what assurance can the Minister give I that the Port Talbot blast furnace will continue to supply steel to Trostre until such time as green technology be develop there ? what will she do to support the development of those technology in Port Talbot ? I be pleased that the hon . Lady recognise that whole new supply chain will be create and whole new business set up , with many more job in place too . there will now be a consultation in place . Tata have already put up its business plan for how it will continue to supply steel , but also for the work it will do with supply chain downstream . that work will continue to take place . as far as I be aware , there be no other change in any other site . now that the deal be out in public , work will continue at pace . I will continue to meet the chair of the steel APPG and the steel sector to ensure we be do everything we can to back UK steel and UK manufacturing , and all the business in the supply chain too . the Minister be a distinguished member of the Business , Energy and Industrial Strategy Committee . I can not remember whether she be with we when we visit Port Talbot , but we see a plant that have give great service over many year but be badly in need of update . at a time when we send almost all our previously use steel , otherwise know as scrap , abroad , be this not the good option to provide a less carbon - intensive method of production and to secure UK manufacturing ? my hon . friend be correct : I be a member of the BEIS Committee when we produce the report on steel . I think I say early that we export just shy of 9 million tonne ; it be actually eight point something , so forgive I , Madam Deputy Speaker , if my early figure be inaccurate . all that scrap metal can now be use within this site , which be extremely important . we know that a huge challenge be pose to the steel sector , for instance by country that tend to dump their steel elsewhere , and we will work both nationally and internationally to do what we can to protect UK steel . three thousand job loss at Tata Steel will be a huge blow to Wales . just as happen under Thatcher , our industrial community be be force to pay the high price , and it be be pay by those who can least afford it . this news come just week after the Minister ' s Government fail to attract funding for offshore wind in the Celtic sea . the Tories have have more than 13 year in which to put in place a proper industrial strategy maximise Wales ' s green energy potential with a just transition from fossil fuel dependency , and with worker ’ future at its heart . be the Minister proud that her party ' s time in power will , once again , leave a toxic legacy in Wales ? it be unfortunate that the right hon . Member have take such a narrow view . we be provide £ 500 million to ensure that the plant will continue to make steel , and to support the job in the industry . there be 8 , 000 direct job and 12 , 000 job in the supply chain which would disappear if there be no steel plant in Port Talbot . I should have think that the right hon . member , who have be so passionate about net zero , would appreciate the work that be be do in this regard . there be no alternative energy source that can deliver net zero , at scale or within the timetable that be require , give the infrastructure that be in place . in case the right hon . Member think that it be just the Conservatives who be say this , I invite she to read what UK Steel have say about this decision . it have say that this be a really important day for the steel sector in the UK , and that the Government be show a real commitment to the future of steelmaking here . it be not just a question of our ambition for net zero ; the UK steel sector itself have put together a road map to net zero , which this investment will enable it to reach . the right hon . Member allude to the celtic freeport . that will create 16 , 000 job , and will also ensure that a supply chain in renewable continue in that part of the country . it be unfortunate that the she can not understand that the discussion that take place for so long could have continue the uncertainty , and , potentially , the age of the furnace could have cause the site to close down . that would have be terrible , but we have ensure that we now have certainty , continuity and security . we have see year of inaction on steel from this government while watch other country around the world invest proactively , but the investment announce on Friday will lead to potential job loss that will be deeply feel in Port Talbot and across south Wales . why be there no consultation with the union and the Welsh Government , who should surely have have a voice in ensure that there be a fair transition to decarbonisation ? what will the Minister do to provide clarity for worker about , for instance , the impact on downstream plant such as Llanwern , and to address the point about the grade of steel need ? any change will be challenge by those potentially affect , which be why the transition board be be set up with a budget of £ 100 million to ensure that people who be impact be give the support that they need . it be hard not to go on repeat that this have not come out of the blue , and that discussion have be take place forever . I speak to the hon . member regularly about this matter . I know that it be difficult for she to reflect on it in the Chamber , but we finally have some certainty . she mention that no decision have be make for what seem like forever , but this be a really good decision : it be protect job , it be protect the industry next to her constituency , and it be ensure that there be a future for steel at Port Talbot . it be good news , although we know that there be some difficulty , which be why , as I have say , we be establish a transition board . the hon . Lady also mention the union . they be in Westminster recently , attend a huge event co - host by our fantastic iron lady , or rather steel lady , my hon . friend the Member for Scunthorpe ( Holly Mumby - Croft ) , as well as UK Steel . there be a presentation of the procurement policy note , but also a discussion about the road map to net zero . this be a route that be identify , and it be one that we have now take to ensure the longevity of steelmaking in Port Talbot . the green transition should present exciting opportunity to build a fair , more prosperous economy for the benefit of community across the UK , but the job loss involve here highlight that , for some worker , when the industrial landscape shift around they there might not be an opportunity to benefit from those opportunity . they need to be support to train and retrain throughout their adult life , so will the Minister take this opportunity to commit to the development of a national skill strategy ? that be a sensible point . there be skill strategy in lot of different portfolio within industry , and in these particular circumstance , as I mention , a transition board will be stand up with £ 100 million to do exactly that — to ensure that people be redeploy and reskille so that they can continue to work in the sector . the impact of the war in Ukraine have emphasise the importance of the UK ' s sovereign steelmaking capacity , yet an electric - only arc model mean that we will have to import supplementary virgin steel and be unable to produce high - end automotive steel . do the Minister accept that , under this deal , the self - sufficiency of our steel industry have be deal a real blow and that our defence capability be badly undermine ? the answer be no . under this deal we have protect job and ensure that we will continue to have a steelmaking facility in Port Talbot that support the diversity in the supply chain . we also realise how uniquely important the blast furnace in Scunthorpe be . we have talk about look at hydrogen , but as I mention , it be untested at this scale to work within the timeframe that be need . this deal be really good news for the UK steel sector , enable it and we to reach our decarbonisation target and ensure that we be deal not with virgin steel but with scrap steel in a way that can be recycle within UK industry . it ensure the longevity of the steel sector in Port Talbot . no matter what gloss be put on this today , 3 , 000 job have be sacrifice on the Government ' s altar of net zero and decarbonisation . there can be no hiding from the fact that there be huge cost associate with this policy , and that they be become apparent week after week . despite what the Opposition spokesperson say , the fact be that job loss be associate with this policy . we have see it with steel , aluminium , oil and gas — we could go on and on . will the Minister not accept that , as a result of this policy , we now have strategic industry under threat , we be lose job , we be put great pressure on taxpayer , we be push production overseas and we be make ourselves dependent on foreign producer ? the reality be that one of the furnace in particular be come to its end of life and the other be mature , so a decision have to be take on whether the company would want to continue , consider the loss it be make every day in produce steel , or to transition to make clean steel . that be a commercial decision . it be important for we to ensure that steelmaking in Port Talbot would not disappear but continue , and this be the option that the company go for . it be the option that it have a supply chain for , and it be good that we support it through this process and ensure that there be few job loss . the reality be that any transition be go to impact job , which be why it be so important to ensure that support be available to enable people to skill up and transition . that be why the transition board have be set up with £ 100 million to help people on that journey . it be not fundamentally about achieve net zero ; it be fundamentally about the age of the furnace on the site , about the loss - making in the steel sector in the UK , particularly at this site , and about what decision the company would take next . it be important for we to support the UK steel sector and provide it with £ 500 million — it have an overall envelope of £ 1 . 25 billion — to ensure that steelmaking continue in Port Talbot . I would have hope to hear a rather more robust defence from the Minister of the need to reach net zero and of the massive job opportunity that will come from pursue a green agenda , as we have see from what be happen with the Inflation Reduction Act in the States . I visit Port Talbot last month during the recess , and I echo what the constituency MP , my hon . friend the Member for Aberavon ( Stephen Kinnock ) , say about the importance of the site and of continue to support job there . concern be raise with I about the availability of scrap and how difficult it be to recycle and retrieve scrap metal . there do not seem to be any strategy from the Government for deal with that . can the Minister tell we what she intend to do , work with her colleague in other Departments , to achieve that ? as I mention , just shy of 9 million tonne of scrap could potentially be use at the site . Tata have put together a substantial package , which show that it have think through its supply chain . a huge amount of work will continue to take place to ensure that more information be put in the public domain . no doubt there will be more public tender , too . the scrap do exist and we recognise that electric arc furnace produce a particular kind of steel , which be why it be important to have a virgin steel sector here in the UK as well . I have speak about the environmental impact and how it help we to reduce our emission , but it be not only about that . this site be reach the end of its life , and these negotiation have be take place forever . it be important that we make sure that we have the certainty and support to move on to the next conversation on how we well exploit the new site to produce clean , green steel and how we make sure the contract be in place . understandably , there have be much focus on the potential job loss at the Port Talbot plant , but the steelwork be an anchor operation support a vast supply chain across Wales and beyond . the Minister mention that Tata Steel be make an assessment , but what assessment have the UK Government make of the impact of the announcement on the wide supply chain ? the hon . Gentleman be right that the sector have a vast supply chain , and we know how important it be for UK manufacturing . last week ' s datum show that we be the world ' s eighth large manufacturer , so supply chain be imperative . I be also work on an import supply chain strategy to ensure that we be as resilient as possible when import from country that may not share our democratic value . work have be do internally on the supply chain . to secure the money in this package , Tata have to ensure it have a business plan and sight of its supply chain . this work have be ongoing for quite some time , and a lot of it have be commercially sensitive . now we be able to speak about it , I do not doubt that more will be make public . we will continue to work on the supply chain , and I hope to put forward the import supply chain strategy by the end of the year . the UK be the only country in the G7 in which steelmaking be in decline . we need to be honest with ourselves that the job loss announce at Tata be a further continuation of that decline . the Minister say there have be ongoing negotiation for a very long time on the switch to electric arc production , and she have be ask a number of time about the supply of scrap . why be she not able to tell we that she have a plan to end the export of scrap steel and to secure its use for electric arc production in the UK , now that this decision have be announce ? the hon . Gentleman ' s opening comment be factually incorrect . he say we be the only country in decline , which be not true . french production have decline by 21 % , german production have decline by 13 % and italian production have decline by 12 % . it be appropriate to make sure we be accurate in set the scene . his opening comment be wholly inaccurate . these commercial decision be base on business plan and Tata ' s relationship with be supply chain . the hon . Gentleman be with I at the event in Parliament last week or the week before , and we have put together a procurement policy note to ensure that we have more UK steel in our supply chain , and definitely in Government contract . I will continue to do my good to ensure that the number go on the opposite trajectory to steel produce in the rest of Europe . Post Office Compensation with permission , Madam Deputy Speaker , I will make a statement on the late step the Government be take to ensure that swift and fair compensation be make available to postmaster whose Horizon - relate conviction be overturn . this House be aware of the distressing impact that problem with the Post Office ' s Horizon IT system have have on the life and livelihood of many postmaster . start in the late 1990 , the Post Office begin instal Horizon accounting software , and over the year the Horizon accounting system record shortfall in cash in branch . between 1999 and 2015 , those shortfall be treat by the Post Office as cause by postmaster , and that lead to dismissal , recovery of loss by the Post Office and , in some case , criminal prosecution . we now know that Horizon datum be unreliable . I pay tribute to colleague on both side of this House , and in the other place , who have support postmaster in their effort to expose the truth and see justice do . the Government have support the Post Office to make significant interim payment up front — set at £ 163 , 000 — to those with overturn Horizon conviction . we be also fund the Post Office to reach final settlement with these postmaster . to date , 86 conviction have be overturn . the Government and the Post Office have be clear that we want to see the victim receive swift and fair compensation . I have be monitor the delivery of compensation to those with overturn conviction , and more than £ 21 million have be pay out to date . although good progress have be make on personal damage , such as for mental distress and loss of liberty , thank in large part to a successful early neutral evaluation process oversee by Lord Dyson , progress on full and final settlement have be slow . that be why I can announce today that the Government have decide that postmaster who have their conviction on the basis of Horizon evidence overturn should have the opportunity , up front , to accept an offer of a fix sum in full and final settlement of their claim — the sum will be £ 600 , 000 . it will not be up to £ 600 , 000 ; it will be £ 600 , 000 . there will be no requirement for evidence to support the claim , other than the ability to demonstrate that the individual have an overturn conviction . we have arrive at that figure by look at exist claim that have be process and apply a generous uplift . this will be deliver by the Post Office , with funding from the Government . to be clear , this up - front offer be available to those postmaster whose conviction have be overturn as they be reliant on Horizon evidence at the time . this payment will be make net of any sum already receive , such as interim payment and partial settlement , to settle the claim fully . any postmaster who do not want to accept this offer can , of course , continue with the exist process . it will therefore be completely optional to accept the offer of £ 600 , 000 , and the Government will continue to fund the legal cost of these postmaster to ensure that they receive independent advice ahead of make a decision . however , we hope that the change I be announce today will provide more reassurance and quick compensation to those postmaster who would prefer this option over go through the full assessment process . almost certainly , there will be few people take the option of the full assessment process . to be clear , any postmaster who have their conviction overturn as it be reliant on Horizon evidence and who have already reach a settlement with the Post Office for less than £ 600 , 000 will be pay the difference . postmaster who have be wrongfully convict have some of the most severe circumstance , have lose clean record and , in some case , their liberty , and have suffer significant financial loss and an overwhelming impact on their life . the Government recognise that those postmaster have suffer gravely in relation to the Horizon scandal , and for too long , and so should be able to settle their claim swiftly if they wish . the Post Office be contact the legal representative of eligible postmaster with further information about this offer . I appreciate that some detail will need to be work through , such as how long the up - front offer remain open . I be commit to consult the Horizon Compensation Advisory Board , which include Members of this House , such as the right hon . member for North Durham ( Mr Jones ) , and Lord Arbuthnot , on this matter to make sure we get this right . however , we do not want to delay inform postmaster that there will be an optional quick and straightforward route to settlement . postmaster may choose to have their claim fully assess if they prefer , whereby each claim be assess on the basis of its individual loss . the Post Office will continue to process these claim as quickly as possible and we be encourage it to continue to work actively with postmaster ' legal representative to make offer and payment as soon as possible . the Post Office have make offer to all 73 formerly convict postmaster who have submit a claim for non - pecuniary damage — non - financial personal loss . award for non - pecuniary damage be guide by Lord Dyson ' s early neutral evaluation . with regard to pecuniary damage — financial loss — only 21 claim have be submit to date and the Post Office have make offer on 12 of these , five of which have be accept . the Post Office have be engage with claimant adviser on pecuniary principle for assess financial loss to support swifter formulation and assessment of claim . the Post Office plan to move to a remediation model of claim assessment , involve an independent assessor to facilitate settlement and resolve dispute . this remediation approach will bring great transparency to the exist process . we know that hundred of postmaster be convict during the period when Horizon be in use . the Post Office contact over 600 postmaster to help they to appeal their conviction and that work be later take over by the Criminal Cases Review Commission as an independent party . however , still only 86 conviction have be overturn to date and we recognise that there be a number of postmaster who have not yet seek to appeal their conviction . it be for the court to decide whether a conviction be unsafe , but we encourage all postmaster who think their conviction may be unsafe to come forward and start the process . we hope that be transparent about the level of compensation available via a straightforward route will encourage even more people to seek to overturn their conviction . I be pleased to provide the House with an update on the other area of Post Office compensation . to date , £ 79 million have be pay under the Horizon shortfall scheme , with offer make to 99 % of the original cohort of applicant . the Post Office have make offer for 58 % of eligible late claim . under the group litigation order scheme , the Department have pay £ 22 million to date . we also announce interim payment in June last year , and 99 % of claimant have receive the share of the £ 19 . 5 million to which they be entitle . the scheme open for full application in March this year . to date , 32 claim have be submit and first settlement have be reach . I be pleased to inform the House that my Department will be publish datum online regularly on the progress of compensation delivery . in addition to provide compensation , it be important that we learn lesson so that something similar can never happen again . that be why the Government have set up the Post Office Horizon IT inquiry and put it on a statutory footing to ensure it have all the power it need to investigate what happen , establish the fact and make recommendation for the future . the inquiry be progress and we will continue to co - operate fully to ensure that the fact of what happen be establish and lesson be learn . I commend this statement to the House . I thank the Minister for his statement and for advance sight of it . this be , of course , an issue of great importance and I thank he and his Department ' s civil servant for the progress they have make and the work that have go on to achieve it . as this be my first time speak on the matter from the Front Bench , may I put on record my tribute to the Justice for Subpostmasters Alliance and to all those who have campaign for decade for compensation , justice and truth ? I also recognise the effort of member across the House on behalf of their constituent , as well as the work do by colleague in the other place . in particular , I thank my right hon . friend the Member for North Durham ( Mr Jones ) . as the Minister say , he be unable to be in the House today but he have play an instrumental role in help to chart a route to justice for thousand of people and we wholeheartedly thank he for that . the House be in unanimous agreement that the Horizon scandal have be a shocking injustice . indeed , I think it be no exaggeration to say that it be one of the great scandal of modern time . while we continue to hear in the public inquiry the account of life tear apart by the scandal we can never lose sight of how devastating its impact have be on those victim . Labour will act in good faith on any announcement that aim to facilitate justice for those involve in the Horizon scandal . have listen to the Minister , I understand the logic behind the approach that he have announce today , but I would be grateful if he answer some initial question . first , how many people do his Department anticipate will take up this offer ? secondly , what assurance can he give the House that the compensation be offer to those 86 individual whose conviction have be overturn will be at a sufficient level ? I have speak to one MP today who have a case in which various accumulate cost amount to million of pound . what can the Government say in response to the question that , if people go through the full scheme , the compensation would be much high ? I would be grateful if he address what he think the balance be between his figure and what other people might expect to get . thirdly , while I welcome what the Minister have say , the wide issue , as he mention , be the much large group of people whose conviction have still not be overturn . I know that there have be some proactive attempt to engage with they , but the Minister must share our frustration with the lack of progress . what more can he do to expedite this process of reach out , contact and talk to those people ? we understand the logic behind today ' s announcement , but we would appreciate the Minister ' s thought on those issue . as I say early , we be happy to work in good faith with the Government to get this right and take one of the many step require if we be to make amend for what have be the most insidious of injustice . I be very grateful to the shadow Minister for her question . first , may I welcome she to her place ? I look forward to our exchange across the Dispatch Box . I echo her comment in relation to the Justice for Subpostmasters Alliance . I meet Alan Bates very early on in my tenure as a Post Office Minister . he have do an incredible job and we would not be as far on as we be without campaigner such as Alan and , as the shadow Minister say , people across this House who have work so hard to ensure that the overall case be hear and that people be treat fairly in term of compensation . I thank the shadow Minister for her support for today ' s initiative . eighty six people have come forward so far . that be frustrating because we think that there should be about 600 in total who be reliant on Horizon evidence . we be frustrated , but we be keen to do what we can . we believe today ' s announcement will help . People can see that they will not have to go through month of claim assessment and that they will not have to engage with lawyer unless they wish to do so — and we will cover the cost of do that — so it will be a quick and easy process for people . anything that be say across this Dispatch Box that encourage people to come forward would be welcome . we will continue our effort elsewhere , to make sure that the people concern be contact and be aware of this particular option for they . on the level of compensation , this will not take away from the original route . People can still go down the full assessment route . if somebody think they have a claim worth million of pound , they may well decide to go down the full route . however , I would also say that we know of about 60 people who have sadly pass away while await compensation . clearly , that be wrong and an injustice . for some people , it will be the right thing just to be able to take this money and draw a line under the whole sorry situation . if people feel they have a claim , which be at a much high level , they can go down the same route , as that option be still available to they . that be a judgment that they will have to make in conjunction with their legal adviser . I thank the shadow Minister for her comment . like many member across the House , I have hear from people who have be truly badly affect by what have be do to they here , so I welcome today ' s statement . will my hon . friend confirm that the group litigation order postmaster will pay no income tax , capital gain tax , national insurance contribution , inheritance tax or vat on these compensation payment , and that the process will be as smooth as possible for they ? I thank my hon . friend for her question and for her work in this area . as she know , this be something that we deal with follow the concern that be raise about the compensation scheme and their treatment of tax . it be also important to say that there be a benefit disregard as well . we have do some similar work to make sure that people who have access to the Horizon shortfall scheme be also treat in the same way . I think we have try , wherever we can , to be fair and to move quickly when instance of concern have be bring to we , and we will continue to take that approach . I call the SNP spokesperson . I echo the word of the hon . member for Croydon Central ( Sarah Jones ) and the Minister about the campaigner who have fight so hard for justice . I thank the Minister for advance sight of the statement and for his conversation with my hon . friend the Member for Motherwell and Wishaw ( Marion Fellows ) in advance of his announcement . [ interruption . ] there have be some travel issue today . the announcement be a welcome further move , but it can not return the lost year , reunite family or bring back those who be go . it be something , but it be not enough . will those who opt to go through the full assessment process be guarantee a minimum of £ 600 , 000 , or will they possibly be offer a low settlement as a result ? in his answer to the hon . member for Croydon Central , the Minister mention the 60 individual who have sadly pass away , at least four of whom take their own life as a result of this scandal . can he give we more clarity on how the compensation offer will apply to those who have die ? it be not set out in his statement . will their family be offer the same £ 600 , 000 ? he sort of mention it in one of his answer , but if we could have absolute clarity for those who be watch , it would be incredibly helpful . I be grateful to the hon . Lady for her question and her support for today ' s announcement . she be absolutely right : no amount of financial compensation can truly compensate people for what have happen . it be an horrendous set of circumstance and one of the big scandal that this nation have ever see . the hon . Lady be right , but as I say , it be important that we draw the line somewhere on what the compensation level would be . we look at the average compensation claim that be come through for overturn conviction , and we settle on a figure on the generous side of that . we think it be a fair figure , but of course people can still take the other option and go down the full assessment route . the hon . Lady make a very good point about whether people who have be award less through the full route would get the minimum level . that be something on which we be work with the advisory board . we be very keen to engage with the advisory board ; I think it be very important that people who be look for compensation have the reassurance that the advisory board be in place . its parliamentary member have be very vocal campaigner on the issue for a long time . for anybody who have an overturn conviction , but who have pass away : yes , if they have receive a low amount , it would be top up to £ 600 , 000 . the Select Committee on Business and Trade hear some absolutely harrowing account of the impact on postmaster who be falsely accuse . be the Minister happy that we can now finally conclude this matter and get people back to live normally ? I thank my hon . friend for all his work , not least on the Select Committee , of which he have be a member for a long time ; he do a fantastic job on it . he be exactly right : we want people to be able to draw a line under the devastating impact this have have on their life and livelihood , and move on . it be one thing establish what go wrong , but a compensation scheme then have to be put in place . it invariably take a lot of time to assess somebody ' s loss , because of the complexity around financial loss and the impact on people ' s personal life . this be a way to draw a line under thing very quickly , which be exactly the intention behind the scheme . we hope that people will step forward and then be able to move on with their life . I pay tribute to the Minister for his handling of the matter . I also pay tribute to his predecessor , the hon . member for Sutton and Cheam ( Paul Scully ) , to Lord Arbuthnot and to my right hon . friend the Member for North Durham ( Mr Jones ) : they have do an excellent job on what be an unbelievable scandal . my constituent be convict and go to prison under the Horizon scheme , but the Post Office have never accept that it be Horizon evidence that send he to prison . what position do that leave he in ? do the Minister agree that it would not be fair for the corrupt Post Office to be able to deny that person the compensation to which he be clearly entitle ? the chance that Horizon have nothing to do with his conviction be minuscule . it should not be possible for the Post Office to prevent he from get compensation . can the Minister reassure I that my constituent will be able to access the scheme ? I echo the hon . Gentleman ' s sentiment about my predecessor , not least my hon . friend the Member for Sutton and Cheam ( Paul Scully ) , who do a brilliant job and have be hugely supportive of the work I have do since take over his responsibility . I also thank the hon . Gentleman , who I think have speak in every statement and debate on the matter in which I have participate as a Back Bencher or as part of my ministerial duty . he do an excellent job represent his constituent and many other . the hon . Gentleman make a very interesting point about Horizon evidence . I be happy to meet he to discuss his concern about the case . of course , we do not interfere with what the court decide . that be the difficulty : the court follow independent process under the separation of power , as he be aware , so a conviction can not be overturn unless the court so decide . however , I be very happy to look at the case , perhaps in conjunction with his constituent . I be keen to help wherever we can . my question be slightly related to the previous one , and I agree that our focus must be on ensure that everyone who be catch up in this scandal be properly compensate . some of the postmaster who be dismiss because of the scandal be not formally prosecute , perhaps because they pay the cash difference for the allege shortfall before prosecution happen . nevertheless , they still face dismissal and many of they be still dismiss . it have be incredibly difficult for those people to get compensation , and this whole ordeal continue to drag on . can the Minister outline what step have be take to ensure that everybody receive swift and fair compensation , include those postmaster who be not prosecute ? the hon . Gentleman raise an important point . it be right that everyone be fairly compensate , and the detriment that people experience will vary . as he rightly say , not all be prosecute . that be why we have the historical shortfall scheme run , and 99 % of those case have be make offer . we also have the group litigation order scheme , which be about to be roll out and be open for claim right now . as I say in a previous answer , the process of assess someone ' s claim be complex and difficult , and in every single compensation scheme I have be involve in , include some of the banking scheme , it have take a long time to settle those loss . we be look at every possible way to expedite not just the overturn conviction scheme , but the other scheme , and we have some other idea on how we might do that . we share the hon . Gentleman ' s sentiment and we be work night and day to get those claim settle more quickly . I thank the Minister for his statement today . decent , honest people have have their life tear apart . they have be put in prison , they have be make to wait year for justice and it have be a long , painful and arduous process to get conviction overturn and seek access to compensation . could the Minister provide an estimate of the timescale for compensation completion for those he consider eligible and not yet fully compensate ? could he also update the House on the next phase of the public inquiry ? that be critical , as representative of the Post Office , the Government and the japanese firm Fujitsu be due to give evidence . why have it take so long for evidence to be take from those key stakeholder and for they to be hold to account ? I thank the hon . Lady for her work in this area , from both the Front Bench and the Back Benches . she be right to say that it have be a long and arduous process for those postmaster . that be one reason we bring forward this scheme , because we do not want the compensation process to be long and arduous . we hope to deliver all compensation by our August 2024 deadline , but we be keen to deliver compensation before that . this scheme will be a new way to try to accelerate the process . as I have say before from the Dispatch Box , we will not let an arbitrary date get in the way of pay somebody fair compensation . it be important to say that . the public inquiry be independent ; we do not put pressure on it to hear thing within certain timescale , and Sir Wyn Williams be more than capable of make sure that people give evidence in good time . for I , and I think for other in this House , this be not just about lesson learn . if we can identify people who be responsible for this scandal , they should be hold to account . within week of be elect to this House in 2010 I have a meeting with my constituent , Mr and Mrs Rudkin , and be tell how they have be treat at the Post Office , and the huge miscarriage of justice . I be delighted when Mrs Rudkin be one of the first nine to have her criminal conviction overturn — back in December 2021 , I think — but it be clear that hundred have not have their conviction overturn yet and be not able to claim the compensation . for they , the misery will go on . to anyone in this House who think that they be guilty — they be not . the clear evidence be there in the paperwork . the Post Office rely on the fact that it maintain in court that no one could alter those sub - postmaster ' computer remotely without they know about it , but we know from the evidence that Fujitsu be do it day after day , fix problem in the Horizon system . therefore , all those conviction be unsafe . let we get on , get they the compensation they deserve and bring this sorry episode to an end . we absolutely agree with the hon . Gentleman . I thank he for all his effort on behalf of Mr and Mrs Rudkin and other . clearly , his role in the campaign have bring the issue to light and get we towards a position where we will get justice quick . of course , we want to ensure that the conviction on the basis of Horizon evidence be overturn . sadly , we can not do that without people come forward , so the united call from this House to the probably 520 people who have not yet come forward be this : please come forward ; if your conviction be unsafe , it will be overturn , and compensation , which we be keen to pay out quickly , will be wait for you . I thank the Minister for the energy and dedication that he have put into try to move this issue along , which I know will be sincerely appreciate by those who have be affect . however , no compensation will ever reflect the financial loss , family disruption , social stigma and mental trauma that people be put through as a result of deliberate lying by the Post Office and Fujitsu about Horizon . I hope that he will ensure that those who be guilty of this gross miscarriage of justice do not escape the process unscathed . I be grateful to the right hon . gentleman for his kind word and for his campaigning on this issue , about which he have speak often . he describe some of the horrendous experience that people have have follow the prosecution and dismissal , and he be absolutely right that no amount of compensation could really make up for the destruction of life . he talk about people lie , or lie by omission . the big part of this scandal be that people in the Post Office realise what be go on 10 year ago but say nothing , despite the fact that some people be in jail and they must have know that those conviction be unsafe . it be absolutely unacceptable ; it be scandalous ; and I absolutely join his call for people , when identify as responsible , to be hold to account . this whole episode have show very clearly just how belove the institution of our post office network be — I can say that as a former postmaster . the bank will not stop what they be do ; their trend be to remove as many branch as possible from our high street up and down the land . of course , that put enormous pressure on the post office network , which have to pick up the slack — I have talk to the Minister about that before . can he assure I that he will put every effort into ensure that post office be invest in properly so that they can be the future dealer of authorise financial service on our high street , perhaps make they the pinnacle of banking hub in the future ? I thank my hon . friend for all his work in this area . he , too , have be a consistent campaigner on this matter , and , as the only Member of Parliament who be previously a postmaster , he understand it well . I could not agree more with his comment : the post office network be hold in such high regard across the country . this scandal have not in any shape or form affect the brand itself , which be still highly regard around the country and have a very bright future as long as it be properly remunerate . he raise an interesting point — one that I have raise with bank , with UK Finance and other , and with fellow Ministers , include the Economic Secretary to the Treasury , who be on exactly the same page as I — that if bank want to save money by close branch up and down the country , that be a commercial choice for they , but they have to leave behind provision for access to cash and deposit . if that mean that they have to pay the Post Office and postmaster more for that service , so be it . I very much encourage the Post Office to take a robust line in negotiation to ensure that we get the good possible deal . point of order on a point of order , Madam Deputy Speaker . I be seek your guidance and assistance on how I might ensure that I receive answer from the Secretary of State for Education to question from I and a number of member across this House about the grow crisis of reinforce autoclaved aerate concrete in our school — question which , in some case , have remain unanswered for more than 10 day after the due date have pass . may I also ask whether you have receive notice that an Education Minister propose to update the House about the situation across our school estate before the House rise tomorrow ? in particular , have you receive notice of whether Ministers intend to publish a new and accurate list of the affected school premise ? I thank the hon . Lady for her point of order , and for notice of it . obviously , I be not responsible for the timing of answer to parliamentary question , but I know Mr Speaker be very keen to remind Ministers of the importance of answer question in a timely manner . the Procedure Committee also take a close interest in this issue , and the hon . Lady might like to raise it with the Chair of that Committee , the right hon . member for Staffordshire Moorlands ( Karen Bradley ) . to the hon . Lady ' s second point , I have have no notice from Ministers that they intend to make a further statement on the matter this week . however , the hon . Lady be lucky that not only be a number of Treasury Ministers present , but the Leader of the House be present and will , I be sure , have hear her point of order . as Mr Speaker say last week , he know that member would like an update before the conference recess . I be sure that that will all be convey . on a point of order , Madam Deputy Speaker . I be not able to raise this issue at Home Office question this afternoon , due to the limited time available for Back Benchers . it relate to the role of the Home Affairs Select Committee . as part of our scrutiny function , the Committee have ask to accompany the independent chief inspector of border and immigration on one of his inspection . the Home Office have refuse that request , and I want to raise the matter with Ministers on the Floor of the House today . we have be tell numerous time that the Home Office welcome scrutiny of its work , and we do not understand why our request would be refuse . be there anything that you can do to assist the Committee in carry out its scrutiny ? I thank the right hon . Lady for her point of order and also for give I notice of it . I think all member of this House agree that it be incredibly important that Select Committees of the House have the access they need to facilitate effective scrutiny , and I be also very aware that this be not the first time that the right hon . Lady have raise this sort of issue . it be not a point of order for the Chair , but she have make an important point , and I know that her comment will have be note by Treasury Ministers and will be feed back . perhaps we might get a resolution that would be fitting , enable the right hon . Lady ' s Committee to carry out its scrutiny . on a point of order , Madam Deputy Speaker . at 12 noon tomorrow , we will see the publication of the long - await Brook House inquiry , and I wonder whether the Home Office have be in touch with your office to ask whether some time might be make tomorrow for a statement in the House on this issue . it will be some week before the House return from conference recess , and give how long people have be wait for the outcome of that inquiry , it would be useful to know whether something be come to the House tomorrow on that . I thank the hon . Lady for her point of order . I do not have prior notice of it , so I have not be able to make any investigation . I be not aware at this point that a statement be intend ; however , the hon . Lady be a very experienced Member of the House , and I be sure she will be seek way to clarify whether a statement be intend and , if not , whether there be alternative way in which the issue may be raise . business of the House ( today ) order , that , at this day ' s sit , the Speaker shall put the Questions necessary to dispose of proceeding on the motion in the name of Penny Mordaunt relate to private member ' bill not later than one hour after the commencement of proceeding on the motion for this order ; such question shall include the Questions on any Amendments select by the Speaker which may then be move ; the business may be proceed with , though oppose , after the moment of interruption ; and Standing Order No . 41a ( defer division ) shall not apply . — ( Steve Double . ) private member ' Bills the House will wish to know that the manuscript amendment in the name of Sir Christopher Chope have be select . copy be available in the Vote Office and a revised Order Paper be be post online . motion make , and question propose , that — ( 1 ) notwithstanding the provision of Standing Order no . 14 ( 8 ) , private Members ’ bill shall have precedence over government business on Friday 20 October 2023 ; ( 2 ) such bill shall be arrange on the order paper in accordance with Standing Order no . 14 ( 9 ) ; ( 3 ) bill set down for second reading shall be arrange as follow — ( a ) the Order for second Reading of any Bill set down for Friday 20 October 2023 be read and discharge ; ( b ) notwithstanding the practice of the House , Bills set down for second reading on a day later than Friday 20 October 2023 may be set down for that date , provide that the Bill have be print by today ; ( c ) a Member may give notice in relation to no more than one Bill for Friday 20 October 2023 to the Public Bill Office only by email from their parliamentary account between 10 and 10 . 30am on Tuesday 19 September 2023 ; ( d ) after 10 . 30am on Tuesday 19 September , the Public Bill Office may accept any further notice relate to private member ' Bills ; ( e ) valid notice give in accordance with sub - paragraph ( c ) and ( d ) will be arrange accord to the order in which they be receive . — ( Penny Mordaunt . ) I have understand that the Leader of the House be go to indicate that she be willing to accept the manuscript amendment . I would happily give way to she now to receive that confirmation , because it would enable I to keep my remark much more brief than would otherwise be the case . I be happy to intervene . the Government be minded to accept my hon . friend ' s amendment . I will be happy to explain in close the debate what we be go to do . that be very good news . I thank Mr Speaker for select the manuscript amendment . it be a sad reflection that we be debate this motion , because on Thursday , when the Leader of the House give the business for this week , she say : " the business for the week commence 18 September will be as follow " , and the business for Monday 18 September be " general debate on the UK automotive industry , follow by general debate on UK export performance . " — [ Official Report , 14 September 2023 ; Vol . 737 , c . 1016 . ] there be no mention whatsoever of have a motion on the Order Paper relate to private member ' Bills , and in particular to try to introduce some rather novel process . that be why I table the amendment , which have to be a manuscript amendment , and I be delighted that Mr Speaker select it . my hon . friend have do a service to the House , because I suspect that the Government just do not like the idea of an independent - minded hon . member be able to produce and debate 17 Bills . what be the harm of that ? the fact be that these time - honour process be there for a purpose . they be design to protect back Benchers , who have very few other right . from this saga , the Government should learn a lesson not to interfere with what we have always do in this House . these process be design to ensure that Back Benchers be give a voice . I be grateful to my right hon . friend for what he say . I would not be so harsh on the Government , because they have just indicate that they will accept my amendment , but the point he make be that by delete paragraph ( 2 ) and ( 3 ) of the motion , the amendment will ensure that establish practice and precedent continue to apply to the decision of the Government to provide another day this session on which private Members ' bill shall have precedence over Government business . by the time of prorogation , this Session will have last more than 18 month , and I do not think that to have one additional day for private member ' Bills beyond the 13 normally allocate for a Session be particularly generous . the 2017 - 19 Session be similarly extend , and on 30 January 2019 the House agree to three extra private member ' Bill Fridays . that be do in the normal process , with all the people who have already put their Bills down for those day give precedence accord to the rule . the amendment would also ensure that normal rule for business remain , as set out in Standing Order no . 14 ( 9 ) , and that the long - stand rule of practice that a Bill set down for a specific day can not then be bring back to an early date will be preserve and honour . indeed , that practice be apply in this very session , to the Pensions ( Extension of Automatic Enrolment ) Bill , which be introduce initially on 20 July 2022 but be put back by the Member in charge to 17 March 2023 . the Government then take a liking to the Bill and want to bring it forward , but it be not possible to do that so a no . 2 Bill have to be introduce . that be standard practice : if somebody have put their Bill too far down the Order Paper and they wish to bring a similar Bill forward , they can always issue a no . 2 Bill . that be why I be very pleased that the Government have decide to honour precedent and good practice and accept my amendment . I thank the Leader of the House for move this motion . while I welcome time for private member ' Bills , it be still entirely unclear why we need another sit Friday to consider they . as I say last Thursday , the Government be put forward not much at all for the parliamentary time they control . all we have have this week and most of last be general debate and statutory instrument debate on the Floor of the House . there have be so many Backbench Business Committee sitting that the Committee have run out of bid . why can we not consider these last few private member ' Bills in the sit day we have remain ? I be interested in what the Leader of the House have to say about what I understand be the Bills the Government expect to be consider on 20 October . the Worker Protection ( Amendment of Equality Act 2010 ) Bill and the hunt Trophies ( Import Prohibition ) Bill , both Government handout , have be gutte and delay in the House of Lords . the hunting trophy Bill have broad support from across both Houses , but a small group in the Lords with clear personal interest be hold it up with dozen and dozen of amendment . it will take many more day for the Lords to consider all those amendment , so what do the Leader of the House think we will be discuss on 20 October and what be she do to ensure that we have some Bills to discuss ? do this not all serve as another embarrassing reminder that the Government have run out of idea ? our zombie Parliament have no Government Bills to consider on most Mondays , Tuesdays and Wednesdays , yet the Government now want an extra Friday for private member ' bill they have lose control of in the House of Lords . I be grateful that the Government be introduce an extra sitting Friday to conclude business that have cross - party support and have finally be put through the House of Lords . we in this House can now make a strong statement about what we really want to achieve on worker ’ protection . it be therefore important that all of we across the House support the introduction of this one extra private Member ' s Bill Friday sit to conclude important business that I understand be very much the will of the House . I do not intend to detain the House for long , but I wish to bring colleague up to speed and answer some of the point make . the manuscript amendment in the name of my hon . friend the Member for Christchurch ( Sir Christopher Chope ) would leave out paragraph ( 2 ) and ( 3 ) of the motion , and the Government be content to accept it . I agree with the comment make in that respect . private Members ' bill be an invaluable opportunity for member to promote legislation on the cause they support , and the Government have express support for a number of private member ' Bills in this session . I pay tribute to member for all the work they be do on those Bills and for engage in a constructive and cross - party way to secure their progress . some 16 private Members ' bill be on the statute book and more be make progress through the House of Lords . that be even more than in the last session , which see 13 private member ' bill reach Royal Assent . in this session , we be on track to have secure the most private member ' bill become law in any Session . I hope the House approve this additional sitting Friday , and I look forward to see progress on further private member ' Bills in this session . private member ' Bills and Backbench Business time be just as important as Government time and legislation . in addition to the private Members ' Bills , we have put forward an enormous amount of legislation on a whole raft of issue , include strengthen our border , protect our citizen and guarantee they access to public service and public transport , and many other thing . we be busy work on the programme for the fourth Session of this Parliament . finally , to reassure member who be particularly concerned about the Worker Protection ( Amendment of Equality Act 2010 ) Bill and the hunt Trophies ( Import Prohibition ) Bill , those Bills be make progress and I expect they to return to this House . Manuscript amendment make : leave out paragraph ( 2 ) and ( 3 ) . — ( Sir Christopher Chope . ) Main Question , as amend , put and agree to . order , that , notwithstanding the provision of Standing Order no . 14 ( 8 ) , private Members ’ bill shall have precedence over government business on Friday 20 October 2023 . UK Automotive Industry 5 . 35 pm I beg to move , that this House have consider the UK automotive industry . it be only two month ago that I be stand in front of the House address a motion table by the Opposition on the UK risk lose the automotive industry . that be evidently not the case . with the Government ' s lead , the UK continue to be one of the good location globally for the sector . vote of confidence in our economy have be showcase by three major automotive announcement in recent month . the automotive industry be a vital part of the UK economy and be integral to support growth by create high value add job across the country , enhance export opportunity and help to deliver the Government ' s overarch goal of make the UK a global hub for innovation . in the span of just 10 week , the Government secure three major announcement on automotive , prove that the country be internationally competitive for vehicle manufacturing . these investment will secure green , high - quality job , strengthen our supply chain and boost economic growth . I be confident that more will follow . the UK ' s competitive business environment and regulatory system , combine with the Government ' s targeted approach to support the enhancement of the innovation ecosystem , have attract some of the most prestigious manufacturer to invest here . last week , we celebrate BMW Group ' s announcement that it be invest £ 600 million , which will bring production of two new all - electric mini model to Oxford from 2026 . it will enable the site to fully transition to electric vehicle production from 2030 . as my hon . friend the Member for North Swindon ( Justin Tomlinson ) and the hon . member for Oxford East ( Anneliese Dodds ) will be aware , with the support of the Government , this investment will secure the future of the 4 , 000 staff employ at the Oxford manufacturing plant and at the body press facility in Swindon . BMW have be part of the UK auto manufacturing family since 2000 , and by 2030 it will have invest more than £ 3 billion in our country . our joint success story continue throughout the transition to electrification . BMW ' s announcement build on last week ' s good news that , follow a £ 100 million investment , Stellantis have start electric van production in its Vauxhall plant in Ellesmere Port . this transformation be also historic , as it make the plant the first all - electric vehicle facility in the UK and one of the first in Europe . the Minister and I have have many conversation on electric vehicle production , as she know , but in January 2024 — just some three month away — UK car and van maker , such as Vauxhall in Luton South , be face 10 % tariff on export of electric vehicle if they can not source enough home - make battery . that be despite the Government have have more than two year to prepare for the introduction of these rule of origin , which they negotiate . the Minister be aware of this , as I have raise it many time . with just over three month to go , can she just admit that she be fail our motor manufacturer and be willing to chuck they under the bus ? the hon . Lady start off appropriately by talk about how we work collectively on this issue . the rule of origin and tariff be not just negotiate by we — there be another party at the table . the tariff , if they be implement , will impact not only on the UK car manufacturing sector but on manufacturer in Europe . as there be more car import from Europe into the UK , the burden will be far great on those country . the negotiation take place pre - covid and before Russia ' s invasion of Ukraine . of course , there be now a tight deadline , but negotiation with Brussels always go to the wire . the important thing be this : we be negotiate hard for the UK automotive sector . those manufacturer in Europe be also desperately try to negotiate hard , because this impact they just as much . just as we have the Society of Motor Manufacturers and Traders — the automotive sector ' s umbrella group — campaigning , they have group campaign in Europe . just last week , there be a huge amount of news coverage about how Europe be now incredibly concerned about the flood of cheap electric vehicle into its market . the argument we be make should definitely be take to the EU , because the tariff would impact car manufacturing in mainland Europe , too . the truth be that while gigafactorie be now be build right the way across Europe , we need at least eight gigafactorie with about 15 GW of capacity in the UK — include , I might say , one in the heart of the west midland , which be home to about a third of UK automotive production . in the last Metro Mayor election , both the Conservative Mayor , Andy Street , and I promise that we would get that gigafactory build ; it be still a large open space . when do the Minister anticipate those eight gigafactorie be build in the UK ? when do she anticipate a gigafactory come to the Coventry airport site ? if we fail , our automotive industry will be hit with tariff soon and we will put 114 , 000 job in jeopardy . the Tata gigafactory announcement ensure that we be front - footed when it come to gigafactorie — it will be one of the large factory in Europe . the right hon . Member and the Labour party be obsess with we need five or eight gigafactorie , but it be about capacity . it have be note that we need , I believe , 89 GW by 2030 , and with both Tata and Envision we be two third of the way there . that be how we need to compare with the rest of Europe : it be not about the number of factory ; it be about the level of capacity that they provide . even though we have those two in place , we be not complacent and will continue to do everything we can to secure further investment . the right hon . member talk about a particular site . obviously , that will have to go through two fund within my Department , but we will always look at solid investment for even more gigafactory capacity in the UK . I be grateful for that reassurance , because this be one question on which both the Conservative Mayor and I would be happy to come and lobby on behalf of the west midland . the point be that we be tell that we need 130 GW of capacity in the UK by 2040 . now , that may be eight site or it may be more or few , but the key thing be that we can not see a plan for the UK get that capacity in place , unless the Minister get up and tell we that there be a plan that she be about to reveal . the right hon . member and , of course , the Mayor for the West Midlands lobby incredibly hard — as they should , because they have fantastic site for potential gigafactorie — and those negotiation will continue . I always use to say at the Dispatch Box that we need 100 GW of capacity , but the figure be now 89 GW . envision and Tata provide we with a solid footing to get up to the capacity that we need , but we will not be complacent ; we will continue our work . as hon . member will hear throughout my speech , over the summer we put in place a consultation on a battery strategy . I believe that , outside Norway , no other european country have such a strategy . we be work to produce a strategy to ensure that we have substantial capacity in the UK . the Tata commitment be huge , and I will allude to that as well . I mention Stellantis , which have start electric van production in its Vauxhall plant in Ellesmere Port . that transformation be also historic , as it make the plant the first all - ev facility in the UK and one of the first in Europe . I turn to gigafactorie , the favourite topic of the right hon . member for Birmingham , Hodge Hill ( Liam Byrne ) . in the summer , we also help to secure more than £ 4 billion of investment from Tata for a new gigafactory . at 40 GW , it will be one of the large battery plant in Europe , equivalent to the size of almost 65 football pitch . it will create up to 4 , 000 highly skilled job as well as thousand of further job in the wide supply chain for battery material and critical raw mineral . most importantly , the investment help to turbocharge our switch to zero - emission vehicle by provide almost half the battery production need by 2030 . it be not that we need 12 , 15 or five ; it be about the capacity we need . tata take we two third of the way there and Envision be on top of that . the announcement be the most recent in a line of investment decision over the last couple of year . in 2021 , Nissan and Envision announce a £ 1 billion investment to create an ev manufacturing hub in Sunderland . Ford join the line - up in 2021 with a £ 227 million investment in Halewood to make the company ' s first ev component site in Europe , and increase its investment in the plant to £ 380 million in 2022 . last year , we see Bentley commit more than £ 2 . 5 billion to transition its Crewe plant to zero emission vehicle , with the first ev model to roll off the production line around 2025 . Jaguar Land Rover have also announce that it will invest £ 15 billion over five year into its industrial footprint as part of its move towards electrification . that be great news for the west midland and Halewood , where Jaguar Land Rover have production site , research and development facility and its headquarters . these investment decision be vote of confidence from a highly productive and innovative sector , showcase that the UK have the good to offer when it come to green manufacturing and new and future technology . the Minister be list some fantastic organisation and great business around the country , but their size be such that the business that supply they be massive organisation in their own right . I have Gestamp in Newton Aycliffe , a supplier of subframe to all over the world , from Nissan in Sunderland to Volvo China . they be huge business . do the Minister recognise the importance of the supply chain , not just the headline business ? my hon . friend be right that the supply chain be critical to ensure that we continue to manufacture at pace . just last week , we " leapfrog " — I believe that be the quote — the French to become the eighth large manufacturer globally , which show how important our supply chain be . there be kink in the supply chain and a lot of pressure — the Inflation Reduction Act on one side , covid on the other — while try to get hold of critical mineral for the base product . I have be work with industry , and we will publish an import strategy - supply chain piece of work soon to make sure that we be shed light and do everything we can for our advanced manufacturing sector . we have a strong and value relationship with the sector , stem from the UK ' s rich history in auto manufacturing . I be grateful to the Minister for share the litany of success in our proud automotive industry . I gently remind she that automotive include truck , not just car . she mention the history of our production ; Leyland have be make truck since victorian time and have a proud history — we still see the sign . it be now invest in make small electric truck , reconfigure its factory and take on apprentice . it be a huge part of the Leyland industrial community . can I make sure that my hon . friend do not forget the Leyland DAF group ' s wonderful truck heritage ? my hon . friend be a passionate advocate for Leyland . even if I want to , I would not be able to forget the importance of Leyland and its history , and the truck sector . I hope she will forgive I for my reference to automotive , as we tend to bag everything in . the Minister be very welcome to come and visit . I would love to . more importantly , I be recently at a site where we see truck that use hydrogen , ensure that construction site achieve their net zero ambition . Leyland will not be forget , due to my hon . friend ' s hard work . although we be not reinvent the wheel , we be witness the big transformation this sector have go through since the first Ford model come off the production line . new vehicle technology be emerge and shape our understanding of mobility daily . in the transition , the UK ' s aim be to lead the future by create it . our primary objective be to boost private sector investment across the whole of the UK and create the right condition for all business to innovate , by give they the confidence to do so . that be why Government have create a comprehensive and long - stand programme of support , which include the Advanced Propulsion Centre , the automotive transformation fund and the Faraday battery challenge — all tangible intervention that industry can access . we believe that , through those programme , we can de - risk private investment in R & D , fast - track the commercialisation of new technology and unlock the industrialisation of our ev supply chain . would the Minister like to give we a few thought on what she think the opportunity be for synthetic fuel , sustainable fuel and hydrogen ? how will they fit in around her battery vision ? my right hon . friend ' s view on electric vehicle and zero emission be well document . as I mention , a hydrogen strategy be also in place . I have be to a number of project where vehicle be use hydrogen to ensure that that technology be exploit and that there be supply and demand in the chain , too . we be look at sustainable alternative fuel not only in the automotive sector but in the aviation sector , so it be not just in that space . all alternative fuel will be investigate . the future of the auto sector be electric — although I know that my right hon . friend would like it to be much wide — automate and connect . the UK be well place to consolidate its position among global R & D leader as these technology begin to commercialise , create job and valuable new service for our business and community . our flagship Commercialising Connected and Autonomous Mobility programme will bring benefit across the UK . the Centre for Connected and Autonomous Vehicle ' s recent £ 66 million commercialise CAM programme 2025 aim to create an early commercial market that could be worth £ 42 billion by 2035 . this innovation will save life , create job , enable more efficient movement of people and good , address chronic driver shortage , and well link under - serve community to vital service . as part of the programme , on 5 September , I be pleased to announce £ 18 . 5 million of public grant to 13 project and 43 organisation across the UK to strengthen our capability in the CAM supply chain . I then have first - hand experience of a self - drive vehicle with Wayve , near King ' s Cross . these technology be here . they be no long something from science fiction . today , we can take automated bus journey in Didcot and Edinburgh , with more world - class automate passenger and freight service to follow in the come month . in addition , through Government policy , we be enable future mobility in the UK . we launch the full local electric vehicle infrastructure fund in March 2023 . follow a pilot , it provide a furth £ 381 million over the next two financial year to deliver ten of thousand of local charge point across England . furthermore , to enable long - distance journey , the rapid charging fund will future - proof electrical capacity at strategic location to prepare the network for a fully electric car and van fleet — not just car . hear , hear . I hear my hon . friend . with up - to - date policymaking , we ensure that consumer and taxpayer get the good possible option of modern auto transportation . as recent investment decision suggest , our message — I keep reiterate it as co - chair of our industry - Government forum , the Automotive Council — that the Government have the automotive sector ' s back , be hear loud and clear . in that regard , we do not shy away from the challenge the industry have be face : rise cost because of Putin ' s horrific war in Ukraine ; supply chain disrupt by covid aftershock ; and a fierce international competition for green manufacturing investment , root in an economic security concern , lead to country choose protectionist tool and consequently threaten the hugely important global supply chain that rely on cross - border collaboration . those be all serious challenge for the UK automotive sector . those issue , however , be not unique to we . country across the globe face similar challenge and provide different response . some feel that the good way to reach pole position in the race to secure green manufacturing be to spend incredible , eye - watering amount of their taxpayer ' money . we have take a different approach and concentrate on the good way to encourage investment with target support . we have more than a chequebook to attract company to these shore . our highly productive and skilled workforce , focus on innovation and ease of do business be key factor in a company ' s decision to base itself in the UK . we do not need more evidence of that than the three recent announcement I mention early . as co - chair of the Automotive Council , I consult regularly with representative of auto company and listen to their view on how the UK can raise its international competitiveness . our competitive business environment and regulatory system evidently continue to stimulate investment in the UK , but that can only come from a fruitful exchange with industry and by address concern raise . for example , in February , we announce the British Industry Supercharger , a range of target measure to ensure electricity price for key energy - intensive industry , include battery manufacturing , be in line with major economy around the world . an issue raise by many colleague on both side of the House be skill . we understand automotive company need highly skilled individual across the entirety of their business . one reason the UK be attractive be our world - lead university , with four UK institution in the global top 10 , accord to the QS world university ranking . but that be not all . we support the auto sector through the apprenticeship levy , with £ 2 . 7 billion in funding by the 2024 - 25 financial year . that will support apprenticeship in non - levy employer , often small and medium - sized enterprise , where the Government will continue to pay 95 % of apprentice training cost . we also recognise the importance of a level playing field . that be why , at spring Budget , the Chancellor launch a new capital allowance offer . business will now benefit from full expensing , which offer 100 % first - year relief to company on qualify new main rate plant and machinery investment from April 2023 until March 2026 ; the 50 % first - year allowance for expenditure by company on new special rate , include long life asset until 31 March 2026 ; and the annual investment allowance , provide 100 % first - year relief for plant and machinery investment up to £ 1 million . one issue that have already be touch on be our relationship and tariff with Europe . to support our industry through the transition , we must also address any and all barrier to trade with partner and market all over the world . our close trading partner be the EU , with whom we share not only climate goal and a trajectory towards electrification , but deeply integrate supply chain . over 50 % of car manufacture in the UK and export be destine for EU consumer . for those reason , we be work closely with industry to address its concern about plan change to the rule of origin for electric vehicle in the trade and co - operation agreement between the UK and the EU . since sign a deal , unforeseen and share supply chain shock have hit the auto industry hard . that have drive up the cost of raw material and battery component , make it hard to meet the change rule . that risk industry in the UK and the EU face tariff on electric vehicle at a crucial time in the transition to electrification . I and the Government be determined to seek a solution to that share problem and to work with the EU to fix it for 2024 . there be , of course , proposal by chinese battery maker to consider invest in the UK . can the Minister tell the House whether , if investment be make by those chinese firm , the car we make with those product will still be allow to be export tariff - free and will not get catch by new tariff because of the amount of foreign content they might contain ? the right hon . Gentleman raise a valuable point . we need to ensure not only that we support UK manufacturer , but that new investor and entrant into the market be treat equitably . we know that , because of the negotiation take place on rule of origin , there have be a consultation taking place in Europe on its anxiety about the market be flood by cheap ev . obviously , we need to allow customer to make a choice , but we have to ensure that UK manufacturer be not deal a blow by any new chinese entrant into the market . he know my history when it come to deal with China and sanctioning . that be why I have be do so much work not only to support our UK manufacturer , but to ensure our supply chain be resilient . I hope that will give he some confidence on this issue . as I mention to the hon . member for Luton South ( Rachel Hopkins ) , this will impact EU manufacturer just as much as it impact UK manufacturer ; because they import more into our economy , it will be a heavy burden for they . I thank the Minister for give way again . on that point , give the impact on both the UK and EU automotive sector , can she enlighten we any far on whether there would be any suspension of the ratchet up of percentage in the rule of origin and a delay to implementation through those negotiation ? the hon . Member be ask I to comment on policy that be outside of my jurisdiction . it be lead by the Foreign , Commonwealth and Development Office and the conversation will continue . the important thing to note be that we have to constantly and continually impress not on UK manufacturer , but on their sister representative in Europe the impact it will have on european manufacturer as well . I think that , consider the issue will impact not only here but in mainland Europe , it will be resolve soon enough , while recognise that when deal with the EU decision tend to be take very late in the day . on supply chain and critical mineral , as I emphasise recently to the Business and Trade Committee , as part of our mission to secure a green and innovative future in UK automotive manufacturing , we need to ensure we develop key supply chain in Britain for battery manufacturing and electric vehicle production . I recognise that critical mineral be fundamental to produce battery and anchor the electric vehicle supply chain in the UK . we be accelerate our international collaboration , include recently sign partnership with Canada , Australia , South Africa , Kazakhstan , Saudi Arabia , and Zambia , with more in the work , and engagement through the Minerals Security Partnership , the International Energy Agency and the G7 . we celebrate the announcement of the joint venture between British Lithium and Imerys — our UK - base lithium hub — on 29 June . by the end of the decade , it will supply enough lithium carbonate for 500 , 000 electric car a year . we have also publish " Critical Minerals Refresh : deliver Resilience in a change Global Environment " , for which I be responsible . it highlight the progress to date and set out our refreshed approach to deliver the strategy for UK business . as part of that approach , I have launch an independent task and finish group to investigate the critical mineral dependency and vulnerability across UK industry sector — include the automotive sector — and the opportunity for industry to promote resilience in its supply chain . in plain number , the UK automotive industry employ 166 , 000 people , add over £ 70 billion to the UK economy , and be our second large exporter of good . we be also home to more than 25 manufacturer — the role of the supply chain and small and medium - sized enterprise be mention early — which build more than 70 different vehicle in the UK , all of which be support by 2 , 500 component provider and some of the world ' s most skilled engineer . in 2022 , we export vehicle to more than 130 different country and build more than three quarter of a million car , with the onward trajectory rise year on year . I be happy to add some more of those plain number : three , as in the three announcement I have make so far about recent investment in BMW , Stellantis and Tata ; four , as in more than £ 4 billion of investment in a new gigafactory from the Tata Group ; 40 , as in 40 GWh , one of the large gigafactorie in Europe to be build in the UK — it be not about the number , but about the capacity ; 4 , 000 , as in up to 4 , 000 new job in addition to the exist 166 , 000 ; £ 600 million , as in the investment in its Oxford plant that BMW have just announce ; and two , as in the two new fully electric mini model be produce here in the UK . the Government be clearly not simply secure our world - class industry , but pave the way for the UK ' s future in automotive manufacturing . Royal Assent before I call the shadow Minister , I have to notify the House , in accordance with the Royal Assent Act 1967 , that his Majesty have signify his Royal Assent to the follow act : Lifelong Learning ( high Education Fee Limits ) Act 2023 Northern Ireland Troubles ( Legacy and Reconciliation ) Act 2023 Powers of Attorney Act 2023 Northern Ireland Budget ( no . 2 ) Act 2023 Pensions ( Extension of Automatic Enrolment ) Act 2023 Animals ( Low - Welfare Activities Abroad ) Act 2023 worker ( Predictable Terms and Conditions ) Act 2023 Protection from Sex - base Harassment in Public Act 2023 Veterans Advisory and Pensions Committees Act 2023 Firearms Act 2023 . UK Automotive Industry Debate resume . it be a pleasure to take part in a debate on a sector whose past , present and future lie at the heart of british manufacturing . I know that many of my colleague and their constituent will understand the vital importance of this issue ; I also know that several colleague sadly can not be here today because they be attend a conference on the industry at the Queen Elizabeth II Centre . I be new to this brief , so , as member would expect , I have be speak to people in the industry — include representative of the Society of Motor Manufacturers and Traders , who do an excellent job — and I have to say that their picture of the reality be somewhat different from the Minister ' s . the Minister say that all be well in the world , everything be boom and everything be great . she have big number , and she speak with great confidence and enthusiasm about a sector which , of course , we all cherish and want to build . the sector , however , be absolutely of one voice in cry out for certainty , clarity and a plan of action , as it have be do for year . it provide hundred of thousand of highly skilled job across the country , it bring pride to community by put they at the forefront of a world - lead sector , and its iconic british brand showcase the good of british innovation and craftsmanship on a global stage . it should , and could , be boom , but for the past 13 year we have have kid racer at the wheel . industry be desperate for a plan , and I have hear that loud and clear . motorist be cry out for direction , and job be at risk of be ship overseas . in community such mine in Erdington , Kingstanding and Castle Vale , the automotive industry be our lifeblood , and it be no wonder that family be seriously worried about job decline . do my hon . friend agree that we need to prioritise not only job creation but upskille , so that job can be create and sustain locally ? my hon . friend be do an excellent job on behalf of her constituent , as , of course , do her predecessor , in stand up for the sector in many debate in this place . the Tories risk put british motor manufacturer under the bus . accord to analysis that I have see , under the conservative we have lose more than a third of automotive manufacturing output since 2010 , so it be little wonder that the UK be slip down the international league table when it come to automotive manufacturing relative to GDP . it be say that people never remember the runner - up , but they certainly do not remember the one in 17th place . however , we know that the problem be not unique to the automotive industry ; we know that the lack of a Government plan that people can understand , rely on and invest in be a problem across many sector . when I be read about this brief , I come across a reference to the former special adviser to the Secretary of State for Business and Trade , who say recently that the Government " do not know , nor really care " about business issue . this be someone who have work at the heart of Government , see the decision making , see Ministers and see what happen . listen to the speech make early today by the right hon . member for South West Norfolk ( Elizabeth Truss ) — the Minister may well have hear it — be a timely reminder of the Conservatives ' relentless economic incompetence . last year they crash the economy , and this year they be on track to gift british manufacturer the entirely avoidable introduction of 10 % tariff . rather than co - operate with the EU to suspend a ratchet up of rule of origin requirement until 2027 , british and european manufacturer be face a cliff edge of high export cost from 1 January . an agreement with Europe would be a win - win for everyone . JLR , Stellantis and Vauxhall have all warn that failure to act will see job ship overseas . when will the Conservatives heed labour ' s call for they to deal with this issue as a priority ? the Minister talk about some of the bright spot amid the cloud , and of course there be some . we be pleased to see the government adopt Labour ' s approach of use public investment to leverage in much more private investment to prevent the relocation of an iconic british institution to China . the loss of the BMW Mini production plant in Oxford would have be an historic loss for the automotive industry in Britain . Labour will always welcome investment in Britain — we have not have enough of it under this government — but we need a proper industrial strategy , give certainty that investment of this kind can support british job and industry for the long term . instead , industry face that 1 January cliff edge on rule of origin , and another on the zero - emission vehicle mandate ; the Department for Transport have still not clarify how that will be implement . industry be face Government Back Benchers who be mire the UK ' s commitment to electric vehicle in uncertainty by talk from the Back Benches about how we should scrap these target . that be add to the uncertainty that the industry feel . if Japan or the USA be consider invest in the UK and they hear what the former Prime Minister , the right hon . member for South West Norfolk , say today about delay our net zero commitment and what Back Benchers have say about get rid of some of these target , it would be hard for they to invest , give that backdrop . the Government need to get a grip and make a decision on which way they be go . be they fix on those date and on give industry the certainty it need , or be they go to carry on heed the call from their back Benches for delay ? the Government ' s industrial neglect have weaken Britain ' s international competitiveness to the extent that Tata be close to build its new gigafactory in Spain . the Government might congratulate themselves on their deal making , but in truth they have only narrowly avoid drive the country headfirst into a disaster . without battery be make here in the UK , it be unlikely that there will be a long - term future for automotive production in this country at all . despite what the Minister say , Britain remain far behind where we need to be and far behind many of our international competitor . if Tata ' s factory make it into operation , the UK will have 66 GW of capacity by 2030 . at that point , Germany will have over 300 GW , Hungary over 200 GW and China over 6 , 000 GW . the Minister say that she be work on the production of a strategy on this . I urge she to speed up . work on the production of something do not give industry the certainty that it be desperately call for . the reality be that this Tory Government be asleep at the wheel and take the future of the automotive industry along for the ride . they have no plan . they be lurch from crisis to crisis , unable to provide industry with the long - term view it desperately need . they need to listen to Mike Hawes , the chief executive of the Society of Motor Manufacturers and Traders , who have implore that " we just need a plan … and we need it urgently " . he be right , but we do not just need a plan ; we need labour ' s plan to turbocharge electric vehicle manufacturing and put the UK ' s automotive industry back in the fast lane . with Labour ' s industrial strategy , industry leader would not have to beg Ministers for action . first , in the face of impend tariff , Labour would prioritise reach an agreement with the European Union to ensure that manufacturer have time to prepare to meet the rule of origin requirement . we know the Tories love to talk about Brexit , but Labour would make it work . secondly , a Labour Government would end the era of stick - plaster solution in the automotive sector . while the Conservatives scramble around for last - minute deal , the next Labour Government would make the long - term investment that industry and worker be cry out for . that be why we would rapidly scale up battery - make capacity by part - fund gigafactorie through our green prosperity plan and end this country ' s reliance on import battery . our plan would create 80 , 000 job , power 2 million electric vehicle and add £ 30 billion to the UK ' s economy . what be more , three quarter of the economic benefit from that strategy would be feel in the midland and the north . the Conservatives talk about level up ; Labour would deliver it . thirdly , we know that transition to electric vehicle be vital to the UK hit our net zero target , but so far this year more public electric vehicle charger have be instal in Westminster than in the entire north of England . labour would give confidence to motorist to make that switch to electric by accelerate the roll - out of charge point with bind target on Government . today ' s press release from the Society of Motor Manufacturers and Traders talk about this very point . we have to do all we can to encourage people to make that switch , but we can not do that without the charger . we have all hear story of people travel from Scotland in electric car and just not be able to charge they because the charging station be not work or do not take the right payment type . that have to be fix , otherwise people will quite understandably not be confident enough to make the switch . fourthly , Labour will make the UK a clean energy superpower . british business such as automotive manufacturer be be hammer by the high energy cost in Europe . our plan to make the UK a clean energy superpower by 2030 would bring down bill , support our vital manufacturing industry and turbocharge the UK ' s international competitiveness . with a plan like that , it be little wonder that a supermajority of investor say that a Labour Government would be the good election outcome for UK market . Labour understand that the automotive industry will flourish only through vision , leadership and partnership . the automotive industry be the jewel in the crown of british manufacturing . it can and should have a bright future create good job for people across the UK . it be Labour ' s industrial strategy that will bring business , worker and union together to safeguard the future of a sector that be the pride of community across the country . it be Labour ' s plan that the sector be cry out for , because the industry deserve well , community deserve well and Britain deserve well . I rise to urge the Government to be careful about rush to close our factory make diesel and petrol car before we have establish the electrical revolution and be confident that we have create the capacity and the extra job in the alternative power system that the hon . member for Croydon Central ( Sarah Jones ) be so passionately recommend . I would ask the Labour Opposition , who seem even keener to close our petrol and diesel capacity more quickly , to consider why Germany , with a far large automotive industry than our own , have decide with the EU to delay the ban on the sale of new petrol and diesel vehicle to 2035 rather than 2030 , and also why Germany think it need to make provision for the possibility that it can make car that work on synthetic fuel or some derivative of hydrogen as an alternative to the battery system as a way of get to a low carbon output . Germany might not be wrong . I think that we will discover as a country that it be much easy to close factory and terminate the production of petrol and diesel car than it be to get those much - want electrical factory into operation , with all the supply chain that that require . be the right hon . Gentleman not make an important admission that although the EU have delay end the manufacture of combustion engine , there be important exemption in that those car should be run only on synthetic fuel and sustainable fuel ? I have say that the EU be keen to explore the synthetic fuel opportunity . in the meantime , it be not recommend the closure of traditional vehicle factory at pace . indeed , the EU have recently require of its member state that they should not only speed up the roll - out of electrical charging point — which will clearly be need if people be to buy more electric car — but roll out the provision of hydrogen refuelling place , not synthetic fuel . it be probably easy to deal with synthetic fuel , because a good synthetic fuel that be liquid at normal temperature can be use in the usual distribution system , use the sunk asset that already exist in the petrol and diesel system . indeed , one of the way to introduce synthetic fuel more easily would be to gradually increase the proportion of synthetic fuel mix into traditional fuel , as we have with E10 petrol and as be be talk about for sustainable aviation fuel , where there be target percentage for the introduction of low carbon ingredient in the fuel . I be very much a supporter of synthetic fuel . I think they will have a role to play in the year move forward . can the right hon . Gentleman tell we what emission synthetic fuel will emit from a combustion engine compare with the current fossil fuel equivalent ? that be to ask , " how long be a piece of string ? " a variety of these fuel be be produce in trial in small quantity . they need to have all their characteristic explore , then people will decide which one give the good green output for the low cost for scale - up . the whole House need to get well at carbon accounting . I hear from all side that unless we go for battery car , we will not meet our net zero target . I be suggest that there may be other way of get close to net zero target through other type of fuel . I also do not quite understand why so many people in the House think that get people to buy electric battery car today help we with our net zero target . let we take the example of a well - off person who decide to replace their petrol or diesel car with an electric battery vehicle . they have enough money to be able to afford one — they be quite expensive — and they be also fortunate in that they have a driveway or personal garage and can pay to have a charger put in at home . they realise that they will always be able to get there and back for short and medium distance without have to rely on unpredictable and rather scarce public charge system , so they be ready to go . when they get home and recharge their car on the first night , however , there be no extra renewable electricity to send to they . we use every bit of renewable electricity every day , whether or not the wind be blow , because it be give priority so , when the car be plug in overnight , a gas power station will probably have to up its output a little to supply the electricity . far from help we to meet our net zero target , that new electric car be probably increase the amount of electricity that have to be generate from fossil fuel . I have read a number of study that attempt to get to the truth of how much of a contribution , or detriment , get more people to switch to electric car might make to reduce world co2 , and there be rather different answer because the calculation be very complicated . I be more persuade by the people who do total - life - of - vehicle calculation . we need to recognise that more co2 be generate in produce a typical electric car , include the battery , than in produce a petrol or diesel car . mine all the metal and mineral need for the battery and battery production be particularly intensive , and more co2 could be produce to deal with the waste when the battery reach the end of its useful life and need to be replace , which be an expensive and complicated task . to beat run a petrol or diesel car for a bit long , a person run an electric car would need to do a very high mileage and would need to make sure that every unit of electricity use to charge the vehicle be generate from zero - carbon source . at the moment , it be very clear that none of these requirement have be meet . although I can understand why we need to encourage people to go on this journey to build up the fleet of electric car , against the day when we generate more zero - carbon electricity , we must accept that , in the short term , it be probably bad news for the world ' s CO2 . I be worried that we may be in danger of not achieve our main green objective , at the same time that we be spend a lot of money on a subsidy war with other country that be similarly desperate to get battery production . I be also very worried that the UK , Europe and , to a less extent , the United States of America be so behind China in put in battery manufacturing capability , and so behind China in do deal with world supplier of critical mineral and battery component , that it place we in a very vulnerable industrial position , which be why both the European Union and the United Kingdom be have difficulty ensure enough value add in electric car to meet our own criterion . that be a common and shared problem , and the solution be not easy because we need to leapfrog 10 year , or whatever , to get to the point at which we have control over the mineral , the raw material and the production of battery so we can meet those criterion . I be also very worried about how customer be leave out of most of these debate . they be take for grant and , when they do not behave in quite the way that politician would like , politician invent taxis , subsidy and ban to say , " well , we be go to make you choose a car you would not have choose for yourself , because we do not think you be make the right choice . " I would rather live in a world in which the hugely talented motor industry , and all the skilled scientist and technologist who help it , work away at produce car that be well , more affordable , safe , high quality and meet our service requirement so that we willingly buy the electric or synthetic fuel alternative , rather than stick to petrol or diesel vehicle . we be not there yet , as we can see . the proportion of people want to buy electric car be still a minority , despite all the very aggressive advertising , promotion and political weight behind they . part of that be affordability , part of it be range , part of it be the worry about refuelling and part of it be uncertainty about battery life and repair . there be many complicated decision when try to make such a big switch in product availability , and people have come to like their traditional petrol or diesel vehicle . they have the measure of those vehicle and think they provide a very good service . as a country , we should not get too far ahead of our electorate and consumer . if we look at the fast growth of electric car sale , from a very low base , we will find that it be much more concentrated in the business fleet market than in the personal choice market , because company feel under more of a moral imperative to buy into this idea , which I have just expose as somewhat odd , that these be super - green vehicle , whereas individual say , " but it be not affordable , it be not practical and it be not what I want . " do the right hon . Gentleman accept that the reason why fleet purchase be now massively outstrip personal purchase be the tax incentive give to fleet purchase , whereas the incentive for private purchase have all but disappear under this government ? the hon . Gentleman make a very good point , and it be an additional reinforcement , but I think fleet buyer be also very conscious of the environmental requirement . I stress that , for this to work , it have to be a popular revolution . million of people have to decide for themselves , have listen to the argument and see the product , that green product be well than the old product , and in some case they very clearly be and people will rush out to buy they . if we be still in a world in which people be not of that view , we can subsidise , tax and lecture all we like , but people will not change their mind . one of the way in which business and people could get around any attempt by this Government or a future Government to ban all sale of new petrol and diesel vehicle in 2030 , when the rest of the world be not do so , be that people will set up business to import nearly new petrol and diesel car from place that still sell they and make they , to sell they as second - hand car on the UK market . I do not believe anyone be suggest that we ban the sale of second - hand diesel and petrol car , as that would immediately remove all the value from our car , mean that we be prisoner — we either run the car until it fall to piece or we lose its value and be unable to make the change we would normally make . there will have to be a definition of what be a new car , and it will presumably have something to do with how long ago it be make and / or how many mile it have on the clock . whatever the definition , there will then be a good opportunity for people to sell car that be four month old , rather than three month old , or that have 3 , 000 mile on the clock instead of 500 delivery mile . there would be a nearly new market , but the car would all be import , because people here would try to obey the law . I urge all politician to remember that they can not just lecture , ban , tax or subsidise people into do thing unless the product have an underlie merit that people can see . can we please work with the industry to prove that underlie merit ? and do not ban thing in the meantime , because Britain will lose job and factory . we can not save the electric vehicle until the electric vehicle save itself . I call the SNP spokesperson . it be a pleasure to follow the right hon . member for Wokingham ( John Redwood ) , who make a very interesting speech . he ask many of the right question , and he even come up with one or two right answer . I disagree with many of his conclusion , but it be interesting none the less . the right hon . Gentleman talk about the electricity that will charge these battery at home , in term of renewable versus gas , etc . obviously , in Scotland we will have a massive excess of renewable electricity in the come year to power our electric vehicle , and we have a couple of large hydrogen scheme ready to go that will be power by excess renewable electricity . this will add additional baseload to the grid in Scotland . I do agree , however , with what the right hon . Gentleman say about a stick approach to consumer , as I do not want to see the Government produce a large stick . I make the point in an intervention that they have withdraw many of the incentive to switch to electric vehicle . I prefer a much more balanced approach , where there be a carrot and a stick , particularly give that the price of EVs be still high relatively than internal combustion engine car . we want the switchover to electric car and to our decarbonised future to be open to everyone , not just to people such as we in this Chamber , who can potentially afford it — I speak as an ev owner . the Minister , like the Secretary of State today at the Society of Motor Manufacturers and Traders electrify event , which have be mention , be extremely bullish about the UK automotive industry , and recent announcement on the investment highlight by the Minister and the Secretary of State early today be warmly welcome . but right now they be a fig leaf to cover deep issue — one largely not cause by the sector itself . the UK automotive sector have a great many string to its bow , but the challenge it face be real and immediate . they include : the spectre of Brexit ; slow and unresponsive UK Government policy , include the complete lack of an overall industry strategy , let alone a strategy for the sector ; and an ongoing culture war within the conservative party about the net zero agenda . of course , there be also the concern pace of the Department for Transport ' s ev charge infrastructure roll - out to consider , which highlight the contrast between Scotland ' s rapid ev charge network and the shortcoming in England , particularly outside London . the disastrous decision to leave the European Union — one that be make for Scotland — have have profound consequence for many sector , and the automotive industry be no exception . the intricate supply chain , just - in - time manufacturing process and integrate regulatory framework that once underpin our automotive sector have be disrupt , cause uncertainty and economic turbulence . Brexit have lead to increase cost for manufacturer , who now face custom check , tariff , and regulatory divergence when export to our european neighbour . that have force many manufacturer to reconsider their operation in the UK , lead to job loss and a loss of investment . it be dangerous to have this doom - mongering . Triumph Motorcycles in my constituency , for example , have see its export across the world , in emerge market such as Asia and America , go from 40 , 000 to 70 , 000 in the past three year . be that not exactly what we want to see from a bold UK , one that be look outward and expand across the world ? Triumph , right in my constituency , be a prime example of it . I be grateful for the intervention and , obviously , that be a triumph for Triumph , but it be very much the exception that prove the rule , as I be about to go on to state . I congratulate Triumph on its export success , but Brexit have cause immense damage to our automotive sector , with real - world consequence for worker and community . since Brexit , car production in the UK have plummet from about 1 . 7 million in 2017 to just 840 , 000 in the 12 month lead up to July this year . factory produce just 775 , 014 car during 2022 , the low figure since 1956 . despite the much more positive recent news on investment , which have be mention , the new post - Brexit rule of origin that come into effect in January , which place tariff of 10 % on export of electric car between the UK and the EU if at least 45 % of their value do not originate in the UK or EU , will be deeply damaging . the Minister mention Stellantis , the world ' s fourth large car manufacturer , which have recently warn that a commitment to make ev in Britain be in jeopardy unless the Government renegotiate their Brexit deal with the EU to maintain exist trade rule until 2027 . Mike Hawes , the chief executive of SMMT , speak at the very same conference as the Secretary of State , echo similar sentiment . of course , the dog on the street know that Brexit have be a disaster and they also now know that Labour own this Brexit every bit as much as the Tory party . there be no mitigating , fix or polish Brexit , and the sad thing be that the Leader of the Opposition and the vast majority of those behind he also know that to be true . to compound that issue , the UK Government ' s approach to support both the industry and consumer during this period of upheaval have be less than ideal . we have witness unresponsive Government policy that lack a comprehensive strategy for the sector ' s future . the industry , a cornerstone of our economy , deserve a clear vision and target support to ensure its competitiveness and sustainability in a rapidly evolve global landscape . the ZEV — zero emission vehicle — mandate be a case in point , because on paper it be a good thing and it have cross - party support , save from some conservative Members , but it have be bungle from start to finish . I say " finish " , but we still do not know the final detail of the policy , and how it will be enact or enforce , even though it be schedule to kick in next year . Mike Hawes say this morning that " until we see the regulation , we can ' t plan , and if we can not plan , we can not deliver . " furthermore , the culture war within the conservative party about the net zero agenda be sow seed of confusion and inaction . this morning , Mike Hawes have a message for the Conservatives , dress up in a rhetorical reference they might understand : " with respect , and I choose my word carefully — very carefully — where there be uncertainty may the Government bring certainty because on decarbonisation this industry be not for turn . " we should all be unite , not so much in quote Margaret Thatcher — many in this Chamber might like I to do so , but it will not win I any vote — but in our effort to combat climate change and achieve net zero emission . we be instead witness political infighting that threaten to derail our progress . it be time for the conservative party to put aside its internal division and focus on the press issue of climate change . one crucial aspect of that transition be the promotion of EVs . the Scottish Government have take decisive step to support green transport , and we will continue to support the automotive industry to phase out the need for petrol and diesel car by 2030 . the most obvious example of this be on the charge infrastructure , particularly the rapid charging infrastructure , which I will come back to , but Scotland have also shine on incentive to drive switching from combustion engine to EVs . over the past 10 year , Scottish Government grant funding have provide more than £ 165 million of interest - free loan to support the purchase of more than 6 , 100 vehicle , include my own — I have already declare that . if we look at that from a UK Government spending perspective , we see that that be the equivalent of £ 1 . 6 billion for 61 , 000 vehicle . the Scottish Government have provide nearly £ 5 million to support the installation of more than 16 , 000 home charge point across Scotland , which be the equivalent of nearly £ 50 million for 160 , 000 home charger — that be over and above the Office for Zero Emission Vehicles grant funding from the UK Government . the Scottish Government have also provide the equivalent of more than £ 100 million to deliver 15 , 000 charge point to business . rise — I suspect I know what the hon . Gentleman be go to say about Northern Ireland , but I will give way to he . the hon . Gentleman be set out a good case for what the Scottish National party have do in Scotland , and it be much welcome . in Northern Ireland , we have a real shortfall , because electric car be be encourage but there be not enough charging point . have he take into consideration the rural community , who depend upon their diesel car in my area ? it be not possible to have ev charging point in the rural community , where it be need , just as it be in the urban area . praise for the SNP from the Democratic Unionist party might also not feature on my leaflet in the west of Scotland , as that might cause more problem than help . however , the hon . Gentleman make a good point about rural charger , as they be certainly part of the solution . internal combustion engine and so on will clearly have to be part of the mix for some time to come for those in rural community . that be where Scotland have take a different approach over the past decade and more . Scotland have a comprehensive charge network , but the part of it that be the most comprehensive be in the highland , the Western Isles and Orkney — they be in the rural and island location , where the private sector would not invest and so the Scottish Government invest to make sure that there be a charge infrastructure for the highland and island . however , I fully accept the general point he be make . to come back to a point make in the speech by the right hon . member for Wokingham , Orkney have the second high rate of ev ownership in the UK , but that be hardly a surprise , as Orkney have the high number of public ev charger per capita in the UK outside London — this be four time the english rate outside of London . the lesson be clear : give driver confidence in the charge network , combine with incentive , and people will switch to EVs . we still have a long way to go . in Norway , 20 % of all car on the road and 80 % of all new car be ev . that be where we could be ; in fact , that be where we should be . Alexander Dennis Limited be a world leader in bus manufacturing and one of Scotland ' s key manufacturer and exporter of high - quality product around the world . just this year , its Enviro200AV electric fleet be use as the vehicle of choice for the autonomous bus service across the iconic Forth Road bridge . as diesel and petrol bus be phase out and replace with zero emission vehicle — at least , that should be the plan — ADL be innovate with new electric battery technology that will ultimately benefit the environment and transport network . however , that require UK Government support and , so far , their record on bus leave much to be desire . there have be 558 zero emission bus order in Scotland through the Scottish Government ' s ScotZEB and SULEBS — the Scottish zero emission bus challenge fund and scottish ultra - low emission bus scheme — which be the equivalent of around 5 , 600 bus in England . let we bear in mind that the previous Prime Minister ' s target be 4 , 000 in England and that the vast majority of the zero emission bus order in Scotland be actually on the road . the figure equate to 10 . 1 bus per 100 , 000 people , compare with just 0 . 94 per 100 , 000 deliver through equivalent scheme in England , outside London . that be an extraordinary gulf in both ambition and delivery . do the hon . Gentleman have any thought on how the Government should go about replace all the lose petrol and diesel taxis if electric vehicle take off ? I be not sure I hear the right hon . Gentleman ' s question correctly . would he mind repeat it ? my point be that if we achieve a big switch to electric car , the United Kingdom will lose a huge amount of petrol and diesel tax . how should we replace that lose tax revenue ? that be a very astute intervention . I do not pick up that he say the word " tax " , so apology for ask he to repeat the question . it be a fair point . I be a member of the Transport Committee and we work on a report about that a while back . the elephant in the room be that we will have to look at something to replace the current form of taxation . the SNP do not have a policy on whether that be road pricing or whatever , but we have to have that conversation and we have to have it now . we all know that revenue at the Treasury be already an issue , and will become an ever - increase issue every year , so we have to have that debate soon rather than later . I rather suspect we will not hear much about it before the election , but after the election that debate will have to begin in earnest . of course , in an independent Scotland we would have control of the same fiscal and tax incentive that have encourage those huge level of electric vehicle uptake in country such as Norway . the Department for Transport ' s poor record on ev charging be a glare obstacle on our path to decarbonisation . when compare to some of our european counterpart , the deficiency in our charge network be stark . we must acknowledge that reliable and widespread ev charging infrastructure be essential to encourage the adoption of electric vehicle and reduce carbon emission from the transport sector . Scotland ' s approach to rapid ev charging infrastructure be an example of what can be achieve . the SNP Scottish Government have make huge stride in expand the ev charging infrastructure , with one hand tie behind their back . the network have grow from 55 charge point in 2013 to over 2 , 500 charge point in 2023 . in fact , the late figure , publish in July by the DFT , show Scotland have 72 . 7 charger per 100 , 000 people , which be around 40 % more per head than english region outside London , and 19 . 2 rapid charger per head , which be nearly double London ' s figure of 10 . 7 . the lack of rapid charge infrastructure in many english region , and much of Northern Ireland , make charge a postcode lottery and hamper the transition to EVs , leave resident without reliable option for charge their car that imbalance be not only detrimental to our environmental goal , but exacerbate regional disparity . one would think address those imbalance would be a priority for a Government who have be talk about level up for quite some time . the challenge face the industry be multifaceted and require immediate attention and action . brexit ' s disruptive influence , unresponsive government policy and the internal strife within the Tory party be hinder our effort to tackle climate change and transition to a sustainable future . the Scottish Government have lead the way on transport decarbonisation , from the ev incentive and charge infrastructure I have talk about and decarbonise our railway at twice the pace of the UK Government , to many time more electric bus per head , fund , buy and actually on the road , those 21 and under travel free on those same bus , and the gulf — the chasm — in investment in active travel . we have show what we can do despite the dead hand of Westminster , so just imagine what we can do when that hand be remove by independence . it be a great pleasure to take part in this debate on the UK automotive industry because I grow up in a village just outside the traditional heart of UK car manufacturing . one of my early memory , as I walk to primary school in the morning , be worker return home from the night shift at one of the many car factory that exist in Coventry at that time . I be very much aware of the heritage of the automobile industry in my local area . in fact , we have two excellent local museum that display historic british car : Coventry Transport Museum , in Coventry city centre , which include Queen Mary ' s 1935 Daimler and the iconic Coventry - build 1975 Jaguar E - Type , and the British Motor Museum , in Gaydon , where there be over 400 classic british car from major manufacturer such as Austin , Morris , Hillman and Triumph . over my lifetime , I have see huge change in the origin of the car on our road . in my early year , they be mostly domestically manufacture . in the 1960 , I look out for european car , such as the Volkswagen Beetle , and then in the 1970 we see the introduction of japanese car , such as the reliable , small Datsuns . in recent year , the majority of car on our road have be manufacture outside the UK . however , it be two - way traffic . while the proportion of import have rise , so have the proportion of our export , as the automotive market have become international rather than national or even continental . now some 80 % of our production be export , generate £ 77 billion in trade , as buyer across the world recognise the kudo of UK brand such as Land Rover , Range Rover , Jaguar and Mini . at the same time , overseas - base manufacturer , see the opportunity provide by the UK ' s membership of the european single market , choose to manufacture their vehicle in Sunderland , Derbyshire and Swindon and , more recently , there have be investment in Ellesmere Port , Oxford and south Wales . I have raise the issue of heritage and the impact of personal ownership of automotive , as car be not just another manufactured product . for most people , a car be the second most expensive item they will ever acquire and there be few other item where there be such an emotive personal connection . I do not know many people who could tell I what brand of fridge or washing machine they or their parent own , but almost all will know what brand of car they drive and how they identify with it . we need to generate the maximum impact from our iconic brand . there be not just emotional reason for support UK manufacture ; there be hard - nosed commercial one as well , because automotive manufacture provide highly - pay skilled job . there be 160 , 000 job in the manufacture of automobile , which be 0 . 6 % of the UK total . that be even more significant in the west midland , where 2 . 2 % of all employee work in automotive , include many in my constituency of Rugby . a large number of employee work at the London Electric Vehicle Company at Ansty Park , in my constituency , and at Jaguar Land Rover at Gaydon , and many more work in the supply chain , such as at Automotive Insulations on Central Park industrial estate in Rugby and Lenoch Engineering on Somers Road . in 2022 , the manufacturing of vehicle and part contribute £ 13 . 3 billion to the UK economy — it be 0 . 6 % of UK total output . when it come to tell good news story — it be always good to tell they in this Chamber — Wrightbus in Ballymena would be one , encourage by this government and this Minister . one thousand job be create in Ballymena , with those bus be sell all over the United Kingdom but also across the world . therefore , when there be good news story to tell , let we tell they . I agree wholeheartedly . it be great to see Wrightbus ' s product on the street in London . although important and significant , the sector have see decline , particularly in the number of vehicle produce . we peak at 1 . 5 million unit in 2015 ; that drop to 775 , 000 . the Society of Motor Manufacturers and Traders be project 860 , 000 unit this year and 1 million by 2028 — still low than the peak year , but we generally produce high - value car , which be a key point to remember . the challenge for we be to maintain our volume as the sector undergo massive change . that arise from the worldwide move to electrically power vehicle as a consequence of the imperative to reduce co2 emission . I still sit on the Business and Trade Committee . in October 2018 , we produce a report on the sector , decarbonisation and the introduction of electric vehicle . I have to reread that report to remind myself that it be almost five year ago . we look at the opportunity that would present themselves as we effect the transition from internal combustion engine - power car . many of the issue that we consider five year ago be still relevant , but in other area we have make progress . in August , almost four in 10 new car that be sell in the UK have some form of electric power , with 20 % be purely battery electric , 7 . 7 % plug - in hybrid and 6 . 8 % hybrid , in a market that grow by 24 . 4 % over the previous year . my right hon . friend the Member for Wokingham ( John Redwood ) speak about the role of the consumer . Most car driver know that electric vehicle be come . Most people will know someone who drive one , or who speak enthusiastically about it and be prepare for that change . Most people by now have already be drive in an electric vehicle and , often , that will be an electric London taxi , manufacture in my constituency . on that pathway , the London Electric Vehicle Company have a pioneering role in the sector . in many case , the move to electric will be champion by the cabbie , because every cabbie who drive an electric vehicle will speak very highly of it , compare with the diesel alternative . however , there remain those who be not convince by the need to decarbonise or to move to electric vehicle as the solution , and there will also be people who do not support the ambition to get to net zero by 2050 . do the hon . member accept that there be another cohort of people , who be in fact the majority of our constituent , who may like to move to an electric vehicle , but simply can not afford to do so ? the hon . Gentleman make a good point and I will make some remark on that issue in just a second . the view about the need to support our move to net zero , and the step that we need to take , be very much mainstream . the environment be still a top issue , and a rise issue among people in the country more generally . it be in the top five when people be ask about issue face the world . climate change be consistently there above poverty , war and migration . therefore , there be an increase acceptance of the need for change , but the question be over the pace of change . back in 2017 , our date for end the sale of conventional petrol and diesel - power vehicle be 2040 . in the BEIS Committee report , we call for all new car and van to be truly zero emission by 2032 , bring the target forward eight year . as a Member of Parliament with an interest in UK auto - manufacturing and close to business that be involve in it , at the time we prepare the report five year ago , I be concerned that bring the target forward be too ambitious . I be really bother that it would put our UK - base manufacturer at a disadvantage because I believe they would struggle to electrify the UK - manufacture heavy and large car . however , it soon become clear that manufacturer such as Jaguar Land Rover be willing to move fast , with Jaguar very soon to become an all - electric brand . we now have the date set at 2030 . have set that date , and with the good news that we have have recently of BMW ' s investment in the mini plant at Oxford , and the manufacture of all electric product at Ellesmere Port , it be vital that the Government stick to the 2030 date . there be voice make the case for relaxation , but Ministers and the Government should stand firm because what industry need be some certainty . to take up the point of the hon . member for Paisley and Renfrewshire North ( Gavin Newlands ) , I accept that there be a case about the high cost of electric vehicle , compare with those power by an internal combustion engine . in many case , the new vehicle be something in the order of £ 10 , 000 more expensive on a like - for - like basis . interestingly , many manufacturer — I have in mind Volkswagen — be bring out new model , rather than electrify the exist model range , to avoid a direct comparison . of course , the high purchase price can be offset by low running cost . the electricity cost less than petrol or diesel where the price be inflate by the addition of fuel duty . there will be low servicing cost on the electric vehicle as a consequence of their have few move part . however , I accept that , for some people , the high cost be an obstacle . as we have hear , some country be far down the road in the manufacturing of EVs , with a range of new model ready to come into the UK . I have in mind China , which , accord to many industry watcher , have up to 10 new brand to launch in the UK by the end of the decade . although they will be less expensive than UK or European - produce product , they will not be as attractive to the consumer because they will not possess the brand and heritage , which be a big part of the value . UK manufacturer will have to take on this competition and , in many case , that will mean , as they already be , focus on high - quality , more upmarket model . that mean that , when we look at the performance in the UK , it will be as important to focus on revenue derive from sale as on unit sell . the danger be that China will try to acquire some of those brand attribute . after all , China own MG , do it not ? I accept that point , but chinese manufacturer be intend to bring to the UK a load of brand that be anonymous and bland and they will not have the same attractiveness to the consumer . on the incentive to acquire an electric vehicle , in recent year , there have be a cash grant to offset the extra cost of an ev . that now stand , I think , at £ 1 , 500 towards a vehicle cost less than £ 32 , 000 . one way the Government could make a change and provide a reason for many private buyer to buy EVs be to level the play field between private buyer and company car user . we have already hear that company driver benefit from favourable benefit - in - kind rate , which mean that they can save hundred of pound each month if they choose an ev over an internal combustion engine . one reason that employer be keen to encourage that be that they make saving on employer ' national insurance contribution . that be why many of the ev on our road be company car . an increase number of company be also offer salary sacrifice scheme as a method of get staff to switch to an ev . it would be beneficial if the parliamentary authority be to launch such a programme in Parliament as a way of get mps and staff here to consider make the change . on electrical vehicle charge , in our Select Committee report , we spend a lot of time consider charge infrastructure . we know that , in addition to the high capital cost , range anxiety be a key reason driver will not switch . frankly , I hope the Minister will accept that the picture here be less rosy , with public charging in particular failing to keep pace with increase number of electric vehicle . I get a sense of the challenge when the most recent motorway service open at junction 1 of the m6 at Rugby in 2021 . at one point , because of the lack of power infrastructure , it look as though the site would open with only two charge point . it be a real challenge to get enough power but , fortunately , good work by the site operator and the power network enable 24 charge point to be available at the opening . thank to additional provision since 2021 , there be now 40 charge point at junction 1 of the m6 at Rugby . it be a great place for people to stop in the middle of a long journey across England . too often , charger be busy or be not work . I happen to notice a letter in the Times today from a driver of an electric vehicle , who recount that he restrict his round trip to his battery ' s limit of 240 mile and take public transport for long journey . in fact , he question — perhaps with tongue in cheek — whether that be the Government ' s intentional strategy . clearly we will not achieve the transition we need if every electric vehicle have that issue . I appeal to the Minister to intervene with my local authority . Warwickshire County Council be provide public charge point but be allow anybody to park in front of they for as long as they like , so someone who have identify a vacant charger via the app may get to a site and find a diesel internal combustion engine - power vehicle occupy it . that seem absolutely crazy . I ask the Minister to put pressure on local authority to ensure that parking in front of public ev charger be available only to electric vehicle , and that they move off once they have finish charge . a further issue for many ev driver be that charge at a public site have a high cost than charge at home . I suspect most EV driver expect to pay more for use the facility and for charge fast , but I do not know how many realise that they be pay 20 % vat , compare with just 5 % at home . that be why I support the campaign by the motoring journalist Quentin Willson to reform vat and equalise the charge . we spend a lot of time talk about battery manufacture ; in fact , the Business and Trade Committee be conduct an inquiry into it . the conventional thinking be that because a battery represent 40 % of the value and weight of an electric vehicle , assembly will migrate close to where the battery be manufacture . West midland mps , include I , have be call for the development of a gigafactory at the Coventry airport site , adjacent to the traditional heart of UK automotive manufacture . I very much welcome the investment come to Somerset from Tata Sons , with 40 GW of capability , but it be well accept that we need 100 GW to keep business operate at the same level . to achieve that , we will need one more gigafactory , or maybe two . I very much hope that that will happen in the midland , at the Coventry airport site . five year on from our Select Committee report , automotive remain an important sector and a major contributor to the UK economy . the transition to EVs present real opportunity for manufacturer , the supply chain and the associated sector . the one thing I know from my business career be that business need certainty . have embark on change for all the right reason , the Government must maintain their course and create the climate for further growth in future year . it be a pleasure to follow the hon . member for Rugby ( Mark Pawsey ) . I echo he in urge the Government to stick to the 2030 target — a point that I will make in my speech . the climate emergency will not go away . surface transport be responsible for nearly a third of the UK ' s carbon emission , and more than half of surface transport emission come from private car and taxi . the electric vehicle transition be therefore vital . the 2030 target to end the sale of new petrol and diesel vehicle be an important tool to bring we towards decarbonisation . it give the industry the certainty for which it so often ask , and it have work : sale of EVs in the UK be exceed expectation , accord to Chris Stark of the Climate Change Committee . that give we confidence that the 2030 target be achievable , prove all the naysayer wrong . report suggest , however , that the Government have be tempt to cut the " green crap " and that they will water down this important target . the permanent fear that the UK Government will go back on their word weaken our automotive industry . a tough target be well than persistent u - turn . we Liberal Democrats have consistently encourage the automotive industry to embrace the future and to transition from petrol and diesel to electric car . we need a Government who be equally commit and who will not be derail by their Back Benchers . I be very pleased that BMW will build the new electric Mini in Oxford ; it be a significant investment that demonstrate the economic opportunity . I be even more excited that Somerset will host a new gigafactory for battery production . those be important milestone on which we must build . we now need a long - term strategy to truly grow the industry . Transport & Environment UK be worried about how much of the more than £ 800 million in the automotive transformation fund have be spend . it be concerned that wide investment can not be maintain without expensive subsidy . uncertainty around the zero - emission vehicle mandate and the lack of an overall industrial strategy add to those concern . the Government have a poor track record when it come to build electric vehicle supply chain . the collapse of Britishvolt be a staggering blow . when he be Chancellor , the Prime Minister say that Britishvolt " will produce enough battery for over 300 , 000 electric vehicle each year " . now Britishvolt will produce none . mistake be make at the company , but be there really nothing that the Government could have do to prevent the loss of such an important business ? if we be to build an ev industry in the UK , we must ensure that there be enough demand . the Government must support manufacturer as global player . as we have hear , a clause in the UK Government ' s Brexit deal mean that at the end of this year , British - make ev will face tariff of up to 22 % when export to the EU if they do not contain 40 % local content . that put UK manufacturer at a huge disadvantage . I would like to know what the Government , rather than overblowe the perceive Brexit benefit , be actually do about an acute issue that be put the future of motor manufacturing in the UK at great risk . although the sale target for commercial ev be very encouraging , private uptake of EVs be prove more difficult . we have hear many of the reason for that , but the main barrier for potential private buyer , apart from cost , remain charge anxiety . so far , EVs be not a realistic option for householder who can not park or charge their car outside or near their home . in last year ' s EV infrastructure strategy , the Government make no firm commitment that infrastructure roll - out would rise in line with ev market uptake . recent Government statistic show that only 19 % of all charger be rapid charger . that be a problem for long - distance travel : people can not be expect to wait for hour to charge their car when they be on the go . we Liberal Democrats would invest urgently to speed up the installation of rapid charging point throughout the country . rapid charger must be instal where people will use they . Motorway service station must therefore be the no . 1 priority , but we must consider other location , too . be the hon . Lady also worry that there be a lack of cable capacity under our street and of grid capacity to get the power to those fast charger ? how long will that take to resolve and how will that be do ? I share the right hon . Gentleman ' s concern , which be why we consistently make the case for upgrade the grid . that be one of the most important thing for get to net zero in the UK , not just for vehicle charging , but for the roll - out of all the electric infrastructure we need for our many renewable energy installation . I share his concern , but the solution be not to stop the roll - out of electric vehicle ; it be to improve the grid and get thing speed up as quickly as possible . if , for example , electric charge point be instal in place where non - electric vehicle park , such as in lamp post or bollard , valuable charge space will be lose . we Liberal Democrats would give grant to parish and town council to install charge facility where they will actually be use — for instance , at village and community hall . it be important that the Government do not stop the incentive for ev uptake . they must stop penalise people who can not charge their ev at home . driver currently pay 20 % value add tax to use a public charge point , compare with 5 % vat for home charging . that unjustifiable discrepancy must end and the vat rate for all electric vehicle charge must be equalise at 5 % . electric vehicle will drive we down the road to net zero . infrastructure and incentive will be vital . what we need be a Government who be willing to fuel this transition , rather than be content to trundle along in the slow lane . I refer the House to my entry in the Register of Members ' Financial Interests . I be delighted to speak in this debate , because we can not have a debate on this issue without consideration of the role of the west midland . I be honour to follow my hon . friend the Member for Rugby ( Mark Pawsey ) , who have speak passionately both in this debate and previously on this topic . we also can not have this debate without talk about the role of my constituent in Meriden and in Solihull borough . the automotive industry be more than just an employer in the west midland ; it be part of our dna . the early report of a car manufacturer stretch as far back as the late 19th century . we have be the home of a number of household name , most recently Jaguar Land Rover . some of these stat have already be mention , but to give context to the power of the automotive industry in the west midland , in 2019 we make more than £ 14 billion - worth of export — double the total of any other region in the UK and about 36 % of the UK total . the UK automotive sector employ about 160 , 000 people across the country , a third of they in the west midland . the Jaguar Land Rover plant in Solihull borough have 9 , 000 employee , many of they my constituent . the plant be responsible for some iconic car , include the Range Rover , the Range Rover Sport , the Discovery and the Defender , and long may that continue . however , like the rest of the country , the automotive sector be in a decade of transition , and it be the transition to electric vehicle that I want to focus on . as have be say , the one thing that business hate and despise be uncertainty . it undermine confidence , make it impossible for they to plan and invest , and ultimately result in lose opportunity . while I understand the challenge of the 2030 transition , the decision have be make , and now it be our job to support the automotive sector to achieve its goal . I be pleased that the commitment from Government have continue to highlight that , and we must continue to do so . to give an example , Jaguar Land Rover have already commit £ 15 billion to develop new electric model , and we already know about the £ 4 billion investment in the gigafactory in Somerset . in the west midland over the past five year production have significantly ramp up and billion have be invest in the region . despite the naysayer , the doom - monger and all those talk down the automotive sector , the transition to fully electric vehicle have not scare off the industry — in fact , it have spur it on . I also share the concern of my hon . friend the Member for Rugby when the announcement be first make , but the opposite be true : Jaguar Land Rover have a seven - year investment plan and be already on its way . I think it will be fully electric in its vehicle production by 2025 , way early than the 2030 deadline , and just last week we hear about BMW invest £ 600 million in Oxford to build the iconic Mini . we have hear concern about ev charging , but I take a different view . I think it be for the private sector to deliver it . just two week ago , at the National Exhibition Centre in my constituency , my right hon . friend the Chancellor , the Mayor of the West Midlands Andy Street , and I open the UK ' s large ev charge network , arguably the large in Europe . I say arguably , because I think it be the large in Europe , but other argue to the contrary . certainly it be the large in the UK , and it now have the capacity to charge 180 vehicle at the same time with fast charging . if you be ever in my part of the world in your ev , Madam Deputy Speaker , please do stop over at the National Exhibition Centre . you will see the sign . the key thing be that that be all drive by private sector investment . I hear what the hon . Gentleman say about private investment , but be he not worried , as I be , about how many different app and different way to charge their vehicle consumer will have to have ? how do he propose that that could be unify to make thing easy for consumer ? that be an interesting point ; there be a conversation about that on the day . there be a recognition that there will be a variety of way that charge can happen , and the industry itself say it will adapt . the opening of the car charge park , which as I say be the large in the UK , with the industry commit to do much more across the country , be a prime example of how the private sector will lead the way . the hon . Lady make a good point that charge network have to be in a place where the car can get to they , but I be confident and I have more optimism than she do . I think they will get there through pure necessity : the consumer will demand it and the market will supply it . I be pleased to see my hon . friend the new Member for Uxbridge and South Ruislip ( Steve Tuckwell ) join we in the House . I campaign for he and I think the people of Uxbridge and South Ruislip make the right decision . however , after the campaign a parallel be draw , wrongly in my opinion , between a deeply damaging ultra low emission zone policy impose by the ideological Mayor of London , who as the Uxbridge result demonstrate be clearly out of touch with his resident , and the transition to ev . as someone who be pro the EV transition , who understand that business need certainty to plan and that they be already on the way , I think we need to be able to welcome challenge from colleague . this be probably one of the most transformative transition the industry and the country — probably even the world — be go to go through , as transformative as the industrial revolution of the 18th and 19th century . we owe it to our constituent to ensure that , when the challenge come , we look at they over and over again , whether on ev charging , gigafactorie or the cost of ev themselves . the transition have to be affordable . my right hon . friend the Member for Wokingham ( John Redwood ) talk about put the consumer at the heart of this , and he be right . we have to appeal to more than the heart ; we have to make sure that it make economic sense for household and hard - work family across Britain . as people who be pro the transition , we must respect the challenge from those who argue against it . we have a responsibility to come up with the answer and to show leadership in that way . the charge park that I refer to be a good example of that , and the investment by Jaguar Land Rover be a great example of its commitment to ensure that EVs will be the future , something that we will not only use in the UK , but export across the world . I think the debate on net zero and whether the journey to get there be correct be happen in the wrong term . I know the opposition have already speak about their £ 28 billion a year net zero package , but I note that it be not yet clear how they will fund that . in reality , the only answer be that either they will borrow , or they will tax hard - work family and business until their pip squeak and the industry fall to its knee . it be no wonder that they have align themselves with organisation such as just stop Oil that want to destroy the automotive sector , kill off job and ensure that their brand of socialism be the way forward . we can see that because , of course , the Labour party have take a £ 1 . 5 million donation from organisation such as just stop Oil . I understand why Labour want to write big cheque , include the £ 28 billion plan : it be afraid of a market - drive approach , which would unleash our potential and power as a nation . a free market approach mean a belief in freedom — the freedom to innovate ; the freedom of the consumer to choose the product that they want to buy , drive up quality , which will be absolutely necessary as we get international competitor such as the Chinese ; and , of course , freedom from the shackle of socialism . we know that that freedom will be necessary if we be to deliver the transition to net zero . I welcome the debate . I be optimistic about the opportunity present by the automotive sector . I will always fight for my constituent in Meriden and Solihull borough to be part of a thriving industry that will compete globally for many decade to come . I call the shadow Minister . over the last few month , I have — high vis and hard hat at the ready — be blow away by the possibility in our automotive industry , but I have also feel the force of the headwind face the sector , include EU rule of origin , high electricity price in manufacturing , the slow roll - out of ev charge point , the shortage of gigafactory capacity , delay to the zero - emission vehicle mandate , and , of course , the continue fallout from the way in which the Conservatives crash the economy this time last year . the fact be that it be only through a partnership with Government that our vehicle manufacturer can achieve last success in a world where new technology offer opportunity , and competition from new participant such as China be more of a challenge than ever . that be what other country be do — other country that be ahead of we in the low - carbon transport transition race . I mention my recent visit . I see the pride of the Stellantis worker at Ellesmere Port , where they produce electric van for Peugeot , Citro ë n and Fiat , as well as for Vauxhall , and where they want to expand production to be able to export , as they tell my hon . friend the Member for Ellesmere Port and Neston ( Justin Madders ) and I just a few week ago . I see the ingenuity on display at the Jaguar Land Rover research and development facility at Gaydon , and JLR ' s " Reimagine " project and commitment to all electric across a number of its brand . then there be ULEMCo in my constituency — please look it up — which have pioneer the use of hydrogen as a drop - in fuel to exist internal combustion engine to cut emission while full hydrogen option for combustion and fuel cell be be develop . those , and many more , be example of the amazing potential in this country . however , they be all example in which uncertainty must be address to ensure that our automotive industry can thrive . the honest truth be that we be in danger of squander the advantage that we have in vehicle manufacturing . UK motor vehicle production level have fall by 37 % since the Conservatives come to office in 2010 — one of the large fall in vehicle production of any country . eight in every 10 car produce in the UK be export , yet export of car manufacture in the UK fall by 14 % in 2022 . the Faraday Institute estimate that the UK will need 200 GWh of gigafactory supply by 2040 . other country be on track , but we be off the pace . the news of a gigafactory from JLR be , of course , very welcome , but it do not address the demand from the rest of the industry . we still have the cautionary tale of the failure at Britishvolt as a reminder of the precarious nature of gigafactory development . the problem of the lack of gigafactory capacity be repeat with ev charge point : the Government target of 300 , 000 charge point be set to be miss by at least a decade . meanwhile , parking bay for van be often inaccessible at charge point . the UK have no equivalent to the plan in Germany for dedicated commercial vehicle charge every 60 km to 100 km . speak of commercial vehicle , where be the plan for hydrogen refuelling for large vehicle that will use hydrogen combustion or fuel - cell technology ? Reliance on import of battery be directly link to the question of local content and how UK - produce vehicle will be able to compete in export market . from next year , a 10 % tariff will apply to car and 22 % to van when rule of origin be exceed . that will , during a cost of live crisis , also push up price for consumer who buy import vehicle . Stellantis want to expand the electric van production that it show my hon . friend and I . it want to employ more worker and export its new pride and joy to the EU , but to do so , it need to qualify for local content rule , which will not be ready in time for the loom cliff - edge in a few month ' time . Stellantis , Ford and JLR have all call for a delay in the implementation of new rule of origin to give they time to comply . the Minister of State , Department for Transport , the right hon . member for Hereford and South Herefordshire ( Jesse Norman ) , who will wind up , say that he could not comment on negotiation . indeed , the Minister for Industry and Economic Security , the hon . member for Wealden ( Ms Ghani ) , who introduce the debate , say the same thing . but industry be not ask Ministers for a run commentary ; it be ask they to say that their objective be to support the request and ensure that it can continue to compete in its big export market . then , there be the ZEV mandate . the Government say that they would introduce the mandate by January next year . decision be take many year in advance by investor , so regulatory certainty be critical to inform decision making . motorist need to know whether they should buy another petrol or diesel car , or go hybrid or full electric . be 2030 still the date for the end of the new petrol and diesel car production , as the hon . member for Rugby ( Mark Pawsey ) quite rightly mention in his speech ? I would like to hear about that from the Minister . company be have to second guess the Government , as be consumer . the lack of a plan for ZEV , for rule of origin , for charge point and for commercial vehicle be an example of the indecision that characterise this Government . it do not have to be this way . our long - term approach , work as partner with business and union through our industrial strategy , will give investor and consumer the certainty that they want . that be how our competitor operate , and it be how this country need to work , too . our clean energy plan and our green prosperity plan will deliver the cheap , clean energy that will help to lower the cost of motor and unlock the capacity for electric vehicle charge . our support for hydrogen be also essential for the transition to low carbon for road vehicle that need an alternative to electricity . labour ' s new gigafactorie will allow the UK ' s automotive industry to source component locally , avoid tariff for export to the EU by address the challenge of rule of origin . and we will work with the EU on a plan that avoid the cliff edge of the Prime Minister ' s damage export tariff , which , with just 100 day to go , be loom large . we will also address the skill gap and the decline in apprenticeship start — a decline of 170 , 000 a year since 2017 — in part by move to a growth and skill levy . labour ' s plan will deliver precisely because we have draw it up in partnership with the sector . will the hon . Gentleman give way ? I will not , because Madam Deputy Speaker have , quite correctly , be very strict in the time she have allocate . labour ' s plan will lead to the creation of 80 , 000 job in our industrial heartland . our plan will power 2 million electric vehicle and add £ 30 billion to the UK ' s economy . we will accelerate the roll - out of charge point and give motorist the confidence to make the switch . we will have bind target for electric vehicle charger that will , like carbon budget , be bind on the Government . we will ensure that local area have the support and investment that they need . labour ' s plan for energy generation be inextricably link to the transition to low - carbon road transport . our plan to make the UK a clean - energy superpower by 2030 , with net - zero carbon electricity , will deliver capacity and low energy cost for UK manufacturing . those cost , include electricity cost , which be 62 % high in the UK than in Germany , be a barrier to our competitiveness . the motor industry and motorist be be let down by this Government . they be be let down on the ZEV mandate ; on rule of origin and local content ; on the slow progress of gigafactorie and EV charge point ; and on energy price . above all , they have be let down because of the damage do by 13 year of conservative mismanagement of the economy , which culminate in last year ' s disastrous mini - Budget . all of that have lead to the further let - down of high interest rate , which be high than in competitor country . the industry want the roadblock and the let - down to be remove . I will leave the last word to Mike Hawes , chief executive of the Society of Motor Manufacturers and Traders , who just this morning write about the uncertainty around the ZEV mandate , charge point and gigafactory capacity . he say : " a comprehensive package of measure would encourage household across the UK to go electric now , boost an industry slowly recover from the pandemic and deliver benefit for the Exchequer , society and the global environment . " I could not agree more . with Labour ' s industrial strategy , Labour ' s green prosperity plan and labour ' s partnership with industry , our automotive sector will be turbocharge to deliver success . what an excellent debate it have be ! I have be very interested to follow the contribution that have be make — very welcome they be too . you may recall , Madam Deputy Speaker , that this debate follow an urgent question that be table by the Labour party some month ago regard the state of the automotive sector , at which Labour Members be mortify to discover that vast number of investment be already under way . it be unfortunate that the hon . member for Sefton Central ( Bill Esterson ) talk about be let down . if this country , this economy and this industry be feel let down , why be it that there have be this astonishing succession of investment ? that speak not to people feel let down , but to confidence and investment in the future . we celebrate BMW Group ' s announcement that it will invest £ 600 million in the production of two all - new electric mini model , support the full transition to electric vehicle production by 2030 . we welcome that , as do both member of Parliament for Oxford , the hon . member for Oxford West and Abingdon ( Layla Moran ) and the hon . member for Oxford East ( Anneliese Dodds ) . we be very pleased to have their support , as well as that of member across this House . we welcome the fantastic investment that Stellantis have make in Ellesmere Port , as have the hon . member for Ellesmere Port and Neston ( Justin Madders ) , although he could not avoid be gloomy about that aspect of the tremendous investment that be take place . that make the plant the first all - ev facility in the UK , and one of the first in Europe . as we hear the determination to be gloomy from the other side of the House , we be notice at the same time the £ 4 billion - worth of new gigafactory investment from Tata Group ; Nissan and Envision ' s announcement a couple of year ago of £ 1 billion to create an ev manufacturing hub in Sunderland ; the £ 227 million invest in Halewood ; Bentley commit £ 2 . 5 billion to make the transition to zero - emission vehicle at its Crewe plant ; and JLR ' s investment of £ 15 billion over five year into its industrial footprint towards electrification . if everything be as disastrous as the opposition suggest , how can there be this constant succession of new private - sector investment ? that be the question . the truth of the matter be that over the past two year , the UK ' s automotive sector have be boost by over £ 6 billion - worth of business investment that will drive the transition to zero - emission vehicle , with funding for manufacturing and crucial component as well . that investment reflect confidence . we know that that transition be important . car and van account for a huge proportion of domestic UK transport emission , and it be therefore important to address that . over £ 2 billion have be spend to support the transition , and the Government be continue to invest . there be now more than 1 . 2 million plug - in vehicle in the UK — a 45 % increase over the past year . again , that do not speak to decline ; it speak to rapid growth and acceleration . some 58 % of those vehicle be battery electric vehicle ; in August 2023 , 20 % of new car in the UK be battery electric vehicle , so again , that be a sign of confidence and growth , and rightly so . that put the UK ' s automotive industry at the forefront of new low - carbon technology , create thousand of new job and provide certainty among manufacturer and infrastructure investor . some 65 % of vehicle manufacturer in the UK car market have already commit to make the transition to zero - emission car by 2030 , and all major manufacturer have commit to sell 100 % zero - emission vehicle by 2035 . several member have raise the question of ev infra - structure and charge roll - out . it be understand on all side of this House that the roll - out of electric vehicle need to be support by a robust and widespread public charge network , and that network continue to grow . to date , the Government and the industry have support the installation of over 48 , 000 publicly available charging device — again , an increase of 43 % over the past year — which include nearly 9 , 000 rapid device . my hon . friend the Member for Rugby ( Mark Pawsey ) rightly highlight service area , and I be delighted to hear his excellent description of the very rapid scale - up of the motorway service area at junction 1 of the m6 ; that be a very interesting and important intervention . he will know that over 96 % of service area in England now have charge available , and there be hundred of charger across the motorway service area network . of course , a lot of that come through private investment . the Chancellor recently open the UK ' s large electric vehicle infrastructure charge site to date in Birmingham , which include 180 charging device . my hon . friend the Member for Meriden ( Saqib Bhatti ) and the hon . member for Bath ( Wera Hobhouse ) both raise the question of standard , and rightly so . as they will know , the Government be invest £ 381 million through the local electric vehicle infrastructure fund to deliver ten of thousand of local charge point , and the rapid charging fund will do the same thing to future - proof electrical capacity at strategic location . alongside that , we have lay consumer regulation that will ensure that price information and payment method be simplify , that charge point be reliable and that public charge point datum be freely available , address many of the issue that have rightly be raise about standard , interconnection and transparency . the Government work with the national disability charity Motability and the British Standards Institution in order to develop those standard , which have make an important difference to their quality . we must not think just about car , or even just about car and van , but about heavy good vehicle as well . it be well understand that the UK be seek to make a transition to zero emission in this area as well , as part of our wide ambition . to support that , there be an hgv and infrastructure demonstrator project that will showcase zero - emission hydrogen fuel cell and battery electric HGV technology at scale in UK fleet , and the Government have already test such vehicle . those demonstrator build on the £ 20 million investment make in 2021 - 22 . in a slightly different context , I be absolutely delighted to welcome the first JCB hydrogen digger , a magnificent piece of kit that be emblematic of the innovation we have see in the sector . it be also important for I to mention , because we have touch on it , the work we be do in the area of connected and automated mobility . some £ 600 million of joint public and private investment have be place in that sector since 2015 . at the moment , if a new ev be add to the charge system , it will be a gas power station that have to fire it up , so it be not a net zero product . when will we be in a position to have enough renewable power so that , if an electric car be add , it will be recharge with renewable power ? an economist of my right hon . friend ' s distinction will know that it be futile to predict the activity of private market , because they so often move fast than we would imagine . a classic example of that be the way in which electrification have move up the range and weight curve over the past few year . it be certainly true that at the moment , electric vehicle rely on fossil fuel for part of their charge , mean that they be less green than they will be when those fossil fuel be remove from our electrical charging system . nevertheless , those vehicle remain significantly low - emission over their life cycle than equivalent petrol and diesel vehicle , include the production and disposal of battery . capacity - building project for important area of our connected and autonomous vehicle supply chain be already start to take place . this country remain one of the first to explore the business case for connected and autonomous mobility as a mass - transit solution . connected and autonomous mobility will be the future ; it will be an electric future , a zero - emission future , and one that be power by the investment and leadership be provide now , with the private sector , by this Government . question put and agree to . resolve , that this House have consider the UK automotive industry . yes , it would be impossible to manage an electric car without Moto Rugby . UK Export Performance I beg to move , that this House have consider UK export performance . back in January , the Prime Minister lay out his five priority , high among which be to grow the UK economy , create well - pay job and opportunity right across our country . to do that , he bring the Government ' s business expertise and world - class trade negotiator together under one roof at the new Department for Business and Trade , beef up our team , refocus our energy and well target our resource to support business and drive growth . indeed , growth be the key to unlock everything we want for our country . it be at the very heart of everything that this Government be do , and there be no well way of achieve it than by export . naysayer may try to claim otherwise , but we be already in a strong position . last year , the UK be the world ' s fifth large exporter , up from sixth the previous year . the value of the good and service sell by our business overseas hit £ 849 billion in the 12 month to July , an increase of nearly 16 % in current price over the 12 month , and our trade deficit almost halve from September last year to this June . we also sell more service overseas than any other economy on the planet bar the USA , and those export hit an all - time high in 2022 . let we not forget that all these success have come at a time of unique global challenge , from Putin ' s illegal war in Ukraine to the covid recovery . UK business have respond with incredible resilience in the face of persistent global trade shock . the Minister mention the UK ' s performance in service . we be the third large country in the world for artificial intelligence , behind only the US and China . do he agree that invest in our service and export they will become only more important as we move towards the AI revolution ? I could not agree more . that be why in our trade deal we have such a laser focus on develop service . we need to play to our strength . our good be world class , but it be in service , which account for more than 70 % of our economy , where we see huge potential growth . as I travel around the world , I see great enthusiasm and recognition of incredible quality in our service sector that we have not yet fully exploit . that will be a key area of focus for the Government . the past few year have be not only testament to british business ' resilience and adaptability , but proof of the strong demand for UK good and service around the world . as the UK ' s International Trade Minister , I have see that appetite at first hand . last month , I be in Vietnam . I see how our service exporter be already provide valuable service to Vietnam ' s grow economy , from the British Council expand education opportunity for vietnamese student to UK architect and engineer transform Ho Chi Minh City ' s skyline . I see how , over the come year , there will be even more opportunity for UK business to trade with a nation that be set to become the world ' s 20th big economy by 2050 . I notice in the paper last week that very statement that the Minister make about a young , vibrant economy full of young people who wish to excel . I know that he always try to respond positively to question that I and other ask in the Chamber , so let I ask he this : can Northern Ireland be part of the export success story ? we want to be . absolutely . I can assure the hon . Gentleman that we be focus very much on support and enable Northern Ireland exporter to be successful — as , indeed , they have be . no matter where we go in the world , there be huge enthusiasm for UK good and service , and Northern Ireland have some outstanding product that the world want to consume . that be why we be focus not just on the EU but on the rest of the world , where there be an insatiable appetite for UK good and service . we want to make sure that we deliver those and get benefit from trade deal for every nation and region of the UK . the month before I visit Vietnam , I be in India , where I announce a package of partnership on electric mobility and construction , position our business to sell into those fast - grow sector . everywhere I have visit , from Oman to Indonesia , I have hear the same story : " we want to buy British . " my message to the House be that we be work flat out to help business grab these opportunity — and , good of all , we be succeed . we be not scared of challenge ourselves to do more and to move fast . that be why we have set ourselves a target of reach £ 1 trillion of export by 2030 , around five year early than previously expect . that be an ambitious target , but one that I feel be achievable with Government and business work together . trade deal be at the heart of our approach , and our programme of negotiation be one of the large in the world . we be negotiate trade deal tailor to the modern UK economy and the opportunity of individual market . of course , each deal be different , but all of they remove barrier to trade so that we can create the right condition for decade of future growth , security and innovation , to help the UK thrive in a change world . we have already secure trade deal with 73 country as well as the EU , turbocharge key area such as service , food , drink , automotive and life science , create new opportunity in forward - lean area such as datum and digital — as my hon . friend the Member for Newcastle - under - Lyme ( Aaron Bell ) mention — and enable our business to sell into the economy of the future . in July , we take a huge step forward in enhance our presence in the Indo - Pacific when the Secretary of State sign the agreement on our accession to the comprehensive and progressive agreement for trans - Pacific partnership . that be a vast free trade area span from Asia to the Americas and now , with our accession , Europe . the deal will give business right across the UK access to a market of half a billion people — the 21st century ' s middle class , with money in their pocket ready to spend on our good and service . this be our big trade deal since Brexit and we be the only european member of this free trade family . as the House will be aware , we also recently ratify our first from - scratch trade deal with Australia and New Zealand , sweep away the majority of tariff on good and service with those nation and create even close and warm economic partnership . the Secretary of State recently return from India , where she meet her counterpart , Minister Goyal , and advance our free trade agreement negotiation , which be now in their final stage . beyond that , we be work towards deal with a host of grow economy , include member of the Gulf Co - operation Council , Israel and Mexico — one of the world ' s large consumer market , with its population project to reach nearly 150 million by 2035 . we be use our trade policy to maintain our position as the world ' s second large service exporter . have work in that field prior to politic , I have see at first hand our huge expertise in the sector , and I know that it be vital that we reinforce our reputation and make it easy for our service provider to sell around the world . that be why we should all be excited about our talk for a new , update trade deal with Switzerland , for example . there be a huge prize on offer for both UK and swiss company in everything from finance and legal to accountancy and architecture . the current trade deal be almost 50 year old and really only cover good . the modern british economy be over 70 % service , which be why we be so active in upgrade and enhance our trade deal to suit it . on modernise trade deal for the future , the Minister will be aware of the real difficulty our food , farming and fishing business face get their product into the EU . why will Ministers not contemplate negotiate a veterinary agreement to sort those trade barrier out ? the hon . Gentleman will be aware , first , that we be secure deal around the world . the EU , as I have repeatedly say , be important but we be also seek deal around the world . the EU will continue to be important and of course the trade and co - operation agreement be an important part of that relationship , but we be continue to have conversation both at EU level and one on one with individual country to see how we can remove market access barrier , and I will come on to that in a moment . we be also sign memorandum of understanding with US state , include Indiana , North Carolina , South Carolina , Oklahoma and Utah , with more to come . we be build close transatlantic partnership that will benefit our business over the long run , but of course broker agreement and engage in talk be just one aspect of our work . we know that many british business want to sell overseas but be hinder by obstacle in their trading partner ' s rulebook . at the Department for Business and Trade , we have a set of team focus on overcome those barrier . from lift ban on british bacon to South Korea , to raise ownership cap on solar project in the Philippines , we be remove the barrier hold british exporter back . that be why the Department be lead a cross - Government effort to tackle a hitlist of about 100 obstacle stand in our business ' way in every part of the globe . some of those barrier might seem small , some much large , but each and every change will remove inhibitor to business to help our business to prosper , generate new job and pay high wage . indeed in the year to March , we have resolve 178 trade barrier prevent business from sell their good and service in over 70 country , and remove just 46 barrier could boost UK export by £ 6 . 5 billion over the next five year . in the Secretary of State ' s first 200 day in post , we resolve the equivalent of £ 11 million in barrier every day . we also recognise that , although many business , particularly small one , want to export , many do not feel confident to do so . my Department have therefore develop a new export strategy that include measure to help business to sell overseas . they include well target and transform export support service and cross - Government co - operation to get more business sell overseas . we have a network of on - the - ground expert around the globe who be help UK company to understand every market ' s unique opportunity and how to access they , while domestically thousand of small business be turn to our export support service , the first port of call for firm that want to begin their export journey . since 2022 , our trade adviser have handle 9 , 600 market inquiry . we be well aware that on - the - ground support be vital to encourage business to export internationally , which be why we have a presence in over 100 international market . therefore , we be offer significant support to help exporter , include through trade adviser and the export academy , and we provide a wealth of information online as well . over 400 export champion across the UK volunteer their time to share their experience and expertise , inspire new and aspire exporter to follow their lead . in addition , UK Export Finance , our award - win export credit agency , be help to support company with export contract around the world . the achievement I have list this afternoon do not happen by accident : they have only happen by create the right environment for UK export to flourish , and through an unrelenting focus on free and fair trade and promote free market . we will continue on this road , forge new deal , overcome obstacle and create opportunity so that UK business and the community they serve can thrive . this debate take place 12 month on from the last Prime Minister ' s kamikaze Budget , which be cheer by so many member on the conservative Benches . it make the cost of live crisis much bad , bite into the pocket of every family in Britain , and make tough condition to do business even tough . that Budget be not a one - off ; we have now have 13 year of economic failure , five Prime Ministers , seven chancellor , each one bad than the last , with the business environment get hard , barrier to trade go up , increase red tape and the driving up of cost , and cut in business support make it tough for Britain ' s exporter . indeed , the former export Minister , the hon . member for Finchley and Golders Green ( Mike Freer ) , say just last summer that Ministers be not do enough to help firm to send good overseas . in 2012 , the conservative party pledge to reach £ 1 trillion - worth of export by 2020 . it have not happen yet , and it do not look like it be go to happen in the next five year either . indeed the Office for Budget Responsibility think it will not happen until 2035 , 15 year late . as my right hon . and learn Friend the Leader of the Opposition have repeatedly underline , grow our economy be crucial to end one of the bleakest period in our country ' s recent economic history and to deliver again the hope of a decent job and well prospect for all those want to work and their family . export be fundamental to that mission . job link to export pay on average high than average wage in the UK . so I welcome this debate , even if the analysis the Minister set out bear little resemblance to the frustration countless business leader have share with we on this side of the House about the record of recent Ministers on export . the OBR , the Bank of England and the National Institute of Economic and Social Research have all predict that export will drop this year . I hope they be wrong because , when export decline , job , investment and wage all decline too . if — Labour be determined to deliver this — we want the high sustained growth in the G7 , accelerate growth in our export be fundamental . however , in the 13 year since 2010 , british export performance have be outperform by every member of the G7 apart from Japan . figure from the House of Commons Library and from the United Nations — specifically , the United Nations Conference on Trade and Development — show that Canada see a 10 % growth in its export of good and service from 2012 to 2021 , the last decade - worth of figure that be available , while the US see growth in its export over that period of almost 14 % , Italy almost 16 % , France over 16 % and Germany almost 23 % — but Britain , just 6 % . over the same decade , the EU as a whole saw growth in its export of good and service of almost 30 % . perhaps the Minister wind up this debate will tell the House why he think other country of similar wealth and status have be do well at export their good and service than we . one of last year ' s Prime Ministers , Boris Johnson , think poor export figure be down to a lack of ambition from business themselves ; I hope the Minister do not share that view . hide deep in the last White Paper on trade be the admission that , while the share of global good export have drop for most G7 country , the UK share appear to have decline fast than most . what be strike about that admission be that Ministers offer no explanation for it , and the situation do not appear to have get any well . figure compile in the UK by our own Office for National Statistics reveal that , since just before the general election , UK good export to some of our big market have drop significantly : to Germany , our second big market , export of good have drop by 7 . 5 % ; to France , our near neighbour — our fifth most important market — our good export be down over 6 % since the election ; good export to Spain have see a 9 % drop ; and to Sweden a 5 % drop . there certainly do not seem to have be any attempt across Government to understand why other be do well than we at export . International Monetary Fund datum suggest that , since the last election , every other member of the G7 , in sale to key export market near to we , be perform well . british export of good and service to Germany be down by 17 % since May 2019 . to France , they be down by 14 % since May 2019 . american , canadian and italian export to France and Germany be all up by over 20 % . even Japan be do well than we be at sell good and service to France and Germany since the general election . but it be trade with India that perhaps most tellingly lay bare the steady relative decline in Britain ' s trading performance . despite well figure on service , our export of good to India actually decline over the last decade . this be a country where Britain have a long and deep history . there be many barrier to trade , but it be extraordinary that other country have be able to increase their export of good while Britain have not . these figure make it all the more surprising that Ministers cut support to help business get to trade show , find new market and win their first export contract . the Government cut support in recent year to trade body want to run their own trade mission , and they cut direct support , too . the trade show access programme — the key support for business new to export — have its funding cut so much that only 10 % of the number of business that be help by the programme under the last Labour Government appear to be get help from this Secretary of State ' s trade show access programme . at the last general election , exporter and the wide british public be promise by the Conservatives that 80 % of all trade would be conduct under the free trade agreement that Ministers would have sign by now , and that a trade deal with the US , our big market for good and service , be go to happen by the end of last year . neither have happen . we be promise a deal with India last year by Diwali . will there be one by Diwali this year ? indeed , most of the deal that have be sign by Ministers be roll - over deal — cut - and - paste job . minister have routinely exaggerate the benefit of the trade deal they have negotiate for exporter . while the deal that Britain have sign with Japan , Australia and New Zealand be welcome , particularly for geopolitical reason , the quality of the negotiating effort by Ministers have hardly be inspirational . the deal with Japan , accord to the impact assessment , appear set to benefit its exporter four time more than british exporter . the former Environment Secretary , the right hon . member for Camborne and Redruth ( George Eustice ) , admit that he think that Britain , when negotiate the trade deal with Australia , " give away far too much for far too little in return " . — [ Official Report , 14 November 2022 ; Vol . 722 , c . 424 . ] while any increase opportunity for trade be welcome , at just 0 . 07 % , 0 . 08 % and 0 . 02 % , the new trade deal with Japan , Australia and New Zealand will not lead to huge boost to Britain ' s economic growth or to great surge in export . even the CPTPP will only boost export enough to see a 0 . 08 % increase in our gdp . talk to business and their representative , there be widespread frustration with the trade deal that the Conservatives negotiate with the European Union . the Institute of Directors underline that almost 50 % of its member find the UK ' s trading relationship with the EU challenge . the british Chambers of Commerce , make UK and the Federation of Small Businesses all highlight the real difficulty that their business be still have in get their good and service into european market . without change , the trading arrangement with Europe will continue to compound the challenge our exporter face and risk cement furth the Government ' s record of low growth and high taxis . minister have be too slow to recognise the problem in the trade and co - operation agreement , and far too slow in try to address they . the failure to sort the rule of origin issue for our car manufacturer , which the previous debate address , be just the most pressing example . we on the Opposition Benches be determined to improve condition for trade with Europe to make Brexit work . we will not rejoin the single market or the custom union , but we will use the 2025 review of the trade and co - operation agreement to push for well term of trade . I be interested to hear what the shadow Minister have to say about the Brexit situation and renegotiate with the EU , because in the Financial Times at the weekend , we see that " Keir Starmer pledge to seek major rewrite of Brexit deal " , when in 2020 , the Guardian ' s headline be , " labour will not seek major change to UK ' s relationship with the EU " . which be it ? why be the Leader of the Opposition propose to extend further uncertainty on british business , who be busy get on with export around the world ? I be not sure whether that be one of the question that the whip give out to the hon . Gentleman , but I have make it clear that we will not rejoin the single market or the custom union , but we will seek to use the 2025 review to push for well term of trade . we will seek to negotiate a veterinary agreement with the EU to help in particular hard - press food , farming and fishing business . we will accelerate effort to secure mutual recognition agreement to make it easy for our professional to work in EU market . specifically on Europe , many business be concern by Ministers ' plan to unilaterally extend a Windsor framework requirement for food and drink to be label " not for EU " this time next year when good be sell across England , Scotland and Wales . they be particularly concerned because many say that they be not consult . this measure will apply to a large share of food product in shop , include meat , dairy , pet food , fish and fruit and veg . give that business be warn that this could increase cost , as they will not be able to supply identical product for sale in both EU market and the UK , it would be good to know which business and business group be consult , and what their view be . the big challenge and opportunity that Britain face be climate change . british business could be at the heart of the race to net zero . indeed , the global transition to green technology be project to create new industry worth £ 1 trillion by the end of this decade alone . however , when the Secretary of State call net zero target " arbitrary " and " unilateral economic disarmament " only last year and could not deliver even one new offshore wind farm in last week ' s energy auction , we be not exactly in the good place to take the climate science innovation of british business , university and other innovator and export they to the rest of the world . we on the Opposition Benches would create a nationwide network of climate export hub to support every region in the country to secure new skilled job and opportunity from green trade . in particular , we need to make sure of help for trade and exporter in every region of the UK . only 1 . 4 % of exporter be from the north - east and less than 5 % be from the midland . there be remarkable talent in every part of our country , yet wage here no long keep pace with the hope and dream of the british people . the Government be deliver one of the bad rate of economic growth of any country in the G7 . their own minister believe they be fail british exporter . it do not have to be this way . our ambition on the Opposition Benches be for a dynamic trading Britain , where business be not hold back by Government negotiating failure or a lack of support at key moment . there be exceptional business in this country , and they deserve well than what minister be offer . instead of push up trade barrier and push away investment , and instead of cut support to business to export , we on the Opposition Benches will back british exporter . we will have the back of british exporter . it be a pleasure to follow the shadow Minister . I can assure he that I be quite capable of highlight Labour ' s flip - flop and u - turn by myself , but I thank he for the insinuation , and for the suggestion that I might be up to write question for the Whips one day . I start by thank both Ministers on the Government Front Bench for their engagement with Newcastle - under - Lyme business in the past year . the Minister for International Trade , my hon . friend the Member for Mid Worcestershire ( Nigel Huddleston ) , who open the debate , come to visit , I think , six constituency in Staffordshire on a whirlwind tour early this summer . he visit Langley Alloys in my constituency , which have 70 % of its turnover overseas , in country range from Brazil to New Zealand — a country with which we have sign a genuinely revolutionary trade deal in recent month . the Under - Secretary of State for Business and Trade , my hon . friend the Member for Thirsk and Malton ( Kevin Hollinrake ) welcome a number of impressive business from Newcastle - under - Lyme down here to Westminster for a business roundtable either towards the end of last year or early this year , and I thank he for his engagement on that . the way that the Department for Business and Trade be work to support individual firm in area across the country , include area in need of level up such as Newcastle - under - Lyme , be testament to how this new Department be work across the entire country to support export , and I welcome that . export be now back to pre - covid level , and the Department ' s export strategy be work . it look like we be target in the race to £ 1 trillion by 2030 . it be a challenging target , but the rate we have see in recent year suggest we will be able to reach it . in deal with the European Union , this Government under the Prime Minister ' s leadership have be smooth over a number of the residual issue from the EU . I think we can all concede that , due to a little bit of bad faith on both side , the process of get the deal with the EU be not as smooth as we would have like . however , with the Windsor framework we be see an improvement in trade with Northern Ireland . the Horizon deal only two week ago be hugely welcome by the scientific community with what it imply for our scientific and artificial intelligence industry , which I mention early , and our service in the future . I be with the Science , Innovation and Technology Committee in America last week . we visit Boston and Washington DC to speak about artificial intelligence in the light of our current inquiry into the future governance of AI . when we be in DC , I meet UK Research and Innovation , which have an office there . it be clear that it be do a huge amount of work to prepare the ground for investment by Britain in America , and conversely investment by american firm in Britain — building link in the technology of the future . of course , the USA remain this country ' s single big destination for export , with £ 168 billion of export in 2022 , the majority of which be in service . I will touch a little more on what we hear last week . the Americans be very impressed with where we be on artificial intelligence and think that our propose model of regulating by the use of AI — we be work through this from the White Paper — rather than , like the EU , try to regulate the concept of AI , be the right way to go . we hear repeatedly from lawmaker , the Administration and business that they welcome the summit that the Prime Minister will host at Bletchley Park in November . that bring I to the Minister ' s point about how important digital agreement be for the future . we have sign a digital agreement with Singapore and include significant digital chapter in the deal that we have do with Australia , New Zealand and Japan . the free trade agreement that we have be propose be possible only because of Brexit . as the Minister say , we have sign 73 of they — a number of they be roll - over agreement , but a number of they be new — and of course we have sign the deal with the EU . these free trade deal offer british business , include those in my constituency of Newcastle - under - Lyme , new opportunity . I know that the Department be work with business to help they both to understand the mechanic of the free trade agreement and to realise the opportunity of they . although the number may start small , free trade agreement be additive , because each year more firm get into exporting , so their true benefit come in the long term . for example , we project more than £ 3 billion for the Australia and New Zealand deal by 2035 . of course , by sign up to the CPTPP , we have even more opportunity for business . although this be an export debate , we should highlight that trade deal be good for UK consumer too . by join the cptpp , we will see low price on import of thing such as fruit juice from Chile and Peru in South America , and chocolate from Mexico . trade deal therefore work for british consumer as well as british exporter . the Government be deliver for business , resolve the issue we have see with the EU and open new market . however , as I suggest in my intervention on the shadow Minister early , I fear that Labour want to return the country to all the uncertainty that we have from 2016 to 2019 . it be pretty clear from read the previous remark of the Leader of the Opposition that Labour ' s ambition be to unpick and ultimately reverse Brexit , as well as to sign up for hundred of thousand of additional migrant from the EU , as we see last week . I quote those two headline , with the FT say , " starmer pledge to seek major rewrite of Brexit deal " . I think that be the last thing that business and politic need . we have come to a period of stability after the turmoil follow the referendum in 2016 ; we do not need to go back to those time . of course , he say in 2020 that Labour would not seek major change to the UK ' s relationship with the EU . that , I be afraid , be yet another flip - flop from the Leader of the Opposition , but give that he campaign to remain and stand up at Labour conference call for a second referendum with an option to remain , I do not think we should be surprised . how can anybody trust what he say ? I have no sympathy politically with the people on the labour leave , but he have renege on all the commitment he make to they when run for the Labour leadership . he stitch they up like he want to stitch up the british people , and that give he no credibility and no integrity when it come to negotiate for Britain . there have be many returnee to the shadow Cabinet in recent week — they refuse to serve under the right hon . member for Islington North ( Jeremy Corbyn ) because of the tolerance of antisemitism in the party at the time , but the Leader of the opposition serve willingly . he even say : " I ' m not go to rank Jeremy Corbyn . he ' s a colleague and a friend and he ' s lead we through some really difficult time in the Labour party . " but the shadow Chancellor , the shadow Home Secretary , the shadow Health Secretary and the new shadow Work and Pensions Secretary refuse to serve under the former leader . they do the right thing , but I be afraid that the Leader of the Opposition do the expedient thing . he have try to pull the wool over people ' s eye about that . he be try to do that again on Brexit and for british business . we must not let he get away with it . it be always a pleasure to follow the hon . member for Newcastle - under - Lyme ( Aaron Bell ) . I be not sure that I can be quite as animate as he be during his speech , but I will do my good . the issue be clearly lay out by the shadow Minister , the hon . member for Harrow West ( Gareth Thomas ) , with the stat on export . the Government be incredibly positive about how wonderful export be , but the reality be , when we be compare to G7 partner , the stat tell a very sorry tale . of course , we be the only country in the world deal with the hangover from covid — no , wait , that be not right . we be the only country in the world deal with the impact of the war in Ukraine — no , that be not right , either . we be the only country in the world deal with demographic challenge — no , that be not right , either . the thing be , we be the only country in the world deal with remove ourselves from our large trading partner . that be the differential . that be why we be not see the growth in trade . the Minister talk about the fact that there be agreement in place with 73 country . fabulous . we leave the EU , which have agreement in place with 72 country . so with all that work and all the run around that Government Ministers have be do , we currently have one more country with which we have a trade agreement in place than the EU . it almost seem as if the immense amount of uncertainty that everybody — individual and business — have be put through be not really worth it after all . we could go back to 2016 and make different decision about how to make Brexit work — six different leader of Labour and conservative colour have speak about it — and how to make the good future for the economy , the wellbeing of people throughout these isle . what the Government should have do be ask , " what do we export the most ? what be our trading relationship with the EU ? " we export a lot of service to the EU before Brexit . so , if it have be I take decision on this , I would have do everything I could to try to protect those service . I would also have do everything I could to protect those community that would be decimate by the loss of something , such as fish processing — and whisky , which the Minister mention a moment ago . the Government should have be focus on those thing . instead , they put forward that their no . 1 priority in negotiate Brexit be to end freedom of movement . they have have to suffer the economic loss that go along with that . so they have sacrifice the beneficial position we be in before Brexit , affect a number of business and individual as a result , not just because of the decision not to prioritise service but for the loss of freedom of movement . that have mean that our farmer , for example , be struggle to find people to work on their farm . it be the same issue in food processing and across some of our most rural community , which be be decimate as a result of how much hard it be for people to come and live and work in the United Kingdom . in the automotive debate , we hear comment about the rule of origin . I first raise the rule of origin in relation to the automotive industry in this House five or six year ago , and the problem have not be solve . that level of uncertainty have be hang over the automotive industry since then , and there be no clear answer . the clock be tick ; there be a very short period of time before this kick in , and decision need to be make . at that point , I speak about diagonal cumulation . we need to ensure that there be certainty or we will continue to see those large manufacture company with basis all over the world choose to invest in improve their factory in european country rather than those in the United Kingdom . it have be decimate for our manufacturing . I be glad that the hon . member for Newcastle - under - Lyme mention the number — £ 3 billion — in relation to the Australia and New Zealand trade deal . the Office for Budget Responsibility estimate that we will lose £ 100 billion as a result of Brexit — £ 3 billion do not touch the side of that number and the 4 % drop in GDP that we see as a result . whenever trade deal like these be sign , we might see an improvement in export . in fact , after the Japan trade deal be sign , we see a reduction in export to Japan , so the jury be out on whether they work . however , regardless of whether there be an increase in export , throw beef and lamb farmer under the bus be not the way to go . accord to the OBR , there be likely to be a 15 % reduction in trade intensity . the OBR have those figure as a result of the Government ' s economic plan , the deal sign and the proposal in place . our food processor and producer , who be produce the good food in the world — as a Scottish MP , hon . member would expect I to say that — be be massively undercut because the Government have the wrong priority when sign trade deal . we have already see beef export go down by 22 % since the deal be sign . the price of produce lamb in Australia have reduce again , which will undercut our farmer and make we less likely to become a nation self - sufficient in food production , because it will cost we more to rear the lamb . that be a problem . the Government have prioritise the wrong thing . the Government have miss the opportunity of renewable , and not just in term of capitalise economically on climate change and the move towards a just transition . in fact , they have miss the opportunity to invest in amazing innovation in renewable technology and to export they around the world . during the oil and gas boom , Aberdeen in north - east Scotland become know for export . my constituency be top for the number of patent per head of population . there be an amazing amount of research and development as a result of the oil and gas industry . we be see decline amount of oil and gas and an increase in the number of country look to capitalise on and use renewable technology . because we be not see investment in thing such as carbon capture , utilisation and storage , we be not able to stay ahead of the curve and use that tech to assist other country around the world in the way that we be able to do with oil and gas . I be slightly confused about the hon . Lady ' s policy and those of her party . I think she say that oil and gas production be come down . be it not her party ' s policy to prevent any new exploration of oil and gas in scottish field ? be her own policy in disagreement with that of her party ? I be very confused on that matter . the party ' s policy be that every new oil and gas licence should go through a rigorous environmental assessment . as much as the Conservatives try to paint it as something else , that be the party ' s policy . the vast majority of my constituent who contact I would like no new licence to be grant . far more constituent contact I to tell I that Cambo be a disaster and should not go ahead . I have a large university in my constituency , and a huge number of people from all around the world , who be massively concerned about the impact of climate change . I urge the Minister to come and spend some time in my constituency , to see the passion on the ground for a just transition . my constituent really like have job . Most people do . it be great to be able to take a salary home . my constituent , in the main , be not terribly fuss if the job that pay they lot of money be in oil and gas or in the renewable sector . when I talk to people , they tell I that they would like a good job . those people in the oil and gas industry ask for their ticket to be transferable so that they can go to offshore wind just as easily as they can go to oil and gas platform . the UK Government have fail to capitalise on that . they fail to invest in CCUS . in fact , back in 2015 the then Chancellor pull the plug on CCUS without even tell the industry . he stand at that Dispatch Box during the Budget and do that . the UK Government have fail to prioritise improve our food export . if they be serious about support our farmer , they would do everything they could to ensure they access to the labour that they need to pick the fruit , butcher the pork and export all that wonderful produce . if the UK Government be serious about support people and business in Scotland , they would have come forward far quick with the decision on Horizon . they would have prioritise ensure that our world - lead scientist across these island , and particularly in my constituency , continue to have access to those research grant . they would have ensure that they could continue to work closely with european counterpart to develop the really cool tech of the future and to develop drug for Alzheimer ' s and heart disease in my constituency . all those thing would have be prioritise by the UK Government if they care about support individual and business . they would have take these thing seriously , and they would have prioritise those industry rather than simply prioritise the removal of freedom of movement . a number of member have mention make Brexit work . it be not possible to make Brexit work . we can not make Brexit work , because Brexit do not work . various conservative leader have stand there say , " make Brexit work . " the Labour party have stand there say " make Brexit work . " it can not work . it be not the positive economic future that we want . the Scottish National party will continue to stand for be in the single market . we will continue to support be member of that single market and , yes , have freedom of movement . freedom of movement be great for economic benefit . in nine out of the last 10 year — and eight year run — Scotland have have the high level of foreign direct investment of any area , country or region in the United Kingdom other than London . that be because the Scottish Government be do everything they can to ensure that we continue to trade and export , and continue to have a great relationship with as many country in the world as we possibly can . the UK Government do not even have a publish trade strategy document that pull everything together . if they have an internal trade strategy document , it would be great if they would publish it , so that we can all see their strategy . conservative Members say that there be miss opportunity in international trade because they be not prioritise work on sell renewable around the world . clearly , something be miss . it would be great to see that strategy so that we can provide the appropriate scrutiny . if they continue to hide it , no one can scrutinise it . we do not know what they be try to do because they be not willing to tell we and share the strategy with we , if they have one . the only way to ensure that trade with the EU continue to go up and to bring back freedom of movement be for Scotland to free itself from Westminster and take its own decision on immigration and trade , ensure we have as close a relationship with the EU as possible , not by make Brexit work but by be back as a member of the EU and the single market . that will protect our economy and our freedom of movement , and ensure our scientist have the good possible access to collaboration . that will ensure our farmer have a level of protection they do not currently have in be able to export food without whatever be go to happen with the Windsor framework , which could be disastrous for our farmer . the United Kingdom Internal Market Act 2020 continue to go over the top of what the Scottish Government would like for our future , our farmer and our food producer . I recommend that everybody look very closely at the SNP ' s next manifesto , in which we will lay out those policy even more clearly than I have this evening . Mr Shannon , it be so lovely to have you on so early in the debate . [ laughter . ] thank you very much for that , Mr Deputy Speaker . I thank all right hon . and hon . member , include the shadow Minister , for their contribution , and especially the Minister for set the scene so well , as he often do . I do not want to put a dampener on proceeding , but I have to put on record my concern about the Northern Ireland protocol . I say that gently , because I believe we be at a stage in negotiation where we be try to find a way forward and I hope they will be successful . the hon . member for Newcastle - under - Lyme ( Aaron Bell ) speak of his hope that the Northern Ireland protocol would move forward . there be nothing wrong in hope that , but the reality be very , very different . I say that very gently to he and he know where I be come from . I be very pleased to learn of the export rate and I also note that member believe we can improve on they . from a Northern Ireland perspective , the notion of export performance be intrinsically link with the Windsor framework . it be important that I give an honest Northern Ireland perspective in a gentle way to the House . I always try to be constructive in my comment . I do not try to be aggressive or nasty , or say thing that be unhelpful to the debate , because we hope that thing will work out . a House of Lords Select Committee report , release in the summer , show the depth of the problem with our export cause by EU interference , something we be keen to shake off with Brexit . as a brexiteer , I want the same Brexit as England , Scotland and Wales , and we do not have that for Northern Ireland . the report highlight a number of significant issue . just last week , Lord Dodds , the speaker at our association annual general meeting , outline where we be very clearly . one key conclusion be that the Windsor framework make thing bad for many business compare with what they have experience up to now . honestly , that be the situation for many of the business in my constituency . there be a way forward , which my party have outline through our seven - point plan . with the Prime Minister , the Secretary of State and all the other Ministers involve , we be seek to find that way forward . the original protocol be unworkable and could not be implement without major damage to our economy . that lead to the grace period and easement . now those be to be do away with and replace with the more onerous and burdensome Windsor framework provision . the Windsor framework render Northern Ireland bad off in term of the irish sea border , and create great check and barrier to trade with the rest of the UK compare to what we experience thus far , even if it theoretically improve on the original version of the protocol , which be unworkable in any case . some may believe that that have no effect on UK export , but Northern Ireland be an integral part of the supply chain . the Minister , in response to my intervention , make that very clear and I welcome that . he state very clearly that we want Northern Ireland to have all the advantage England , Wales and Scotland have in export trade . that would be really good news , if only that be where we be . if we can not , in pharmaceutical for instance — engineering be a second one — source our medical ingredient , we can not produce the vaccine or veterinary product and supply the global market as we currently do . that affect our global output , never mind the fact that without a permanent solution , the supply of over 50 % of veterinary medicine to Northern Ireland may be discontinue , pose a risk to both animal and human health , and the agri - food supply chain and the result transfer to exportation . my hon . friend the Member for North Antrim ( Ian Paisley ) have speak at some length in different question to different Ministers , include the Prime Minister , on the problem for veterinary health . if we can not source steel and part to carry out our engineering , which deliver part in many industry from aerospace to boat , to defence weapon and any number of other chain in which we have be , to date , an integral part of the UK machine for export , and if we have divergence in regulation between Great Britain and Northern Ireland , or between Northern Ireland and Ireland , there be a valid underlying fear that Northern Ireland will find itself in a no man ' s land between Great Britain and the EU , place the competitiveness of Northern Ireland firm and their complex supply chain in jeopardy . I welcome the fact that the Minister of State , Northern Ireland Office , the hon . member for Wycombe ( Mr Baker ) , have undertake to highlight our global potential with investment in Invest Northern Ireland ' s new office in Seoul — the Minister for International Trade , who open the debate , refer to the potential for trade with South Korea ; that be good news , and we hope to be part of it — to learn how Government funding be boost Northern Ireland ' s profile in the Asia - Pacific region and help to connect Northern Ireland business to the world . he announce back in December that £ 8 million of funding from the New Deal for Northern Ireland would enable Invest Northern Ireland to expand Northern Ireland ' s presence on the international stage as it support Northern Ireland business in new location from Paris to Toronto , as well as provide additional trade advisory support in their Belfast office . I know that this be not this Minister ' s responsibility , but let I just say that I be keen to see a trade deal with India — with one proviso . I will mention , in a Westminster Hall debate on religious persecution which start at 9 . 30 am tomorrow , what have be happen recently in the indian district of Manipur . I consider it imperative for any trade deal with India to enshrine the preservation of human right , the equality of right , and freedom of religious belief . some 60 , 000 people have be displace , and some 360 christian church have be damage . I want a trade deal with India ; everyone want one ; but if we be to have one , it must be conditional . it be disappointing that , as I understand it — although I will not pose this question to the relevant Minister in Westminster Hall tomorrow morning — our Prime Minister never once raise the issue of freedom of religious belief , even after all that violence , destruction and displacement . by and large , we should welcome the Government ' s UK export performance , but I do want to make the case for Northern Ireland . I ask our Minister to implore his colleague in the Cabinet to act , and to ensure that Northern Ireland can play her full and function part in the story of UK global export , from which we be currently preclude . we have the potential to become so much more in a post - Brexit UK , but we have a great deal to do , and in my opinion that should start with our end the strong - arming of Europe , embrace true global trade and allow Northern Ireland to play her part . we deserve that , as loyal british subject . I love tell people that I be a member of the United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland — I be a british citizen , and I be proud to be british — but I want to be proud to be british and have the same equal right . that be my request . I call the shadow Minister . I thank the committed colleague on both side of the House who be here on a quiet Monday evening for their contribution to the debate . it have provide an important opportunity for we to recognise that , for all the Government ' s talk about sign free trade agreement across the world and bring british business a step close to sell to new market with few hurdle , the UK ' s export performance be not actually look very promising . I ask Conservative Members who be advocate of trade and export to look carefully at their own leadership . if they do so , they would realise how much Britain and british industry have be let down . let we look at the fact . the Office for Budget Responsibility predict that export will fall this year and again next year , and that over the next three year , with more of the same Tory failure in our economy , the UK ' s growth will be weak at well . Tory government be quick to claim that they be the " the party of business " , but when I talk to business in the city of Manchester and across Great Britain , that be not what I hear . the Prime Minister and his government , and all those Prime Ministers of the last few year who come before he , promise " growth , growth , growth " , but what do export business see ? they see out - of - control inflation , no progress on trade deal , and a Government who not only do not take their concern seriously , but sometimes can not even be bother to meet they to hear those concern . they see failure after failure , and because of all that , Britain be set to be 15 year late in achieve its £ 1 trillion export target . the Government claim to believe that only trade can create job , drive growth and deliver the long - term prosperity that communitie across the UK have be cry out for , but when it come to deliver it , they be nowhere to be see . it be true that the UK have start negotiation for trade agreement with some of the world ' s large and grow economy such as the US , India , Canada , Mexico , the Gulf Co - operation Council , Israel and Switzerland . we leave the European Union in 2020 . how many of these trade deal have be conclude ? none . the fact that we have be unable to conclude a deal with one of our close ally , the United States , be frankly embarrassing , yet the Prime Minister freely admit on his way to meet President Biden that a trade deal with the world ' s large economy be not " a priority " . that say it all , doesn ' t it ? despite the UK ' s deep and historic tie to India , the Prime Minister fail to make any progress on a trade deal there last week . I guess that be not a priority either . and in Europe , our next - door neighbour and large trading partner , UK business be far less competitive and swamp in red tape because the Government fail to get a decent Brexit deal . again , not a priority . so long as trade and export be treat as unimportant by the Government , there will be no new market , good export will continue to fall and UK business will suffer . the last time more than 30 % of business see increase export sale be at the end of 2018 , almost five year ago . I be grateful to the hon . gentleman for give way . I very much enjoy our trip to the United States early this summer as part of the british - American Parliamentary Group exchange . he will know that the reason there be not a trade deal with America be because of the state of american politic and the protectionism we have see from the Democratic Administration through the Inflation Reduction Act . also , America be unlikely to negotiate a free trade deal in the run - up to the presidential election next autumn , but that do not mean that this Government be not ambitious for that deal in the long term . I welcome the hon . gentleman to his new role , but he have to appreciate that trade deal take two to tango . this country have always prioritise free trade and we will do as many deal as we can with like - minded country . I thank the Member for his intervention . I too enjoy our trip together — I learn so much about the american system — but can I remind he that that trade deal be in his manifesto ? the truth be that british exporter be at the end of their tether with this Government , and with the meagre support service that our Department for Business and Trade be provide . they find themselves unable to access up - to - date information and they be struggle to find guidance on how good to get their good out into the world . it be worth note that trade and export be not about big business . they be about the small and medium enterprise that make up 99 . 9 % of UK private sector business . these business bear the big brunt of the Tories ' hopeless approach to improve export performance . between April and June of this year , over half of all SME exporter see no change in overseas sale , and almost a quarter report a fall in sale . that is 16 million people employ in sme who be be fail by the Tories , but as my hon . friend the Member for Harrow West ( Gareth Thomas ) set out at the beginning of the debate , it do not need to be this way . business of all size should be able to have faith in a Government who work for they , who be pro - trade , pro - business and pro - worker and , crucially , who take a lead role in drive export from town and city across the UK . a Labour Government would not only introduce a bind duty on trade negotiator to help deliver economic opportunity across the whole of the UK ; we would also ensure that each new trade deal be accompany by a regional strategy with support for business , maximise the benefit from trade deal across our nation . sadly , this be not the Tory Government ' s priority . so much need to be do to restore the faith of british business in our trade and export capability , and to show the world that the UK be open for business . I be afraid that , once again , the Tory party have show that it be just not up to it . it be a pleasure to respond to this important debate . I thank all the member who have contribute . obviously , the House be unite on the importance of export to our economy , but it differ somewhat on how we go about it . I be interested in the remark of the shadow Minister , the hon . member for Harrow West ( Gareth Thomas ) . he talk about 13 year of economic failure . he can choose his own opinion , but he can not choose his own fact . may I give he some fact ? we be now the eighth large manufacturer in the world ; we have move from ninth . we have just overtake France , which be a bit of a double - win . we be the fifth large global trader in the world , up from sixth in 2021 . we be the third fast grow economy in the G7 since the pandemic . since 2016 , we have grow fast than Germany and France and , since 2010 , we have grow the third fast in the G7 . the only country ahead of we since the pandemic be the US and Canada . of all the major economy in the European Union , we have a great story on growth . those be three thing we have achieve on growth . those be the fact . the hon . Gentleman may want to depress the nation . I have meet many pessimist in my life . I have never yet meet a happy pessimist or a successful pessimist . the same go when try to get elect . the public want a dealer in hope , not these Jeremiahs who be determined to talk this country down . that be deeply unhelpful and deeply incorrect . I have some more fact . the hon . Gentleman talk about export performance since 2010 — he say there have be 13 year of failure — but it be 31 % up in real term . how be that a failure ? I have a great deal of time for he away from the knockabout of politic , but his quote be all about good . he never touch on service . he will recognise that 80 % of our economy be not good but service , which be hugely important . it be why our export performance , in real term , be grow . the hon . Gentleman say that export be down this year . in the 12 month to July 2023 — these be fact , not projection — there be £ 849 billion of export , up 16 % on the previous year . in this debate , we should focus on the fact . the UN figure be actually for good and service , so the UK be sixth in the G7 , at 6 % growth , behind Canada , the US , Italy , France and Germany , on 22 % . those be UN figure on good and service . again , the hon . Lady be pick out certain figure . may I give she a figure ? do she know the UK ' s large export in the food and drink sector ? it be whisky , at £ 6 . 3 billion . fifty - three bottle of whisky be export every single second . it be a huge success story and one that we be determined to mirror across the economy , and this be the strategy we be employ to do it . as the Minister for International Trade so eloquently lay out , we be pursue a trade policy that be unrelentingly focus on growth . I be proud that this Government have such high ambition in this area but , to borrow an analogy from the Secretary of State , free trade agreement be like motorway — they work only if we get car drive up and down they . that be why our Department be focus on how to create the environment that exporter need to succeed . we must also ensure that the right support be in place . I have see at first hand the appetite for export growth in the UK , both in my work before I enter Parliament and today as Minister for enterprise , market and small business . that be why the Department for Business and Trade have establish a dedicated free trade agreement utilisation team to help to improve FTA awareness and take - up . the team ' s first major project have be to develop new business guidance resource for the UK - Australia FTA , work with business and business representative organisation to ensure it capture everything business want and need to know , and in business - friendly language . similar work be under way to prepare for the entry into force of the comprehensive and progressive agreement for trans - Pacific partnership — TPP be far snappy — to ensure that business be equip with the knowledge they need on fast - grow market and the benefit of that deal for they . we understand that take a business global can be a daunting prospect — if you ' ve never export before , where do you start ? you start where Wold Top Brewery , in my constituency , start . it be run by the wonderful Mellor family , a farming family from near Hunmanby . they start make their own beer because they have grain on their farm and an artesian well . they make some fantastic beer , include Wold Gold , which I heartily recommend . it have be in the Strangers Bar and I will tell you when it will be again , Mr Deputy Speaker . they use our trade adviser to start export to Italy very early on in their business growth — they do not wait until they have conquer the UK market — and they have be hugely successful , so much so that they be expand now into Filey Bay whisky , a wonderful whisky , which , again , be export around the world . that be the kind of export strategy we want and it be support by the Government ' s export strategy , " make in the UK , sell to the World " , which be build around a 12 - point plan to give firm of any size the support they need on their export journey , be it practical , promotional or financial . our newly expand Export Support Service be a one - stop shop for export advice . as well as an online library of resource available 24 / 7 , our expert trade adviser be on hand with free and impartial advice . since April 2022 , they have handle 9 , 600 market inquiry . they work closely with our network of in - market specialist across 100 country globally to share market insight , identify opportunity and connect business with buyer . we have also roll out our export academy across the country , offer sme a programme of masterclasse , roundtable and network event . a special mention must go to our fantastic community of export champion for all they do . I have have the great pleasure of meet some of they in person , such as those from Briggs Automotive Company , in Liverpool , and we be very grateful for all they do . as the Minister for International Trade mention , this be all underpin by the important work of the Government ' s award - win export credit agency , UK Export Finance , which provide £ 6 . 5 billion to support 532 UK company win export and trade internationally . eighty - four per cent of those company be sme , and 82 % be base in constituency such as mine and yours , Mr Deputy Speaker . of course , the Government have also back the British Business Bank to provide more than £ 12 . 2 billion of finance to more than 96 , 000 small business , include more than 100 , 000 start - up loan since 2012 . I wish briefly to pick up on some of the point make in the debate . the shadow Minister , the hon . member for Harrow West , say , " why not enter into a veterinary agreement ? " if he want to become a rule taker again , he can do that , but it would rule out thing such as gene editing , which be a fantastic opportunity for this nation . that be what he have to try to square the circle of , rather than just play both end against the middle . as for the difficulty of trading with the EU , there be no doubt that those be abate . Eurotunnel say early this year that trade between the EU and the UK be back to where it be pre - Brexit in term of the speed of processing lorry . of course this be not all within our gift and the EU negotiate in its interest . apparently , he be go to take a completely new approach . he say they be not go to join the single market or the custom union , yet he be go to wave a magic wand and all these problem will disappear . as my hon . friend the Member for Newcastle - under - Lyme ( Aaron Bell ) point out beautifully , the Labour party ' s approach be to see which way the wind be blow . first , the Leader of the Opposition be a remainer , then he want a second referendum , then he make the case for free movement of people , and now he want a complete renegotiation of the trade and co - operation agreement , even though early he say he do not . the approach be simply all over the place — all at sea — despite the fact that we have make huge progress since the trade and co - operation agreement , not least because of the Windsor framework . I understand the concern raise by the hon . member for Strangford ( Jim Shannon ) about that , but it be a good basis for co - operation in future and it be very popular with business . there have be other step forward , include the inclusion of the UK in the Horizon programme . there be a variety of issue that we need to work through and the Department be work hard on those . in term of the trade agreement with India , we be very keen , but it be about the deal , not the date , as we have say many time , and get that deal right . we have just complete the 12th round of negotiation , so I hope there will soon be some positive news about get that deal together . the hon . member for Aberdeen North ( Kirsty Blackman ) make some interesting point . she make a point about the EU agreement and how wonderful it be , and then talk about service . well , the EU agreement do not even cover service , or not to any extent , and the Swiss - EU deal do not cover service at all — a 50 - year - old agreement . the UK be 80 % service , so it be important to look at the issue in the round and do what be right for the UK , not what be right for Germany . such a deal might suit Germany but it do not suit the UK — we stand up for what be right for the UK . the hon . Lady talk about oil and gas as a fail industry , and then would not commit to any new licence , which seem very strange . she talk about farming and say people would be well off inside the EU , but when we discuss the potential for Brexit , that be not the perspective of my farmer . she completely ignore fishing . be the SNP ' s perspective that we should rejoin the common fishery policy ? that would be highly unpopular with the fishing industry in Scotland . our export strategy be work . we hit £ 815 billion of export in 2022 and we plan to go far this year . our ranking as second in the world for export of service in 2022 highlight that far . we want business to be ambitious in their exporting . the strategy lay a challenge for business and Government to " race to a trillion " export per year by 2030 . we need the support of all type of business , in all part of the UK , to make that happen . unlock the UK ' s export potential will help to level up the country and boost the UK ' s economy , and I look forward to see how much far we can go . question put and agree to . resolve , that this House have consider UK export performance . business without Debate Scottish Affairs Committee I know you have be thoroughly look forward to this major event , Mr Deputy Speaker . it give I great pleasure to say that the Committee of Selection have deliberate and to put forward the motion , which I beg to move . order , that Deidre Brock and Dr Philippa Whitford be discharge from the Scottish Affairs Committee and Alan Brown and Ms Anum Qaisar be add . — ( Sir Bill Wiggin , on behalf of the Committee of Selection . ) Petition - NICE Enhertu Cancer Treatment 8 . 58 pm far to the similar change . org petition that receive over 166 , 000 signature , I formerly present this petition on behalf of my constituent , Elaine Lynch . it call on the National Institute for Health Care and Excellence to authorise the use of the drug Enhertu for NHS cancer treatment among patient with the HER2 mutation , give that the drug currently hold approval exclusively for breast cancer treatment . the petition state : the petition of Elaine Lynch , the petitioner declare that the National Institute for Health Care and Excellence ( NICE ) , should take step to approve the further use of Enhertu in nhs cancer treatment in patient that have the HER2 mutation ; note that NICE have currently only approve the use of Enhertu in the treatment of breast cancer ; further note that Enhertu have be approve in the United States for patient with the HER2 mutation . and the petitioner remain , etc . [ p002858 ] site of Special Scientific Interest Motion make , and question propose , that this House do now adjourn . — ( Fay Jones . ) may I start by thank Mr Speaker for permit I to bring this debate to the House ? site of special scientific interest make an important contribution to the Government ' s statutory target and international commitment to halt biodiversity decline by 2030 , and to meet the goal of the 25 - year environment plan to be the " first generation to leave that environment in a well state than we find it " . these commitment be make easy to achieve because british farmer be passionate about protect and enhance our great british countryside . farmer manage more than 70 % of all land in the UK , which be why they be the most critical partner the Government have in the commitment to reverse nature decline by 2030 . however , there be an elephant in the room , which be Natural England . my experience be that Natural England fail to engage , convince and partner with our farmer and landowner . it be my view that the Government ' s ambition in this area be at risk because of Natural England . I turn my attention to West Penwith moor and down , which be formally designate as an SSSI in July this year . it be no surprise that Penwith moor be identify as a candidate for SSSI designation . the principle of the West Penwith SSSI present farmer with no real cause for concern . after all , it be these landowner who have care for the environment for generation . they understand — and understand — how precious it be . let I set out the context . West Penwith be a manmade landscape with the old continuously use manmade feature in the world . there be a long history of agriculture and livestock grazing , with many of the 4 , 000 - year - old field system still use for their original purpose . to reinforce this point , during the hearing of the Natural England board , which take place on 28 June , one of the most recent member to join the board be critical during the hearing , state that she " be surprised that the area have not be formally designate before now " . it be clear that her mind be make up before the hearing , which come as a surprise to I , but , essentially , she be not wrong in her assessment . what justify such a significant designation be the careful management of this countryside by farmer whose family have farm over multiple generation , and it be their son and daughter who hope to follow in their footstep , if allow . why be I ask the House to consider sssi ? in October 2022 , SSSI notification pack land on the doormat of landowner and farmer , and , contrary to our expectation , close to 1 , 000 acre of clean land — pasture , paddock and land on which crop or even animal feed could be grow — be include . it also become very clear that Natural England ' s case rely on scientific evidence that be not much more than desktop study and old survey datum . the risk to the viability of these farm and small holding by Natural England ' s approach be clear for all to see . for example , the notification document that the landowner receive do not include clear evidence or reason why their clean land have be include . from that day forward , the way that Natural England approach the designation to many of these farming business come across as high - handed and pay no , or scant , regard to these business ' long custodianship of the land . this have cause huge resentment within the farming community and undermine future landscape recovery ambition , which I shall come on to later . everyone in the House recognise that viable farm and careful land management demand an important ingredient : confidence . it be confidence that take a severe beating in the month between October 2022 and 28 June 2023 — the date of the hearing to confirm , amend or reject the SSSI . any scrap of confidence leave be truly and utterly obliterate for those who attend the full day ' s hearing , and I include myself in that . the Minister should be aware that , when challenge be make by objector on the day , little responsibility or ownership be accept . instead the chair , the legal team and senior official seek to blame Government policy , and we be repeatedly tell that it be the Government ' s commitment to halt biodiversity decline that drive the action of Natural England . the Minister might find it helpful if I highlight some of our significant concern follow the hearing on 28 June . first , when press , specialist admit that they do not have robust datum or evidence to include the 700 - plus acre of good pasture farm land — by that time , more than 200 acre have be successfully challenge by landowner and remove from the SSSI area . the only reason that Natural England give , when press , for include that good pasture land be , " there be potential for pollution . " prevent excess nitrate in surface water from reach valley mire be Natural England ' s primary justification for the SSSI . it believe that that would lead to excess nutrient in the mire , to the detriment of the special fauna and flora present . such environmental damage be highlight as likely by Farmscoper , a desktop tool that offer generic assessment . critically , however , the first thing that the Farmscoper tool offer be a disclaimer say that the general result it generate should not be apply directly on any specific farm . instead , it say that the result should be check by on - site testing . on - site testing have not happen before designation and , as far as I be aware , Natural England have no plan to carry it out . other concern aspect of the day include Natural England ' s failure to assess the land properly ; its failure to understand the hydrological implication of past mining , right across the Penwith moor area ; its failure to communicate properly , to the extent that some landowner never receive the notification and some still do not know what part of their land be under restriction ; and its failure to follow Natural England ' s own guideline . the quango admit that its own datum be several year old and that officer have frequently diverge from SSSI selection guideline . bird survey be undertake for a year , not for the three to five year specify by Natural England ' s own rulebook . invertebrate survey rely on a single year , rather than three year as the guidance specifie . why do this matter ? because now , follow confirmation of the SSSI , farmer be subject to the same Natural England staff dictate how they operate their farm . that include its tell farmer to stop milk cow and its impose an arbitrary reduction in livestock , make some farming business unsustainable and impact the rural economy and food security , while deliver no meaningful benefit to the environment . farmer be already sell their business . it also include refuse consent for the maintenance of utility such as telegraph pole , and give only time - limit consent for water abstraction and repair to the infrastructure of borehole . the hon . Gentleman ' s point about utility tie in with an issue in my constituency . I understand very well what he say about Natural England ' s oversight of farmer and the impact on their business . there be also concern about flexibility . I live in an area of outstanding natural beauty , with a site of special scientific interest . it be important that we retain that , but it be also important that there be flexibility within the Department . however , there be not that flexibility , and it be quite clearly not there in Natural England either . back home in Northern Ireland , in my constituency of Strangford , we be after two thing : well safety at the SSSI at Kircubbin , and well safety at Portaferry Road . both those thing have be object to by the Department . when it come to site of special scientific interest , it do not matter what be safe or what be right ; all that matter be the Department ' s point of view . that be exactly what I think the hon . Gentleman be say . I thank the hon . gentleman for his intervention , which I welcome . to be clear , the West Penwith moor SSSI be and be welcome ; the problem be how Natural England have go about it by include good farming land that risk the viability of farm without robust evidence of any real harm to the rough land , as we would describe the moorland . my experience from engage with the Department be that it fully understand the concern that I have raise ; it be Natural England that seem to have ride roughshod across farmer ’ interest and their understanding of how to care for their natural environment . everything have be determine by how Natural England officer would like it to be do . return to water , the water supply on the farm be not just for livestock ; as be often the case in rural area such as mine where we be off grid , it be for the farmer ’ home and all the property around they . at the moment , consent be be give for those farm to abstract water from the borehole for a very limited time only . I will give an example of the impact on a farm not far from where I live . I happen to live right on the edge of the moor , and it be the most beautiful part of the world ; I would welcome a visit from the Minister , both to see West Penwith moor and to visit the farm and business impact by the designation . this farm have two field that have a mixture of acid pasture , fern and heather , and grassland , which Natural England include in the SSSI with the rest of the farmland , which be already in Natural England ' s high level stewardship scheme . the farmer object to the inclusion of the two field , as they be not part of the HLS scheme and be use as sacrifice ground for winter feeding of yearle Red Ruby Devon heifer that be out - winter . Red Ruby Devons cope with the winter outside , as do many of the cattle we rear in west Cornwall , but they need supplementary food , such as bale of haylage in a trailer that be move around every so often to avoid poach . visit by Natural England staff seem to offer comfort , because of the 25 year of history that the farm have with the environmental sensitive area scheme and then the high level stewardship scheme . Natural England acknowledge that the farm have be do everything that the Department for Environment , Food and Rural Affairs and Natural England want , but as there be not a boundary between the rough land and the main grass pasture , all of it be in the SSSI and hence under restriction . Natural England would only consider allow the current winter grazing practice to continue if a fence , price at £ 2 , 100 , be erect to divide the two area . what be the outcome ? the farm decide not to squander hard - earn cash on a pointless fence , but to reduce stocking level , as it will not be able to keep as many cattle out this winter . that lead to reduce cattle graze on the moorland , make way for bramble and rhododendron to invade . we have see that already close to where I live . if hon . member know anything about bramble and rhododendron , they will know that , when an area be not graze , it be extremely difficult to get rid of those invasive specie — rhododendron in particular . it will cost the state and the council enormous sum of money to clear they away . give the impact on this farm and many more besides , you will understand , Mr Deputy Speaker , why I stress that the science have to be right , and not just enough to get it through to become a SSSI . it need to be right and do over a period of time to prove its efficacy . Natural England need scientific rigour in its action , but it have prove incapable of function to that level of detail . as I have say , its officer have not even test the water , but have simply rely on a desktop survey . I be disappoint after the hearing , as it be evident that the entire board , include the chair , demonstrate a failure to understand the landscape from both a historical and ecological perspective . more importantly , they fail to recognise that the exist designation and safeguard , which be already there to protect the very countryside I be talk about , offer an opportunity to pause the whole process in order to properly gather the evidence and scientific datum that such a significant designation demand . that option be theirs for the taking , but they refuse to take it . I personally raise two query affect my constituent at the hearing and be promise a write response within week . instead , the only time Natural England staff have make contact with I — that is , without my initiate the conversation — since the hearing be late last week , when they suggest that I might wish for an update . I can only conclude that that be trigger by my securing this debate . however , I know what be go on , because I have keep in close contact with Farm Cornwall , the National Farmers Union , the Country Land and Business Association and the farmer themselves . it be those hard - press independent organisation and farmer who have be communicate , not the publicly - fund quango whose job it be to do so . the two issue which must be clarify be as follow . first , under the Wildlife and Countryside Act 1981 under which the designation take place , if Natural England amend or withdraw a consent , and in do so cause a loss , it should compensate . I be tell by several farmer that Natural England advise that consent would be give if the applicant amend the application to a five - year consent period . I be advise that should a time - limit consent expire and a new more restrictive consent be issue , that provision do not kick in , so any loss be not subject to compensation . it appear that Natural England may be deliberately use the five - year time limit to obviate its obligation to compensate for loss if further restriction be deem necessary . I press the chair of the board to clarify that that be not the case , and I receive assurance that I would receive clarification . the second issue be the removal of clean land — the pasture land that I refer to early — from the designation . some landowner expend vast amount of money and be successful in demonstrate that their clean land should not have be include — hundred of acre be remove prior to the public hearing . that be not the case for landowner who do not have the wherewithal or fund to pursue such measure . I can not see how any of we can be confident that the clean land that remain in the designation deserve to remain so . the conclusion have to be that landowner who do not challenge in that way , who find their clean land within the SSSI , and have the restriction and requirement to secure consent that go with it , may have receive a different outcome if they have , like other , spend ten of thousand of pound . I raise both concern at the hearing . I be promise clarification , but , as far as I be aware , neither the landowner nor I have receive it . I be not alone in believe that Natural England be unfit for purpose : it have no relationship with the land and no farmer on the board — all board member be political appointee — it make no reference to socio economic reasoning , and it have no plan for the land or for positive management of the SSSI . what be more concern to I and , I suspect , to the Minister , be the poor state of the nation ' s sssi . Natural England ' s own recent reporting state that only 37 . 1 % of sssi be in a favourable condition . however , we be where we be , and I want to move forward to mend some of these challenge . prior to the confirmation of the SSSI , Cornwall Wildlife Trust , Farm Cornwall and I begin to engage with landowner to rally support for a landscape recovery scheme . we meet the Minister for Food , Farming and Fisheries , my right hon . friend the Member for Sherwood ( Mark Spencer ) , to propose it , and a small number of meeting have take place to bring farmer on board . that be still move forward , and I understand that an application will be lodge on 21 September , later this week . however , trust in Natural England have be so undermined that some farmer understandably refuse to engage . for year , we have manage Penwith moor through a nature partnership use fund such as countryside stewardship scheme . the only way that I can see to bring those landowner back on board be for DEFRA to agree that responsibility for manage a West Penwith moor and down landscape recovery scheme be take away from Natural England and place with a local partnership , such as the Penwith Landscape Partnership , which be form in 2014 to support the understanding , conservation and enhancement of the Penwith landscape as a sustainable living , work landscape — the very landscape that we be discuss today . I believe that the Government must go far : the Wildlife and Countryside Act 1981 should be review to see whether it be fit for purpose now that we have the Environment Act 2021 and many other tool to ensure nature recovery . the Act give power to an unaccountable body that , if recent example across England be anything to go by , threaten our ability to reverse nature decline . Natural England be drive away the very people who understand and care about the issue . nature recovery be not a desktop exercise for quango to pursue but the live experience of thousand of people who depend on the natural environment for their livelihood and to feed the nation . nor can it be that , in its consideration of SSSI notification , Natural England have regard only to the environment ; surely , it must recognise the social , cultural and economic impact in its consideration . that be clearly a weak aspect of the law that the Minister must consider in her response . DEFRA should also review how Natural England go about execute its responsibility . West Cornwall be not the only part of England where serious tension exist between Natural England and organisation and individual who care passionately about their environment and landscape . Natural England need to be tell in no uncertain term that any restriction place on those who own and farm land in the West Penwith moor and down SSSI must be back by robust and reliable evidence , such as recent dataset and a transparent and accurate water and soil testing regime . farmer and landowner must be inform of their right and their opportunity to support or object to the designation ; be give adequate time to review the evidence relate to their land ; and be give clear guidance on apply for operation require Natural England ' s consent . however , the Country Land and Business Association argue — rightly , in my view — for a bespoke SSSI transition fund to provide funding for the cost incur when a new designation be introduce or Natural England prescribe management change . land manager in sssi face potentially dramatic change to their enterprise , with no compensatory funding available for their loss of asset , or for the need to retain staff or invest in new equipment . also , give the grave concern express by so many respected body and the column that have be write on the subject , I implore the Minister to set up an independent review in relation to Natural England and the West Penwith moor and down SSSI , as have be establish for Dartmoor . in conclusion , Mr Deputy Speaker — I do not wish to keep you long than necessary — I express my sincere thank to the landowner and farmer who , despite be under extraordinary pressure and stress during the process of designate the SSSI , engage constructively and in good faith , hope that common sense with a little respect for the way they have care for , protect and enhance the area for year would prevail . I also thank the NFU , Farm Cornwall , the Country Land and Business Association , Cornwall Wildlife Trust and the campaign for Rural England ' s Cornwall branch for the time , effort and expertise they have expend to try to bring Natural England to a place where much of the damage that have be do could have be avoid . I look forward to hear the Minister address as many of the point I have raise as possible , and invite she to come to my constituency to see this wonderful part of the country for herself . the Minister have already be to my constituency . yes , Mr Deputy Speaker — you have give I the opportunity to thank you for your hospitality at the wonderful South Lancashire show in your Ribble Valley constituency , which I attend . I know that you have first - hand knowledge of the farming community , because I be able to meet they during my visit . I start by thank my hon . friend the Member for St Ives ( Derek Thomas ) for secure the debate . it be , of course , disappointing to hear his account , but I thank he for his continuous championing of the environment : this be not the first time that I have have the pleasure of speak with he about the environmental quality of Cornwall . I join he in recognise the excellent work of Cornwall Wildlife Trust , Farm Cornwall and the campaign for Rural England , and I know that the NFU and CLA — along with many other — have also be involve and instrumental in work with my hon . friend ' s local farmer . most importantly , I place on record our appreciation of , and gratitude to , the farmer for their dedication and hard work . we be grateful for the unique and specialised knowledge of my hon . friend ' s farmer , who have care for Penwith moor for some 4 , 000 year . I understand that the designation of 3 , 152 hectare of land as an SSSI , include 260 acre of perhaps more intensively farm land , will have be very difficult . the fact that such a large area of land become of interest to Natural England , and be designate as an SSSI by its board on 28 June , be testament to my hon . friend ' s farming community and their ingrained knowledge — their deep understanding of the soil , the water , the topography , the geology and the flora and fauna , whether that be wild , farmed or native . I would like to explain to the House part of the process for the designation of site , and the importance of sssi and of our environmental improvement plan . we have commit to protect 30 % of our land and ocean , and create or restore 500 , 000 hectare of land . we need to do so because we need to halt the decline of nature . site of special scientific interest be our area for nature , provide a place within which specie can thrive and from which they can disperse into the wide countryside . my hon . friend have clearly set out his disappointment and that of his constituent about the way in which the process have be undertake , and I will take great care to review the specific point that he make . on the point about Natural England have regard only to scientific evidence , and not to the social , cultural or economic implication of such a decision , my hon . friend be correct in his description of the Wildlife and Countryside Act 1981 . I be from a farming family , I live in a farming community in the Lake district , and I have many constituent who farm in upland and lowland area , often on sssi and other protect landscape , so I have first - hand knowledge of the difficulty involve . it be high time that we look at how those protection impact the economy and the social and cultural side of farming , and we will be do just that . if we be to truly halt the decline of nature , we need our farmer to do all they can for environmental stewardship . as my hon . Friend explain , 70 % of our land in this country be farm . we really need to make sure that our farmer can work hand in glove to provide the high - quality food we have become dependent on , as well as environmental stewardship . I accept his very kind invitation to visit he and , I hope , speak to some of his farmer and environmental group in St Ives . I will endeavour to get there in the next few week to have that conversation . Natural England have a legal duty to designate any area of land that have be assess to be of special interest for its wildlife and geology under the Wildlife and Countryside Act . designation be base on Natural England ' s assessment of the scientific evidence and inform by Joint Nature Conservation Committee selection guideline . the Act mean that Natural England can only consider scientific evidence when designate a new SSSI . that be the subject of the conversation I would like to have with my hon . friend ' s farmer . if we do not succeed in enable farmer to engage in our landmark environmental land management scheme , countryside stewardship , the sustainable farming incentive and landscape recovery — I be delighted that some of my hon . friend ' s farmer be , and still be , look forward to engage in that — we will fail on our apex target to improve nature . to that end , we have accelerate work to tackle on and off - site pressure , from nutrient pollution to invasive specie . the EIP set out across 262 page — unless , Mr Deputy Speaker , you have the handbag version — all the action that we be take in collaboration , especially with farmer , to restore our environment . so much of that will be relevant to sssi . the meeting of the board that confirm the designation be hold in public session — I believe that my hon . Friend attend — to allow objector and supporter to make their representation in person , and it take place over a full day in my hon . friend ' s St Ives constituency . in response to the public consultation , the site boundary be amend . I be pleased that , with extra information , some change be make to the initial designation , as I think he reference . a five - year plan be agree to support farmer to transition to a more sustainable farming practice . they farm 70 % of our land , and it be due to their management that many of these place be consider special for their beauty and heritage value and their ecological importance . to protect 30 % of our land and water by 2030 , to restore or create 500 , 000 hectare of wildlife - rich habitat , and to increase the tree canopy from 14 % to 16 . 5 % be all target we have publish in our EIP . to achieve that we must work with farmer . we want to improve the condition of sssi and marine protect area . through the scientific community , include Natural England , and support by environmental land management scheme and other initiative , I be confident we can do that . but no scientific insight in isolation and no Government policy or indeed financial incentive , public or private , can match the thousand of year of build up , deep , ingrained , inherit , unique knowledge and understanding that only live experience provide . perhaps it be a nigh - on indigenous knowledge , and that must be respect . question put and agree to . House adjourn .