Oral Answers to Questions Transport the Secretary of State be ask — Chiltern Railways : capacity if she will take step to help expedite the approval of additional train to increase capacity on Chiltern Railways . official will continue to work with Children Railways to support the delivery of its fleet renewal programme to improve passenger experience and drive sustainable growth across the region . Chiltern be explore option to expedite its procurement of additional train while follow robust assurance step to ensure that it have a strong business case that deliver value for money for the taxpayer . Chiltern Railways have the old fleet of any operator at over 30 year of age , and additional capacity be need to meet the demand of my constituent in Solihull West and Shirley . while I welcome the Department ' s commitment to reduce overcrowding by move more rolling stock to where it be need in the network , can the Minister expand on the specific step the Department be take to reduce overcrowding on the chiltern main line ? chiltern ' s business case assess both like - for - like and enhanced capacity roll stock option . like - for - like offer similar capacity to the current fleet but more modern train to deliver a well customer proposition . enhance capacity would enable Chiltern to run more service to relieve crowding . both option be still under consideration ahead of further market engagement . a final decision will be make take into consideration value for money and affordability . Old Oak Common Station construction : south - west Travel Disruption what step she be take to help mitigate disruption to rail passenger travel to the south - west when construction of Old Oak Common station begin . nowhere be the Tory legacy of transport failure more obvious than in the legacy we have be leave on High Speed 2 , with cost allow to run completely out of control , community ignore , and misery for passenger bake into the plan . my Department be work with the rail industry to minimise disruption during the construction of Old Oak Common station , include through a £ 30 million investment in mitigation that will allow service to continue to operate during the disruption . our railway in the south - west be too slow , too fragile and too expensive . do the Transport Secretary agree with I and colleague across Cornwall , the south - west and Wales that this new hs2 station will mean slow and more disrupted journey ? will she meet I and a delegation of south - west MPs to discuss mitigation of the legacy she have inherit from the last government to ensure that the south - west do not suffer now and in the future because of that disruption ? I be grateful to my hon . friend for rightly raise these issue . I will be delighted to meet she to discuss the mitigation . effort will be make to minimise the impact on passenger , include train terminate at either Ealing Broadway or reading , but we will work with she to monitor and minimise disruption for her constituent . traffic delay at level crossing in Egham , Addlestone and Chertsey be punish my constituent , and engineering work and diversion route just make that bad . will the Secretary of State meet I to discuss how we can mitigate and improve our level crossing , especially during these engineering work ? I fully appreciate the implication of Network Rail engineering work , and the construction and maintenance of level crossing in particular . I will happily pass on the hon . member ' s request for a meeting to the Minister for Rail in the other place . I call the shadow Minister . one of the way in which we could improve the reliability of all our train service be through reform of working practice such as annual leave and weekend work . agree a no - string deal with ASLEF force the Secretary of State into agree a no - string deal with the RMT . how do she plan to recover from such a weak negotiating position for future round ? what progress have she make on proposal — our proposal , I should say — for a pay review body for public rail worker ? order . I be sure that question must be relate in some way to Old Oak Common . I think we need to be more descriptive when ask such question . Secretary of State , answer as you wish . I be happy to answer that question , Mr Speaker . the two - year industrial dispute cost the taxpayer £ 25 million a day every time the Tories oversee a strike day . the reform that they pursue cost taxpayer hundred of million of pound . we have since settle the national pay dispute and localise dispute on London North Eastern Railway and CrossCountry , lead to improve passenger service across the country . Road Safety what step she be take to improve road safety . every death on our road be a tragedy ; for too long , they have be treat as an inevitability . the safety of our road be an absolute priority for this Government . since the general election , the Department have begin work on a new road safety strategy , the first in more than a decade , which will support our mission to build an NHS fit for the future . last week , I meet South Yorkshire police to raise the issue of speeding and in particular the phenomenon of boy racer , which be a problem across my constituency , particularly in Broom , Sitwell and Whiston , as well as along the A57 around the Todwick roundabout . that be a constructive meeting , but what step be the Government take to clamp down on this dangerous problem ? I applaud my hon . friend for raise this important issue . I know the blight that such antisocial behaviour and speeding have on community , particularly in area like the one he represent . a key part of our safe street mission be to take back our street , and the Government will give police the power they need to seize illegal , dangerous and antisocial vehicle and take they off the street for good , so that they can quickly be crush . we be work on deliver the road safety strategy , the first in over a decade , to reduce antisocial behaviour , injury and tragic death on our road . in Hinckley , we have one of the most bashed bridge in Britain ; it get hit every two week on average . it be on the A5 , which also have some black spot for accident and pinch point . will the Secretary of State arrange for a meeting between I and the Roads Minister , the hon . member for Nottingham South ( Lilian Greenwood ) , to talk about how we can get through the improvement that have be look at for the last few year to ensure that our bridge be not hit and that we do not have black spot on the A5 ? I be grateful to the hon . member for raise that important issue . it be clear , with stat like those , that it need some attention . I be sure that my hon . friend the Roads Minister will be happy to meet he . between 60 , 000 and 90 , 000 vehicle pass through the A50 / a500 corridor every single day , but the road be slow and unreliable , with average rush hour speed below 20 mph . the road be a daily nightmare for resident of Uttoxeter and the surround area , and serve as a significant barrier to economic growth . will the Minister commit to meet I in Uttoxeter to see for herself the upgrade that be need ? I fear I may be fill up the diary of my hon . friend the Roads Minister , but I be sure she would be happy to meet my hon . friend the Member for Burton and Uttoxeter ( Jacob Collier ) to discuss the road in question . road safety be one of the main reason why young people do not cycle , and that be particularly true in city such as Bath , where the historic infrastructure make it difficult . what will the Government do to help young cyclist in particular by make road safe in Bath ? I be grateful to the hon . Lady for raise that point , and it sit at the heart of our ambition to develop the new road safety strategy . the previous Government pursue poisonous culture war against road user of all description . we be determined to take back street for pedestrian , cyclist and driver , and that will be at the heart of our new ambition for the road safety strategy . I call the shadow Minister . road safety be inextricably link to the state of our road . [ interruption . ] government member might want to wait . new polling suggest that surface condition on major road be get bad , risk more accident . will the Secretary of State confirm — a yes or no answer will suffice — whether her Government will maintain the previous Conservative Government ' s commitment to £ 11 billion in road repair budget ? I be fascinated to know how Opposition Front Benchers would approach their legacy when raise question today . the legacy we have be leave include a maintenance backlog of billion and billion of pound on our local road . it be one of the big issue face people across the country , and our manifesto commit we to repair and prevent up to a million pothole a year . Midlands Rail hub : stakeholder if she will meet stakeholder in the midland to discuss plan to build the midland rail hub . as the hon . Member will know , Network Rail be in the process of procure design for the delivery of the western phase of the midland rail hub scheme . while a business case be be develop for later phase , we would of course be happy to meet the hon . member and stakeholder to discuss progress on the programme . I very much appreciate that response . I would appreciate it as well if the Minister could give we some idea of the timing of this really important investment for the region , which will add considerably to the economic prospect of the west midland . I appreciate how important it be to improve rail infrastructure in the midland . the next major decision on the first phase will be to consider the release of delivery funding in around four year ' time , but in the meantime we be expect a business case for the subsequent phase of the programme to inform next step , which will be ready next year . tram : Leeds and West Yorkshire what step she be take to support proposal for a tram system in Leeds and West Yorkshire . the Secretary of State have meet the Mayor of West Yorkshire , Tracy Brabin , to discuss the vital role that mass transit can play in deliver sustainable economic growth and housing and to improve connectivity to job , healthcare and education in the region . the Department be work in partnership with the West Yorkshire combine authority to support the development of the combine authority ' s business case , to help bring forward the benefit of mass transit in West Yorkshire . Leeds North East be the only constituency in the city without a railway station . leed be the large city in Europe without a rail - base public transport system . plan for mass transit network in West Yorkshire be essential for job and our local economy , so will the Minister join I in congratulate the Mayor of West Yorkshire , Tracy Brabin , on her plan to build a tram network in Leeds in the very near future ? West Yorkshire combine authority have be allocate £ 200 million of Government funding for 2022 to 2027 to develop a new mass transit system , include £ 160 million from the city region sustainable transport settlement , and £ 40 million from the integrated rail plan . I commend the hard work and tenacity of Tracy Brabin as the Mayor of West Yorkshire , who be determined to create a well connect region that work for everyone . could member stand every time so that I know they want to ask a question ? I call Tom Gordon . sorry , Mr Speaker . West Yorkshire border my patch . will the Minister ensure that a mass transit system in Leeds connect with place such as Harrogate just across the border , so that there be a combined approach for the entire region ? I will bear the hon . member ' s contribution in mind and share it with colleague in the West Yorkshire combine authority . let we continue the Yorkshire love - in with shadow Minister Sir Alex Shelbrooke . let I say to my near neighbour , the hon . member for Leeds North East ( Fabian Hamilton ) , that my constituency do not have a train station either . join up town and city in the north of England be a way to untap this country ' s great economic potential . as the first ever shadow Minister for northern transport , and a Yorkshire MP , I be incredibly excited about the mass transit system in Leeds that I have campaign on for year . along with the rest of Network North , it will be a transformative endeavour but , unfortunately , Labour have a history of not deliver mass transit project in Leeds . in fact , it seem the only delivery it be interested in be box of clothe from Lord Alli . what message do that send to the people and business of Leeds , whose life it will improve ? can the Minister put they all out of their misery and confirm that the project be go ahead ? let I remind the hon . Gentleman that the Conservatives be in government for 14 long year . now , the hon . Gentleman have the temerity to stand there and ask why we be not get on with it . this government be move quick and fix thing . we be determined to work with Tracy Brabin as the Mayor of West Yorkshire to achieve her objective . drive test Waiting Times what step she be take to reduce driving test waiting time . practical driving test waiting time remain far too high after the previous Administration fail to reduce they , limit would - be driver ' access to opportunity . I have meet the chief executive of the Driver and Vehicle Standards Agency and drive test examiner , and I have instruct my official to work at pace to identify solution to this pervasive problem . I welcome the fact that the Secretary of State have meet the chief executive of the DVSA to discuss urgent solution to the sky - high driving test waiting time . accord to the late statistic , the wait time in the Wood Green drive test centre in my constituency be 18 . 64 week . will my right hon . friend confirm that this issue be a top priority for the Government , so that my constituent can be reassure that drive test waiting time will be drastically reduce ? order . can I just say to member who have be here a long time , please speak to the Chair ? they should be speak through a third party , not directly . I be try to take some of the anger out of it . please work with I on that . I be very grateful to you , Mr Speaker , as I be to my hon . friend for raise that important question . he be absolute right . average waiting time at the Wood Green centre currently sit just above the national average . the measure that the DVSA be already take to reduce waiting time include conduct test outside regular hour , at weekend and on public holiday , and continue to deploy examiner from area with low waiting time . that be in addition to produce additional examiner across the country in area where waiting time be high . we will soon set out to the House further step by which we will bring down wait time far . I thank the Secretary of State very much for that response . wait time for test continue to be a problem . what assessment have be make of the knock - on effect that could occur with the validity of theory test should delay in practical test remain and not improve ? I be very grateful to the hon . member for raise that important issue . I will take it away and write to he . Maritime Coastguard Agency : safety breach what discussion she have have with the Maritime and Coastguard Agency on maritime safety breach which occur outside UK territorial water but within the exclusive economic zone . the Secretary of State have meet the chief executive of the Maritime and Coastguard Agency , and this matter be discuss . the MCA will continue to monitor this important issue , as well as follow up on the action already take since the Westminster Hall debate on maritime safety last April . if we continue to see this as a matter of legality , nothing will ever change , and certainly not in any decent timeframe . we have to focus on what we can do practically to end the sort of attack that trawler from Shetland , such as the Alison Kay and Defiant , have be subject to in recent year . will the Minister look at the experience of authority in Ireland , who have manage to tackle the reckless conduct of trawler like the Pesorsa Dos and keep their fisherman safe ? I will undertake to look at the authority in Ireland . I have a recent visit to the Orkney Islands in the right hon . member ' s constituency . I would wish to catch up with he about that and I be happy to meet he to discuss this matter far . Midland Main line : electrification what recent progress have be make on the electrification of the midland main line . electrification be progress on the midland main line , with the new overhead line equipment from Kettering to Wigston , just south of Leicester , now instal and energise . that , together with enhancement to overhead line equipment south of Bedford , will enable new bi - mode train to run electric from St Pancras to Wigston from 2025 . the full electrification of the midland main line would significantly reduce railway operating cost and cut 42 , 000 tonne of carbon dioxide annually . current work on the line will finish soon . move ahead with the rest of the project would retain the multidisciplinary skill and supply chain need for rail electrification in the UK . the Department have already give we so much good news for rail , so can the Minister give we some more good news on this very important question ? I commend my hon . friend ' s support for this scheme , and for be such a champion of the railway and her constituent . I assure she that deliver green transport be one of the Secretary of State ' s priority for our Department . the extension of the electrification from Wigston to Nottingham , and to Sheffield via Derby , be in development and be plan to be complete by the early 2030 , subject to business case approval and affordability consideration . it be not electrify , Mr Speaker , but the west midland railway line from Birmingham to Hereford have see a dramatic deterioration in its performance since the Secretary of State agree the no - condition , inflation - bust pay rise with the striker . will the Minister agree to meet the management of West Midlands Railway to see what step could be take to improve the performance on that important line ? there have already be improvement in performance and a reduction in cancellation on the railway . my right hon . friend the Secretary of State be work extremely hard to hold operator to account and to ensure that all our constituent enjoy a quality service from the railway . it be essential that we put passenger at the heart of it for the first time in a very long time . Cornwall and Isles of Scilly : Transport need if she will meet authority in Cornwall and the Isles of Scilly to discuss transport need in those area . the Government be work apace to improve transport provision throughout the country . we have already announce five strategic transport priority to improve local transport performance and increase usage . official will continue to meet local transport authority across the south - west to discuss their aspiration . follow the point raise by the hon . member for Truro and Falmouth ( Jayne Kirkham ) , may I point out that a great many other challenge have be reveal since the general election ? there be worry about expensive school transport and risk - free investment in Cornwall , and there be also worry on the Isles of Scilly , where we seek parity with Scotland and the english mainland in respect of lifeline link to the island and , indeed , inter - island transport . it would be helpful if , as well as meet the transport authority , the Minister could meet local mp , because these issue be become very serious indeed . all air and sea service be operate commercially , without public subsidy . the Department have provide support , particularly during the pandemic , but its official be commit to regular engagement with the local council to see how we can improve travel provision on the island . I call the Chair of the Select Committee . the Government ' s bus reform be welcome , but rural area such as Cornwall have perhaps the poor bus service in England , as well as less well develop partnership than , say , urban Greater Manchester . what plan do the Government have to ensure that rural area in England can benefit from well bus service , as city certainly will follow the Government ' s reform ? my hon . friend be an incredible campaigner on transport matter , not just in her constituency but across the country . it be true that rural community face different challenge , but the Government ' s well bus Bill will enable local authority to take back control of our bus and improve service , where they wish to do so . Local Bus Services what step she be take to help improve local bus service . what step she be take to help improve local bus service . what step she be take to help improve local bus service . the state of the country ' s bus service be too often unacceptably poor after more than a decade of neglect and decline . politician in my position have neglect they for too long , and it show . in September we move fast and announce transformative new measure to make it quick and easy for every local authority in England to have London - style control over its bus service . public transport be crucial for rural community , connect resident to essential service . however , between 2011 and 2023 England see a 20 % reduction in bus service , with a 28 % per capita decrease when the figure be adjust for population growth . that decline have have a severe impact on rural area such as my constituency , leave many resident isolate and struggle to gain access to education , employment , healthcare and social activity . can the Secretary of State tell I how the well bus Bill will improve the position for my constituent ? I be aware of the premium that my hon . friend place on public transport . indeed , I have campaign along with he , in his beautiful constituency . I be delighted to confirm that we will introduce a new bus Bill this year to give local leader the tool that they need to ensure the delivery of high - quality bus network , put decision making into their hand and seriously accelerate the franchising process . bus service in the city of Durham be an absolute headache for my constituent . bus be often 45 minute late in village such as West Drayton . the Labour Mayor of the North East and I want to crack on and deliver our manifesto promise to bring bus back into public control . can the Secretary of State assure I that the well bus Bill will allow we to enfranchise bus soon rather than later , and will she meet the Mayor and I discuss the bus situation in Durham ? I be grateful for my hon . friend ' s question . the well bus Bill be design exactly to help authority such as the North East combine authority . I have meet the Mayor , as have the Under - Secretary of State for Transport , my hon . friend the Member for Wakefield and Rothwell ( Simon Lightwood ) , who have responsibility for local transport , on a number of occasion to discuss how we can ensure that the franchising process be speed up so that we can deliver well bus service much more quickly for my hon . friend ' s constituent . I be sure the local transport Minister would be delighted to meet both my hon . friend and the Mayor . my right hon . friend know that when the previous Government axe over 1 , 000 bus route , local community be completely ignore . as she rebuild our bus network , can she assure I that the well bus Bill will make provision to fully include local voice , not just the voice of those in elect position ? I be grateful to my hon . friend , who have put her finger on exactly the problem with the system across the country at the moment . for too long , we have allow private operator to pick and choose whatever route and service they want , with no say whatsoever for local people or local leader . the well bus Bill be at the heart of our bus service reform , and it will give local people a proper say on the route and service that they absolutely depend on . in my constituency of Huntingdon , eight village receive no bus service whatsoever , include Molesworth , where we will shortly see a half a billion pound investment in upgrade and expand our defence infrastructure at RAF Molesworth . give that franchising will potentially be introduce in Cambridgeshire and Peterborough , will the Secretary of State meet I to discuss how we can guarantee that our rural village be give the focus they urgently need ? the hon . Gentleman have make the case for franchising . it be totally unacceptable that entire village be cut off , without the bus service that they absolutely need . that deny people the opportunity to move around their area and get to work or education opportunity . the Mayor of Cambridgeshire and Peterborough be pursue franchising . we be support he in those effort , and we will make sure that village such as those in the hon . Gentleman ' s constituency be properly include in the franchising process . I call the shadow Secretary of State . I wonder if the right hon . Lady can see the irony in the fact that the new bus system that she be so excited about introduce be broadly the same as the train system that she be busy dismantle . the simple truth be that without funding , the Government ' s plan will not make struggle bus service viable or affordable for passenger . what have help be our £ 2 fare cap , which have save million of people money and help to keep local bus go , especially in rural area . do the Secretary of State agree that the £ 2 fare cap have be a good thing and , crucially , be she go to keep it ? the hon . Lady be absolutely right to suggest that the underfunding of bus service over a decade have lead to the cancellation and scrapping of thousand of bus route across the country , and passenger number have fall over the last 40 year . we be committed to consolidate funding and end the " Hunger Games " style process that the previous Government oversaw , which pit authority against each other and create winner and loser . walk and Cycling what step she be take to promote walking and cycling . this Government recognise the huge benefit of walk and cycling . they support our economic growth , health and net zero mission by help to revitalise high street , improve air quality and support people in living long , healthy life . this government will embrace green and healthy transport choice , and we will set out ambitious plan to promote safe , green and healthy journey as part of an integrate transport strategy . barrier to active travel be many , include old footbridge that be need for crossing railway . in my constituency of Wokingham , Network Rail be in the process of replace the footbridge at the Tan House crossing . despite an offer from the local authority to contribute towards the cost of make the bridge accessible to all , Network Rail have insist on spend million of pound to build a bridge that many people will never be able to use . can the Minister review with Network Rail why it believe that it be not require to make its estate accessible to all , and take step to ensure that it be require to do so in future ? I thank the hon . gentleman for his question . I will refer this matter to the Minister with responsibility for rail , and will write to the hon . gentleman with further information . E - scooter offer an excellent opportunity for promote active travel , but many of my constituent be concerned about the speed at which people travel on they . will the Minister confirm that the Government ' s road safety strategy will look at e - scooter , so that we can make sure that they be a safe part of our active travel system ? we believe that micro - mobility have a vital role to play in an integrated transport system . we be look very carefully at the e - scooter trial area across the country , and will look at what further step we can take to push forward this agenda . my constituent Alex suffer a life - change cycling accident at the hand of an untraced driver , and be now battle with the Motor Insurers ' Bureau to get the compensation he deserve . the bureau ' s delay in provide compensation be intolerable , and be undermine his confidence to cycle again . will the Secretary of State or the Minister meet I to discuss Alex ' s case , and how the bureau can be reform to restore cyclist ' confidence in the system ? I would be delighted to arrange that meeting . City Regions : connectivity what step her Department be take to improve transport connectivity within city region . up again ! the Government be make a five - year , £ 5 . 7 billion investment to improve the transport network of eight city region between 2022 - 23 to 2026 - 27 through the city region sustainable transport settlement . we have announce plan to introduce an english devolution Bill , which , alongside our major bus and rail reform , will equip mayor with the power and influence that they need to create an integrated local transport network and improve local transport in their area , in line with the Government ' s mission . when my constituent in Hazel Grove travel to the centre of the city region , they can use the train service — subject to landslide issue and , of course , the whim of the train operating company — but when they be move around my constituency , they must rely on the bus network . can the Minister give the Greater Manchester combine authority and my resident clarity about funding for the bus model in Greater Manchester , so that it be not the 10 constituent local authority who be burden with pay the price for keep the £ 2 bus fare cap ? I be proudly wear my Bee Network badge this morning , have visit Greater Manchester to meet the operator of the Bee Network and Mayor Andy Burnham ; that be trailblaze work in Greater Manchester . in the year in which the network have be operate , we have already see a 5 % increase in passenger number , and bus be turn up on time , which be always great . the question of funding for the future will of course be part of the spending review . I be read the Treasury ' s " fix the foundation " document , and I understand that because of the need to restore control over public spending , the Government have have to cancel the restore your railway programme . however , I note that individual project will be reconsider in the Transport Secretary ' s review . will the Minister please look at the development of the Abertillery spur on the Ebbw Vale to Cardiff line , as he consider good - value investment and connectivity in our railway infrastructure ? the Government be review a number of infrastructure project in the light of the terrible financial situation that we find ourselves in , follow the terrible damage inflict on this country by the Opposition . I call the liberal Democrat spokesperson . in London , connectivity be provide by Transport for London , but in my constituency of Wimbledon , despite its wonderful tube , tram , train and bus connection , my constituent suffer from repeat track and signal failure on the District line , while south Western Railway be labour with age roll stock and decrease frequency of service at station such as Malden Manor and Worcester Park . what be the Government plan to do to address the capital funding crisis that they inherit from the Tories across London ' s transport system , and will the Minister meet I to discuss the problem affect the District line and south western train ? the Government remain committed to support London and the transport network on which it depend . we be work with the Mayor of London on funding plan for transport in the capital , to provide value for money and last benefit to the public . I would , of course , be delighted to meet the hon . gentleman to discuss these matter . active travel : Sustrans Modelling if she will have discussion with Sustrans on the potential role of its tool for modelling and forecast cycling level in the promotion of active travel . so many question ! as the executive agency responsible for walk , wheeling and cycling , Active Travel England be investigate how to improve the modelling and forecasting of cycling level to ensure that we invest appropriately . I have ask its officer to meet Sustrans colleague to discuss the potential benefit of its tool . the brilliant cycle to work scheme run across the four nation of these island , but under current rule , it can not be use by people who earn less than £ 17 , 000 a year . this almost certainly contribute to the fact that only 30 % of people on low income have access to a cycle , compare with 59 % of people on high income — that be almost double . various solution have be propose , include the Sustrans suggestion of a voucher giving 40 % off the cost of a bike . can the Minister do anything to address this unfair situation , and to help our national government support people on low income who would like to be able to take advantage of the cycle to work scheme ? I recognise the problem with the scheme , and I will work closely with Treasury colleague on this matter . I be delighted to attend the launch of the Sustrans report in the Palace a couple of week ago , and I will pay careful attention to its recommendation . Regional Airports what step she be take to ensure the resilience of regional airport . although airport be responsible for their own resilience and financial plan , the Department continue to engage with the industry to ensure that operation be as resilient as possible . furthermore , my official be actively explore opportunity for improve the resilience of the sector . aviation at Cornwall airport , Newquay , be under threat from increase regulatory burden , lead its owner , Cornwall council , to explore costly funding option that could put this aviation business on an even less stable footing , despite its clear benefit to the public good and the local economy . will the Minister outline the step be take to ensure that there be an adequate strategy in place to support airport in meet these increase regulatory burden ? as my hon . friend know , the UK aviation market predominantly operate in the private sector , and regulatory cost be common to several industry . my Department be work with the aviation industry to understand the impact of these cost , and I be sure he will continue to champion the public service obligation route between Newquay and London , which enable more passenger to use Newquay airport . Capital Investment whether she have have discussion with the Chancellor of the Exchequer on increase capital investment in transport . as the Chancellor set out in her statement , this Government inherit a £ 22 billion fiscal black hole , include billion of pound of underfunded and unfunded transport project . we must fix the foundation of the economy , so I be review capital expenditure in transport to ensure that every penny be spend responsibly , to get the good value for money , and to ensure that our investment power growth in every corner of the country . the Secretary of State will be aware of the ambition of Scotland and the other devolve nation when it come to major capital transport scheme . however , she will also be aware of the swingeing cut make to capital budget by the previous Tory Government , while construction inflation have rise to eye - water level . will she ensure that capital funding for transport project be substantially increase to enable work on vital connectivity to progress at pace ? I have meet the Scottish Transport Minister , Fiona Hyslop , and look forward to a constructive work relationship with she . the hon . Gentleman will appreciate that spending commitment be a matter for the spending review , but those negotiation and discussion be ongoing . as a result of under - investment in the low Thames crossing project , Dartford resident face a noxious cocktail of bad air quality and disruption , live as they do near the hugely over capacity Dartford crossing . will my right hon . friend consider make representation to the Treasury to ensure that the low Thames crossing , which be a vital infrastructure project , be fund ? the decision around the development consent order for the low Thames crossing be a quasi - judicial one . I be afraid I be unable to comment far than my write ministerial statement this week . publicly - control Bus Services : ringfence funding if she will take step with Cabinet colleague to ensure the provision of ringfenced funding for local authority to deliver publicly - control bus service . as part of our plan to deliver well bus service , the Government have commit to reform bus funding by give local authority the tool they need to ensure service reflect the need of the community they serve . we want to give local leader more control and flexibility over bus funding , and allow they to plan ahead to deliver their local transport priority . we be consider how good to support bus in the long term as part of the spending review . the Government ' s well bus Bill be a fantastic example of what a Labour Government can achieve and do . for the Bill to be successful , if funding be make available , we must ensure bus driver be pay adequately and local resident have an input into the design , regularity and quality of route . will the Minister confirm that that will form part of the Bill and that this Labour Government will end the Tories ' 14 - year ideological war on municipal transport ? I agree with my hon . friend . I reassure he that we be committed to deliver well bus service and that we will always put passenger first . our forthcoming bus Bill be a crucial part of our reform . when it be introduce later in this session , it will increase power available to local leader , because those local leader be well place to make decision on their bus network , and remove the Conservatives ' ideological ban on municipal bus company . rural Transport link what step her Department be take to improve transport link in rural area . the Government know that Britain need a modern transport network to help kickstart economic growth . under the previous Government , the loss of thousand of vital bus service across the country have leave too many rural area with poor transport link . that be why the Government will be introduce a new bus Bill to put power over local service back in the hand of local leader right across England , to ensure network can meet the need of the community that rely on they , include in Suffolk and other rural area in England . while I welcome the news that this Government plan to deliver 1 , 200 UK - make zero - emission bus to help local authority deliver on their transport ambition and seize opportunity to embrace zero - emission transport technology , may I ask what consideration the Secretary of State and her Department have give to the much - need expansion of electric vehicle charge network in rural community , specifically those in central Suffolk , to support the roll - out of the electric fleet ? we will be make an announcement soon on that expansion . topical Questions if she will make a statement on her departmental responsibility . I pledge to move fast and fix thing , and that be exactly what my Department be do . not only have we end the long ever national strike on our railway , save the taxpayer million and boost our economy , we have pass a landmark Bill through this House to bring rail service back into public hand after decade of failure and fragmentation . we be take back control of bus by provide new power to deliver control to every community in England . we have take a step close to green flight , with a new sustainable aviation fuel mandate . just yesterday , I announce new measure to strengthen working right at sea and prevent a repeat of the P & O Ferries scandal ever happen again . transport be power the crucial work of repair and renewal . it underpin each of our national mission , from economic growth to clean energy , and under this government it will serve work people , wherever they live . my constituent , Frederick Cooksley , be send a fine by the Mayor of London for breach the ultra low emission zone rule , despite drive on a road where the ULEZ do not apply , which provide access to a very important hospital in my constituency . will she prevail upon her colleague the Mayor of London to ensure , unlike Mr Cooksley , who have to challenge at great length to get his money back , that everyone who have be issue a fine in error for drive on a road where the rule do not apply be automatically refund ? I be sure the Mayor of London will have hear that question . we will pass on issue around fine on road where the ULEZ do not apply . at well , the propose low Thames crossing offer only a short - term mitigation to the problem of congestion at the Dartford crossing , but will have a significantly detrimental environmental and quality - of - life impact for my constituent and feel counterintuitive to the Government ' s net zero ambition . give that , what step will the Secretary of State take to consider the potential for investment in cross - river public transport , include the kenex tram scheme — Order . I be sorry , but this be topical . it be a bad example to begin with , but do not make it bad . I be sure that you be come to the end of your question now . what step will the Secretary of State take to consider cross - river public transport ? I thank my hon . friend for her question and completely understand the concern that she raise about congestion in the area . the outlined business case submit by KenEx , to which she refer , be unfortunately unable to progress far after its submission in 2022 , as it lack critical detail . should alternative be bring forward , I be sure that they will be consider . I call the shadow Secretary of State . after just 100 day , this be already one of the most anti - growth government in history , from investor - scare taxis to the right hon . Lady hit the brake on our transport infrastructure pipeline , with Northern Powerhouse Rail , the Midlands Rail Hub and road upgrade across the country all on hold . growth require investment and investment require confidence . will she give some to the business look to invest , to the contractor wait to get start , and , crucially , to the community that so badly need these upgrade ? I wonder whether the hon . Lady have speak to any business or infrastructure provider over the past 14 year who have suffer appalling uncertainty and a lack of confidence . her government preside over billion of pound of waste and failure in the delivery of infrastructure and have cost our economy hundred of billion of pound . I be expect the right hon . Lady to say something along the line of " wait for the Budget " , or " wait for the spending review " , as we have hear many time during this question session . however , she do not wait for the Budget to give union a massive pay rise , to re - announce our plan to get hs2 to Euston , or to signal billion of pound for a new hs2 - light . if she can make those decision before the Budget , surely she can confirm that every penny of investment that we have commit to transport through Network North will continue to be invest in our country ' s transport infra - structure . the hon . Lady can wait for the Budget ! dangerous driving be a major concern , particularly follow a serious crash in my constituency last week . with West Midlands police commit to Vision Zero , what additional support be the Department for Transport provide to help local enforcement and campaign to tackle speeding and other dangerous driving behaviour ? I thank my hon . friend for raise that vital question . every death on our road be a tragedy . we expect driver to observe the speed limit , and , of course , enforcement be a matter for the police . last week , I meet Richard Parker , the Mayor of the west midland , to discuss our share determination to improve road safety . I call the Liberal Democrat spokesman . I congratulate the Secretary of State on say recently that it be ridiculous for hs2 to end at Old Oak Common . can she confirm whether funding for the work necessary at Euston station have now be secure and what she be do to reverse the Tories ' equally absurd decision to end the northern leg at Birmingham ? I be grateful to the hon . gentleman for his comment . as I say early , nowhere be the legacy of the previous Government more pertinent than the mess in which they leave hs2 . even under their disgrace plan , Euston be always go to be part of the position on HS2 , and we will shortly be make a full announcement about the future of HS2 and , crucially , about its cost control . I be pleased to hear that the Secretary of State have say that , unlike the previous hapless government , she will prevent another scandal such as the sudden sacking of 800 p & O ferry employee two year ago . will she please outline what step she intend to take to stop anything like that ever happen again ? I be very grateful to my hon . friend for her question . the previous Government take two - and - a - half year after the P & O ferry scandal to do nothing . in few than 100 day , we be bring forward legislation that will prevent such a scandal ever happen again , and we be work with operator who employ properly in this space and the trade union to bring forward protection on rostere as well . the A12 be the major artery between London and the east coast , yet it be already busy than most motorway and suffer from horrendous congestion and delay . will the Minister therefore press ahead with the widen scheme , which be at an advanced stage , and without which the Government ' s project growth target and housing target simply will not be meet ? I understand the pressure in relation to the A12 , but as the right hon . Member will know , the Secretary of State have announce a review of our Department ' s capital portfolio that will support the development of our long - term strategy for transport , and of course there be a Budget and a spending review come up . Eurostar service have not call at Ashford or Ebbsfleet international rail station since the pandemic , with Eurostar state that it will not resume service for some year . that be have a really detrimental impact on business and resident in my constituency , and more broadly across Medway and Kent . will the Secretary of State meet I , other interested mps and representative from the Kent and Medway economic partnership to discuss option to restore this vital rail service and help to boost economic growth in the region ? I be grateful for my hon . friend ' s important question . we share she and her constituent ' disappointment in the commercial decision by Eurostar to cease service . we hope to see a reinstatement , either by Eurostar or another operator , in the future , but I will meet with she , other mps and local stakeholder to continue discuss this matter . government allocation to local highway authority for road maintenance have be freeze since 2016 , with no funding for new road since 2012 . my constituency have lose over half its funding . will the Minister urgently investigate how road maintenance funding for local authority can be restore ? there be no great sign of the failure of the previous Government than the appalling state of our road . that be why this Government have already commit to support local authority across England to fix up to 1 million extra pothole every year . we will have more to say on this in due course . exeter have a good and well use rail system that be vital for the economic and social success of our city ; however , two of our station — St Thomas and Polsloe Bridge — be accessible only to people who can climb flight of stair . will the Minister please update the House on the work that the Government be undertake to ensure that our rail network be accessible to everyone ? I thank my hon . friend for raise the important issue of accessibility . we be carefully consider the good approach to the Access for all programme . I be afraid that we be not yet able to comment on next step regard project at specific station ; however , ensure that the rail network be accessible to absolutely everyone be at the heart of our passenger - focus approach , and I will speak to he about it far . have the Minister ' s capital portfolio review properly consider the health , social and equality aspect of value for money , and will it therefore recommend cancel more road building scheme from the previous Government in favour of a real long - term boost to local authority active travel funding ? the capital review and our assessment of the transport appraisal guidance be absolutely consider how we can capture well the wide implication of transport infrastructure funding . we be commit to work with Active Travel England and ensure that all investment involve consideration of how we can well promote active travel and public transport use , but we be commit to road building as well . the deployment of Operation Brock to queue freight lorry head to Dover on the M20 cause huge disruption and inconvenience for resident and business throughout my Ashford constituency . ahead of the introduction of the new EU entry / exit system , will the Government work with the french Government , local authority , the port of Dover , and Eurotunnel to minimise delay and ensure that Operation Brock be use only as a measure of last resort ? both the Secretary of State and I have visit Kent a number of time in recent week and month . we meet regularly with our colleague in the Home Office , the Cabinet Office and the Foreign , Commonwealth and Development Office to discuss the impact of the new EU entry / exit system , and we will intensify those discussion as we approach the implementation date . I call the Father of the House . the previous Minister promise I and my hon . friend the Member for Brigg and Immingham ( Martin Vickers ) that he have instruct LNER and Network Rail to ensure that we get our through train from Grimsby to London . will the Minister confirm that she will continue those firm instruction and , above all , ensure that this train stop ? if it do not stop in Market Rasen , I be go to lie down on the line and stop it that way . I do hope that the right hon . member will not put himself in such danger . we be work with industry to address timetable , financial , operational and infrastructure issue that need to be resolve before a service between Cleethorpes and London via Market Rasen could be introduce , once the east coast main line timetable change have be implement . we will consider any proposal put forward , with approval subject to funding and a thorough business case process . one of the final act of the last Tory Government be to cancel Access for all funding for Battersea Park station in my constituency , despite there be a cost plan in place with the local authority . the funding have be promise for more than a decade . will the Minister meet I to discuss how we can get the project back on track and finally make Battersea Park station step - free ? I be grateful to my hon . friend , who have be campaign on this issue since the moment she set foot in this House . I would be delighted to meet she to see how we can take forward this important project . local people in Harpenden and Berkhamsted be already blight by noise from Luton airport , and be highly concerned about the propose expansion to almost double passenger capacity . what assessment have the Minister make of the compatibility of the expansion with the view of the Government ' s own adviser , the Climate Change Committee ? currently , Luton airport be part of a development consent order , on which I can not comment as a Minister , but I would remind people that it be always important to balance noise and local economic activity . twenty - five year ago , two train collide just west of Paddington station , in what be one of bad rail accident of recent time . thirty - one people lose their life and many more be injure . will the Secretary of State join I in pay tribute to all those who be affect by the Paddington rail crash ? I commend my hon . friend for his bravery in recently speak out about his personal involvement in that tragic crash , and I thank my hon . friend the Member for Kensington and Bayswater ( Joe Powell ) and my official for attend the commemoration last weekend . I join my hon . friend the Member for read Central ( Matt Rodda ) in pay tribute to the family of the victim and to all those hero who respond on the day . resident in my constituency have be in contact about service at Worcester Park , which have be cut dramatically over the past few year , as have already be allude to by my hon . friend the Member for Wimbledon ( Mr Kohler ) . one resident complain that price have go up by 20 % in the past five year , and that the last train have be bring back from almost 1 be to before midnight . this be not only throttle London ' s night - time economy , but cause issue for local resident who choose more sustainable transport . will the Minister explain when we can expect to see improvement in service follow renationalisation , which may begin as early as next year ? the hon . Member have outline exactly the kind of issue that we seek to address through the public ownership reform and the creation of great British Railways . the Department be already work with operator that be in public ownership and those that be not yet , such as Southern , to ensure that the decision that they make be properly join up with Network Rail and that we can start drive improvement immediately . as a result of a failure in regulation , the cross - border taxi trade be undermine the high standard set by local taxi company and black cab . what be be do to improve regulation , and will the Minister meet I to discuss the situation in York ? we be aware of concern about the current legislative and regulatory framework and would be delighted to meet she to discuss that far . the previous Government introduce the " get around for £ 2 " bus fare , which be commit to for five year in the conservative manifesto . give that — order . face this way , please . question should be ask through I , not address directly to the Minister . of course , Mr Speaker . will the Government commit to extend the fare until at least the end of this financial year ? it be so important for rural bus user and for lower - pay worker access employment right across the country . we be consider the benefit that have accrue as a result of the £ 2 bus fare and what step we will take next . of course , that will all form part of the spending review . while the low Thames crossing be under review , what step be the Secretary of State take to promote river transport crossing such as river bus ? I will ask my official to look into river bus , and I will write to my hon . friend after today ' s session . the A36 be a critical route between Southampton and Bath / Bristol . a study be complete several month ago . give the decision on the a303 tunnel just north of Salisbury , will the appropriate Minister meet I so that we can discuss connectivity and remove the pinch - point on the Southampton Road south of Salisbury on the A36 ? I would be very happy to meet the right hon . member to discuss that . I pay tribute to the " Rights on Flights " campaign for the work that it be do to improve accessibility , particularly for wheelchair user . what step be the Secretary of State take to improve aviation accessibility for disabled people ? I meet the " Rights on Flights " campaign early on after become Secretary of State . we will set out our plan to address the major issue of aviation accessibility shortly . the last Conservative Government ringfence funding to the West Midlands Combined Authority for the delivery of a train station in Aldridge . can the Secretary of State confirm that that be proceed as plan and will be deliver by 2027 , or have she sign away our ringfenced funding in favour of a wide Transport for West Midlands budget in order to support the Labour Mayor ' s ideologically drive plan for bus nationalisation ? the West Midlands Mayor ' s plan for bus service across the west midland be predicate on deliver well bus service and transport across the region as a whole . we will look into where the funding be for the Aldridge train station . I welcome the Secretary of State ' s decision to approve the new roll - on , roll - off shipping terminal at Immingham . however , as she will be aware , it will put more pressure on the local road network , particularly the a180 . will she bring forward improvement to the a180 , particularly the removal of the concrete surface ? long term , we really need the a180 to be upgrade to motorway status . I have hear all about the a180 from the hon . Gentleman , and from my hon . friend the Member for Great Grimsby and Cleethorpes ( Melanie Onn ) , so I know about the issue that it be cause his constituent . we will write to he with a National Highways update . the town of Stratford - upon - Avon be one of the most visit location in the UK , yet for many year we have not have a direct train to the capital . what step be the Secretary of State take to fix the lack of capacity in Chiltern Railways so that my constituent and visitor can travel directly and sustainably to and from London ? that sort of service and provision be exactly what the reform around great British Railways be design to address . decision around infrastructure and operation will be make together so that we can deliver service that make sense for the hon . Lady ' s constituent , for visitor and for the economy as a whole . one hundred and fifty parish in Devon write to Devon county council last year ask for 20 mph zone , but only six be successful . those that be not successful be tell that they could pursue the measure through so - call " community self - delivery . " my constituent think , " but this be what we pay our council tax for . " do the Secretary of State understand that ? I be very grateful for the hon . Gentleman ' s question . it be absolutely my position that if local resident want to design and support local measure around speeding and road safety , they should be support to do so by their local authority . university : Freedom of Speech ( Urgent Question ) : to ask the Secretary of State if she will make a statement on freedom of speech in university . it be a Labour Government who enshrine in law the right to freedom of expression , and it be a Labour Government who will again uphold freedom of speech and academic freedom on our university campus — not through create a culture war , but through work with academic , student and campaigner to get the legislation right . the Secretary of State write to colleague and make a write statement on 26 July 2024 on her decision to pause further commencement of the Higher Education ( Freedom of Speech ) Act 2023 in order to consider option . we have hear concern from minority group and other that that Act and its implementation may have unintended consequence and result in disproportionate burden for university and student union . many be concerned that it could push provider to overlook the safety and wellbeing of minority group over fear of sanction and costly action . I want to provide the House with reassurance that this Government believe that high education must be a space for robust discussion that expose both student and academic to challenge idea . the decision to pause the Act be make precisely because of the importance of get this legislation right . the Secretary of State indicate in her write statement that she would confirm her long - term plan for the Act " as soon as possible " . since then , official and Ministers have engage with a wide range of stakeholder on the future of the Act . this include representative of high education provider and academic , include those from the Committee for Academic Freedom , Academics for Academic Freedom and the London Universities ' Council for Academic Freedom . those official and Ministers will continue to engage with stakeholder before any final decision be make . I call the shadow Secretary of State . this evening , a Member of this House be due to speak at an event at Cambridge University . that event will not go ahead as plan because of safety concern . it be absolutely not for we to question operational decision making , but it absolutely be for we to question this government about legislation and the effect — direct , indirect and chilling — of the decision they have make since come to office . last year , the Higher Education ( Freedom of Speech ) Act become law . in the end , have attract cross - party support after extensive work with student and academic , it pass all its stage in Parliament and receive Royal Assent . that Act be about protect free speech on campus , include for visit speaker , and it be about academic freedom to challenge conventional wisdom and put forward unpopular and controversial opinion . however , in July this year , the new Secretary of State decide — without any parliamentary debate — not to commence that Act . the Minister speak about a wide range of stakeholder . some 600 academic , include seven Nobel prize laureate , have write to the Secretary of State in support of the legislation . do the Secretary of State really think that those academic would support that legislation if it be , as the Government put it , a Tory hate charter ? will she now agree to meet those academic , and will she please now do the right thing and commence the legislation that Parliament have pass ? this Government be absolutely committed to freedom of speech . the Secretary of State pause the further implementation of the Act to consider option and ensure we get the legislation right , and she will confirm as soon as possible the plan for the Act and long - term plan for the continuation of freedom of speech in high education . the high education sector , minority group , and union represent staff on campus have raise concern about the Act , believe it to be disproportionate , burdensome and damaging to the welfare of student , and fear that sanction could result in minority group ' concern be overlook . mp and peer raise a whole range of these concern during the Bill ' s passage . by step back from the legislation to reflect on which of the measure introduce be need , the Government be take a pragmatic approach to ensure that high education remain a space for constructive dialogue and a home for diverse opinion . it should not be a battleground for ideological clash . we be consider the next step . I take on board the shadow Secretary of State ' s request for the Secretary of State to meet those he mention . she have hold a range of meeting with all group that have concern and want a say in how this consideration continue . I be sure that she will have further meeting and I will pass on his specific request . university and academic freedom be vital to the intellectual and economic health of this country . free speech be mention in our manifesto early this year , but there be no mention of this particular decision , which be make 21 day after the Secretary of State take office . sadly , I therefore find it difficult to support this decision , on that basis alone . can the Minister tell I whether , when she talk about burdensome issue , she mean the chinese Government threaten to withdraw resource from our major university , because I think that be at the bottom of the pressure that be unduly put on the Secretary of State ? I have hear my hon . friend and recognise his point . however , I can absolutely reassure he that that be not a factor in make this decision . it be very much about ensure that we take the time to consider option for the future of this Act and make sure that we get it right . it be because we believe in uphold freedom of expression and freedom of speech in our world - class high education sector that we want to get this legislation right , and that be why we be consider the option . we will continue to listen to and meet all group that have an interest in uphold freedom of speech . there be those who support measure in the Act and those who have concern about measure in the Act . we will continue to consult and will report back on plan as soon as possible . I call the liberal Democrat spokesperson . freedom of speech be fundamentally about the freedom to inquire about and explore idea , fact and datum that be sometimes difficult and sometimes inconvenient , and it be the lack of fact and datum , and even of much of an idea , that fail to convince the Liberal Democrats of the need for the Higher Education ( Freedom of Speech ) Act . it be not base on evidence and it be not proportionate , and the Government ' s decision to halt its implementation be welcome . however , we should take legitimate concern seriously , and we should not ignore those that exist within jewish community , include in university . what work be the Minister undertaking to ensure that jewish staff and student feel safe and welcome in our community , especially in our university ? I welcome the hon . Gentleman ' s comment and recognise much within they . the rise in antisemitic abuse on high education campus be deeply concern , and this Government take it extremely seriously . we regularly meet Universities UK to discuss what support university be offer to jewish student on campus and how they be tackle antisemitic abuse . we also regularly meet the Union of jewish Students , the University jewish Chaplaincy and the Community Security Trust , and we will continue to do so to make sure that we get this right . can the Minister reflect on the dire inheritance in education , particularly in the high education sector ? my hon . friend raise an important point about the wide landscape and the challenge face our high education sector . our university be not just vital for uphold freedom of expression , freedom of speech , academic debate and rigour ; they be also incredible seat of opportunity that must be unleash up and down this country . we will continue to do everything we can to support economic growth , which we know be support by high education , and indeed by the whole of education . the Government be commit to that unleashing of opportunity . the Secretary of State have say that she want to listen to different view and the Minister have talk about the number of meeting that have take place , so will she commit to meet the delegation of senior jewish academic lead by Professor David Abulafia , who have already write request such a meeting ? the right hon . Gentleman be absolutely right . we be absolutely committed to consult with a wide range of interest in order to get this legislation right , and I will certainly pass on his request to the Minister with responsibility for high education , who lead on this work . do my hon . friend agree that the real threat to academic freedom be cut to academic subject and job insecurity , two issue that the conservative party ignore time and again when in government ? my hon . friend raise an important point , and it go back to what I say previously : this debate be very important . it be important that we have the right framework for freedom of expression and speech within our education system , and particularly that academic rigour that benefit from have the freedom to be challenge and to challenge view that should be hear and debate . she be also right that university be the powerhouse to opportunity across the country , and we need to ensure that be unleash in every part . I be a fellow north - east MP and we know how important our university be in our region to unleash that opportunity and we want to see that unleash across the country . Mr Speaker , I apologise for my hoarse voice — I have be silence . the reason that this legislation be bring forward in the first place be that so many academic be fearful of be able to speak in those institution . they do not believe they have the freedom to express idea and view , and they be be silence by other academic . that be why the legislation be bring forward . it be shocking that an Act of Parliament , pass by this House and give Royal Assent , be just to be cast aside without member of Parliament first have an opportunity to vote on whether they agree with that . will the hon . Lady therefore commit to give this House a say on whether that will be allow to happen ? I commend the right hon . Gentleman for his valiant effort today to uphold his right to speak on this issue . I recognise the challenge of ensure that we have take the time to get this right , because we want to protect freedom of speech and we need to ensure that this legislation , and any legislation , assist in that and do not impede it . we also recognise and support the exist duty on high education provider to support and secure lawful freedom of speech , as currently set out in the Education Act 1986 . it remain in force for Office for student registration condition . he be right that we need to get this right ; that need to be uphold , and have this discussion today support that push to ensure that freedom of speech be uphold . as the Act to which he refer pass through this House and be consider , and as it be now far consider , that shed more light on the importance of uphold freedom of speech , and he have contribute to that again today . in the week that we mark the dark anniversary of 7 October , may I say that I welcome this Government take these measure to ensure the safety of jewish student on campus ? do the Minister agree that this show that this Government truly believe that , regardless of their religion , student should be able to get on with their study without concern for their safety ? I absolutely agree with my hon . friend , and I think that the same principle apply through every aspect of education and childhood , and in every aspect of society too . as a government , we stand with those upholding and secure those right . our university have to be an avenue where individual can speak and be challenge . the reality be that there be nothing new to freedom of speech . I remember as a president of a student ' union constantly have to fight for the right for people to express their view , even when I totally disagree with they . the sad reality be that jewish student and jewish academic feel threaten right now by antisemite — let we call they out for what they be — when they must be free to exercise freedom of speech . will the Minister , in this consideration , make sure that those right be uphold in whatever the Government come forward with ? I know that the hon . Gentleman work hard in this space . I do not disagree with a word he have say . university must be a space for robust discussion , and that be why we have pause the roll - out of the Act . he be right that antisemitism and Holocaust denial be abhorrent and there must be no space for they . that be why we have pause the legislation . we must ensure that we get the balance right between freedom of speech and uphold the right for minority group and other to have their lawful right to freedom of expression , as they should . previous Conservative Education Ministers be on the record state that this flawed legislation could allow those spread hate and extremism to seek compensation under its measure . do my hon . friend agree that it be right that we look again at this issue in order to avoid those dangerous consequence ? my hon . friend raise an important point , which be why we be currently talk to people with a range of view , include those supportive of the provision in the Act . we be listen to the concern of minority group and other that the Act could encourage university and college to overlook the safety and wellbeing of minority because of a fear of complaint and costly legal action , push they towards allow abhorrent hate speech . that be why we be consider this legislation . we need to get this right . can the Minister give we any specific example of a scenario with which the Government be confront by these people who have successfully lobby for a pause , other than just speak in general term about the legislation be disproportionate ? I appreciate the right hon . Gentleman ' s thoughtful question . I can not give he a specific example today . the principle that we be work to be that we be look in great detail at all aspect and all concern that have be raise , as well as supportive comment , in relation to the Act and what it seek to achieve . I will pass his question on to the Minister for high education and skill and ask she to respond accordingly . student politic be often malign in this place , and often rightly so . however , in 2006 I attend the conference of the National Union of Students and vote that Hizb ut - Tahrir should be no - platforme . it be the right thing to do . clearly , the Conservatives agree , because in January this year they proscribe Hizb ut - Tahrir as a terrorist organisation . do my hon . friend agree that the Conservatives ' position be in fact a charter for Hizb ut - Tahrir , Holocaust denier and vaccine denier to wander our university freely ? my hon . friend express passionate view on this subject , which do incite passionate view , because it be a fundamental freedom that we must protect and uphold . that be why we be take the time to ensure that we get this right and uphold lawful freedom of expression and freedom of speech in our high education system , while not give space for unlawful speech that go beyond robust debate . I recently attend university in Birmingham and witness large protest in relation to the palestinian issue attend by both people of faith and no faith , include jewish student . they be protest peacefully . while we accept that there have be a rise in antisemitism , there have also be a rise in Islamophobic hate at university . will the Minister confirm that whatever consultation take place , she will feed back a report on they to the House ? I thank the hon . gentleman for his contribution . he be absolutely right . I will make that commitment , which I will pass on to the Minister for Skills and to the Secretary of State . before I be elect to this place , I be a university lecturer and a teacher . I work hard — as do my colleague — to ensure that in my lecture hall all view could be express , interrogate and debate , even those that I profoundly disagree with . do the Minister agree that when Opposition member make unsubstantiated claim that student who express Tory view be mark down , it undermine — [ interruption . ] order . I think that the hon . member for West Suffolk ( Nick Timothy ) and for Broadland and Fakenham ( Jerome Mayhew ) be both try to catch my eye . I assure you that that be not the way to do it . do the Minister agree that when Opposition member make unsubstantiated claim that Tory student be be mark down , it undermine the brilliant hard work that our lecturer do to support their student ? my hon . friend make an important point . the Government will uphold freedom of speech and academic freedom on our university campus . robust debate and challenge to view help student to grow in an education setting ; create culture war do not . that be why we will work with academic , student , campaigner and all those with an interest in uphold freedom of speech in our high education system to get this right . be freedom of speech not an absolute freedom and right ? will the Government not do something to bring vice - chancellor to account for their failure to deliver freedom of speech on university campus ? fifty - five year ago , I be the victim of that when the vice - chancellor of the university that I be attend try to prevent I , as chairman of the Conservative association , from invite a then prominent Member of this House of Commons to the university campus . the vice - chancellor be eventually force to stand down . I write what be then a lead letter in the Daily Telegraph , the vice - chancellor be shame into change his view and the visit take place . do that not show that the key to this be have vice - chancellor who really believe in freedom of speech ? the hon . Gentleman have demonstrate well the exist duty on high education provider to secure lawful freedom of speech and , indeed , the right of citizen to ensure that it be uphold . he make an important point . that be why we be talk to people with a whole range of view on the issue to ensure that we get it right . under the Office for Students ' draft guidance , some university have say they will have to revoke their adoption of the international Holocaust Remembrance Alliance ' s definition of antisemitism for fear that it might contravene the legislation . do my hon . friend agree that that highlight why it be so important to get the legislation right and that it be right to be cautious about how we implement any such legislation ? my hon . friend make the point well . the Department be absolutely committed to uphold the IHRA definition as well as challenging and educate on issue that a range of hon . member have raise today . we need to have a robust education system that inform and create healthy debate on these issue , but it must also be lawful and protect the freedom of speech of those express lawful view . do the Minister believe that cancel culture and no - platforming be a problem ? do she believe they be get bad ? she have mention that this be important ; why , then , will she not set out a concrete timetable for the introduction of this new legislation ? I appreciate the hon . Gentleman ' s desire to see these change . however , we want to take the time to get this right . we be absolutely committed to free speech — I have say that a number of time — and we want to take time to ensure that we protect it in the good way possible . if the Higher Education ( Freedom of Speech ) Act have be implement , as would have happen under the last government , to a timetable over the summer , the situation at the University of Cambridge probably would not have occur , nor would the situation in Durham , in which the university debating society , the Durham Union Society , have be keep out of the student union fair . would the hon . Lady reflect on the fact that this delay be have an impact on freedom of speech in university across the country ? I understand her concern , but surely speed be of the essence if we be to ensure freedom of speech in our university . I respectfully disagree . many concern be express that unintended consequence of the Act would create a disproportionate burden , and that be why we have pause it — to step back and to reflect on whether the measure introduce by the Act be need . we absolutely know that it be necessary to uphold freedom of speech . provision on freedom of expression still exist in legislation and will be uphold , and we need to make sure that we have the space to have a constructive dialogue on these issue rather than a battleground for ideological clash . we be consider the next step and will report in due course . when the Minister consider whatever come next after the Higher Education ( Freedom of Speech ) Act , will she consider the business of foreign funding for international student , their scholarship and research institute ? in particular , will she ensure that no test or condition be impose by other state on international scholarship , bursary and funding for research institute ? the hon . Gentleman tempt I into a much broad discussion on high education . we recognise the challenge , but also the opportunity in this sector . I be sure the Minister for Skills will be listen to the hon . Gentleman ' s concern and consider they as part of the wide work on ensure we support our high and further education sector in the good way , which be what they deserve . will the Minister outline how the Government will ensure that enshrine freedom of speech mean enshrine freedom to believe and to express one ' s belief without fear or favour ? how will the Government ensure that student with deeply held faith or who hold true to biological science be entitle to discuss their belief on gender , ideology and indeed every facet of student life without fear or favour ? yes , I give the hon . Gentleman that reassurance . it be for that reason that we be pause and make sure that we get this legislation right . freedom of speech and academic freedom be too important to approach in anything other than a consider , pragmatic and consensual way . I appreciate the Minister ' s constructive tone . she say that she do not want this to be a culture war issue . when the pause be announce by the Secretary of State , special adviser in her Department describe the Higher Education ( Freedom of Speech ) Act to the medium as a Tory " hate speech charter " . will the Minister disown those comment ? I have be very clear that we need to take a constructive approach and to listen to all view on this issue . we need to protect freedom of speech and academic expression , and that include robust debate where necessary and challenging view that we may not want to hear . we be listen and we be determined to get this right . the Higher Education ( Freedom of Speech ) Act be not a Government scheme that be be pause , but an Act of Parliament that have receive Royal Assent . it be a very serious decision to stop that in its track , so it must have be base on serious evidence . will the Minister set out that evidence ? give the need to defend freedom of speech be now , how long will the process take ? I agree that this be a serious issue , and it be a serious and important decision to make . we need to have the right foundation in place to secure free speech in the long term in high education . we will consult all the group with an interest in ensure that we get this right . we be listen to those who be concerned about the Act and its implication . we be also listen to those who support many of the measure in the Act and would like action to be take to ensure freedom of speech in high education . it be because of the seriousness of this issue that we have step back , to ensure that we take that pragmatic , long - term approach . business of the House will the Leader of the House update the House on the forthcoming business ? may I wish the Leader of the House a happy birthday ? forty today ! twenty - one today , Mr Speaker . the business for the week commence 14 October include : Monday 14 October — Second reading of the Terrorism ( Protection of Premises ) Bill . Tuesday 15 October — Second reading of the House of Lords ( Hereditary Peers ) Bill . Wednesday 16 October — opposition day ( 3rd allotted day ) . debate on a motion in the name of the Liberal Democrats . subject to be announce . Thursday 17 October — general debate on the international investment summit . Friday 18 October — the House will not be sit . the provisional business for the week commence 21 October will include : Monday 21 October — Second reading of the Employment Rights Bill . Tuesday 22 October — Second reading of the Commonwealth Parliamentary Association and International Committee of the Red Cross ( Status ) Bill [ Lords ] . Wednesday 23 October — Motion to approve the Infected Blood Compensation Scheme Regulations 2024 , follow by motion to approve the Iran ( Sanctions ) ( Amendment ) Regulations 2024 . Thursday 24 October — general debate on Black History Month . Friday 25 October — the House will not be sit . additionally , the House may wish to know that I have table a motion under future business confirm the upcoming date for sit Fridays . subject to the agreement of the House , the first sit Friday to consider private Member ' s Bills will be 29 November . Mr Speaker , may I start by welcome your new Chaplain , Rev . Mark Birch , to his role ? I be sure we all look forward to work with he . let I also extend warm birthday wish to the Leader of the House . it be hard to believe , but today be a very significant birthday for she . the whole House extend warm wish to she and her family . I be sure there will be a lavish party to mark the occasion , but I be genuinely concerned for the right hon . Lady . to keep up with her Cabinet colleague , she will need , at a minimum , a personal DJ booth and a luxury penthouse to host the party in . I can see from the look on her face that she be a bit concerned about how she will fund all that . since it be her birthday , I will give she some free advice : she should not follow the example of her Cabinet colleague and send the bill to Lord Alli . anyway , I wish she a happy birthday . I must start today with the shocking failure of the Government to inform this House first about the proposal to give away the strategically vital Chagos island . the Government should have wait a few day until Parliament be sit , or wait a few week until the Mauritius election be over , and tell this House first . they show total contempt for Parliament . will the Leader of the House take this opportunity to apologise to the House now and explicitly commit that this will never happen again ? the Chagos proposal be shocking : pay — yes , pay — to give away sovereign territory to a country ally with China , which might be allow to place military or intelligence asset near the Diego Garcia base ; downgrade a sovereign base to merely a lease base , when lease can of course be terminate ; and ignore the Chagos islander themselves . the Opposition will oppose the plan every step of the way . will the Leader of the House now expressly confirm to the House that there will be a Bill on these proposal and a CRaG — Constitutional Reform and Governance Act 2010 — vote on the treaty itself ? can she tell the House when that will happen ? member across the House be horrify by the Government ' s callous plan to strip winter fuel payment from most pensioner , include 84 % of those in poverty . the Government refuse to provide the equality impact assessment in response to a write parliamentary question from one of my colleague , but just a few day after the vote they slip out that assessment via a freedom of information request . that deny member of Parliament the chance to see the impact assessment before voting , presumably because the Government want to disguise from their own Back Benchers the fact that over 70 % of disabled pensioner will lose their winter fuel payment . the failure to disclose key information to this House appear to I to be a breach of section 1 . 3 ( d ) of the " Ministerial Code " . first , will the Leader of the House apologise to the House for hide that information before the critical vote , and will she ask the independent adviser on Ministers ' interest to investigate that as a potential breach of the ministerial code ? if she will not , then I will . the public up and down the country be horrify at the Prime Minister ' s insatiable and venal appetite for freebie . he have have more than any other MP in the last five year , total over £ 100 , 000 : designer suit , £ 1 , 000 spectacle , pop concert and stay in an £ 18 million penthouse , all pay for by Lord Waheed Alli , who be reward with a Downing Street pass and influence over appointment . not a Government of service , but a Government of self - service , feather its nest courtesy of Lord Alli ' s extremely capacious credit card . be the Leader of the House ashame that the Prime Minister have be do that at the same time as strip pensioner of their winter fuel allowance ? he have pay back £ 6 , 000 of the £ 100 , 000 . can she explain why it be £ 6 , 000 ? will he be pay back any more ? finally , this weekend mark 100 day since the formation of the Labour Government . [ hon . member : " hear , hear ! " ] I wouldn ' t get too excited . it be fair to say that they have be busy : a chief of staff fire ; million of pensioner on low income strip of their winter fuel allowance ; inflation - bust pay rise for train driver and the union , without any performance improvement in return ; and school in chaos as a result of botched vat plan that even the trade union — even the trade union — say should not be implement in January . many successful people , it turn out , be now leave or plan to leave the country . in the Budget in a few week ' time , it appear that tax rise and ballooning borrowing be come as the debt rule be rewrite , all break election promise . perhaps it be no surprise that the Prime Minister ' s personal poll rating have go down fast than Lord Alli ' s bank balance after a shopping trip with the Cabinet . a recent poll show that the public actually now prefer the last government to this one . if they carry on like this , it will not just be Sue Gray who be in need of a new job . I , too , welcome the new Chaplain , Mark Birch . I also pay tribute to Lily Ebert , who dedicate her life to ensure that the horror of the Holocaust can never happen again . I be sure that all member will want to send their good wish to the resident of Florida as the damage of Hurricane Milton unfold . I thank you , Mr Speaker , and the rest of the House for the birthday wish . it be a significant birthday for I . fifty year ago today be also a general election day , and my mum be in labour and voting Labour . I know even then that I should not come out before the polling station open . if the House will indulge I slightly , I will take this opportunity to thank my mum and dad , because I would not be here without their life - long support . not only be that a big day in the history of my family ; it be a rare day in that Labour win a general election . talk of historic victory , this week mark the first 100 day of our new Labour Government . the work of change have begin . I remind the House that we have make fiscal responsibility an Act , so that Liz Truss can never happen again . we have set up GB Energy , lift the moratorium on onshore wind , invest in carbon capture and storage , and set up the national wealth fund . we have set ambitious new house building target , and be end no - fault of eviction and give new right to renter . we be bring our railway back into public ownership , and provide new power to stop river pollution . we have end the doctor ' strike so we can get the waiting list down , keep our promise to Figen Murray on Martyn ' s law , end one - word Ofsted judgment , set up the border security command , and take swift action on riot . we be fix the prison crisis that the last Government leave behind . we be pave the way for well bus across the country . we have tighten the rule on mps ' second job , and we be modernise Parliament and reform the House of Lords . and today , 97 day after the election , we be introduce the big boost to worker ' right in a generation , give people dignity and security at work , not as a nice extra but as an integral part of a strategy for a high - wage , high - skill , grow economy . we have work apace to deliver a new deal for worker , tackle exploitative zero - hour contract , end fire and rehire , and provide day one right for bereavement , parental leave and statutory sick pay . we be provide flexible working for those who want it , boost productivity and living standard . this be what Labour government deliver . we have produce twice as many Bills in our first 100 day as the Tories do during the same period after the 2010 election . that be our record , and we be proud of it . the right hon . member for Croydon South ( Chris Philp ) ask I about the Chagos island . we be committed to make statement to the House first when the House be sit , as be lay down in our " Ministerial Code " . as the Foreign Secretary make clear in his statement to the House on Monday , the requirement for proper parliamentary process and scrutiny will of course be follow . that will include a Bill and the full CRaG process , so I be sure the right hon . Gentleman will have ample opportunity to debate the matter far at that time . I be aware that the right hon . Gentleman write to I about winter fuel payment , because a Sunday Telegraph journalist tell I that he have write to I before I have actually receive his letter . I know that he like to come to Parliament to raise these matter first , but he be reach desperately for a conspiracy when there be none . we grant a vote on the winter fuel payment because we respect Parliament ; his party do not . we publish the equality analysis , although there be no requirement for we to do so ; his party would not have do the same . we have have to make a very difficult decision that we do not want to make in order to fill the £ 22 billion black hole that his party leave behind . [ interruption . ] he do not want to hear it , but it be the truth . the right hon . Gentleman have some brass neck to raise the issue of standard in Parliament . he and his colleague vote to change the rule of this House when another of his colleague be find to be in breach of the rule against take cash for lobby . his Prime Minister be find to be in serious breach of the rule when he fail to declare a loan he have receive for do up his flat — a loan broker by someone to whom he then give the job of chairman of the BBC . and let we not get into the fast - lane , mate - rate covid contract that cost taxpayer million of pound , or , indeed , the fact that his Government change the rule on socialise while at the same time party in Downing Street and lie to the House about it for month on end . we will take no lecture from the party opposite . while we be get on with change the country , the Conservatives be soak themselves in the comfort of the warm bath of opposition . on the day that we be boost worker ’ right , they be in a race to the bottom on maternity pay . I gently say to the right hon . Gentleman that it be time the Conservatives take a cold shower . yesterday show that they can not even count — perhaps they should have stick with the " king of the spreadsheet " after all . in just 26 parliamentary sitting day , we have deliver more Bills and more change in this country than be achieve in 14 sorry year of conservative rule . the east midland have the low level of transport spend per person , at just 56 % of the national average . the state of the transport network we have inherit come nowhere near the level of ambition that I know my colleague in the east midland and our new mayor have for economic growth . if the region receive the average level of funding across the UK , we would have an extra £ 1 . 29 billion every year . may we have a debate about inequality in regional transport spending ? my hon . friend raise a very important issue , and we welcome the level of ambition from the mayor and the local authority in the east midland to improve transport in the region . as be outline in Transport question early , the Department for Transport be undertake a thorough review of these issue , and I be sure it will soon come back to the House with further information . I call the liberal Democrat spokesperson . I echo the word of the Leader of the House about the issue affect Florida at the moment ; we wish everyone safety . I also echo the congratulation of the shadow Leader of the House to the Leader of the House on her very special birthday . I welcome the statement from the Leader of the House , and we on the liberal Democrat Benches look forward to scrutinise parliamentary business and work constructively for the good of the country . the new Government have mention many time their commitment to build 1 . 5 million new home in this Parliament . we Lib Dems recognise that our country be in a housing crisis , and we welcome the target . although I know that all mps love don a hard hat for an all - important photo opportunity , those home will be deliver not by central Government but by local government , largely through the planning system and partnership work with developer and infrastructure provider . that be the case in my constituency , where the Liberal Democrat - run Chelmsford city council be already deliver , with thousand of new home be plan . however , these home be in danger of not be deliver at all if the government do not urgently act in two extremely important way . first , they need to speed up their decision make around funding for large infra - structure project , such as the A12 widen scheme . if this important scheme do not receive the funding promise by the previous Government , more than 10 , 000 home may not be deliver . secondly , council that be a long way into develop or review their local plan , such as Chelmsford city council , be extremely concerned that they will miss the arbitrary national planning policy framework transition period deadline by just a matter of week . that will render all the expensive work that they have do on their plan null and void , thereby threaten the delivery of thousand of home and leave a developer free - for - all in the absence of a valid local plan . specifically , plan authority desperately need the Government to extend the transition period in the new NPPF to at least three month . when can we expect to receive assurance about funding for the infrastructure project that be crucial to support the Government ' s home building target , and when can we expect a solution to the cliff edge face by council that be currently review their local plan ? I thank the hon . Lady for her birthday wish and welcome she to her new role . she , too , be a member of the Modernisation Committee , and I very much enjoy our exchange at our first meeting in September . I look forward to work with she on the House of Commons Commission , of which I think she will now become a member . give her background in glazing and construction , I be sure that her insight into the many repair need in this place , especially to some of the stained glass window , will be particularly valuable to the House of Commons Commission . she might not quite realise the heady height that she have now reach in the House of Commons . press and important matter , such as the cost of a bacon butty in the Members ' Tea Room and the state of the toilet in Portcullis House , await her valuable contribution and insight in the House of Commons Commission . I pay tribute to her predecessor , whom I have know for many year and who always make thoughtful contribution to this session . the hon . member for Chelmsford ( Marie Goldman ) raise some important matter about house building . as she will know , this Government be unashamedly pro house building , but that do not mean that there be a developer free - for - all , as she rightly say . that be why it be important that we boost planning capacity in local authority , and we be bring forward the infrastructure Bill to make sure that big infrastructure decision be take much more quickly and robustly . I hear what she say about the national planning policy deadline , and I will make sure that she get a good reply to that point as soon as possible . rise — I do not want to embarrass Members , but I will just say that if you be late in , please do not stand . let we take somebody who be in very early : Ian Lavery . responsibility for Woodhorn Museum on the former Woodhorn colliery site in my constituency — the home of the fantastic world - renowne pitman painter — have this week be transfer to Tyne and Wear Archives and Museums by the Tory - lead Northumberland county council , which have sell off the family silverware . there have be no consultation whatsoever with resident . can the Leader of the House please make time in the parliamentary schedule for we to discuss how local people and community can have a say on how to protect cultural asset in their region ? as ever , my hon . friend make a very important point . these important cultural , industrial and historical asset be for the community to enjoy into the future . I be sure that the topic he raise would make for a very good Adjournment debate , should he wish to apply for one . I call the Chair of the Backbench Business Committee . on 9 July 1944 , Lily Ebert arrive at Auschwitz - Birkenau with her mother , brother and young sister , who be all murder in the gas chamber . somehow Lily escape . she dedicate her life to spread awareness of the horror of the Holocaust and recount her story , and hundred of million of people around the world have see video of she recite her story . she die early this week . despite the effort of the Nazis , she leave behind 10 grandchild , 38 great - grandchild and one great - great - grandchild ; so the attempt of the Nazis to wipe out her family fail . but we have a problem . lily dedicate her life to spread the word about what happen in the Holocaust , and we send condolence to her family . as the Holocaust survivor sadly pass away , it be even more vital that we get the Holocaust memorial and the education centre build alongside this place . the Holocaust Memorial Bill be go through its stage in Parliament . will the Leader of the House do everything she can to speed up that process , so that before the last Holocaust survivor sadly leave we , they can witness the monument to make sure that it never happen again ? I thank the hon . member for that very important tribute to Lily Ebert . she do indeed dedicate her life to ensure that the next generation be educate on the true horror of the Holocaust , so that they never happen again . the hon . Member have spend most of his parliamentary career educate the rest of we on these important matter , and push forward the Holocaust memorial centre here in Westminster . he know that that Bill continue its passage in the Lords . I be very pleased to ensure that it be include in this Government ' s King ' s Speech programme and have early passage in the other place . hopefully , it will receive Royal Assent at the early opportunity , should both Houses wish it to . in recent week , two of my constituent have contact I about unacceptable delay at the Driver and Vehicle Licensing Agency , and particularly about wait time for medical assessment . most recently , concern have be raise about the performance of the Driving and Vehicle Standards Agency . People in Carlisle and north Cumbria be experience incredibly long wait time for drive test . in area like mine , where public transport be virtually non - existent , driving be a precursor to be economically active . will the Leader of the House arrange for the Secretary of State for Transport to make a statement on the step that the Department for Transport be take to improve the performance of both the DVLA and the DVSA ? my hon . friend make an important point that have be raise in this House previously . frankly , the situation be just not good enough , especially for people in rural community like her , who rely so heavily on be able to drive . she may be aware that there be a Westminster Hall debate next week on the availability of drive test ; that might be a good opportunity to raise some of these issue . I will , of course , ensure that the Minister have hear her question . can we have a debate on the hospital review programme ? the Leicestershire and Rutland hospital be now in its scope . we be due to have two hospital , a midwifery unit and a car park . the proposal be in phase 3 , and work have already begin on the plan . I have set up a petition , which be also be share by fellow Leicester and Leicestershire mp , to make sure the issue get the recognition that it need . I urge everyone in Leicestershire and Rutland to sign the petition . can we have a debate in Government time on the review , to make sure that the hospital serve over 1 million people in Leicestershire get the funding that they need ? the new hospital building programme be of great interest to many member on both side of the House . however , when we come into government , we find that the programme be a complete work of fiction . money have not be allocate for many of the promise that have be make . we be undertake a full and comprehensive review of the new hospital programme to make a realistic and costed proposal for all the new hospital that this country so desperately need . I wish the Leader of the House a happy birthday , and reassure she that life begin at the age she have turn . this Government have make a huge effort to combat violence against woman and girl , both through police and the court , but underlying attitude be more difficult to tackle . in Milton Keynes , I partner with White Ribbon to make sure we become the first white ribbon city in the UK , and to tackle attitude by partner with the police , the shopping centre , the football team and school to create an environment in which every woman and girl feel safe . International White Ribbon Day be come up in November . we have always mark it in this House , but do the Leader of the House agree that it would be even more powerful if we become the world ' s first White Ribbon - accredit Parliament , so as to make sure that every woman and girl feel safe on our estate ? life obviously begin at 30 . I thank my hon . friend for raise the important White Ribbon campaign and accreditation , to which she have long be commit . tackle violence against woman and girl be a priority for this Government , and one of our key mission be to halve violence against woman and girl over the come year . we be determined to meet that very ambitious target . her idea of Parliament undertake the journey to become a White Ribbon - accredit organisation be very good , and I will discuss it with she and with member of the House of Commons Commission . will the Leader of the House join I in pay tribute to two fine , distinguished , genial and dedicated parliamentarian , whom we have lose in the past few day : Michael Ancram , Lord Lothian ; and Sir Geoffrey Pattie , who pass away most recently ? I send my appreciation and condolence to their family , and I would be grateful if the Leader of the House do so on behalf of the House . as it be the Leader of the House ' s birthday today , would she consider give a present to this House ? it be absolutely true that successive government have announce important matter in the medium , when they should have announce they first to this House , and successive opposition have criticise they for do so . will she do she level well to ensure no unnecessary repetition of what we recently see happen with the announcement on the Chagos island , which be make so soon before Parliament be set to resume ? I join the right hon . member in pay tribute to the eminent parliamentarian he mention , whom we recently lose . it be important that this House come together to do that . I try to give many present to this Chamber , which be why I be keen to announce the long - term recess date ; I be sure we can all agree that be a present . the right hon . Gentleman be right that the Government and I , as Leader of the House , be commit to the principle that statement should be make to Parliament first , and should be make to Parliament as soon as possible , if the House be not sit . I take the firm view that Secretaries of State should make those statement . I work very hard to uphold those principle . of course , there be time when announcement need to be make during the recess for international or national reason , so it be right that the Foreign Secretary come here at the very first opportunity to make his statement to the House . warm birthday wish to the Leader of the House . I welcome the announcement that Black History Month will be debate in Government time . I hope that the decision have be make for perpetuity , so that no matter the colour of the Government , the debate will always happen . this year ' s theme be " reclaim the narrative . " last week , I post a poem , " of the first one " , on my social medium platform . it receive a lot of support and some wonderful message , but also a lot of racist abuse . researcher at the Natural History Museum have state that " scientist be sure that homo sapiens first evolve in Africa " , so " reclaim the narrative " might also mean reset the narrative . do my right hon . friend agree that it be important to debate such subject as Black History Month , so that we have an even great understanding of history ? I thank my hon . friend for use an opportunity at Prime Minister ' s question yesterday and on other occasion to ask for a debate about Black History Month . it be thank to she and colleague ' effort that we have be able to announce that debate today , so I pay tribute to she . I be sure the issue she raise will be discuss during that debate . it be vital that the narrative be reframe , and that we expose the attitude she describe on social medium and elsewhere , which be fuel by ignorance and hate , and put an end to they . may I suggest that the Leader of the House celebrate her special birthday by grant a debate on the amendment to the international health regulation that be agree at the World Health Assembly in the summer , and that we give mps a vote on the issue before we hand over sovereignty over important matter of national public health to the World Health Organisation ? I thank the hon . gentleman for those birthday wish . as I have gently say on previous occasion , he slightly misunderstand the situation , but of course we always bring important matter before the House . when those matter require a vote — and , in fact , in some case when they do not require a vote — we have be , and will continue to be , very forthcoming . birthday greeting to the Leader of the House from I and my constituent in Newcastle - under - Lyme . will she join I in pay tribute to all the volunteer and member of the team at Newcastle - under - Lyme food bank ? they do wonderful work support some of the most vulnerable people in our community . with that work in mind , can we have a debate on this Government ' s plan to tackle food poverty ? I thank my hon . friend for his question . he be absolutely right : it be shock that in 2024 this great country of ours still require such a huge and widespread use of food bank and that we be blight by food poverty . that be why this Government have set up a cross - cut taskforce to address child poverty , and why we be committed to the roll out of free breakfast club and the creation of more nursery in our school . it be also partly why we be so delighted to introduce the Employment Rights Bill today , so that people can have dignity and security in work . in north and north - east Lincolnshire , we have some excellent furth and high education institution that provide the knowledge and skill that our young people need for the evolve world of work . yesterday , I meet representative of the Association of Colleges , who outline the challenge that the sector face . can we have a debate in Government time on further and high education college to give member the opportunity to tease out from Government how they see policy develop in that area ? I know that be a matter of concern for many people , and the Government have speedily set about have a review of the funding of BTecs . that review will be complete very quickly , as it be of great concern to further education college . we have education question on 4 November and the forthcoming Technical Education Bill will soon be come from the other House . October be ADHD Awareness Month , yet individual with ADHD — attention deficit hyperactivity disorder — be still be fail with diagnosis delay , medication shortage and a lack of resource in school and the workplace . may we have a debate on how Government can well support people with ADHD across their lifetime , from childhood to adulthood , to ensure that we can give everybody the opportunity to thrive ? may I take this opportunity to welcome my hon . friend back as the MP for Leigh and Atherton ? [ interruption . ] it be a short holiday that she should never have have from be the MP for Leigh , as it be then . I also thank she for all the work that she have do as chair of the all - party parliamentary group on ADHD . I be sure that this would be a very good topic for a Westminster Hall debate if she should apply for one . on Monday , Gloucestershire ' s police and crime commissioner suspend the county ' s chief constable . yesterday , we learn that the deputy chief constable have be suspend in January and subsequently retire in June . these matter remain under investigation and I do not seek to comment on the specific of the case , as that would be unfair to the individual concern . give that this leave our local police force with its two most senior post vacant , will the Leader of the House consider make time for a debate , or a ministerial statement , on what happen in these difficult circumstance where a leadership vacuum emerge in police force ? the hon . member would not expect I to comment on the individual case that he outline . we do have Home Office question come up on 21 October and I be sure that he can raise those matter there . one thing that we have find since the election be that morale and leadership in our police force be not what they could be , which be why the Home Secretary be embark on a recruitment drive and reform in our police force to ensure that we have all the police that we need . around half a million people rely on heat network , which be good in achieve our climate goal , but heat network be not include in the Ofgem price cap . my constituent in Craigmillar be therefore face a 400 % increase in their energy bill . that be terrify for they and completely unacceptable . heat network should have the same protection as traditional heating system . will the Leader of the House allow a debate in Government time so that we can address this terrible anomaly ? that very important matter have be raise with I before and I know that it be of real concern to my hon . friend and to many other colleague across this House . next week ' s Westminster Hall debate on the community benefit of renewable energy project may provide he with an opportunity to raise it , but if not I will ensure that he get a good response from the Minister . many happy return to the Leader of the House , who share her birthday with the true legend that be my father . last week , we see significant flooding in the east of England , and across Cambridgeshire in particular . in my constituency of Huntingdon , I visit local resident whose house either flood or be at risk of flooding on Hansell Road and Centenary Way in Brampton , and on Whitecross in St Ives . in all instance , local resident tell I that they be frustrate by the lack of co - ordination in the multi - agency response . afterwards , I write to the chief executive of Cambridgeshire county council to address that . he be very quick to abdicate responsibility , state that " be a Lead Flood Authority do not mean we be the lead agency in address a response to flooding " . with the Government implement a flood resilience taskforce , will the Leader of the House make time in the parliamentary schedule to debate the role and responsibility of co - ordinate the multi - agency response to flooding ? first , I wish the hon . member ' s father a happy birthday . what a great birthday he have — good judgment there . the hon . member raise the important issue of flood resilience , which get raise in business question and elsewhere frequently . as we move into the winter month , the issue be of particular relevance . be he to apply for a Westminster Hall debate , I know that his application would get wide support , but I will consider whether time can be make for these issue before we get into the winter month . I welcome the introduction of the Employment Rights Bill today — a truly momentous piece of legislation that will improve condition for worker across the whole country . can the Leader of the House advise I on how the Bill will have a significant impact on the work life of my constituent in Mansfield ? we be delighted that that huge Bill will be introduce today . I put on the record my thank to the Deputy Prime Minister and the Secretary of State for Business and Trade and all their official , who have work at pace to introduce this huge and important Bill within 100 day of the election . as my hon . Friend say , it will do many thing . I will not go into they now , but it be an important reminder that in 1997 , when the previous Labour Government introduce the Bill that become the National Minimum Wage Act 1998 , it be resoundingly oppose by Conservative Members , as they be seemingly oppose today ' s Employment Rights Bill . I be sure that that will be a matter of much debate in the come week as we discuss the Bill . many happy return to the Leader of the House . this week , question have be raise about whether Lord Walney be to be sack as the Government ' s anti - extremism adviser , amid concern about his independence . I understand that a formal complaint will be lodge next week about pay role that he hold advise lobbyist for client include fossil fuel and arm company at the same time as he advise the Government that some peaceful climate protester and anti - war protester should be consider extremist . may we have a debate on whether we need to revisit the rule around when a Government adviser be formally describe as independent , especially when the Government have say that they want to raise standard ? the hon . member raise an important matter about a public appointment , the specific of which I will not get into now , as to do so would not be appropriate . Home Office question will be on 21 October , but I will ensure that she get a response from a Minister long before then . despite warm word and promise from Ministers and indeed Prime Ministers in the last government , Doncaster royal infirmary , for reason that to this day be still unclear , be leave off the new hospital programme , which we now know be not even fund . will the Leader of the House allow time for a debate on Doncaster ' s need for a new hospital and our extensive repair backlog , as well as the urgent need to transfer all patient record from paper to digital so that people in my constituency can have the healthcare that they deserve ? my hon . friend describe a familiar story . the woeful state of the infrastructure within our NHS and the capital and digital asset be matter of huge importance and great urgency . as I say in answer to an early question , unfortunately the last Government ' s new hospital building programme be a work of fiction , and we be work at pace to put that right . I understand that Doncaster and Bassetlaw teaching hospital NHS foundation trust be due to receive its critical infrastructure risk funding soon , but I will ensure that she get a full response about the future of her hospital . may I also wish the Leader of the House a very happy birthday ? fifty be definitely the new 30 in her case . an investigation by researcher at the University of Bath have reveal that schoolchildren in England be unknowingly smoke vape spike with the synthetic drug Spice , which be highly addictive . test on just under 600 confiscate vape reveal that one in six contain Spice . that be an alarming figure . the Government must raise awareness of this issue in school to educate young people , teacher and parent . can we have a debate in Government time to raise this serious issue and discuss how we can protect young people from a life of serious addiction ? I thank the hon . member for the birthday wish and for all her work over recent month . as ever , she raise another thoughtful and important matter . she will be aware that the Government be commit to imminently bring forward the tobacco and vape Bill , which will rightly bring in new restriction around the sale of vape to child , and there will be further measure announce in the Bill when it be soon introduce . in Norfolk , safety concern regard school ceiling have recently be identify . Norfolk county council have inspect 60 school and at least 15 be in need of urgent repair ; sign of these fault be reportedly miss in previous inspection . can we have a debate on school safety in Government time to ensure that every child be educate in a decent building ? the woeful state of our crumble school building be there for all to see , and the reinforce autoclaved aerate concrete scandal a year or so ago be just another symptom of the previous Government ' s lack of decision making and lack of funding for these thing . I be sure that the Education Secretary would be happy to take a question from my hon . friend in oral question , which be come up soon , and I will ensure that the relevant Minister have hear her question . many member , include reportedly the Health Secretary , have grave concern about the proposal to legalise euthanasia . change the law would change our relationship with the elderly , the infirm and the vulnerable , and risk a broaden scope and abuse of power . on such a serious issue , we need proper consultation and real debate , so instead of rush this measure through in a private member ' s Bill on a Friday , will minister commit to a proper , consider consultation , and then make available Government time for we to carefully address this very serious matter ? the hon . Member will know that assist dying be a matter of conscience and therefore a matter for Parliament ; it be not one on which the Government have a view or will take an active role . we will remain neutral . should someone wish to bring forward a private Member ' s Bill , I be sure that it will progress through respectful and lengthy debate in Parliament , as we have have in the past and have take place in the other House . that be a long - stand convention . the Government have set aside collective responsibility to allow the debate to happen in a thoughtful and thorough way . today be World Mental Health Day , so I pay tribute to staff and volunteer at charity such as Mind BLMK and Samaritans , among many other , who do brilliant work to support people in Luton South and South Bedfordshire . this year ' s theme be mental health in the workplace , so I be delighted to see Labour ' s Employment Rights Bill formally lay in Parliament today , and even more pleased to hear the Leader of the House announce that its Second reading will be on 21 October , even though that pre - empte my question . I will simply ask : do she agree that labour ' s Bill will make a huge difference to people ' s mental wellbeing in the workplace and that the whole House should support it on that basis alone ? I absolutely agree with my hon . friend . I extend my warm wish to the Leader of the House on her special birthday . with one pharmacist per 7 , 200 resident , West Berkshire have the low provision of pharmacist in the country — the national average be one pharmacist per 4 , 600 resident . will the Leader of the House allocate Government time to debate how the current NHS pharmacy contract restrict the availability of pharmacist , particularly in west Berkshire ? the hon . Gentleman make a good point . roll out the availability of pharmacy service be vital for the Government ' s agenda on prevention and on provide service — be they gps or pharmacy — in every community . those be important matter . I know that the Health Secretary will continue to update the House . health question be next week should the hon . Gentleman wish to raise the matter then . I congratulate the Leader of the House — my constituency neighbour — on her birthday , and wish she and her family the good . Mr Speaker have leave the Chair , but I know that he be , like I , a long - stand user of Avanti West Coast train for his constituency travel , so I be sure that he will be familiar with their poor reliability . last week , I be make aware of a serious crisis at my local station , Stockport . it seem that Avanti be simply not employ enough staff for the station to function when it come to passenger and worker safety , and passenger experience . the Financial Times recently report that Avanti be the worst - perform train operator in the UK between April and June . will the Leader of the House allocate Government time for a debate on the impact of Avanti ' s operational performance not just on the regional economy in the north , but on the national economy and public infrastructure ? like my hon . friend , I be a regular user of Avanti West Coast service and Stockport station . I hope that Avanti ' s reliability will be spot on this afternoon so that I can get home in time for a birthday meal — please take note ! he raise an important issue . the privatisation programme have not work , and our train have for too long be unreliable and expensive , serve the country poorly . that be why we very quickly introduce the Passenger Railway Services ( Public Ownership ) Bill , which be now in the other place . we will soon bring forward a further Bill to establish great British Railways in order to bring our train back into public ownership once again . I wish the Leader of the House many happy return . in South Northamptonshire , more than 4 , 000 people have a diabetes diagnosis , yet only 54 % of they have the require treatment to avoid complication . we need to remove the stigma around diabete and secure great access to technology . will the Leader of the House urge the Government to take action to ensure that we take the treatment of diabete seriously and give patient the support that they need ? I thank the hon . Lady for that important question . she be absolutely right : diabetes be one of those illness alongside which people can live long , healthy and happy life if they get the right treatment . technology be move at a particularly fast pace in that area , and if every patient could get access to it , that would improve their quality of life . be she to ask for a Westminster Hall or Adjournment debate , I be sure that it would be well receive . rise — More than 20 people be hope to get in , so let we keep contribution short and snappy . I extend my birthday wish to the Leader of the House . one of my Stoke - on - Trent North and Kidsgrove constituent recently tell I about the difficulty they be have in secure a test to qualify as a drive instructor . we have a dire need for more drive instructor to tackle the backlog of those wait for test . will the Leader of the House make time to debate the matter in the House ? my hon . friend be the second member to raise that important topic this morning . he may not be aware but there be a Westminster Hall debate on 16 October on the availability of drive test . of course , have qualified drive instructor be critical to that endeavour , so he may wish to attend that debate . house buyer in Acland Park in Feniton think that they be buy home in which they could raise their family , but their deed state that the Acland Park Management Company would apply to get the road adopt by county council highway and the sewer by South West Water . since then , the management company have become insolvent , the road and sewer have not be adopt and the resident can not move or sell their home . will the Government grant we a debate on flawed , failed and rip - off property management company ? that topic get raise many time in this House , and we be all well aware of it . it be part of the reason we will be introduce draft legislation on leasehold reform , which be a long - stand issue . I be sure the hon . Gentleman could raise the issue of manage agent in a further debate , either in Westminster Hall or through the Backbench Business Committee once it be establish . with many high street bank announce local branch closure and point people to the post office as a resource for service , the attractiveness of be a sub - postmaster have never be more important . in my constituency , though , our post office in Cairneyhill will be close , and those consider take it over be be put off by the cost and complication involve . could time be allow for a discussion of how to support new postmaster to take on those vital community role ? postmaster have have a very difficult time in recent year , and there be still many question face the Post Office about the support , recruitment and remuneration of postmaster . I be sure that would make an extremely good topic for a debate in this House . happy birthday , Leader of the House ! to make quite a simple point , do not count the year — instead , make the year count . that be the important thing to do . on the mind of member who care about protect freedom of religion or belief be a man of great importance , Jimmy Lai . british citizen Jimmy Lai , who will turn 77 at the end of this year , have be detain in solitary confinement in a maximum security prison in Hong Kong for nearly four year since December 2020 . confine to a cell for 23 hour of the day , his catholic faith be a source of strength . what step can the Government take to raise the case of Mr Lai with the Hong Kong authority , and will representation be make concern report that Mr Lai — a practise roman Catholic — have be deny access to the Eucharist , aggravate that inhumane treatment even more and impinge on his freedom of religion ? what well birthday present than a question from the hon . Gentleman , and some pearl of wisdom to go with it ! I will take his word on board . as ever , the hon . Gentleman raise a very important case . Mr Lai ' s case be a priority for this Government ; the Foreign Secretary have already raise it with China ' s Foreign Minister , and we continue to call on the Hong Kong authority to end their politically motivated prosecution and to release he immediately . I must declare an interest before ask my question : before serve in this place , I be proud to have serve as a national officer for Unison , the big trade union and , by membership , the big organisation for woman in the country . as such , I be particularly pleased to see the measure deal with maternity right in the Employment Rights Bill present today . it be estimate that more than 4 , 000 woman who be dismiss last year will benefit from the provision in the Bill . the conservative party have push through to the final two of its leadership contest — whether or not it intend to do so — a candidate who believe that maternity pay have go too far . not true . conservative Members may not want to hear it , but it be true . on that point , will we have plenty of time to discuss the important issue of maternity right as the Bill progress ? my hon . friend can take a great deal of personal satisfaction and thank for the Bill get to this place , along with his union Unison , which we be proud to have work with on that Bill and on the Make work pay policy document that support it . he be absolutely right : the issue of maternity pay , parental leave , bereavement leave and zero - hour contract , as well as all the other benefit in the Bill , will be widely debate as it progress through the House of Commons . there be an even well birthday present than a question from the hon . member for Strangford ( Jim Shannon ) : theatre ticket to the Beck theatre in Hillingdon . that theatre be much love by my resident and constituent , but unfortunately we face the real prospect of its closing in the come week due to the inaction of the local conservative council in Hillingdon . would the Leader of the House make time in this place to discuss the real value create by art , culture , and community theatre such as the Beck ? my hon . friend raise the very important matter of community theatre , and the one in his constituency sound really important . it be a matter of national shame that so many theatre be struggle to find funding , and I hope that his local authority will reconsider its decision . he may wish to raise this issue next week at Culture , Media and Sport question . may I say penblwydd hapus iawn to the Leader of the House ? last week , I be absolutely delighted to attend the launch of Bangor University ' s new medical school , a really exciting development that will not only train the next generation of doctor in north Wales , but be a real catalyst for regional investment . will the Leader of the House join I in congratulate all those involve in deliver the medical school , and make time for a debate in this House on the important role that university can play in stimulate regional growth ? to see the new medical school opening be a brilliant thing to happen so early in my hon . friend ' s time as the MP represent Bangor . it will be a vital facility in help this Government to deliver our ambition for an extra 40 , 000 appointment a week and all the additional doctor that our NHS so desperately need , so I be delighted to thank all of those involve , and I thank she for support it . may I wish my right hon . friend an excellent time on her very special day ? will my right hon . friend join I in congratulate Drumchapel citizen advice bureau and thank it for deal with 7 , 448 client , clock up 12 , 442 volunteer - hour and secure some £ 2 , 810 , 039 for client in the course of the last year ? drumchapel citizen advice bureau , although excellent , face a situation that be of course typical across community up and down this country . would the Government be able to provide time for a debate so that we can recognise the work of cab and discuss what far support they might be give ? I be sure every Member of Parliament in this House will want to thank the citizen advice bureaux for the work they do across the country in provide our constituent with so much support and advice . I be sure that would be a very welcome topic for a Backbench Business or Adjournment debate if she want to apply for one . rise — Order . I be go to try to get everybody in , so let we keep question really short . I recently meet campaigner in the beautiful village of Toft Monks in my constituency to talk about road safety in the area . there be a campaign running , which I be support , to lower the speed limit to 30 mph to make sure that child can walk to school safely on the village road . can we have a debate in Government time on highway safety in rural area ? I thank my hon . friend for that question . that be a great topic for a debate . we have transport question this morning , but if he want to put in for an Adjournment debate on that , I be sure it would be look on kindly . I would like to pay tribute to my fellow Libran , and say that 50 be indeed the new 21 . as a woman of a certain age , I know that it be really important for we in this House and for everybody to celebrate and raise awareness of World Menopause Day , which be on 18 October , as well as the work of Maggie ' s , the cancer charity , which want to highlight the issue of early treatment - induced menopause for woman receive cancer treatment . can we have a debate on the Floor of this House about the crash menopause and raise awareness for woman undergo cancer treatment ? my hon . friend highlight the important work that Maggie ' s and other do and those affect by cancer that bring on the necessary early onset of menopause and other issue . I be sure she will continue to raise these matter in the House . I wish my parliamentary namesake a happy birthday . dockless e - bike be an increasingly popular transport mode in Kensington and Chelsea and in Westminster , yet local authority do not have the power to regulate inappropriate parking and antisocial behaviour . would the Leader of the House consider grant time to debate whether local authority should have more power to regulate the dockless e - bike rental market ? my hon . friend do indeed have a great surname ! he be absolutely right that e - bike can be a blight and a challenge , and there be safety issue . the Government be currently consider these issue , and we have introduce the Product Regulation and Metrology Bill that will consider some of these matter far , so I be sure there will be plenty of debate . during the recess , I have the privilege of visit Elliott Hudson college , an outstanding institution deliver excellent post - 16 education in my constituency . the student have some fairly tough question for I — the future be very bright in Leeds South West and Morley — but my question today be about the decision to pause and review the cancellation of the apply general qualification , and specifically the impact of that on the ability of college such as Elliott Hudson to plan for the future . the review be absolutely the right course of action for the Government to take , but will the Leader of the House provide time for this House to be update on its progress , so that post - 16 education institution such as of Elliott Hudson can have some clarity on what qualification they can offer next year ? as I know from my own constituency , this matter be raise with member regularly by further education college . the Government have pause the plan defunding of those qualification , which mean that 95 qualification be again available to learner . the review be take place as quickly as possible . I hope we will publish it before Christmas , and I can guarantee that there will be a statement to this House at that time . I be sad to inform the House that my colleague and friend Councillor Linda Maloney MBE pass away recently . she serve the local community in St Helens for 30 year as a councillor , and she be a trailblazer on the Merseyside Fire and Rescue Authority . she be a formidable woman , a strong labour woman and an inspiration to many people , include I . will the Leader of the House join I in send condolence to her husband , Mike , and family ? could she find time for a debate on the importance and value of community campaigner and councillor such as Linda , to recognise the difference they make to community up and down the country ? Linda Maloney sound like a wonderful woman who serve her community in St Helens brilliantly over a long period . it be a very welcome reminder of the important role that our councillor , volunteer and community activist play in make sure that our community be the good place in which to live and work . the murder of Mark Noke in my constituency last year , in a terrible case of mistaken identity when a drug gang go to the wrong address , be a heartbreaking and senseless tragedy , especially for his family , whom I meet recently . although justice be serve with seven conviction , I believe that the experience of the family throughout the trial could have be improve . will the Leader of the House set out how this House can monitor the new Victims and Prisoners Act 2024 to ensure that its provision be implement , and will she advise how the voice of bereaved family such as my constituent can be hear in that process ? I be sorry to hear of the tragic case that my hon . friend have outline , and my condolence go to the love one of Mark Noke . we be go to implement the reform in the Victims and Prisoners Act , but we will also go far . we be go to introduce the victim , court and public protection Bill later in this session , and I be sure he will want to follow that with a close eye . an elderly constituent of mine in Cardiff West have be involve in month of protract correspondence with his Majesty ' s Revenue and Customs , which have suddenly demand that my constituent hand over payslip date back 50 year to satisfy itself about my constituent ' s employment half a century ago . the House will know that the number 50 hold a particular resonance for my right hon . friend today , so may I take the liberty of ask that she look kindly at a request for a debate on how HMRC approach such case with our elderly constituent ? I think my hon . friend misheard — it be 30 ! [ laughter . ] he raise what sound like the really ludicrous situation of expect somebody to find so many payslip over a whole lifetime as evidence , and I will definitely raise the matter with Treasury Ministers . this be Breast Cancer Awareness Month , and over the last few month I have see how Bawtry have turn the town pink , with 70 organisation come together to raise awareness of this really important topic . in fact , I think the last time I see as many bra on display be when I be a young kid of about seven year old and shop with my mum and sister , and take the wrong turn in Marks and Spencer . would the Leader of the House join I in congratulate Bawtry and those 70 organisation on raise awareness of this massively important issue , and of the importance of note and identify the symptom of breast cancer early ? my hon . friend might attract some other attention to Bawtry , now that he have say how many bra be on display . he raise an important issue about Breast Cancer Awareness Month and the importance of the screening programme in prevent many death — it prevent 1 , 300 death a year . he be right that the programme have be decline , so the effort of his constituent and other to raise breast cancer awareness and highlight the importance of screening be absolutely to be applaud . the Cheshire county netball under - 17 squad , which include girl from my constituency , will travel to America next month to compete in the netball open championship — the first british team to be invite to do so , I believe . I know that the team will have an unforgettable experience and will showcase their talent , and I wish they all the good . will the Minister arrange a debate on the benefit of support grassroots team and facilitate their participation in such event , which offer youngster unique opportunity and help develop cultural relationship between country and friendship between competitor ? I be delighted to congratulate the Cheshire county under - 17 squad on successfully reach the 2024 USA netball open championship — what an achievement . Netball be a fantastic sport ; I really enjoy it as a youngster , as my daughter do now . my hon . friend might want to raise these issue in the next debate on the importance of sport in our society . have save the good till last , I call Jim Dickson . you be too kind , Madam Deputy Speaker . resident in the town of Swanscombe in my constituency be have their life blight and make a misery by the diversion of large vehicle through their narrow street due to the collapse of the A226 Galley Hill Road 17 month ago . a combination of Kent county council , Thames Water and the Department for Transport be need to fix this . might a debate be schedule to debate this important issue ? my hon . friend raise a really important matter for his constituency , and it be exactly the sort of subject that would benefit from an application for an Adjournment debate in the House . Bill Presented Employment Rights Bill Presentation and First Reading ( Standing Order no . 57 ) Secretary Jonathan Reynolds , support by the Prime Minister , Secretary Angela Rayner , the Chancellor of the Exchequer , Pat McFadden , Secretary Bridget Phillipson , Secretary Liz Kendall , Secretary Louise Haigh , anneliese Dodds , and Justin Madders , present a Bill to make provision to amend the law relate to employment right ; to make provision about procedure for handle redundancy ; to make provision about the treatment of worker involve in the supply of service under certain public contract ; to provide for duty to be impose on employer in relation to equality ; to provide for the establishment of the School Support Staff Negotiating Body and the Adult Social Care Negotiating body ; to make provision about trade union , industrial action , employer ' association and the function of the Certification Officer ; to make provision about the enforcement of legislation relate to the labour market ; and for connected purpose . Bill read the first time ; to be read a second time on Monday 14 October , and to be print ( Bill 11 ) with explanatory note ( Bill 11 - en ) . sport : Team GB and paralympicsgb I beg to move , that this House have consider sport and the performance of Team GB and paralympicsgb in 2024 . this government could not be prouder of the performance of our Olympians and Paralympians at the Paris 2024 game . all our british athlete who participate this summer have do something quite amazing on a global stage . while many win medal , they have all inspire the nation . Team GB bring home 65 medal — the third high haul of all time , one more than the number win in Tokyo , and equal to the number win at London 2012 . ParalympicsGB finish second in the medal table , win medal across 18 of the 19 sport that the team compete in , still the high of any nation ever . the breadth and depth of Team GB ' s success be amazing . there be so many incredible moment : Tom Pidcock ' s recovery from a puncture to take gold in the mountain biking , Alex Yee ' s sprint finish to snatch gold in the man ' s triathlon , and keely Hodgkinson storm to gold on the track in the 800 metre , to name but a few . Barnsley ' s own Becky Moody also bring home a bronze as part of the Team GB dressage team . as Sports Minister , I have the privilege of visit Paris for the Olympics and Paralympics . it be great to cheer on Team GB road cyclist and swimmer at the Olympics as well as to visit the olympic village and see exactly how our athlete be support throughout their olympic experience . at the Paralympics , it be brilliant to see Maisie Summers - Newton bring home a gold in the 200 metre medley , and I be absolutely grip by the wheelchair tennis , where I be lucky to see both Andy Lapthorne and Greg Slade win their single match . I thank those at Team GB and paralympicsgb who host I , Nick Webborn , Dave Clarke , Andy Anson and a former Member of this House , Sir Hugh Robertson , and of course Sally Munday and Dame Katherine Grainger and everyone at UK Sport . I can not begin to imagine the thousand of hour of training , recovery , competition and qualifying that precede Paris . I do , however , understand the importance of this Government continue to support our elite athlete . indeed , I know how important funding direct through UK Sport be to their success and preparation , and how the British Olympic Association and paralympicsgb ensure that in the final stretch our athlete continue to be some of the well support to do their good when the medal moment come . in term of Team GB ' s success , since 1896 , when the modern olympic game first take place in Athens , british and northern irish athlete have compete at every olympic game . I absolutely support the work that this Government and previous government have do to support elite athlete in the Olympics and in other way ; it be incredibly important . do my hon . friend agree that the inspirational work do by our Olympians motivate a whole generation of new people to get into sport , and support elite sport be a tremendously important way of drive up participation ? my hon . friend be absolutely right and I will address that point shortly . Team GB have be in the top seven in the Olympics since 2008 , and paralympicsgb have also achieve top three finish in every Paralympic game since 2000 . it be a remarkable record of achievement , and one that truly cement success into our sporting culture . we have not always have the same success in the medal table , and Team GB have come a long way since Atlanta 1996 , when they leave with a single gold medal . but thank to National Lottery and UK Sport funding , we have transform our fortune . indeed , UK Sport have invest £ 385 million of Exchequer and Lottery fund into success at the Paris Olympics and Paralympics . the Government recognise the vital importance of this funding continue to support the opportunity for all our talented athlete to succeed , which be why we be fully commit to multi - year funding for our elite sport system to enable our athlete to excel on the world stage . this mean support they financially to match and build on their success in Paris as we look forward to LA 2028 . we have also see the great development of the ChangeMakers initiative , which aim to help athlete maximise their impact on their return from Paris 2024 and give back to the local community that have support they . athlete can choose the social impact project they wish to support , which could be anything from grassroots sport project to mental health initiative — whatever cause they be passionate about — demonstrate how major event transform the life not only of athlete , but of everyday people across our nation . that be because , at a basic level , this Government want people to get more active , and we want to ensure that sport be open to everyone . major sporting event present an opportunity to inspire the nation to get active . indeed , nearly two third of british people say they be inspire by the success of our olympic and paralympic team . I could not associate myself more closely with my hon . friend ' s comment . I declare an interest : I have the privilege of work at Channel 4 before join Parliament . with 7 . 3 billion minute view , Channel 4 ' s coverage of the Paralympics be its big ever . the growth of para sport be not just an exciting opportunity for british sport , but a great opportunity to make sport more accessible to everyone . do the Minister agree that this commitment to the Paralympics should leave a lasting legacy that ensure disabled people across the country have access to physical activity ? my hon . friend make an incredibly important point , which I support . when the Secretary of State be at the Paralympics , shortly after I have attend , she attend an event where she speak about get disabled young people more active in sport . the benefit to public health from everyone be active be well know , whether that be support mental health or manage long - term condition . for example , physical activity directly prevent 900 , 000 case of diabete and 93 , 000 case of dementia each year . that be why it be important to have high - quality , inclusive grassroots facility to help ensure that everyone have access to sport . the Government have commit to continue the multi - sport grassroot facility programme , which will invest £ 123 million across the UK this year . I see at first hand the impact of that funding in my first visit as Sports Minister to Derby racecourse ' s new state - of - the - art hub . I have also see it my own area of Barnsley , whether it be the Houghton Main miner welfare ground , the Wombwell recreation ground playing field or the new Parkside facility in Hoyland , which will see spade in the ground this weekend . I be look forward to visit . I know the difference that programme have make and will make to local community . as a former teacher , I understand the importance of sport and physical activity for child . a recent Youth Sport Trust survey find that 87 % of school consider sport to make a positive contribution to achievement . we be committed to protect time for physical education , and the Department for Education ' s upcoming review of the curriculum will ensure that no child miss out on a broad range of subject , include PE and sport . the advantage of sport and physical activity be clear for all to see . do my hon . friend share my concern that some 20 % of child in Derbyshire be deem to be overweight ? we must make sure that the benefit of elite sport filter down to school across the country . I share that concern . in my constituency in the borough of Barnsley , 34 % of child be inactive . obesity and inactivity be an important challenge that we need to tackle , and sport be central to that . we know that sport improve our health and life chance . it protect we against many chronic condition , such as coronary heart disease , obesity and type 2 diabete . some 65 % of school consider sport to make a positive contribution to attainment . it be also a fantastic enabler of growth , contribute 1 . 25 million job and £ 53 . 6 billion of direct gross value add to the economy . we also know that it benefit society and community . for example , sport - base early intervention initiative consistently report that more than 70 % of participant have reduce offending and antisocial behaviour . grassroots sport directly contribute to prevent 10 , 000 incident of crime . it be therefore a pleasure to be debate sport today in this Chamber follow our brilliant olympic success . we all remember the success of London 2012 , and I know that many of today ' s Olympians speak of that summer as be formative to their aspiration . one of the great political champion of the London 2012 game be the late , great Dame Tessa Jowell , alongside one of my predecessor as Sports Minister and former fellow Yorkshire MP , Richard Caborn . as he highlight in his book , some people say that politic should stay out of sport , but major sporting event be inseparably ground in politic , and I be proud that it be a Labour Government who secure London 2012 . this Labour Government will take forward that the legacy , support the next generation of athlete as we look to LA 2028 and build on our successful record of host major sporting event as we host the woman ' s rugby world cup in 2025 and the Euros in 2028 . we will support grassroots sport so that everyone , whatever their background or postcode , can take part in the sport they love . I call the shadow Minister . it be my pleasure to open today ' s debate on behalf of the official Opposition . I start by welcome the new Secretary of State and Ministers to their place on the Front Bench . I look forward to what I be sure will be plenty of robust but fair debate in the week and month ahead . I congratulate my hon . friend the Member for Gosport ( Dame Caroline Dinenage ) on her unopposed return as the Chair of the Culture , Media and Sport Committee . I agree with the Secretary of State ' s remark a few week ago that the mark of any good Government be the ability to welcome challenge . I be sure that as the official Opposition , we will provide just that , alongside the Select Committee , in the spirit of healthy competition and in the national interest . own goal , knock - ons and false start be sport phrase that could easily describe the shambolic first 100 day of this Labour Government . thankfully those word not do reflect the performance of our olympic and Paralympic athlete in Paris , who do their country proud again this summer . while there be a reduction in the overall amount of british gold — not for the first time under a new Labour Government — the 327 athlete who make up Team GB at the Paris Olympics deliver a respectable seventh - place finish in the medal table , win a total of 65 medal across 18 different sport . we see Ellie Aldridge become the first olympic gold medallist in kite surfing . Kate Shortman and Izzy Thorpe win Team GB ' s first ever olympic medal in artistic swimming — not something I know too much about — while Toby Roberts become the first medallist for Team GB in sport climbing , win gold in the boulder and lead combine . who can forget the emotional scene of watch Andy Murray ' s last appearance on court after a fantastic career , the breathtaking drama of the athletic relay , GB rower surge to victory near the finish line or , my personal favourite , which the Minister have already reference , the sprint finish of Alex Yee , who remind the world not to write off we south - east Londoners ? the same spirit be clearly demonstrate by our fantastic Paralympic athlete over the summer , with Great Britain finish second in the medal table on 49 gold medal , make it the third consecutive second - place finish for Great Britain at the Paralympic game . that be an achievement I know the whole House and country will celebrate . with eight more gold medal win than in Tokyo three year ago , the paralympicsgb team also equal another record set then , win medal across 18 of the 19 sport in which the team compete . that be still the high number of any nation ever , and more than half of the 215 athlete in the team reach the podium . while Labour mp be busy shake it off to Taylor Swift , Dame Sarah Storey be on her bike add to her personal medal haul with a level of consistency and performance similar to that of England ' s now all - time lead run scorer , Joe Root . who can forget the incredible personal achievement of Paris swimmer Poppy Maskill and Alice Tai or wheelchair racer Sammi Kinghorn , who all leave Paris with five medal each ? as any athlete or sport enthusiast know , sport be nothing without the fan , coach and thousand of volunteer across our great nation who help to support our grassroots club and top - class athlete to achieve their dream and inspire the next generation . this summer be no different , with excellent coverage from the like of the BBC and Channel 4 allow an estimate 56 million viewer to witness another triumph of british sport and our athlete once again showcase the good of british endeavour , character and competitive spirit . Britain " invent the majority of the world ' s great sport . . . . 19th century Britain be the cradle of a leisure revolution every bit as significant as the agricultural and industrial revolution we launch in the century before . " those be the word of the former Prime Minister , Sir John Major , and they still ring true today . the conservative party have maintain his commitment to our athlete , from the grassroot all the way to the elite athlete compete at the international level . before I move on to talk about the Conservatives ' proud record of support UK sport , I must highlight the crucial role of national lottery funding . the national lottery , establish by a Conservative Government , have fund elite - level sport for more than three decade . in fact , from 2013 to 2017 , the national lottery donate £ 337 million to the funding of UK Sport . accord to that fantastic organisation , since national lottery funding begin for the Olympics and Paralympics , british athlete have win a total of 863 medal . that funding have transform british fortune from finish 36th in the olympic medal table at Atlanta in 1996 with just one gold medal , to today , when we be undoubtedly an olympic and Paralympic powerhouse . more broadly , since its creation the national lottery have invest more than £ 49 billion into good cause across the country , with more than £ 14 million of that go into my constituency of Old Bexley and Sidcup . I be pleased that so many right hon . and hon . member be able to meet some of those excellent organisation in Parliament just yesterday . over the last 14 year , the conservative party , work alongside many fantastic sporting body , have back our elite athlete . we have see the Lionesses win a european championship and our man ' s team reach a major final for the first time since 1966 — we will not talk too much about the result . we also bring football home with the Euro 2020 final play at Wembley stadium . we have secure the competition ' s return in 2028 , when the UK and Ireland will host the european championship . at the London Olympics , we all watch as our british athlete lead the pack in swimming , cycling and so many other sport , alongside the fantastic Commonwealth Games in both 2014 and 2022 , which have combine to inspire a new generation of athlete to greatness on our watch . whereas Labour deliver the so - call austerity Olympics in 1948 , we deliver the good olympic game for a generation — I personally believe they be the good that the world have ever see . who can forget the incredible opening ceremony and the role play by her late Majesty Queen Elizabeth II ? the Conservatives commit more than £ 9 billion so that , as a nation , we could ensure that the game be the most inspiring for our constituent that they could be , despite the financial challenge inherit from the Labour Government in 2010 . the then Prime Minister Lord Cameron correctly believe that host the Olympics would secure a range of benefit over and above the intrinsic impact on sport , embrace trade , regeneration and national wellbeing . he be undoubtedly correct . after we deliver the London 2012 Olympic Games for the nation and the world , we promise not to stop there . we commit to deliver an Olympics legacy that the country could be proud of for the decade follow the game in five key area . the hon . Member be talk about the post - London Olympics legacy . one legacy be that the amount of physical education teach in in school go down by 45 , 000 hour under his government , and the gap between the number of state school and independent school do team sport rocket . be the real legacy of his Government not that school sport be massively diminish , and should he not actually be apologise for their record in that regard ? it be only a matter of time before those on the Labour Benches come out swinge . what I would say be that we could look at the record of the previous Labour Government , who sell off sport pitch , and have a much long debate about whose legacy be bad . the previous Conservative Government begin to deliver on the Olympics promise right away . the Department for Digital , Culture , Media and Sport ' s 2015 report , " a Living Legacy : 2010 - 15 Sport Policy and Investment " , confirm that 1 . 6 million more people be play sport once a week than when London win the olympic bid under Labour in 2005 . to build out that significant improvement , we back our up - and - come athlete with more than £ 1 . 35 billion for grassroots sport facility across the country to ensure that they have the good facility possible to achieve their potential . funding from conservative Governments have also see over £ 320 million invest in grassroots sport across the country between 2021 to 2025 to build , renovate and maintain grass pitch and multi - sport facility . that include up to 8 , 000 new and improved multi - sport grassroot facility and pitch across the whole of the UK , help the next generation to avoid the waterlogged and muddy pitch that I remember not so fondly from my experience grow up play football and rugby . between 2022 and 2024 , £ 21 . 9 million be provide to renovate more than 3 , 000 tennis court across Scotland , England and Wales . More than £ 60 million be provide by the last government through the swimming pool support fund in 2023 and 2024 to support public swimming pool provider in England with immediate cost pressure and to provide investment to make facility sustainable in the long term . as most people will appreciate , swimming be not just a fantastic sport but a key life skill . community across the country have also benefit from the last Government ' s community ownership fund , which help save more than 330 pub , sport club , art venue and other precious community space . also , we must not forget the £ 30 million Lionesses future fund , which be help to provide opportunity for the next generation of Lionesses . that £ 30 million be be use to build approximately 30 new state - of - the - art pitch and accompany facility . the site will be design to prioritise woman and girl ' team across England . importantly , the prominence of female athlete such as the Lionesses , Dame Kelly Holmes and Dame Jessica Ennis - Hill have help to increase the number of woman in England who participate in sport and physical activity . that legacy continue , with 550 , 000 more woman participate than do eight year ago . of course , there be more to do , but the steady improvement in participation show that create the legacy of the London game be a marathon , not a sprint . it be not often that I will be positive about Arsenal , but the Prime Minister will be pleased that arsenal woman ' s team be lead the way in woman ' s football ; role model such as Leah Williamson be help attendance at the Emirates to grow to record level . the woman ' s team sell out the Emirates several time last season , and average attendance at their game be well than at 10 premier league club . as we move on from the Paris game and turn towards Los Angeles in 2028 , another round of great british athlete will inspire more of the next generation . while nothing will compare to the home game deliver by my right hon . friend the Member for Godalming and Ash ( Jeremy Hunt ) and Boris Johnson as Mayor of London , the most recent game will surely be a springboard allow a new generation of athlete to begin their ascendancy to the peak of world sport . the official opposition will hold the Government ' s foot to the fire to ensure that they support our athlete all the way from Sunday league to the premier league , so that they continue to perform at the pinnacle of world sport , as they have over the past 14 year . in do so , we remember the crucial role that sport play in our community and for our health ; I agree with the Minister ' s comment on that . I hope that today we will all finally learn more about labour ' s plan to fund support for great british sport , and to continue the strong conservative legacy that the Government have inherit , because sport be about much more than just free ticket . I have a little tip for the shadow Minister for future speech : my husband David and daughter Farah be arsenal fan . it be a great pleasure to speak in the debate . may I associate myself with the speech make by my hon . friend the Minister ? she speak eloquently about the importance of sport to man and woman , boy and girl , and particularly to disabled people — everyone — as well as about the lifelong benefit that sport can give . I hope that the whole House will support her endeavour on this important subject . in the time available to I — many other colleague want to speak — I will cover three area . first , I want to pay tribute to Paralympians and Olympians after the summer ' s success . secondly , I will highlight some of the wonderful achievement of local sportsman and woman from the read area and the importance of grassroots sport in our community . finally , I will call for the owner of read football club to speed up the sale of the club , which be a huge local issue , and I thank my hon . friend for her unstinting support on this important matter . I start with the amazing success of our local Paralympians at this summer ' s Paralympic game . I mention in particular Gregg Stevenson , a Paralympic rower who train in Caversham , where the british rowing base be . Gregg have be through enormous challenge in life , yet he win gold for GB in the PR2 mix double scull . he suffer disability in 2009 while he be a member of the 59 Commando Squadron in the Royal Engineers through a bomb blast in Afghanistan , which cause he to lose both leg . he have come back from that tragedy to become a Paralympic rower . it be important to remember the contribution of our service personnel , as well as other disabled sportspeople . what an amazing achievement for he . while I have the opportunity , I would also like to mention Ed Fuller , another Paralympic rower training locally who attend the University of Reading . he be one of the crew who win gold for ParalympicsGB in the mixed coxed four event in Paris . I also praise Will Arnott , a Paralympian from our community who play boccia — an unusual precision ball sport , similar to bowl but less well know — for his hard work and dedication , and his success this summer . our Paralympians be all wonderful ambassador for sport . I thank they from the bottom of my heart for their work for ParalympicsGB to raise the profile of the Paralympics , and para sport in general , among young and old people , both in the read area and across the country . I appreciate that colleague be line up to speak , but I would like to mention briefly a few prominent sportswomen from our community and say a little about grassroots sport . I thank Fran Kirby for her work in football , include for the Lionesses . she play for Brighton & Hove Albion now , but she start as a read player and go to school locally at Caversham Park primary school . she be much love in our community , and it be worth pay tribute to amazing star like she , who blaze a trail for other woman . I also thank Amanda Handisides , who be a Team GB ice hockey player , and of course Morgan Lake , who be bear in Reading . she be a well - know high jumper who have represent GB on many occasion . I also mention our wonderful grassroots sport . I can not do justice to all of they , but I thank our local team in football , hockey , cricket and many other sport for their endure work at the grassroot . in a sense , I have to declare an interest : my family and I have benefit from it . I turn briefly to read football club . let I tell the story of what have happen , and call for action from the owner , Mr Dai Yongge , who have delay sell the club , which have cause huge problem for fan , player and the club . reading be one of the old club in the football league , yet it be in real difficulty . we have have a successful career and an illustrious history over many year , include two spell in the premiership , the highest - ever point tally achieve in the championship and numerous other success . sadly , we have never get to an FA cup final , but we have have some amazing cup run , yet unfortunately our club have fall into a difficult period because of irresponsible ownership . read ' s case be similar to that of a number of other club , as I know from work with colleague . I be glad to see that the previous Government ' s Football Governance Bill have be bring back by our Front - Bench team , and I hope that soon become law and deal with the problem of irresponsible ownership , which have be experience across the country by a number of club , many of they in medium - sized town and city . I know other colleague have strong feeling about that . before I call for action from Mr Yongge , I point out how difficult this situation have be . the reason why the club have be so badly affect by his ownership be repeat financial mismanagement : he fail to pay his Majesty ' s Revenue and Customs on time and , as a result , point be deduct , mean that Reading be relegate from the championship to league one . that be not because of anything that happen on the pitch . that be grossly unfair on the club , the player and local fan — it be completely and utterly unacceptable . the same thing could happen to other club in the football league in exactly the same way , due to the same issue of irresponsible ownership , and of owner fail to live up to the standard that they should be adhere to . sadly , the power available to the English Football League be not as great as they might be , and I hope that the Bill , which will hopefully come to Parliament shortly , will tackle this and set a high bar for ownership . it be interesting that Mr Yongge be not allow to buy Hull City ; the Premier League be able to intervene to avoid that . the EFL do not have the power at the time to stop he buy reading , and that be an absolute tragedy for our fan , the player and the club . I hope something can be do about it . we have be hope for a sale since last October . the former Member for Bracknell and I attend a march in read town centre with several thousand fan last October , and we manage accidentally to stop all traffic on a local a road . the fan send a strong message to Mr Yongge that he need to get on with sell the club , find a preferred bidder and work with they to move thing on , so that a new owner could invest in the club . in the last year , the situation have not be properly address . he have be in discussion with Rob Couhig , the former owner of Wycombe wanderer , but sadly that fall through a few day ago . it have be announce that a new preferred bidder have come forward . I urge Mr Yongge to take all reasonable step to engage with the new preferred bidder quickly , and to conclude a sale , so that we can move on , take our wonderful club forward , and get it back up to the premiership , ideally , though the championship will do for the moment . I urge he to get on with sell the club and to take action on behalf of the people of Reading . I would like once again to show my appreciation for Olympians and Paralympians . they do amazing work represent this country and be ambassador for sport across the world . I also thank local sportsman and woman , and young people involve in sport . finally , once again , I call for a quick sale of read FC . I call the liberal Democrat spokesperson , Max Wilkinson . if , as the shadow Minister say , Government Members be come out swinge , I promise to play with a straight bat for the next few minute . [ interruption . ] thank you . I be here all week . [ interruption . ] sticky wicket and all that . the success of our athlete in Paris be a source of great pride to our country . every community that have an olympic or Paralympic athlete rejoice in the glory of sport for those week over the summer . for those community home to a medallist , the joy be even great . in Cheltenham , we watch the medal success of rower Thomas George and equestrian Laura Collett , as well as the effort of Flora Peel in the field hockey team . local feel a sense of pride when we walk past our golden postbox on the High Street in honour of rower Alex Gregory , who win gold in 2012 . the task face our nation now be to use the legacy of a successful Olympics and Paralympics to unlock the talent of the next generation . the next Keely Hodgkinson or Hannah Cockroft be out there . whoever they be , they need the support and access to facility so they can flourish . on the subject of Hannah Cockroft , surely nine gold medal be now enough for a major athletic stadium to be name in her honour . sport and physical activity can bring so much to our life . it provide people with a sense of community and purpose , as well as boost both physical and mental health . it be important that we note that today be World Mental Health Day , and the contribution that sport and physical activity can make to improve our nation ' s mental health . indeed , engage more people in sport and physical activity must be at the heart of our country ' s public health mission , if we want a utopian future in which the NHS thrive . that may be meet by some people with sigh and an assumption that sport be not for they , but we must think more broadly . the traditional discussion focus on competitive elite sport , and too often that be represent in people ' s mind by image of elite sportsman — and it be usually man — on rugby or football field run into one another , but there be so much more to sport and physical activity . we must view this issue holistically . the risk of not do so be stark . almost one third of child and young people be inactive . the 2023 " Healthy Britain " report state : " obesity be estimate to cost the UK economy £ 58bn a year . " physical inactivity be associate with a shocking one in six death in our country . it be all too easy to look at this debate through a negative lens . I prefer to look at the positive opportunity , which be measure in the personal and societal gain that can be make . unlock the power of sport and physical activity could boost the economy by up to £ 16 . 5 billion a year when healthcare saving and GDP growth be take into account . it can close the equality gap in school . accord to the Youth Sport Trust , 87 % of school say that participation in sport increase pupil ' achievement in school . sport in prison can even help to cut crime and reoffende — a particular challenge for our nation at this time , thank to the legacy of the previous Government . our nation can and must focus on the future of leisure centre , swimming pool and other grassroots facility . the Liberal Democrats call for the creation of new critical health infrastructure — that would be the designation for sport and physical activity facility — help we all , particularly child and young people , to access pitch , pool and court in our area , and thereby lower barrier to take part in sport and physical activity . my hon . friend make an important point about grassroots sport . I be proud that we have a thrive grassroots sport scene across Twickenham , but there just be not enough playing field . Udney Park playing field in Teddington in my constituency have be lie derelict for more than a decade , have be sell to successive developer , who quite rightly be not able to develop the site . it be an asset of community value . the community be desperate to purchase that site so that we can bring it back into community sport use . do my hon . friend agree that we need a change in the planning law , to allow community to bid successfully for such site ? my hon . friend make a strong point . that could be critical health infrastructure designate under our party ' s proposal . those pitch , pool and court have traditionally be provide by local authority , but the defunding of council over many year have leave many area struggle to maintain facility . the run cost of swimming pool be high and the need be acute . the previous Government ' s swimming pool support fund be a start , and in Cheltenham we have benefit from some investment as a result , but more must be do . in the case of athletic facility , a lack of funding in the sector have leave local athletic club crowdfunde to keep facility go . I be aware of the success enjoy by Hereford and County athletic club in save their track . however , in my own constituency , the Prince of Wales stadium be in dire need of repair to its track so that the Cheltenham and County Harriers can once again host meeting of the standard that they require . I urge everyone involve in that endeavour to come together and seek a solution in partnership with any willing and able organisation , without delay . wide partnership work at local level be certainly require to support grassroots sport , and I pay tribute to the many trust , charity and club that have step in to fill gap in provision leave by cut to local council budget . in Cheltenham , however , we have one really positive story to tell . the " feed Cheltenham " leisure card , which be run in conjunction with food bank , the Cheltenham Trust and the local council , give anyone who subscribe to our local food bank free access to our leisure centre , lower barrier to take part in sport and physical activity for those most in need . as a child and a young man , I take inspiration from the sportspeople I see in front of I : Matthew Le Tissier — whose politic remain his own — Alan Shearer , Tim Henman , Serena Williams , Darren Gough and so many more . sadly , while I could never match Alan Shearer ' s goal on the football pitch , I eventually coincide with his hairstyle , and I will take some solace from that . I enjoy many day at the Dell watch Matt Le Tissier and other , but the majority of my consumption of sport be on free - to - air television . today , youngster simply do not have the same opportunity to be inspire . I urge the Government to consider extend free - to - air coverage of international cricket , rugby , golf and tennis , and even extend protection to some live premier league football coverage . for both sporting and economic reason , be it not time for London to have its own NFL franchise ? expand on the success of the London series of game at Wembley and the Tottenham Hotspur stadium , it could bring many hundred of million of pound to our economy every year and bring the joy of NFL to many more fan in this country . sport instill in I a lifelong love of physical activity , which I be extremely grateful for — my arthritic toe be perhaps less grateful . however , that love be most recently indulge during recess at Cheltenham ' s Man v Fat football club . the organiser , Jamie Baron , tell I how the combination of goal on and off the pitch help he lose two and a half stone . the club ' s 38 player have lose a combined 51 kg in the past eight week , help improve their physical and mental health . I be proud to join the Egg Fried Whites team against a side I be tell be know as the Lardies in Red . the opportunity that lie before we if we follow their lead and embrace sport for good can help we crack the public health challenge face our nation . in this debate , I urge member to think about sport and physical activity not just from the elite sport perspective , but about how it can help we solve the wide challenge , include public health and fix our NHS . I call Sarah Hall to make her maiden speech . thank you , Madam Deputy Speaker , for give I the opportunity to address the House for the first time . it be a huge privilege to stand here today represent my home , the constituency of Warrington South . it be an honour I will never take for grant . I come to this place as only the second woman to represent Warrington South . the first , Helen Southworth , be a mentor of mine . Helen ' s work on runaway and missing child be hugely important . comment at the time , she say : " someone say to I it be about child below the radar . our job have be to make sure these child be on it . " I want to continue that work , ensure that all child across Warrington South feel happy and healthy and be afford every opportunity to thrive . I will ensure that every child be on our radar . I also come to this place as the second member of the Hall family to represent Warrington South . the first , my father - in - law Mike Hall , be elect in 1992 . Mike be the epitome of what a constituency MP should be : a hard - work campaigner who be remember fondly for his time in this place . I will forever be grateful for the encouragement and guidance he have give I over the year . during Mike ' s maiden speech 32 year ago he pay tribute to his son , Thomas . today in my maiden speech , I pay tribute once again to Thomas — now my husband and father to our two child George and Freya . today be also another important day — his birthday . I want to put on record a very happy birthday to he , in the hope that get I back in his good grace . Thomas , George , and Freya be my world , and I would not be in this place without their love and support . my second name be Edith , which make I the second Edith to represent Warrington in this place . the first be the formidable Edith Summerskill — the first woman MP to represent Warrington in Parliament . she fight relentlessly on issue close to her heart — for woman ' s right , against child neglect and for well healthcare provision , to name a few . have see from her time as a doctor how poverty lead to poor health outcome , she make it her mission to fight for access to healthcare free at the point of need . year later , she recall attend her first confinement as a newly qualified doctor . shock at the state of the home and the undernourishment of the mother , whose first child have ricket , she say : " in that room that night , I become a socialist " . follow in her footstep , I want to tackle the root cause of poverty . as a local councillor I work with many local group and charity that support resident to make end meet : the Bread and Butter Thing , Warrington food bank , Bewsey community shop , Warrington citizen ' s advice bureau and many other . they all do fantastic work , but demand for help be high . Edith Summerskill write many letter to her daughter , who would also go on to become a labour politician . she write in one letter : " the shade of the woman who blaze the trail that you and I might be free to fulfil ourselves seem to sit with I on the green bench of Westminster last night . I feel now that you in your turn will go forward to destroy finally those monstrous custom and prejudice which have haunt the life of generation of woman . " I put on record my thank for her work to champion the right of woman , pave the way for future generation of woman in this place , in Warrington and across the country . I also pay tribute to my predecessor , Andy Carter , who serve Warrington South from 2019 . while he and I be not politically align , I know that he work hard for Warrington South . be a Member of Parliament bring with it great responsibility , and he do not shirk that responsibility when he serve on the Standards and Privileges Committees . Warrington be the centre of the north - west , or at the centre , sorry — a freudian slip . site at the crossroad of the M6 and M62 motorway , it be strategically important for business and industry . in her maiden speech , Helen Southworth note : " we in Warrington , South be innovator " . — [ Official Report , 25 June 1997 ; Vol . 296 , c . 802 . ] the first canal to be build in Britain , the Sankey , run through Great Sankey . with the Mersey , the Bridgewater canal and the Manchester ship canal , it be one of four inland waterway that be significant feature and monument to Warrington ' s contribution to the industrial revolution . that innovation and ambition continue today . Warrington South be home to a variety of business sector . it be home to the world ' s large recycler of use beverage can , Novelis , which provide aluminium for business such as Jaguar Land Rover , and DriveWorks , a firm that work with manufacturing and engineering business to provide innovative and bespoke design automation and 3d software solution , sell to country across the world . tomorrow I will attend Warrington ' s annual business conference , where business will come together to collaborate and drive forward positive change for our community . it be fantastic to have so many industry choose Warrington as their home , but as the MP for Warrington South , I want to ensure that all our child have the skill that they need for the future . this debate be about sport , which be one of the cornerstone of our community . in Warrington , rugby league have be a part of our heritage for generation . I be proud to say that my local team , Warrington Wolves , have a well - know supporter from this place — Mr Speaker . over the year , I have work to support local grassroot rugby league and the formidable Bank Quay Bulls . get involve in your local sport club not only have health and wellbeing benefit , but social benefit too . as a Labour and Co - operative MP , I believe that community ownership be an obvious model for sport . it give club a financial solution that allow their fan and player a stake and a say in how the club be run . it put people over profit , ensure that the need of the team , fan and player be always prioritise . even more powerfully , community ownership give local sport an identity that be root in the community . with this new Labour Government , we have an opportunity to change the way we think about community and the role they play . if we build a system that allow community to take control of the asset that matter most to they — not just sport club , but community centre , pub , music venue , library and so much more — unleash the power of our community and give people a real stake and a say in the asset around they , that could be a defining legacy for the Government . I hope to play my part in realise that . in the spirit of the pioneer woman who have go before I , I want to make Warrington South an even well place to live , no matter which part of the town you be bear in , or your sex , ethnicity or religion : fight to end child poverty ; fight for the opportunity of a good education for all , for good skilled job and decent pay , the opportunity to buy or rent a decent home , to live in a safe neighbourhood free from fear , and to access free healthcare as and when it be need ; and break down every single barrier , one at a time . I , too , wish your husband Thomas a happy birthday . hopefully , that will get you into the good book . I call the previous Sports Minister . thank you , Madam Deputy Speaker . I welcome the hon . member for Warrington South ( Sarah Hall ) to the House and congratulate she on a very eloquent , gracious and personal maiden speech . she have show today that she will make great contribution to this place over the come year . I refer the House to my entry in the Register of Members ' Financial Interests and my declaration when I be Sports Minister — I may touch on that in a moment . I also take this opportunity to congratulate the Sports Minister , the Under - Secretary of State for Culture , Media and Sport , the hon . member for Barnsley South ( Stephanie Peacock ) , and the shadow Sports Minister , my hon . friend the Member for Old Bexley and Sidcup ( Mr French ) on their role . as a former Sports Minister , I know that the role have upside , but it also come with a lot of hard work and graft . the role often involve deal with the downside of sport — regulation , racism in cricket , head injury in rugby , financial distress and so on — with sport governing body , and come up with solution in challenge area such as trans , where we be all try to ensure we get the right balance between accessibility and fairness and safety . I know how hard govern body work on that , and I know that will be a challenging area for the Minister . there be some upside , too . I know there be a lot of noise at the moment around declaration and attend sporting event , but as Sports Minister it be the hon . Lady ' s duty and responsibility to get around the country and be a champion for all sort of sport . I hope the noise around that do not stop she from do her job . that be really important , because not all sporting event be Wimbledon ; the job be also about championing disability sport , woman ' s sport and low league sport around the country . I want to see she at those event every weekend . she will not get criticism from I for do any of that . there be another downside to be Sports Minister . on call with Sports Ministers from around the world , they all introduce themselves as the former world champion of this and the former gold medallist of that . then it come to the Brit and it ' s like , " I ' ve get a medal from sport day at my school back in 1984 . " slightly embarrassing ! the other downside , I be afraid , be often be require to be in photo along with a lot of very fit , handsome and beautiful people , which be slightly challenging , or be invite to enter the ring to spar with a world champion boxer . I would get ask , " Minister , would you like to participate in the 100 metre final ? " with journalist wait there with camera just to humiliate you . " no , thank you very much ! " but it be an amazing job and one that I enjoy very much . if you will allow I , Madam Deputy Speaker , I would like to say a huge thank you , as I have never have the opportunity to do so . I be appoint Minister for sport and tourism in February 2020 . it be the job I have always want . a few week later , however , we be in lockdown and there be no sport and no tourism . as a result of the work with the various sport governing body , in particular Sally Munday and Dame Katherine Grainger at UK Sport , and Tim Hollingsworth at Sport England , and the incredible team at the Department , we be able , over time , to get sport up and run again . I be really proud that we do , because we all know how important it be to health and mental health . and let we not forget that sport be a major economic contributor to the UK . it be a massive export earner for the UK . there be hundred of thousand of people involve in sport and support by sport , plus it make we all feel good and unite we . that bring I to another point , which the Under - Secretary will find out about at some point in the future , should she ever be unfortunate enough to be reshuffle into a different role . a number of Members would say to I , " we use to like you when you be Sports Minister , but not so much now , " because the role be not particularly party political . I be glad that that will be the tone of today ' s debate . we should not and can not take the amazing success of our Olympians and Paralympians for grant , and we be all here to applaud they today . they have put in an incredible amount of personal effort to achieve that success . the United Kingdom punch way above our weight in sport . that be not an accident . I think all of we would applaud the work of John Major , for example , on the initiative back in the 1990 to ensure that money go into sport — which be often controversial — through the national lottery . that have continue ever since . I know how difficult it be to argue for money for sport , but sport be so impactful on the health and mental health of the country . what incredible success we see this year , not only in the medal haul , which be important , but in the personal success story and personal best . the medal be a really good indicator of our global success , in particular — my God ! — that of the Paralympians . they be second in the medal table again . that speak volume of the United Kingdom . we champion people with disability : we applaud they and literally put they on a pedestal . the Paralympics be a way to show what people with disability can do , as oppose to focus all on the time on the thing they can not do . the UK have a fantastic global reputation , in particular for disability sport . I thank everybody involve : not only , as I say , the govern body UK Sport and Sport England , but the broadcaster who put the Paralympics on tv at prime time . the british public watch the game in their million . that be not the case in many other country around the world . the Under - Secretary be probably be approach by other sport Ministers from around the world say , " how do you do it ? you have incredible success . how do you come second to China in the medal table ? " and tv be one of the reason why . as my hon . friend the Member for Old Bexley and Sidcup say , we be very successful . back in 1996 , we get just one gold medal . we be the only country to have achieve gold medal in every single Olympics in the modern era . that be remarkable , and funding be fundamental to that . from 1996 , because of co - operation and take politic out of a lot of it , we have have a broad consensus on back sport . long may that continue . I would also like to take the opportunity — many of we in the House be very proud of our constituent who participate in the Olympics and Paralympics this year — to applaud olympic swimmer Matt Richards , Matt Skelhon , Issy Bailey , Rebecca Redfern and Matthew Redfern on their incredible success . I know — I have meet they multiple time — that they have very proud parent . let we not take sport for grant . we like to applaud our sportspeople for very good reason . funding be majorly important . I express my huge gratitude and thank to the sport governing body , UK Sport and Sport England , for what they do during the pandemic when I be Sports Minister , as well as for what they do now . I applaud they ; they make we all proud . I applaud the Olympians and Paralympians too . they make we feel good and we be so proud to support they . I should put on record my thank to Emily Craig , a gold medallist from my constituency who come from Mark Cross and for whom Rotherfield recently organise a tea party . if the Minister want to win a gold medal , she should definitely come to my constituency . let I begin by draw the House ' s attention to my entry in the Register of Members ' Financial Interests . I be sure that member on both side of the House will want to join I in send condolence to the family of George Baldock , the former Sheffield United player who , shockingly , be find dead on Wednesday at the age of just 31 . he be a fantastic footballer , who play many time for Greece and be involve in two promotion to the premier league . his death will leave a huge hole for all who support he , and particularly , of course , for his friend and family . it be a great pleasure to speak in the debate , and to reflect for a while on the amazing success that we enjoy in the Olympics . I say well do to everyone who represent Great Britain in both the Olympics and the Paralympics . success in the Olympics require preparation , and I have no doubt that our team be hugely inspire by our Prime Minister , who remember to bring a cagoule to the opening ceremony when none of the other world leader have think to do so . that may have be the key moment that secure their subsequent success . as the chair of the all - party parliamentary group on tennis , I want to take this opportunity to bang the drum for tennis , and to focus a little on the future horizon . at the elite level , british tennis have see huge success in 2024 , include its success at the Paralympics . Alfie Hewett and Gordon Reid win gold in the man ' s double and complete the career golden slam , have win all four of the grand slam event — and now the Paralympics . Alfie Hewett also take home the wheelchair man ' s single silver medal , and Andy Lapthorne and Greg Slade win silver in the quad wheelchair double . if there be a prize for the most memorable non - medal - win moment of the Olympics , the remarkable comeback of Andy Murray and Dan Evans in the first round of the Olympics tennis against Japan , prolong Andy Murray ' s amazing career in the process , would have be a strong contender . this year see Andy lower the curtain on what have be a fantastic playing career . to win three grand slam and 49 main tour event , while share an era with the three great player ever to engage in the sport , be a tremendous achievement , and I think he will be remember as one of the great athlete in our country ' s history . this year also see come - of - age moment for Jack Draper , who reach the US open semi - final , and Katie Boulter , who win her first WTA 500 event in San Diego and be now comfortably establish among the world ' s top 40 player . there be exciting sign for the future , with Mika Stojsavljevic win the US open girl ' single and Mimi Xu reach the girl ' top 10 , Hannah Klugman continue to establish herself at the top of the girl ' game , and , towards the end of the season , a remarkable run of Challenger victory that take Jacob Fearnley into the world ' s top 100 male player . away from the elite level , tennis continue to buck the trend of fall participation that be see in many sport . some 5 . 6 million adult and 3 . 6 million child play tennis every year , and the strong growth in participation in recent year mean that tennis be the third big traditional sport in term of participation . it be also one of the most gender - equal sport , with female represent 42 % of adult and 49 % of child who play every year , while a range of format include wheelchair , learn disability , visually impaired , deaf , para - stand and walk tennis provide opportunity for people with a range of impairment to take part in the sport . there be grow evidence that nothing do more to boost longevity than play tennis . accord to a recent study of people in Copenhagen , those who play tennis live an average of 9 . 7 year long than the overall average , outperform badminton , football , cycling , swimming , and jog in that regard . you will be glad to know , Madam Deputy Speaker , that these opportunity to enjoy a long and healthy life be also available to member of Parliament : the thriving APPG on tennis give they an opportunity to play every week over the summer month here in Parliament . however , it be important for opportunity to play tennis not to be deny to anyone because of where they live or how wealthy they be , which be why the park project launch by the Lawn Tennis Association , in partnership with the Government , be so important . it involve a nationwide investment of more than £ 30 million by the UK Government and the LTA Tennis Foundation to transform park tennis court across Britain and open up the sport to many more people . the LTA ' s aim be to bring back into use 3 , 000 court across Britain span 250 local authority , and to increase participation , with a further half a million people play tennis in park annually , and with more than 50 % of the site be transform in area of high social deprivation . the new tennis court at King George V Park in Staveley be one example of court , previously in a state of disrepair in a deprived community , that have be bring back into use , and I be delighted to join my hon . friend the Member for Mid Derbyshire ( Jonathan Davies ) , who be then the lead on leisure in Chesterfield Borough Council , in give they their very first use last summer . this programme ' s facility be so transformational that it really need to be extend by this Government , and I urge my hon . friend the Minister to work with the LTA on ensure that it be extend in the upcoming Budget . expand access to tennis be a key objective for the LTA , but it have always be my view that allow people across the country to watch top tennis player in action be a key part of expand participation , and I must again express my disappointment that professional tennis in this country continue to happen largely in London and the south - east . the Wimbledon championship be the world ' s most iconic and well - know tennis tournament , bring in an estimate £ 56 million annually and look forward to by player , fan and sport reporter every year . Britain currently hold main tour man ' s event at queen ' s Club in west London and in Eastbourne , and woman ' s event at Eastbourne , Nottingham and Birmingham . that have already mean that there be no man ' s main tour event north of west London , but now the LTA have announce that the main pre - wimbledon woman ' s event will also be at queen ' s Club , thus down - grade Birmingham and Nottingham . it be true that the LTA have hold a GB Davis Cup week , very successfully , in Manchester for the last two year , but that be not a replacement for a main tour event . among our competitor , such concentration of event be unusual . France hold man ' s main tour event in Montpellier , Marseille , Lyon and Metz as well as in Paris ; Germany hold they in five city ; and the United States do so in 11 . the picture be similar when it come to woman ' s event , with the other major country play in many different city . from 2025 onwards , Britain will hold only one event north of London for woman and none for man . that be not acceptable . while I recognise that it may be more difficult to run event profitably away from London — although the recent Manchester Davis Cup sell - out be the big crowd ever in Britain for a tennis match — I urge the Government and the LTA to sit down and find a way to ensure that professional tennis be not see only in London and the south - east . the other big issue for tennis will be the finalising of plan for some lasting legacy from Andy Murray ' s career . Andy ' s mother , Judy , have be battle for year to create a new tennis centre near Dunblane , and it be hugely disappointing when , owe to the many obstacle place in the way , she recently announce that the plan be be shelve . it be crucial that a lasting legacy be create to mark Andy ' s amazing career , and to ensure that the increase exposure that his success bring to the sport be not lose . Tennis be in good heart , Madam Deputy Speaker , and it be good for your heart as well . there be more to do to ensure that the sport be enjoy at all level throughout the country , and I hope that the Government and my hon . friend the Minister will do their bit to keep it grow . I call Vikki Slade to make her maiden speech . thank you , Madam Deputy Speaker , for call I to make my maiden speech in this uplifting debate to celebrate the success of the Olympics and Paralympics . I congratulate the hon . member for Warrington South ( Sarah Hall ) ; I completely agree with her sentiment about child who be beneath the radar , and I will do everything I can to ensure that they be lift and see . one of my happy family memory be of a trip in 2012 to enjoy the spectacle and the spirit of the London Paralympics in the pool and on the track , a day that surely inspire my own child ' s passion for and dedication to sport . my constituency can lay claim to Britain ' s first ever track and field olympic gold medallist : Charles Bennett , a train driver from Shapwick — otherwise know as the Shapwick Express — win the 1 , 500 metre in 1900 and take two further medal , but be largely forget until his family discover his achievement more than 100 year later . my own journey to this place have be more of a marathon than a sprint . it take four attempt for I to win my seat of Mid Dorset and North Poole , my home for 25 year . that journey also start in 2012 , when Dame Annette Brooke , the then Liberal Democrat MP , invite I to tea and suggest that I put myself forward as a candidate . I explain that I be just a mum of four run a caf é and be completely unqualified for the job , have never be to university , and that " people like I do not become mps " . she simply reply , " that be why you should stand . " without her faith in I I would not be here , and I hope that I can emulate her work — such as her support for park home owner , protect Dorset ' s heathland and fight for well education funding — and that I can achieve just a fraction of the deep respect and admiration that our community still feel for she . I turn to my immediate predecessor , Michael Tomlinson . he be so proud of his legislative role — first as a Government Whip , then as Solicitor General , and most recently as the Minister for Illegal Immigration . I know that he take these responsibility very seriously , but not as seriously as his love for cricket . on a recent trip to the Netherlands , he captain the Lords and Commons parliamentary cricket team against their parliamentary team . my constituency of Mid Dorset and North Poole be make up of dozen of community , all with their own special character . we be all link through our landscape , particularly the Dorset heathland , which be home to all six of the UK ' s native reptile and to ground - nest bird . it have the most lovely walk , include on Upton heath , know to my social medium follower as " my happy place . " the work undertake by the Dorset Wildlife Trust , RSPB Arne , the National Trust and other to restore our landscape mean that we be one of the only place in the UK to have reverse the decline in nature . eco - tourism be now support economic growth , preserve the way of life in our countryside , town and village . while the beach be in neighbouring constituency , our playground be our river , but I should stress that that be on the water , not in the water . the navigable River Frome be ideal for a Birds of Poole Harbour boat trip to catch sight of a white - tail eagle or a deer on the foreshore , or for a sail up to the Anglo - Saxon walled town of Wareham , with its art deco cinema and pretty pub on the quay , while the small River Piddle be perfect for paddle . the River Stour run down from the north to Wimborne Minster , home to river - base Dreamboats , Canford school ' s row facility and Poole harbour canoe club . I will fight to clean up our river and achieve bathing water status at Eye Bridge , where our teenager already spend their summer day chill out by the water , and where parent like we teach our kid to kayak . I want to support the amazing people who be work to use our natural environment to improve health and wellbee through sport — people like Will Behenna , who found Inclusive Paddleboarding after be paralyse and now help disabled people enjoy the tranquillity and freedom of the water . off the water , Wimborne Minster be name after its ninth - century church and be home to a chain library , a museum with a mummified cat in the wall — apparently for good luck — and an annual folk festival . the Drax and Kingston Lacy estate , and the village that go out towards Holt Heath , provide the chocolate - box image you read about in Thomas Hardy ' s literature . accord to local legend , much of the content for his novel come from listen to the town ' s gossip when he live in Wimborne . return to sport , England see footballe success and heartbreak this summer with the Euros , but in mid - Dorset we be thrilled that Wimborne Town football club be promote to the southern league premier south , and that the neighbour afc Bournemouth open its world - class training facility in Bearwood in my constituency , guarantee a pipeline of brilliant future Dorset footballer . mind you , the pedigree be already there , as two of the England under - 23 lady ' team come through Broadstone middle school as classmate of my own child . give that olympic trampolinist Izzy Songhurst from Broadstone , champion go - karter and win sailor , among other , grow up in our constituency , I want to pay particular tribute to the volunteer coach who make it possible for our child to have these opportunity , as well as to charity such as Dorset Community Foundation , which help our athlete compete at the high level or simply let child take part in what they love . every child must be able to thrive , but our current education system stop that happen for so many young people . we have a curriculum that crush creativity , a SEND system that condemn child to fail , and a grip so tight on ofsted measure that teacher do not have the space to truly share the joy of learn . some of our child face an even great battle , include child in care , young carer , child who suffer bereavement , and those with disability or life - limit condition . we need those child to thrive too , and thank to charity such as Become , MYTIME Young Carers , Mosaic , Diverse Abilities and Julia ' s House child ' s hospice , so many of they do . but with council face bankruptcy and unable to deliver much in non - statutory service , and with public donation down due to the cost of living , they need action from the Government to secure proper funding . as an MP , my voice be my power , and I will use it to fight for they , and for all who strive to improve the life of those who feel voiceless . I also want to send a message to people in my community who feel powerless , and to young people who be worried about the future : if you want something badly enough , keep try . it be possible , whatever your background , your gender and your struggle . like I , you might take the long route , but like my famous country " mum walk " , the long one be where you stumble across the most interesting place and create last memory . like many people , I have a bucket list . it have just three thing on it : to run the London marathon , to earn a degree , and to represent my community as a Member of Parliament . well , Dad , I finally achieve one of they . although he be not here in the Chamber today — he be watch at home — I hope he be proud . [ hon . member : " hear , hear . " ] I still pinch myself about be in this place . I be just a mum with four fabulous kid — molly , Abbi , Isaac and George — and my long - suffer husband Paul . I have an incredible team of volunteer who keep believe in I , and a community who have put their trust in I to speak up for they . I want everyone live in Mid Dorset and North Poole , from Shitterton to Happy Bottom — yes , they be real place — and from Gaunt ' s Common to Canford Heath , to know that they have a champion in I , and to know that I be committed to make the place that we all call home the good they can be . the Hansard reporter will definitely need your speech to make sure the spelling be correct . I call Sarah coombe to make her maiden speech . thank you , Madam Deputy Speaker . it be an honour to make my maiden speech today in a debate that recognise the contribution of sport to our national life , and to follow two such inspire maiden speech . for most people , when they hear the word " West Bromwich " , the next word they think of be " Albion . " unfortunately , that do not prove true for the Boundary Commission , which put the Hawthorns in the next - door constituency . but that do not change the special place that West Bromwich Albion hold in the heart of my constituent . our historic club put we on the map , be one of the 12 found member of the football league and , until last Tuesday night , be top of the championship table — let ' s not talk about what have happen since . Madam Deputy Speaker , if you have look up into the West Bromwich sky in 1878 , when the team be first form at George Salter spring work , what you would have see all around you be cloud of black smoke come from the forge , foundry and ironwork that power the industrial revolution . if you have dig down into our earth , you would have find a black coal seam that feed our factory . that be how the Black Country get its name . we really be the engine room of Britain . and of course , in manufacture town such as mine , some of the most important people be the toolmaker . during the election , I must have meet dozen of son and daughter of toolmaker all over West Bromwich — and yet , strangely , none of they mention it . in West Bromwich , we be rightly proud of our industrial history , and that legacy live on today in the vibrant manufacture business in the area , from the fourth - generation family steel press company , William King — which supply one of our midland great , Jaguar Land Rover — to Robinson Brothers , a chemical company that manufacture the tasty aroma you can smell when you open a jar of coffee , as well as the less tasty but safety - critical smell when you turn on your gas hob . after the war , Britain need worker from across the empire to staff our factory , foundry and newly form NHS . People from all over the world — India , Pakistan , the caribbean and more — answer that call . they make their home in West Bromwich , Oldbury , Tividale , Rowley and Great Barr . they put down root , often against the odd . I recently go to the Shree Krishna mandir for its 50th anniversary celebration . People tell story and show film of all those who struggle , fundraise and work so hard to get the temple build and secure a base for the community . when I think about the landscape of my constituency , as well as the industrial skyline , the Rowley hill and beautiful Red House park , I think of the dome , minaret and spire of our place of worship . they include the langar hall of Guru Har Rai Saheb gurdwara , which offer free meal to all ; the Sikh helpline base upstairs , which assist anyone who dial its number ; the majestic Balaji temple ; the grand all Saints church in Oakham , which be perch on top of the hill ; and the Dartmouth Street mosque . they be an essential part of what make my area what it be today : an exciting , creative and welcoming place . one of my old boss , Sadiq Khan , use to say , " our diverse community don ' t want to be tolerate ; they want to be celebrate . " in my borough of Sandwell , that be how we do it . we do not just tolerate each other ' s difference ; we celebrate our cultural diversity . I be proud to show Sadiq around West Brom during the election campaign , and I think he be ask for more selfie there than he be in London . the thing I do not get to show he , but that I do love show visitor , be our wonderful food scene , particularly our famous desi pub , such as the Vine , the Rowley Bar and Grill , and the Red Lion . not only be the food so good at the Red Lion that it be impossible to get a table on Saturday night ; it also have beautiful stain - glass window that tell the story of Punjabi immigration to the area . what I love about Black Country people be the warmth , straightforwardness and willingness to get stick in , whether that mean the attendee at the regular cheese and wine afternoon at the Yew Tree community centre or the hundred of people at my beloved Sandwell Valley parkrun every Saturday . I have notice that the modern version of the tradition of each Member claim to have the good constituency be now to claim the good and most beautiful parkrun , but I really do think that my own surely win that prize — although the killer hill do not make it one for a PB . I would like to take this opportunity to pay tribute to another parkrunner , my predecessor , Nicola Richards . Nicola work really hard for the area — from her steadfast support for Albion fan and championing of an English football regulator , to arrange career fair for young people — and she be well respected for it . our political culture can be adversarial , but Nicola and her team have be very generous with their time and advice since the election , which I really appreciate — they have even give we some of their office furniture . I would like also to take this moment to mention Nicola ' s predecessor , a big figure in this house over many year , Tom Watson . Tom teach I many thing : that people will think it be weird if you put butter in your coffee , that party civil war be good for drastic weight loss , and that you probably should not call other member of this House " miserable pipsqueak " . he also teach I that the House of Commons can be an incredibly powerful agent for change , and that sometimes you just have to be brave . Tom be a fierce champion for West Brom and he be never scared to stand up for those who need he . if he have not encourage I with his sincere belief that be a young woman be a good and great advantage in a parliamentary candidate , I doubt I would be stand here today . I know what an honour and a responsibility it be to be send here to represent my constituent . I come here to bang the drum for West Bromwich , Oldbury , Great Barr , Tividale and Rowley , and to demand the change my area need . I will be a champion for our great midland manufacturing business , which have so much to contribute to labour ' s national growth mission . that include be on the cutting edge of green innovation , whether through get solar panel instal on our acre of factory roof or set up training hub for good green job . I work at an environmental charity immediately before get elect , and I think the task of shore up Britain ' s energy security and drive down emission be an urgent one that be full of opportunity . Sandwell be a great place to live and work , but we face real challenge . deprivation and poverty be too high , with family work hard but not be able to make end meet . gp appointment feel impossible to get , bus be unreliable and our young people be not get the chance they deserve . almost half of child in Sandwell be leave school without the qualification to get an apprenticeship or go to college or university , and of all the borough in the UK , our be the one with the high proportion of people with no qualification at all . it be a core aim of this new Government to break down barrier to opportunity ; and for we , that mission be not just timely , but urgent . let I end with one of my early memory : stand with my mum outside Safeway , hand out Labour sticker on the day of the 1997 general election . thank to my parent , even at the tender age of six I think I be aware that it be a moment of great national excitement and optimism about the future . today our country face huge challenge , but I be certain that just as the last Labour Government change Britain , this new one will bring growth and opportunity right across our nation . it will be my job to be the voice and champion of the people of West Bromwich constituency as we deliver that mission , and I hope I can do they proud . I call Ben Maguire to make his maiden speech . many congratulation to the hon . member for West Bromwich ( Sarah Coombes ) on an excellent maiden speech . it be the great honour of my life to be give my maiden speech in this place as the Member for my home constituency of North Cornwall , where I be bear and bring up . I will always be grateful to the people of North Cornwall for put their trust in I . there be unfortunately too many supporter , friend and family to thank for their hard work and dedication in get I to this place , but I must say a special thank to my mother , Jennifer , my father , Joseph , and my husband , Manuel , for their unwavering love and support ; and a huge thank you to my agent and sister , Rosie . to every single member of my campaign : you be quite simply the good team that any candidate could wish for and you have show such amazing dedication to our area . I would not be here without you and I will not let you down . it be a pleasure to contribute to this debate celebrate our olympic and Paralympic athlete . I grow up in the small but now golden rural village of Withiel , and soon after my election , my former Withiel neighbour , Morgan Bolding , win gold in the man ' s eight rowing . I commend Morgan and all our Team GB olympic and Paralympic athlete for their amazing success this summer . I would like to pay tribute to my predecessor , Scott Mann , who support much - need transport initiative , such as well rail connectivity to north cornish town . I will continue that work by fight for much - need transport infrastructure , because despite North Cornwall ' s large size , it do not contain a single mainline rail station , and vital bus route be routinely cut . I thank Scott for his service and wish he the very good for his future endeavour . North Cornwall have a great liberal tradition , so I would also like to pay tribute to my liberal predecessor , John Pardoe , who be still fondly remember on many doorstep for his dedication as North Cornwall ' s MP in the 1960 and ' 70 . in more recent time , Paul Tyler and Dan Rogerson be fantastic liberal Democrat representative who fight tirelessly for our area . I be honour to receive the support and advice of all three former member during my election campaign . they have set the bar very high indeed . although the election campaign be mostly a positive experience , we do have one crisis moment . have advertise a meet and greet where cream tea would be sell , the real danger of AI be bring home to I : a volunteer , produce the event poster use chatgpt or something similar , have find a photo of a cream tea — but , tragically , it be a dystopian Devon version , with the cream on first and the jam on top . before anyone have spot this egregious error , it have be publish all over my social medium . as a proud Cornishman , it be indeed a shameful moment and we immediately go into crisis mode . luckily , we survive that unfortunate episode , and I will be sure that I be never again associate with any cream tea that be not jam first . while prepare for this speech , I read those of my predecessor and note the tragic resonance they still have today . John Pardoe , back in 1966 , describe our area as " neglect " and " export a mass of young people . " — [ Official Report , 25 April 1966 ; Vol . 727 , c . 423 . ] in 1974 , Paul Tyler explain : " the housing shortage be now a major social evil again " , — [ Official Report , 12 March 1974 ; Vol . 870 , c . 144 . ] and in 2005 , Dan Rogerson say : " North Cornwall have more second home than council house " — [ Official Report , 18 May 2005 ; Vol . 434 , c . 215 . ] as a young person , I feel that I have no choice other than to leave and seek opportunity elsewhere , so I talk from experience when I say that those statement all sadly remain just as true today . work to bring well - pay , highly skilled job to our area will be at the top of my to - do list . with the new Government ' s pledge to build more house , I will be fight to make sure that we do not continue to just see more and more executive home without the appropriate infrastructure , and which be far beyond the reach of local people . I sincerely hope that my future successor do not need to again lament the appalling state of cornish housing 60 year from now . everyone in Cornwall must have a safe and secure place to live . I must admit that since my election , I have be shock by the number of crisis face our great duchy . my inbox be burst with case of child need urgent treatment in A & E due to tooth infection , with some parent even resort to use plier to extract their child ' s rotten tooth because they can not get an NHS dentist . gp appointment continue to be hard to come by , pharmacy be close and waiting time be among the high in the country . the major hospital serve North Cornwall — Treliske , Derriford and North Devon — be crumble . we can not delay or review their new building any long , else we risk the south - west ' s hospital provision quite literally collapse . as well as the crisis in our NHS , cornish school continue to receive less funding per pupil than school in other area of the UK , and the crisis in provision for child and young people with special educational need and disability be extremely alarming . we see raw sewage be dump into our river and world - renowne beach , such as Polzeath , Harlyn and Widemouth Bay , among many other , on an almost daily basis . the water industry need urgent reform , so that monopolistic , for - profit water company be finally force to invest in infrastructure rather than prioritise only shareholder dividend . our fisher and farmer continue to suffer from disastrous trade deal that have leave they struggle to compete , and climate change have become the most urgent issue of our time , threaten to submerge town such as Bude in the come decade . despite these hardship , there be much to be hopeful about . I be deeply inspire by the dedication of our amazing community , volunteer network and sport club . I will name a few . there be Age Concern in Bodmin , and the amazing new youth centre in Bodmin , KBSK , which provide warm meal , homework club and a range of activity for young people . the sea pool in Bude be run by dedicated volunteer to improve the mental wellbeing of local resident . the memory caf é in Launceston provide respite for carer and those with memory problem . the Grace Project in Wadebridge distribute unwanted clothing to those who need it most , and there be also the community larder and food bank in Camelford , St Columb Major and Padstow . my constituency be also bless with many excellent sport club , include Wadebridge Camels rugby club , Bodmin Town football club , Launceston all Blacks rugby club and many more . I look forward to visit the Kilkhampton lady football club in a few week ' time . it be clear to I that the good way to solve many of the problem and unique challenge that Cornwall face be for decision to be take locally . my constituent , include many who do not vote at all , be feed up with the same broken political system , which , as I explain , seem to achieve very little for we in Cornwall . that be why , in addition to proper voting and fundamental political reform , I will be call for meaningful devolution of power , funding and responsibility from Whitehall to a cornish legislative assembly . Cornwall ' s unique culture , heritage and language be finally recognise in 2014 , when the Liberal Democrats ensure that the Cornish be grant national minority status under the european framework convention , just like the Scots , Welsh and Irish . as Liberal Democrats , we be and must continue to be the party for Cornwall . give the subject of today ' s debate , I hope the Minister will work with I to explore how we can see a cornish team compete at the next Commonwealth game . I finish with the word of my 15th - century predecessor , Thomas Flamank , who , like I , have previously be a solicitor and grow up in Bodmin . I hope that be where the similarity end , as he be execute soon after . he lead the cornish rebellion of 1497 and famously say : " speak the truth , and only then can you be free of your chain . " guide by those word , I will always speak truth to power on behalf of North Cornwall . Kernow bys vyken . cornwall forever . it be important to be procedurally correct in the Chamber , and the procedure be : cream first and jam second . I associate myself with the comment of colleague in express my immense pride at the achievement of Team GB athlete at the Paris Olympic and Paralympic game this year . their recent triumph have spark joy and , no doubt , inspire many across the UK , and they serve as a powerful reminder of sport ' s deep impact on our life , particularly for the young people in my Bolton North East constituency . at a time when the youth voice census show that our young people do not feel like they belong , with only three in 10 saying that they have a local role model , our athlete have never be more important . they serve as live example of the relentless pursuit of excellence , set high standard and work tirelessly to achieve they . Cindy Ngamba , who live in the heart of Bolton and be here today , make history at the Paris Olympics as the first medal winner for the refugee team . her journey from seek refugee status to stand on the olympic podium be nothing short of extraordinary . I congratulate she once again on her historic achievement . it be in Bolton that Cindy discover her passion for boxing . she train tirelessly at Bolton Lads and Girls Club , juggle multiple job to stay afloat and overcame immense challenge , include the constant terrifying threat of deportation . Cindy ' s story have have a profound impact on I and the youth of Bolton . school across our constituency have invite she to speak , and she have inspire countless young people to pursue their passion , no matter the hurdle they may face . Cindy be one of Bolton ' s own , and it be my sincere hope that she will be able to join Team GB for the Los Angeles Olympics in 2028 . I will be write to the Home Secretary to seek clarity on the status of her application . follow the Paris Olympics , we have see a 260 % spike in demand for sport across the UK and in our community . the success of Team GB have have a real and visible impact . when Ben Sandilands set a new world record in the T20 1 , 500 metre , more people lace up their trainer for queen ' s Park junior park run . when Sky Brown battle back from injury to win skateboard bronze , we see more spirited match and great attendance at Bolton Lads and Girls Club . it be in these local setting that young people see the benefit of fitness at first hand and build a real passion for stay active . they join local team , represent their school or community , and even participate in local tournament , where all the talent Bolton have to offer be on show . sport be more than competition , it be a force that inspire the value we hold dear — a genuine love for stay active , perseverance through adversity and the relentless pursuit of excellence . it be also an amazing force for community creation , something that bring we together and give we a sense of belong . these be not just athletic virtue ; they be life lesson that resonate across the UK , especially in Bolton North East . when someone join a club , they join a passionate group of people who be committed to see they succeed . whether they be represent a school like Sharples secondary school , a professional team like the mighty Bolton Wanderers or a large sporting community like Bolton indian sport club , they have a network , a family and a support system . I believe that club be a key part of tackle loneliness in our local area . research by Better , the social enterprise charity , have find that run in the open air be as effective as socialise with friend and family in reduce feeling of loneliness . More than two third of young people take part in the Youth Sport Trust ' s " active in Mind " programme report that it help they to cope well with their mental health . I truly believe that this Labour Government can continue that inspiration for young people , so that we see more incredible athlete like Cindy come out of amazing place like Bolton North East . we be all in awe of Cindy . that be a very powerful speech . I have enjoy this debate , the maiden speech and hear about all the local success that add up to our national success at this year ' s olympic and Paralympic game . we might be a small island , but we punch above our weight . my hon . friend the Member for Croydon East ( Natasha Irons ) talk about the Paralympic coverage on Channel 4 , which be fantastic , but other have mention how sport be increasingly go behind paywall , which will limit people ' s opportunity to be inspire . we need to make sure that the crown jewel of british sport , both domestic and international competition , remain free to air as much as possible , even if only for a single fixture each season or the big fixture in that sport . we need to make sure that all sport be available on free - to - air , and we need to make sure that we do not push too many behind paywall . grassroots investment be important to make sport , in all of its diversity , available and inclusive for all potential player . I be lucky enough to still play football on Saturdays . at the age of 34 , I can find a standard that fit I , but other be not able to find a suitable standard . my wife be look to play football but she do not have many option ; she would have to play at highly competitive level or not at all . inclusivity in woman ' s football do not seem to be happen in the right way at the moment . there have be concern about access to different sport by people from different background . there have be a worrying trend towards people from privileged background , who may have be educate at private school , end up as our elite athlete . quite a high proportion of our competitor this year be from such background . we need to ensure a diversity of people , from all walk of life , get into sport so that everybody have the opportunity to make it at an elite level . finally , I pay tribute to an athlete who have do more for disability sport than most : I congratulate six - time paralympic gold medallist and constituency local hero David Weir on his inspire career . I wish he a very happy retirement from international sport , as his last race be at the Paris game . David ' s journey begin in Wallington — more precisely , on the Roundshaw estate , in my area — and he first represent Sutton in wheelchair athletic at the London youth game . his talent quickly become evident as he win the junior event at the prestigious London marathon . David ' s path have not always be easy . at his first Paralympics in Atlanta in 1996 , he remember feel dishearten by the meagre turnout of spectator for his sport , only be able to spot five or so people in the crowd that day . in 2002 , David win his first London marathon . he reflect on that moment , share that he have no sponsorship deal or medium coverage , and be leave feel overlook and undervalue . fast forward to the London 2012 Paralympics . as he do his victory gold medal lap around the track , he look up at a roar stadium full of thousand of supporter , highlight not only his personal journey but the evolve landscape of disability sport . despite these achievement , David have be candid about the challenge that still exist . he continue to advocate for great visibility and support for Paralympic athlete , note that the gap between the perception of the Paralympics and the Olympics remain significant . in the community of Carshalton and Wallington , we be take important step . the David Weir leisure centre in St Helier offer inclusive cycling lesson for individual of all ability , foster an environment where everyone can participate . Sutton and Epsom rugby club be to host an international visually impair rugby tournament on the weekend of 23 November . however , we can not ignore the broad challenge that remain . datum from the Activity Alliance reveal that disabled adult be twice as likely to be physically inactive , compare with their non - disabled peer . statistic show that many disabled individual face barrier to spectate sport because of inaccessible venue and prevail attitude . that datum show we must ensure the legacy of Team GB include a commitment to encourage investment and support for disability sport . it be vital that we ensure everyone , regardless of ability , have the opportunity to engage in sport and physical activity . I know that David will continue to be a champion for this cause and I hope I can support the expansion of disability sport in my own small way in this House . I call Andrew Cooper to make his maiden speech . it be a pleasure to follow the hon . member for North Cornwall ( Ben Maguire ) , who give a passionate if controversial maiden speech . it be also a pleasure to follow my hon . friend the Member for Warrington South ( Sarah Hall ) , whose father - in - law be one of my predecessor as MP for Northwich . I pay tribute to Mike Hall , whose contribution towards get the funding we need to stop the town sink into a big hole of subsidence be vital . I be grateful to you , Madam Deputy Speaker , and to the House for the opportunity to make my maiden speech in this important debate on sport , follow the incredible achievement of our Olympians and Paralympians at this year ' s game . we be lucky enough to have a great record of sporting success in Mid Cheshire . our own Paula Radcliffe , who need no introduction , achieve incredible feat in athletic over her long career , smash the marathon world record . northwich rowing club ' s Matt Langridge win gold at Rio in the man ' s eight . the club , which have a proud tradition of break the perception of rowing as an elitist sport , tell I about the " Matt Langridge " effect , as more young people have take up the sport with that club than ever before . and this year , the awe - inspire Poppy Maskill , from Middlewich , who be mention by the shadow Minister , not only swam her way to five medal , a world record and the accolade of be the most successful british athlete at this year ' s Paralympics , but be give the honour of be the GB flagbearer at the closing ceremony . I can not leave this list without mention my mum , who get the run bug after I be bear — I do not think the two be related — and go on to win the gold medal in the 10 , 000 metre at the european veteran championship in 2013 . all these athlete , and other like they , have be an inspiration to the next generation of runner , rower and swimmer . it be fitting that we honour they and their achievement today . it be a tremendous honour to have be elect to represent Mid Cheshire , and our three great and historic salt town of Northwich , Winsford and Middlewich . the last constituency to bear the name — back then , a two - member constituency with a strong pedigree of elect man with beard and the same surname — be abolish in 1885 . thank to 139 year of boundary change , I now pay tribute to not one but four predecessor . Mid Cheshire gain the village of Rudheath from the right hon . member for Tatton ( Esther McVey ) , who have represent the area since 2017 . I thank she for her service . it seem that Rudheath ' s loss be Lymm ' s gain , and I be sure the people of Lymm can look forward to many year of common - sense solution to the challenge they face . Middlewich be transfer from Congleton , formerly represent by Fiona Bruce . she serve as a Member of this House for 14 year and , prior to that , as a councillor in Warrington for six year , a remarkable 20 year of public service that be testament to Fiona ' s character . I know her former constituent appreciate her hard work and advocacy on their behalf , and her focus in Parliament on champion the right to freedom of religion and belief . I pay tribute to she as a campaigner for well transport infrastructure in her constituency , something on which I hope to build in my time here . I gain Winsford from the former constituency of Eddisbury , represent by Edward Timpson from 2019 , who prior to that serve as the Member for Crewe and Nantwich . Edward ' s outstanding work on improve the life chance of fostered child will undoubtedly shape his political legacy . Edward say in an interview in 2014 that he would not have be child ' s Minister and he would not have be a family lawyer if his parent have not foster . he may no long be a Member of Parliament , but I be certain we have not see the last of Edward ' s contribution to public life . finally , I pay tribute to my good friend , my hon . friend the Member for Runcorn and Helsby ( Mike Amesbury ) , who have represent Northwich these past seven year . colleague from across the House will know of his loyalty and his diligence , as well as his successful campaign from opposition to make school uniform cheap for all . he have be unfailingly kind and supportive towards I , and extremely generous with his time and sound advice . I be until recently a councillor in Northwich , so I know at first hand how assiduously my hon . friend work on behalf of his former constituent , and how highly regarded he be locally . he certainly leave some big shoe to fill . each of my predecessor would have be a worthy custodian of the constituent part that now form Mid Cheshire , but these area be not just name on a map — they be vibrant community , each with its own natural beauty , rich history and promise future . the town of Northwich , Middlewich and Winsford be predicate on the salt industry . from the roman era to the industrial revolution , these town have be shape by the salt deposit find beneath their foundation and their strategic location at the confluence of several waterway that have be exploit to support trade , transport and our community ' growth . in the good tradition of british innovation , the people of Mid Cheshire have find interesting thing to do with the hole in the ground after the salt have be remove . the Adelaide mine in Northwich once host a banquet for Emperor Nicholas I of Russia , with over 10 , 000 candle illuminate the orange crystal banqueting hall , all 130 foot below the surface . today , the Winsford salt mine keep the nation ' s secret , with over 33 km worth of paper from the National Archives store safely underground , while just outside Middlewich , preparation be well under way to store the hydrogen produce by Cheshire ' s Hynet project in the salt seam below . the salt mine , canal and river that run through my constituency have play a pivotal role in shape the local economy and culture and each have leave an indelible mark on our landscape and identity . but these town be not just about salt and their storied past ; today , they be thrive place that be build on resilience , innovation and community spirit . Northwich be a vibrant town with an exciting and lively event programme . the now Northwich international dance and street art extravaganza have delight visitor with giant insect , peacock , princess and rainbow butterfly , while the annual Pi ñ a Colada festival , inspire by Northwich - bear Rupert Holmes ' s song " Escape " , which I will not provide a rendition of now , have become an important fixture of life in the town centre . these event and dozen more like they would not be possible without the council , local business , rotarian and community group all pull together and support the town centre to make it the event capital of Cheshire . there be pride in our community , with people will it to succeed in the face of 14 year of manage decline under the previous Government . it be in Northwich in 1933 that polythene be accidently discover by ICI researcher , and , in Winsford today , we have company deal with that industrial legacy , eliminate single - use plastic and recycle they . indeed , Winsford be home to more than 200 innovative company , from creator of advanced tissue - heal technology to developer of a sophisticated AI model to keep people safe from plant and equipment on construction project all over the world . but the true lifeblood of Mid Cheshire lie in its people . they be compassionate , friendly , and proud of their heritage . they be people like Julie , Diane or Matthew , run charity to help people with down ' s syndrome , autism , and muscular dystrophy . they be people like John , Alan or Janet , volunteer hour of their time to keep the park and the street of Winsford , Northwich and Middlewich look their good . they be people like Catherine and Ant who have keep our community feed , and people like Gale and Jess who have help more people in Winsford than I could begin to count . they and hundred like they be at the heart of our community . they be the custodian of our history , and the architect of our future , and , despite the challenge time that we be face , I be convinced that it be a future fill with promise and possibility . I have long believe that the people of our three great Mid Cheshire salt town , and , indeed , our country , want a Government who be on their side . they want politic and politician to serve they , to end the chaos and dysfunction of Westminster and to rebuild our country . the key mission of this Labour Government be to restore trust in politic , to show that politic can be a force for good , and to demonstrate that politic and politician can deliver for people and change life for the well . I promise always to do my good to serve and represent my constituent , to work tirelessly to deliver the change that people have vote for , and to repay the trust that the people of Mid Cheshire have place in I . it be a pleasure to follow all the member who have speak so far , particularly those who have make their maiden speech . the hon . member for Mid Cheshire ( Andrew Cooper ) , who have just make his , mention his predecessor , Fiona Bruce . she and I be good friend , and I thank he for his tribute to she . like you , Madam Deputy Speaker , I like my scone with jam first and then cream . I do not know whether that way be favour in Devon or in Cornwall . whichever it be , it do not really matter , because that be the way that I like they . I just want to thank member for their lovely comment and their maiden speech . I have say this before , but I think it be right that I should say it again : we be greatly enrich in this House when member make their maiden speech . each one bring their own particular quality , skill and experience to this House , and that contribute to the debate that we have and , ultimately , to the legislation that we make . hopefully , that can all be very positive . what a season it have be for sport in Northern Ireland ! I be probably go to gush with pride — if I can do that — for all those who have do so well . we be on a roll . there have be some wonderful achievement this season . I thank the Minister , who be no long in her place , for her introduction to this debate and for set the scene so well . I also thank the shadow Minister . there have not be an olympic gold medal winner in Northern Ireland for 36 year , since Stephen Martin and Jimmy Kirkwood be member of the Great Britain hockey team in Seoul . our last solo gold medal be in Munich when the legend that be Dame Mary Peters win the pentathlon in 1976 . I be 21 year of age then . I have a full head of hair — how I wish I could have that back , but that be not go to happen . I wave goodbye to that a number of year ago . what an Olympics we have have this year . Northern Ireland return home with four gold medal , one silver medal and two bronze medal . let I put that medal tally into perspective . Northern Ireland have a population of 1 . 8 million , and our athlete dominate the world stage four time in one olympic game . that take work and dedication , but more than that , it take heart and determination . to say that I be proud be an understatement — I be inspire . indeed , every person in Northern Ireland be inspire , and I hope that some of that inspiration that those athlete give to we in Northern Ireland be share across all of this United Kingdom . Inspiration be the goal of each of those medal winner ; they hope to inspire the next generation of swimmer , rower and gymnast . all of we wish to see the generation come on as the gold medal winner of tomorrow . I be very honoured to be at a reception in Newtownards , where we congratulate two gold medal Olympians who train and live in our borough . we have Jack McMillan , who be part of the gold medal - win relay team , GBNI , which train in Bangor Aurora complex in our constituency . Jack ' s presence at his home council event be to tell other that , with hard work and dedication , they could achieve such thing . he be v - shaped from his waist to his shoulder . the strength be all in his arm , and it be quite clear why he be such a good swimmer . then we have young Rhys McClenaghan from Newtownards , who have always have a special place in my heart . I have support he from a young age , and this year he finally bring home the gold for the pommel horse gymnastic event — one of the hard discipline . everything be do on two hand . I could not stay for three second on my two hand , never mind bounce about and do all the thing that he do . he be fantastic . I watch he , because I have know he for year . I also know his mother and father very well . a slip of a finger have prevent his victory in Tokyo just four year ago , and I remember the disappointment that he and his family feel . but we all cheer he on as he win the Commonwealth game , the world championship and the european championship . like everybody else in Newtownards , I just know that Rhys would win the gold in Paris , which he do . we cheer until we be hoarse — just as everybody else do for their people we decorate the window of the shop in his hometown of Newtownards , and put up poster and banner . we take such pride in one of our own smashing all the ceiling on the world stage . that inspire child and help they to see that if Rhys McClenaghan can do that , so can they . that be incredible for the young boy and girl . the school talk about it and the parent rave about it . there be a palpable sense of joy . rhy ' s victory belong to all of we in Newtownards . I would like to quote his post on Facebook after the celebration : " my home , Newtownards . I bring you home our first ever Olympic Medal " . he do , and that inspire all of Newtownards and , indeed , all of Northern Ireland . this humble young man be determined to show that his joy be our joy . I have be watch his progress over some 15 year , and , as an MP , I have regularly send he letter . I send letter to many people to encourage they , because , obviously , that be the right thing to do . I have send handwritten letter , which , give my writing , be a challenge for many people . when I ask Rhys whether he have get my letter , he say , " oh , I get all the letter . " but when I ask he whether he could read they , he say , " well , Jim , that be the real challenge , but I think it be good news you be tell I anyway " . Rhys be a young fellow who have do so well . his aim be to encourage young people to work towards their dream . he be clear that there have be failure . Tokyo do not work out , but Paris do . get up and try again be what secure he his accolade , and it be what enable all of we to achieve success . the hon . member for Mid Dorset and North Poole ( Vikki Slade ) say in her maiden speech that she have attempt to win her seat four time . that tell I : if you do not achieve something the first time , do it again , and you will do well . our young people need that message of hope and persistence more than ever . as I have say to some of the Olympians I meet , when they win gold , silver or bronze , they be the good , second good or third good in the world , and if they finish in fourth place , they be the fourth good in the world . they might not have get a medal , but that be also quite an achievement . I say that because Barry McClements swam in the Paralympics . he get a bronze medal last time in Tokyo . he do not get a medal this time , but he beat his personal good . he swam quick this time than he do the last time , but he do not get a medal . I say to he , " you ' re the fourth good in the world . " when we try to inspire child to take up sport , we follow in the footstep of Mary Peters , who for the last almost 50 year have present child in Northern Ireland with a goal and a determination to give their all . that to I be the real glitter that come from gold medal . it be the reason Rhys McClenaghan and his business partner Luke open their gym and training facility in their hometown of Newtownards and offer every boy and girl who come to they a free gymnastic lesson to encourage they to be active , and to see what they might enjoy . it be the reason Mary Peters have spend some 50 year at school sport day and award — to encourage child to dare to dream . it be the reason we in this House need to play our part , as I be sure we all do , to encourage sport by fund sport development — particularly in Northern Ireland , where parent of athlete such as Rhys sacrifice ten of thousand of pound to see their son succeed . the hon . member for Carshalton and Wallington ( Bobby Dean ) refer to an athlete from his constituency who have no sponsorship for many year but still succeed . that be what parent and family do . we need to provide assistance , and build on these medal so that we have a generation of world - class athlete , proud to represent their home town and country . the power lie in this House to inspire everyone across the United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland . let we meet the gold standard , fund our sport and athlete , and be proud of our nation , punch well above our weight . when Rhys McClenaghan be ask for a word to describe his experience , he say " golden " . let we see how many more golden moment we can get for our child . what a privilege and pleasure it be to follow the hon . member for Strangford ( Jim Shannon ) , with whom , I be sorry to say , I share a preference for cream tea . I be very proud to have one of the world ' s good golf course in my constituency — the Belfry . I be delighted to join those at the course recently at the British Open to talk about its work in encourage young people into golf . I be privileged to co - chair the all - party parliamentary group for sport ; I have take over from my hon . friend the Member for Spen Valley ( Kim Leadbeater ) . one of my aim will be to ensure that we work with sporting body and organisation to push for more people to become physically active , and for more people to be give the opportunity to enjoy play sport in their local community and at the high level . we have have a brilliant summer of sport , with Team GB end the Paris Olympics and Paralympics with more medal than ever . in my sport of tennis , which my hon . friend the Member for Chesterfield ( Mr Perkins ) speak about so eloquently , british player do so well at the US Open . I be so proud of our Paralympic and olympic athlete . they be role model and an inspiration to our young people . I also know , though , that each one of they will have be support by an encouraging grassroots club or organisation . without such club , accessible playing ground and court , and referee and coach who encourage grassroots player to become professional athlete , we would not have the incredible set of athlete of whom the country be so proud . for that reason , I congratulate everyone who contribute to the success of our Paralympic and olympic team — the athlete , coach , friend , family and official . Sport have incredible potential to open new door for young people and break down barrier to opportunity . every child should have the chance to find a sport that they enjoy , to thrive and grow in confidence , and to learn valuable teamworking skill . it be essential that sport form a key part of a broad curriculum . since 2011 , the Youth Sport Trust have find that the number of hour of PE teach in secondary school have fall by 13 % , but sport be not just important for young people and professional athlete ; it be a way for adult to keep healthy , and to create friendship throughout their life by watch and participate in it . that be why it be a massive concern that the late active life survey find that activity be less common in old people , woman and those with a disability . one third of adult in the UK do not meet the chief medical officer ' s minimum requirement for physical activity level . almost a third of our child and young people be consider inactive , mean that 2 . 3 million child and young people do less than 30 minute of activity each week . Sport England have find that child and young people from the least affluent family remain the least active , and be fall far and far behind . sport be a form of social mobility . it allow young people to build teamworking skill and relationship with people from all walk of life . the Government must ensure that child be able to access sport on the curriculum and in their local community . that mean investment in our local sport facility , more lighting for outdoor facility , and the renovation of old leisure centre such as the one in Atherstone in my constituency . I be delighted a couple of week ago to put spade in the ground for the new physical activity hub in Bedworth . in my experience as a player of county - level tennis , I have see how the LTA have ensure that a variety of tennis option be available for people of all ability . that include wheelchair tennis , tennis for those with learn disability and visually impaired and deaf people , and para - stand and walk tennis . those modification demonstrate how every sport can become more inclusive , so long as we encourage organisation to have inclusivity as their priority . as a line judge and umpire at grassroots level and at Wimbledon , I know all too well that we need committed volunteer at every level of sport , from our junior and local event through to the high level of sport at international event . there have be a pathway of training and support for those give up their time , and it be essential that we continue that . yesterday be a sad day — to find out that line judge at Wimbledon be be replace by machine . hopefully my role in this House will not meet the same end . it be an honour to follow my hon . friend the Member for North Warwickshire and Bedworth ( Rachel Taylor ) , who I know will be a great champion for inclusive and community sport . as a retread , this be not my maiden speech , but it be my first opportunity to address the Chamber in a debate since 2019 . my time away from this House allow I to engage deeply with the local community , listen and understand the concern , hope and resilience of constituent . I be therefore utterly delighted and profoundly grateful to the wonderful people of Leigh , Atherton , Tyldesley , Lowton , Golborne and part of Astley for entrust I with the chance to serve they once again . I rise to speak in today ' s debate to highlight the positive that our constituency bring , especially in the realm of diversity in sport . Leigh and Atherton be a proud sporting town . our beloved rugby league team , the Leigh Leopards , continue to inspire . while we face a tough match against our main rival , the Wigan Warriors , last Saturday — I reluctantly extend my congratulation to the Secretary of State , who be no long in her place , on her team ' s victory — let we not overlook the importance of sportsmanship and community pride that both borough team embody . it be not just the big team that we honour ; our constituency be rich with inclusive grassroots sport , which form the bedrock of our sporting culture . from rugby league and union to football , cricket and even a very successful girl water polo club in Tyldesley , the diversity of our club ensure that there be something for everyone . each club , regardless of size , play a vital role in foster talent and building community connection . we have Tom Aspinall , from Atherton , an Ultimate Fighting Championship heavyweight champion , and the wonderful Ella Toone , from Tyldesley , our female superstar lioness , whose legacy continue to inspire the next generation of woman football player . I must also mention Leigh boxing club , a humble facility that have become one of the most decorate club in the country , produce champion after champion . one stand - out fighter , Paddy Hewitt , have the honour of support the olympic boxing team in Paris in July . on a recent visit to the club , I be extremely encouraged to hear all the young boxer , male and female , express their wish to compete at the next Olympics . last but not least , we have our very own olympic gold medallist , keely Hodgkinson , who achieve a remarkable gold medal in the 800 metre event . I be sure that when she take to the track , this House and the whole country hold their breath , know that we be witness a defining moment . keely ' s journey be awe - inspiring . her incredible talent and aspiration be support by her club , Leigh Harriers — a club that have be in existence since 1909 and form part of the heritage of Leigh , and of which I be extremely proud . but this debate be about celebrate not just our olympic champion but our Paralympic superstar . I want to give a very special mention to Gregg Warburton from Leigh , who do Leigh , Atherton and our country proud with his exceptional performance in wheelchair basketball at the Paris 2024 game . Gregg ' s journey be inspirational to watch ; he showcase the importance of inclusivity in sport and embolden the next generation of Paralympic athlete . it be often joke that there must be something in the water in such a small constituency to have produce so many fantastic athlete , but I believe that there be something even big at play : the steadfast support of the community leader who run our club , and the passion and commitment of the coach , volunteer and supporter , which create an environment where young athlete from all background can thrive . our school also play a significant role in this success , and I highlight in particular Fred Longworth high school , where both Ella Toone and keely Hodgkinson study . we admire keely , Gregg , Paddy and all our athlete , but we be equally proud of all the young people who contribute to the rich sporting culture that exist in our town . their hard work , dedication and spirit exemplify the good of our community . I be pleased to support a government that be dedicate to develop the inclusivity of the creative industry . I be sure that the Minister agree that it be crucial that we have the same focus on the sport sector , so that we create an equal access guarantee for all sport in school and community group , and ensure that everyone have the opportunity to pursue their dream . I call Steve Yemm to make his maiden speech . thank you , Madam Deputy Speaker . I congratulate my hon . friend the Member for Mid Cheshire ( Andrew Cooper ) on his inspire speech ; I feel that I know his constituency a little well now . I commend all those who have deliver their maiden speech today and in recent week . it be a huge honour to stand before member today as the newly elect Member of Parliament for Mansfield , which be the place of my birth . it be truly an honour for I to make my maiden speech in a debate on sport and paralympicsgb . I be proud to have be elect with this new Labour Government — a Government commit to opportunity for all . I pay tribute to my immediate predecessor , Ben Bradley , who be the Member of Parliament for Mansfield for seven year . I have always find Councillor Bradley to be extremely cordial and hard - work . he be both my MP and my local councillor , and I must pay tribute to his work ethic and dedication . I also pay tribute to the service of a further three predecessor , all of whom I have know personally . first , Sir Alan Meale , who be the Member of Parliament for Mansfield for 30 year , win six general election and serve from 1987 to 2017 . secondly , Don Concannon be the MP between 1966 and 1987 , and introduce I and my wonderful wife Julia to the Labour party in Mansfield as teenager . finally , Bernard Taylor — Lord Taylor — be the MP for Mansfield from 1941 to 1966 , and be make a life peer in 1966 . I enjoy many a cup of tea and conversation in the other place with he . Lord Taylor serve the people of Mansfield in one distinguished capacity or another for 50 year . like I , Bernard be from a Mansfield mining family . he be a trade unionist who be lock out of Sherwood pit after the 1926 strike , and a commit Bevanite . what well role model could a new MP for Mansfield have than Bernard Taylor ? I be the first MP for Mansfield to be bear in the constituency and elect as a new Member since Bernard Taylor in 1941 , and indeed my family have a great deal in common with Bernard . in 1926 , my grandfather be lock out of the Cwmtillery colliery , in the south Wales coalfield , and have to walk for 10 day from south Wales to nottinghamshire with his wife and young son in search of work , settle first in Kirkby - in - Ashfield and then in Blidworth . he work with his three son , include my father , as coalface worker at the Blidworth colliery . I be bear in Rainworth , a pit village to the east of Mansfield , and attend the local village school , Heathlands primary . I launch my election campaign in June by give a tv interview at the school gate . during the election campaign , I knock on the door of the house where I be bear , in Southwell Road East , Rainworth , and also the house where my mother be bear , on Burns Street in central Mansfield . I be pleased to tell the House that they be both Labour household . I be so proud of the positive campaign that we run in Mansfield ; we completely and unashamedly focus on the need for opportunity and real change . I put on the record my thank to the many people who help over many year to get I here . I bring to Parliament 30 year of international private sector business experience as a senior commercial leader and general manager in life science and technology , include as a chief executive officer of a US corporation and managing director of an Israel - base technology company . for the past five year , this have be with a focus on the application of machine learning and artificial intelligence to life science , drug discovery and genomic . I begin my career as a medicinal chemist in the pharmaceutical industry , which I join after leave the Brunts school in Mansfield . Mansfield have always be my family home . I grow up there at a time when the local economy be dominate by coalmine , engineering and textile . now it be home to successful and modern international business , include Linney , Power Saving Solutions , and Integrated Doorset Solutions , to name just a few . Mansfield be a compact constituency with diverse neighbourhood such as Mansfield Woodhouse , Forest Town , Rainworth , Ladybrook , Oak Tree and Warsop , and they be all special and unique . our football club , Mansfield Town , be base in the old ground in the football league , date right back to 1861 . give the topic of this debate , I congratulate and pay tribute to Charlotte Henshaw , a local paralympian and gold medallist in both swimming and canoe , and to Sam and Ollie Hynd , medal - win paralympian swimmer — all good friend hail from Mansfield , and local hero for all of we . our local hospital , King ' s Mill , be where my wife Julia be employ as a consultant radiographer , and where all our child and grandchild be bear . Julia have work in the NHS for over 37 year . my priority in this place will of course be align with my background in science and technology , but , more importantly , they will always be inform by my own journey — from a pit village to become a scientist and business leader , and then to Westminster — and will focus on ensure that every boy and girl in my constituency and our country know that they have a life of great opportunity within their grasp . I be proud to be here represent such a fantastic constituency . as Betty Boothroyd , a former Speaker of this House , say : " it ' s like miner ' coal dust underneath your fingernail . very difficult to scrub out . I ' m a social democrat to my fingertip . " this be , for I , truly the opportunity of a lifetime , so once again I say , " thank you so much " to the people of Mansfield for put their faith in I . I will not let they down . rise — I do not want to put anybody on a time limit , so I will prioritise maiden speech . those who be not seek to make maiden speech might reflect on that for a short while . I call Chris Bloore to make his maiden speech . thank you , Madam Deputy Speaker . I pay tribute to those who have make their maiden speech today . I have learn a lot — especially that we may have some excellent tennis double partnership on the Labour Benches . it be an enormous privilege to give my maiden speech in this debate as the representative for Redditch and the village . during the summer , it be impossible not to be fixate and enthral by the incredible achievement of our olympic and Paralympic athlete . to paraphrase Lord Coe , sport can unify we , and I know that this Government believe that sport can be an essential tool in improve our nation ' s health and in open new door and break down barrier to opportunity for young people . I must admit to have delay my maiden speech . the incredible contribution by those from all side of the House leave I with much to ponder . I reach out to old — I mean more experienced — colleague about what the blueprint for a maiden speech should look like . the advice be : " Don ' t try to be funny ; joke win ' t work . but don ' t be too serious or plagiarise " the West Wing " . be self - deprecating , but don ' t write your opponent ' s attack line for they . keep it short but not too short , and whatever you do , don ' t go on for too long . " with that clear advice in mind , Madam Deputy Speaker , I shall try to make some progress . politic can be bruise , but I want to pay tribute to my immediate predecessor , Rachel Maclean . we do not often agree , but there can be no doubt her passion and dedication to our community . I also pay tribute to her caseworker team for their support in the handover period . sadly , Karen Lumley , our Member of Parliament from 2010 to 2017 , pass away last year age just 59 . Karen be a large - than - life character who campaign passionately on education and be greatly appreciate by her constituent . I thank she for her service and send my good wish to her husband Richard . finally , I pay tribute to Baroness Jacqui Smith of Malvern . Jacqui be the Member of Parliament for our community for 13 year , and give I my first experience of frontline politic , when I knock on door in Church Hill for her re - election in 2001 . appoint the first female Home Secretary , she be a trailblazer , and , as fate would have it , she be knock on door with I at 10 minute to 10 in the very same part of town on the day of my election . although I remain sad that her partnership with Iain Dale on the " for the many " pod have be break , high education and the Government be strong for her return . it be customary to give a whistle - stop tour of one ' s constituency at this point . I be sure many member will know that Redditch be most famous for be a new town designate in 1964 . Redditch be build as a bold flagship new town , utilise new planning method . thousand of house be build , the population more than double , and our dual carriageway and roundabout remain the envy of many town planner . Redditch have be , and continue to be , the home of world - lead business . my first trip as a primary school child be to the historic Forge Mill needle museum , where I learn that Redditch be once responsible for make 90 % of the world ' s needle . Redditch be also the official home of Royal Enfield , and the Bullet motorcycle be make in the factory on Hewell Road , which be the town ' s big employer from the 1900 until the 1960 . today , exceptional firm such as Bee Lighting deliver cutting - edge technology to some of the world ' s large car manufacturer . Redditch be an eclectic mix of urban and rural , with a vibrant urban centre and the beautiful Arrow Valley park , as well as Roundhill wood in the south of the constituency , which be the inspiration for the shire in Tolkien ' s " the Lord of the Rings " . however , Redditch also have a rich cultural heritage . the late great John Bonham , drummer for Led Zeppelin , be bear in Redditch . our beautiful Palace theatre bring we enjoyment and laughter . Reimagine Redditch be bring creativity to our community , and Radio 4 ' s " the Archers " be say to be base on landmark in Hanbury and Inkberrow . also , Harry Styles be bear in Redditch , so today I be claim he as our own . in truth , my constituency be define by our people — people who be shape and define our future . before the recess , I speak in this House to commend the work of local anti - knife crime campaigner Pete Martin , who have dedicate his life to educate young people about the danger of knife crime in order to make our young people and our street safe . Lee Mckenzie be the chief executive officer of the Sandycroft Centre , an award - win community hub that offer domestic abuse and mental health support , and support some of the most at - risk people in our community . she have undoubtedly save many life . Matt Ball arrive as the new headteacher at Ridgeway school face challenging circumstance . still , his staff deliver some of the most impressive and improved result nationwide over the summer . I think of Jo Bussey , the organiser of the Redditch carnival ; the Batchley support group ; Karen from Inspire Services ; the Royal British Legion fundraiser Gethin Jones and Gerry Marsden ; the disability support group ; the Church Hill big local partnership , the staff and governor of your Ideas , and many more . they be the good of our community , and we cherish their work . however , in my constituency , we face many deep - seat challenge . I mention Harry Styles , and the Alexandra hospital , where he be bear , have since lose its maternity service . local parent be force to travel to Worcester or Birmingham to give birth . during the election , when my son be struggle to breathe , I could not take he to the Alex because the paediatric service have also be lose . North Worcestershire need more than one hospital to provide those critical service , and I make no apology for my inevitably repetitive intervention on that in future . a decade ago , I stand for week outside supermarket and on high street collect signature against the loss of those service . now , I will use this platform to restart the debate on health service for our community . in my constituency , too many child with SEND requirement be go without the necessary provision that they deserve . family be leave in desperate state as they fight for the provision their child need . I have never feel more admiration , or anger , than when listen to parent such as Tracy Winchester and Karen Nokes , who be force to fight so hard for so many child . backlog should not stop child have the opportunity to thrive in an education setting , and parent should not be pull out of the workforce to ensure that that happen . we can not leave this Parliament until the dream and aspiration of those child be rekindle and family life rebuild . as we once build a national health service in this country , we must again reaffirm our belief in cradle - to - grave healthcare by deliver a national care service that bring dignity to all . those be big challenge , but the electorate send we here to deliver they . I may have the honour of sit in this place , and I can not repeat enough my gratitude to the voter who put their trust in I , but election be not win by individual : they be win by team . after I horrifically fail to mention so many name during my victory speech in Redditch , I be afraid I be go to list many of they now : my victory be due to the dedication of Sharon , Mark , Joe , Bill , Andy , Monica , Juliet , David , Ian , Juma , Jamie , Jack , Rebecca , Hannah , Graham , Will , Sachin , Gary , Jane , Robin , Karen , Joanna , Gilly , James and Jack Fardoe , Carl , Rita , Jen , Phil , Andrea , and many other . [ hon . member : " hear , hear ! " ] they will love that . those people work so selflessly because they believe that Redditch deserve well . my politic come from my parent . my mother Marion dedicate her entire work life to the NHS as an occupational therapist , rise from a poor working - class family to become a lecturer in her profession . I see what happen to the NHS in the 1980 and the impact it have on she and her colleague . my dad Mike work for the BBC , and be award a BAFTA in 1983 for edit " boy from the Blackstuff " , a gritty representation of the impact of the Thatcher Government . incidentally , that be also the year I be bear , although I have never ask my father what his highlight of 1983 be . my parent teach I that their achievement be build on the support and encouragement of other . they also teach I that we have a responsibility to ensure that the same chance be available to everyone in society , that everyone have the right to live their dream and fulfil their potential if they work hard , and that there be such a thing as society . it be now common for politic and political institution to be routinely devalue . many of those we represent feel that nothing can or will ever change for the well , but I retain the sense of optimism and belief that tomorrow can be well than today , and that the good day for my constituent lie ahead of we , if only we have the courage and vision to fight for they . finally , I thank my beautiful little boy for understanding why Daddy have to go on the train every Monday and disappear when he should really be play with Hot Wheels . to return to the theme of this debate , my time in this place might be short , but I fully intend to leave everything out on the field . I call Michael Wheeler to make his maiden speech . thank you , Madam Deputy Speaker . part of I be worried that I might never be call to make my maiden speech in this Chamber , follow my assertion to Mr Speaker that Eccles cake be far superior to Chorley cake . however , it be my sincere hope that our mutual appreciation of Vimto will bridge any divide that exist . I be pleased to be follow an excellent and educational maiden speech from my hon . friend the Member for Redditch ( Chris Bloore ) . I think he will find that some of the rule he be give for his maiden speech might be reflect in mine . I must start by record my thank to my predecessor , Baroness Keeley of Worsley . Barbara serve the people of Worsley and Eccles South and , before that , Worsley with commitment and in the true spirit of public service . she be never afraid to stand by those who put she in this place , an example that I intend to follow . I be sure she will be remember for her steadfast and tenacious support for carer and their right , work that I have no doubt she will continue in the other place . I also pay tribute to my family : their contribution to my work in this House for my constituent might go unnoticed by the wide world , but it will never go unappreciated by I . any success I achieve be because I be the man my mum and dad make , and because of the foundation of love my wife and son give I every single day . I now turn to my constituency of Worsley and Eccles , a community that I be genuinely fortunate to represent . while it form part of the wide urban area of Greater Manchester , the town that make it up have proud history all of their own . the industrial heritage of Worsley and Barton be on clear display to all who visit in the shape of our mill and canal , one of which be famously orange — when I be a child , I be convince it be fill with Irn - Bru . eccle give the world the aforementione Eccles cake , as well as the Eccles protector lamp , a proud symbol of our mining past that save countless live down in the dark on the coalface . Astley be home to the Lancashire Mining Museum , which house the large survive functional wind engine in the world , and be entirely run by fantastic volunteer who make a mean cup of tea on top of everything else . Irlam and Cadishead lie between the bank of the Manchester ship canal and our beautiful and precious mossland , bring together the urban and rural — the industrial and agricultural — in a way that must be preserve and protect . Boothstown and Ellenbrook be home to the Royal Agricultural Society ' s fifth garden , RHS Bridgewater , which be well worth a visit for anyone pass our way , and Swinton be the home of L . s . Lowry , who as an artist do so much to illustrate the life of ordinary work people . but while a community might be shape by its place , it be form of its people , and I truly represent the good : never afraid to tell you what they think , sometimes at length and sometimes at loud volume , but often with a " thank for listen " at the end of it all . More than anything , it be the generosity of spirit so often on display that set I back and give I pause for thought . I have be fortunate enough to meet and speak with so many people who give so much of themselves and their time for the benefit of other . they include the inspirational volunteer work on the Salford Families in Need Meals Project , who take the time to not only source , pack and distribute food , but provide recipe for family to go with it ; Val and her team , who run a support group for their peer suffer from fibromyalgia ; Anna Barrow and her husband Martyn , who have speak out about the life - change effect that motor neurone disease have have on her life , and whose indomitable spirit and humour will forever leave a mark on I ; Barbara , who organise a supper club with bingo and a quiz for old resident and carer on her estate , from which I have be retire as the bad bingo caller in the world ; the young people of Salford Youth Services Nerd Club , who happily accept I as one of their own ; and all those involve in grassroots sport right across my community . from Eccles rugby football club to Winton Wanderers and so many other , the good they do for our young people be immeasurable . I be proud to call this community my home , and even prouder that its people have choose I as their representative . I will always work to deliver for they and in their interest . however , should I fail in that duty , I hope it be a measure of reassurance for they to know that one among they will always be able to bring I to task : my mum . it be a particular kind of privilege and terror to have your own mum as your constituent . like a number of my hon . friend , I have spend most of my work life fight for work people as a trade unionist . I have work for the Union of Shop , Distributive and Allied Workers trade union , campaign on behalf of some of the lowest pay and least secure in our economy , and that experience have leave an indelible mark on I . I have come to this place excited to be part of the change that those worker and my constituent vote for at the election — change that will deliver much - need improvement to their life , whether that be the new deal for work people that have be publish today , make work pay and promote work - life balance ; real support for parent and child through action to provide available , affordable and accessible childcare ; or the plan to support our community and high street , tackle antisocial behaviour and make we all feel safe at home . all those measure will improve life and , when take together and alongside everything else this new Labour Government will do , will be transformative for work people and our local community . let I finish by say that life be too short , and the scale of work we do as member of the place be too big , to waste time on pettiness or game . I be a straightforward person and have even be describe as " friendly " . I look forward to work with everyone in this House in the interest of our respective constituent and our shared country . I aim to be as generous as a properly fill Eccles cake , as reassuring as the light of a protector lamp down in the dark , and as warm , forthright and straight - speak as the people of my constituency . in the spirit of co - operation , for the good of we all and the work we do for those we represent , let I share with all hon . member some advice my dad give I : there be never any shame in learn from other ; never cross a picket line ; and , most importantly , always get your round in . I call Lee Barron to make his maiden speech . thank you , Madam Deputy Speaker . it be great to follow my hon . friend the Member for Worsley and Eccles ( Michael Wheeler ) . I congratulate everybody who have do their maiden speech today , and this be the first time I have do it — I suppose that be why they be call maiden speech . I be proud to speak here for the first time , especially in this debate , as facility in Corby be use by athlete to train for the Olympics . Kieran Reilly , who live in Corby , win silver at the BMX freestyle . Adrenaline Alley be the venue he use in the constituency , a terrific venue that many use . I be delighted to be the Member of Parliament for the constituency of Corby and East Northamptonshire . I pay tribute to my predecessor , Tom Pursglove , who have the honour to represent Corby for nine year and become a Minister during that time . I know for a fact that he be very proud to serve his constituency , and I always find he extremely constructive and extremely cordial . I know that now , after Parliament , he be look at do work with disabled people and get disabled people well access to work . I hope that I will be able to work with he , because I be now chair an all - party parliamentary group on modernise employment . one area we be go to look at be how disabled people can access work , so I hope our path will cross again . I also thank Andy Sawford , the last Labour Member of Parliament for the constituency , who continue to be a good friend to our constituency . he be somebody I seek wise counsel from , and I be fortunate enough to say that I get that rather cheaply . he run a political consultancy , so if hon . member ever ask he for his opinion , it be go to cost they a lot of money , but whenever I do , I get it for free . thank , Andy , for be there for we as we move on . Corby and East Northamptonshire be a large constituency that I have have many year of deal with . I represent Corby ' s postal worker for over a decade , and I can tell you now that a fine group of worker you will never be able to meet . my daughter Hannah be marry at the wonderful venue at the Stanwick hotel , and my father be for a time a boot and shoe worker in the town of Raunds . indeed , Raunds have its place in history for fight for fair wage and good pay . next year mark the 120th anniversary of the Raunds strike of 1905 , which see worker who make boot for the Army march to Parliament to demand well pay . the War Office agree and set a minimum rate for their job . the case for fair wage and good pay be as relevant today as it be then . work should be the route out of poverty . it should not mean a lifetime trap in it , yet 40 % of child live in Corby and East Northamptonshire who live in poverty have at least one work parent . we need to reshape the world of work so that it pay , and our economy so that the dignity of a job be always well than no job . in - work poverty should be eradicate and chuck into the dustbin of history . today , we celebrate the new deal for work people be lay before this House . with that , we will have the foundation for a well future for work people . I want to be around to ensure we can do that . other part that make up my constituency include the market town of Thrapston , which boast its own livestock market . I be delighted to join Thrapston ' s mayor , Andy McGovern , at his recent service to celebrate his term of office . East Northamptonshire be also home to the town of Oundle . oundle school and Prince William school be two of three school in an open education partnership , which I be delighted to be able to support and facilitate , which see independent and state school come together to share their facility and good practice . Corby be a town build on steel . back in the day , many travel down from Scotland as steelworker , and the steelwork be build . resident be rightly proud of their heritage , which they celebrate each year with a weekend of highland game and many Burns supper . it have a proud history and a spirit that have see resident rise against any adversity they have face . that be why after fight against the steelwork closure in the 1980 , which see over 10 , 000 people throw on the dole , they rebuild their town ; they rebuild their community , and they would not be beat . during my time on the campaign trail , one lady whose door I knock on capture that spirit . " I ' m stand to be your Member of Parliament at the next election , " I say . " that ' s amazing . my mum would really love to meet you ; can you come back in half an hour because we ' ve get guest at the minute ? " I say yes , so I go back . it turn out her mum have just stop take treatment for stage 4 cancer and want to live her day . she say to I , " I want you to do two thing . first , always speak up for Corby ; we ' re good people , we ' re proud people . the second thing I want you to do be get the no . 50 bus back . " I say , " okay , what ' s the no . 50 bus ? " the no . 50 bus be the direct bus that go from Corby to Kettering general hospital . " when my husband be in hospital , that be my lifeline to get to see he and I want it back , " she say . I be go to pop round to see her daughter because on 2 November , it be back ; it will take people directly from Corby to Kettering general . the only thing they can not do be give we the no . 50 back ; it be now the no . 2 because the no . 50 go to Peterborough and apparently it will cost money to get the number back , but I think the principle have be establish . I have spend my adult life represent work people , from the start when I take on an apprenticeship with the Royal Mail and I join my union , the Communication Workers Union . a lot of people talk about their schooling , their university , their training . the CWU be my schooling , my university , my training , and without a shadow of a doubt I would not be here today if it be not for the CWU . the journey here have be somewhat interesting to say the least . it start in the back of a taxi with I and Frances o ' Grady talk about the importance of working - class people enter our politic , because we be on our way to the funeral of Jack Dromey , a dear friend to this place , this party and our movement . I want to put on record my thank to the TUC for what it do in support I during my time as the candidate . it go from the back of a taxi with Frances to drive around Corby in a Vauxhall with Eamonn Norton and Mark Pengelly knock on the door of about 600 Labour party member to try to convince they I be the candidate they should all vote for . we do the good we could ; I become the candidate and now I represent that constituency . I know it be not go to be easy , but I be determined to make a difference . there be issue that I want to get involve with and change I want to see . I want to see a difference in the world of work by make sure that work really do pay and be a route out of poverty . I want to make a difference to give a voice to so many family with child with special educational need who be be deny the basic right to education ; every child have the right to education , and have special educational need should not mean that they be deny that fundamental right . the House be go to discuss dignity in die , but there be another aspect to it that I want to talk about . in this country , it be legal to sack a worker on the ground of capability when they have a terminal diagnosis . that be fundamentally wrong ; we need to close that loophole and make sure that the last thing people worry about when they have such a diagnosis be the future of their job . we should not be treat people like that and we need to make the change accordingly . lastly , I want to thank my family for their support . I be a proud father , grandfather , son and brother to a family that have always be strong in value and principle and I thank they all . my mum could not be part of this journey here with I because she die several year ago , but I want to say her name , Patricia Eileen Lilian Barron , because now I have say her name they will write it down ; it will be in Hansard so no one can erase it and a bit of she will live forever , and I be proud to be able to do that . there be much to do to make the change that we need to give people back a future that they can once again look forward to . I for one will do all I can to make it happen . our unity be our strength , our solidarity ; that be how we will get there and I intend to make the most of the time I have in this place . I call Joani Reid to make her maiden speech . I thank you , Madam Deputy Speaker , for call I to deliver my maiden speech . I begin by congratulate my hon . friend the Members for Corby and East Northamptonshire ( Lee Barron ) , for Worsley and Eccles ( Michael Wheeler ) and for Redditch ( Chris Bloore ) , all of whom speak with such passion and commitment about their constituency . I hope that the people of Corby have many happy celebration on 2 November when the no . 2 / 50 bus come back into service . it truly be an honour to serve the people of East Kilbride and Strathaven . none of we be in this House by right . we propose ourselves , but it be the voter who dispose . the people be the master of our fate , and all of we have a duty of trust and a responsibility to work hard , and I be determined to repay the trust place in I by represent my constituent to the very good of my ability . in that spirit , I pay tribute to my predecessor Dr Lisa Cameron . build on her long - stand career as an NHS psychologist , she do much good work in this place to improve the life of her constituent . I wish to also pay tribute to the hard work and dedication of my two labour predecessor : Michael McCann and in particular Adam Ingram , who serve my constituency for 23 year . I have be fortunate enough to have have many source of inspiration and support throughout my career , the very first of whom be the late , great Tessa Jowell . without her political tenacity , vision and ability to bring people together , we would never have deliver the 2012 olympic game , which be the great sporting event this country have see in a generation . Tessa recognise the power that sport can have in inspire and unite people , community and country . my constituency be home to a thriving sporting sector , both professional and grassroot , include Scotland ' s only professional basketball team , the Caledonian Gladiators and , my personal favourite , the Claremont Colts , a disability football team for young adult which provide dignity , a sense of belong and good old - fashioned fun . the unprecedented growth of woman ' s football have bring I great delight in recent year , but surely the catalyst for that be " Gregory ' s Girl " , a trailblaze film about woman ' s football , which star the East Kilbride bear - and - breed actress Dee Hepburn . East Kilbride be believe to take its name from a woman : the patron saint of Ireland , Brigid of Kildare , who be believe to have perform heal miracle . there be nothing to suggest that Brigid ever visit Scotland , but in East Kilbride , we can say that she visit we , and we have pay she a pretty good tribute through the town we have build . East Kilbride be Scotland ' s first new town build in the post - war era to accommodate the overspill from Glasgow , offer an escape from dire overcrowding and squalid condition in Glasgow ' s infamous tenement . East Kilbride quickly become a symbol of progress and a place where work family could find not just home , but community , opportunity and a future . its modern architecture , park and green space have make it a model of post - war urban planning . East Kilbride may have deliver a new start for many Glaswegians , but folk there do not leave behind the city ' s famous humanity and defiance of injustice when they quit those tenement . one of the most powerful statement of solidarity that this country have ever see be make by a group of engineer from East Kilbride ' s Rolls - Royce factory . ordinary people risk their livelihood to defy the chilean dictatorship in 1974 by refuse to repair the engine that have be use to destroy the country ' s democratic Government . there be no violence , no hatred ; just the power of work people stand together . only a few week ago , one of the engineer who lead that action , Bob Fulton , die at the age of 101 , and I take this opportunity to pay tribute to he and his legacy , which will live on . Strathaven be also home to another scottish revolutionary : James " Purlie " Wilson , who be a prominent figure in the radical movement seek electoral reform . although East Kilbride be home to 80 % of my constituent , it only account for 20 % of its land mass . the rural community of Stonehouse , Glassford , Chapelton , Sandford and Auldhouse all have distinctive feature and a unique community spirit . strathaven , with its historic market town charm , offer a different yet equally essential contribution to the character of my constituency . if Kilbride be a name with gaelic origin , Strathaven be even old , with brythonic root . today , it exemplify the deep - rooted sense of share history that that go through my constituency and Scotland as a whole . it remind we that we must do all that we can to support our rural community to overcome the many challenge they also face . during the election campaign , when I be out knock door on the doorstep of East Kilbride and Strathaven , nobody ever ask I for a miracle that only St Brigid could deliver . it be not miracle that people seek ; it be just the basic : public service that work , job that pay , a safe and warm home , and maybe even just enough cash at the end of the week to get a takeaway . those conversation have stay with I since and will continue to be at the forefront of my mind while I serve in this place . other thing strike I and be emphasise by the civil disorder that we see over the summer . we share serious concern across the House about the rise of hate , whether that be antisemitism , Islamophobia or misogyny , which have infect far too much of our public discourse in recent year , particularly on social medium . I intend to dedicate much of my time here to work cross - party to address the alarming upsurge in racism and bigotry online , particularly in my work as chair of the all - party parliamentary group against antisemitism . inspire by the Rolls - Royce worker decade ago , we can come together and say , " Nae pasaran " — they shall not pass . to push back and defeat hate , we must have hope , but that hope must be real and base on realism rather than idealism or indeed miracle . there be no contradiction between a politic that be realistic and a politics that be hopeful . indeed , we have all have enough — too much — false hope in the last few year . I believe in what the australian leader Ben Chifley call the shine city on a hill , but I also believe that we need a clear plan for how to get there and to be honest about how long it might take . responsible and effective government do not undermine real hope in our community ; it underpin it . so , to the people and the community of East Kilbride and Strathaven , I say thank you once again for place your hope and trust in I . I call Danny Beales to make his maiden speech . it be a privilege to follow such wonderful speech from right across the House , and particularly from my hon . friend the Members for Corby and East Northamptonshire ( Lee Barron ) and for East Kilbride and Strathaven ( Joani Reid ) . I think that Uxbridge and South Ruislip be a tongue - twister , but I might have be slightly outdo by my hon . friend . I want to say thank you to the people of Uxbridge and South Ruislip for their perseverance . they have wait even long for a Labour MP than I have wait to make my maiden speech . I remember meet one gentleman who tell I that he return from war and vote for the first time on the Navy ship back to South Ruislip in 1945 . he have vote Labour then for the first time and at every single election since . while he be delighted to see the 1945 Labour Government return and the great thing that they do , unfortunately he never subsequently see a Labour MP in South Ruislip until today . it be always a privilege and an honour to represent the community that we be bear in , we grow up in and we live in , and perhaps even more so when it initially seem like it might not happen . as I be sure colleague know , six week feel like a long campaign . well , trust I : two and a half year of campaigning feel like a lifetime , but it do give I the opportunity to speak to thousand of my constituent in every corner of my constituency . I pay tribute to my predecessor , Steve Tuckwell , who work incredibly hard in the 10 month that he be our Member of Parliament . in the spirit of focus on what unite we , I have to say that Steve and I have more in common than people might initially imagine . we be both bear in Hillingdon hospital and we attend local school . we even live on the same street in South Ruislip — the street that my grandparent call home for many year . one of the first question I be often ask be whether I share his love of fish and chip and will continue his infamous campaign for a new chippy in Uxbridge . well , I must admit that that be one thing on which we differ slightly . I defer to he and his leadership of the fish and chip shop campaign . although that campaign certainly create a few headline , Uxbridge and South Ruislip be no strange to news headline . arguably , it be one of the most canvassed and media - interview constituency in the country . at point , it have be hard for my constituent to walk down Uxbridge High Street without a journalist ask for their opinion about a former Prime Minister or the late UK political drama . I be hope that the next four year will be just as busy , but slightly less dramatic for my constituent than the previous four year . although we do not share the same party affiliation , it must be say that Lord Randall of Uxbridge leave big shoe to fill as a constituency MP , and I hope that I can replicate his reputation for be a hard - work and dedicated constituency MP . Uxbridge and South Ruislip be not define by any one issue or any one former political representative ; it be define instead by its rich heritage , its hard - work and aspirational community , and its potential . it be a diverse place . indeed , the contribution of its diverse community be nothing new . grow up , I remember the polish war memorial standing in South Ruislip — a testament to the contribution that people come to our country have make throughout our history and continue to make today . the memorial commemorate just some of the many service personnel who join the UK war effort to fight fascism and to defend the value of democracy and liberalism . over the summer , we have be remind again that those value can never be take for grant . today , my constituency remain home to many member of our amazing armed force . RAF Northolt have a long and proud history of be the heart of the Royal Air Force , and our service personnel be among the very good of we . I have meet far too many service family who have be let down and leave without the right support or decent housing , and I want to be an MP who will champion they and their family . I look forward to learn more about the RAF in the parliamentary armed force scheme this year . Uxbridge and South Ruislip be also a place of innovation , of enterprise . it be home to wonderful school , Uxbridge College , which have a new collaboration with Massachusetts Institute of Technology , and Brunel University . it be home to business big and small , and I be committed to work with they to ensure their opportunity to grow and the potential for good local job be realise . Uxbridge and South Ruislip be also a place power by the hard work of volunteer — group I have meet such as the Salvation Army , the Harefield Community Centre , ShopMobility and the Hillingdon Litter Pickers . I could go on . many group I have meet , however , have struggle in recent year with local government cut that have come to bite , and I hope to do all I can to support and to champion they in the year ahead . as we debate the value of UK sport on the international stage and the amazing achievement of our Paralympians , such as Natasha Baker , the multiple - medal - win dressage champion from Cowley , and Michael Sharkey from Hillingdon , it be also important that we recognise that , although Uxbridge be not home to the big sporting club or the big stadium , it be home to the very good of british grassroots sport , again power by community and by volunteer . we be the adopt home of Wealdstone football club , which , through member donation and fan power alone , have grow and show the way for fan - lead football across this country . I be determined to work with they to secure their future with a long - term and sustainable home . as with many town and city across our great nation , the NHS be right at the heart of our community , with many heroic doctor , nurse and care worker from right across the globe . I be committed to press for the urgent investment in healthcare that we need , as well as a new Hillingdon hospital , which be desperately , desperately need . our area be rich in nature , with beautiful lake , canal , river and countryside . it be both the edge of the city and the gateway to the Colne valley . have meet representative of the Herts and Middlesex Wildlife Trust and the Colne Valley Regional Park , it be clear to I that we can and should do more to enhance our beautiful green space . I believe there be an opportunity to deliver the house building we desperately need and also ensure that the benefit be feel locally and that we enhance our nature - rich space . it must be say , though , that despite be pleasant , green and welcoming , Hillingdon be also a place where life chance be not equal . far too many people be struggle to make end meet , and the public service they desperately need have be cut away . like many colleague in this House , far too many of the email I receive be from parent struggle to get an education , health and care plan and the support they need for their child at school . there be section 21 eviction , extortionate lease - holder charge , damp , mould , disrepair , homelessness — on and on it go . for I , these story be all too familiar . they be my childhood : experience homelessness twice ; have the bailiff knock at the front door ; the emergency credit run down on the meter . these experience open my eye to the importance of politic — to the importance of this place . grow up , I be desperate to see change in my community and my country . it have never seem fair to I that , work two job , my mum be still unable to pay our bill . I feel as strongly as I do today that , as other member have say , hard work should always pay . work hard should mean that people can afford a safe , dry and decent home , and every child should have the opportunity for a great education . these be the value that unite the vast majority of we in this country and in Uxbridge and South Ruislip : hard work , play by the rule and equal opportunity to succeed . despite those struggle , I have always be hugely appreciative of everyone who have support and encourage I and make today possible . there be far too many people to mention individually — I will not do what my hon . friend the Member for Redditch ( Chris Bloore ) do and have a long list of people but forget some — but I thank my friend and family , in particular my mum , who be in the Gallery . she sacrifice so much to give I the chance to stand here today . I thank my former teacher , colleague and councillor . my 10 - year period in local government be an incredible opportunity and a privilege , allow I to build the next generation of council home , and to hand over key to family and see their face light up . during that time , it be clear to I that local action would never be enough . the challenge in the housing sector require national action . we need to deliver million more home across this country . I welcome this Government ' s commitment to do that , and to develop the homelessness strategy . during my professional career in the health sector I work to ensure that new diabetes technology be available on the NHS , and to reduce new HIV transmission . I have see time and again the need to modernise and improve our health system so that it genuinely put the need of patient first , and promote good health as much as it treat ill health . those be the challenge I look forward to play my part in tackle in the month and year ahead . to finish as I start , the journey from homelessness to the House of Commons be one not too often make , but I want to do my bit so that every child in this country can follow in my footstep , and no one be hold back by the experience of homelessness in our country . I thank everyone who have support I in some way . I thank the voter of Uxbridge and South Ruislip who have return I as their first Labour MP . I want to reiterate to they that , in I , they have a local champion , a national voice , and someone work tirelessly for they to deliver our hospital , improve our school and high street and tackle our housing crisis , to ensure that we have even more to be proud of in Uxbridge and South Ruislip . I call Tom Hayes to make his maiden speech . it be an honour to speak today as the first ever Labour MP for Bournemouth East , one of two Labour mp for Bournemouth and one of many first - time Labour mps in coastal seat win for the first time , work with our first Labour Government for 14 year . I be delighted to follow such fantastic maiden speech by so many hon . friend and colleague from all party and part of our country . listen to the speech , it be clear that we have an amazing country with so many brilliant place to live , visit and work . however , regrettably , lamentably and unhappily , I must disagree with some of the wonderful maiden speech , because Bournemouth alone be truly the good place in our country . on the point of this debate , we have an outstanding variety of sport team , include a premier league team , the Cherries . moreover , we have queen ' s Park Ladies , who hit the headline six month ago for win a league dominate by boy ' team without lose a single match . many will rightly know and love Bournemouth for our sunshine , sandy beach and sparkle sea , but what truly make Bournemouth so special be our fantastic people . I be honour to have speak with so many of they on their doorstep , in their community hall and in my surgery , to listen to their story and their hope and to be entrust with all they want for the future . I share their hope and I will work tirelessly to help turn they into reality . work together , I be convinced that there be nothing Bournemouth can not do and will not achieve . we be already the home of world - lead film , tv , music and video effect . if hon . member be " Bridgerton " fan — why would they not be ? — they will be able to see scene make in Bournemouth by our video effect company . we be also the home of outstanding healthcare training , with the Health Sciences University , Bournemouth University and Bournemouth and Poole College educate the nurse and doctor of the future . our local college be open a second simulated hospital ward to train school leaver and adult for vital career in the health and care sector . many will know Bournemouth for our hospitality and our education sector , but we be also an important finance hub and home to grow life science , digital and green sector . indeed , our development of Bournemouth ' s ability to generate clean energy , store it and power so many of the thing that we rely on be a passion of mine and many other in our town . have spend 10 year in local government with a particular focus on drive forward decarbonisation , I bring strong experience of delivery and will fight to bring green investment to our town so that we thrive now and for decade to come . the strength of our society be measure in its capacity to deal with shock — we have see plenty of those in recent year — but it be also measure in our ability to maintain our value . care equally for the health of all , regardless of income and background , be a fundamental expression of those value . when I be grow up in the late ' 80 and early ' 90 as a young carer to two disabled parent on low income , I learn that the first to suffer when our NHS be cut back be those with the great vulnerability and the small amount of money . equally , I see that the people who flourish when the NHS be reform and sustainably fund , as it be by the last Labour Government , be people like my parent . in good time and bad for our health service , I have see what our NHS mean to my parent and the security it give they , despite all the harsh blow that life deal they . Healthcare be a marker of who we be , and I will play my part in support my local community to receive the care they deserve . I will play my part in support our carer to receive the investment and backing they need . I feel bless by my upbringing in Salford . I know that life be more than a zero - sum game in which what you gain , I lose . when teacher stay late after the school day to give I the education I need , they do not see my gain as their loss . when nurse and doctor go so many extra mile to care for my family , they do not regard my family ' s gain as their loss . when family member and neighbour wrap their arm around I and nourished and care for I , they do not regard our gain as their loss . these kind , generous people give so much of themselves because they want a young boy and his parent to have a well life . they believe , like I , that life be about enlarge the flourishing , the care and the love in our world , and that be why I be here in this place . I have serve as a councillor for 10 year , and as a domestic abuse and mental health charity chief executive for five year , and I be here today because I believe , like those who care for I and those I learn from , that we must never lose hope and never lose sight of our ambition to make this country a fair and more equal society . as William Blake write : " pity would be no more , if we do not make somebody poor " . poverty be a systemic issue that need big solution : house need building , healthcare need re - establish , education need resurrect . this be how we will make Bournemouth and Britain well and fair . these be my value . these be the value of Bournemouth . our town can and will do amazing thing for the endure benefit of generation to come , and I pledge to stand alongside my neighbour in make Bournemouth well . I have be in this House for only a short time , but already it be abundantly clear to I that this Parliament be make up of people with overflowingly strong value . one such person who serve in this place with such value be my predecessor , Tobias Ellwood . Tobias be commit to the defence of our realm in difficult and unpredictable time . he heroically try to save the life of pc Keith Palmer in the terror attack on our Parliament . I pay tribute to pc Keith Palmer ' s heroism and to Tobias ' s service . I wish he well for the future . we all take our approach to service differently . my own approach be well sum up by a song that my late father love . I will not try to sing it , but the lyric be these : " we can work it out we can work it out Life be very short and there ' s no time for fuss and fighting , my friend . " we have a country to put right . there be no time for dither and delay . there be no time for theatre and drama . it be time to get on with thing . in that spirit , I look forward to work together cross - party to shape the change that all of we will bring with this new Government and this new Parliament . finally , I will work tirelessly every day to ensure that everyone in Bournemouth East get the very good , because that be what they deserve ; it be what our town deserve . I dedicate this speech to my brother Joseph and my mother Diane , who be watch from home in Salford . I also dedicate it to the memory of my father , Richard Hayes , who I know be always with I . I owe they more than I could ever say . I pay tribute to my hon . friend the Member for Bournemouth East ( Tom Hayes ) for that moving speech , and indeed to all member who have make such amazing maiden speech this afternoon . I particularly associate myself with the tribute pay by my hon . friend the Member for East Kilbride and Strathaven ( Joani Reid ) to Tessa Jowell , who be also an inspiration to I . I know that she would want , like other , to offer congratulation to the GB Olympic and Paralympic team , and also to the Three Lions squad — and not only on their successful performance at this year ' s Paris game and in Germany , but on the inspiration that they provide for people throughout our country and beyond to explore their own potential for sporting achievement , physical activity and wellbeing , enable they to unlock in themselves the life - change satisfaction of compete , stay healthy , and be part of a wide grassroot sporting community . let I also offer my congratulation to Liam McGarry from Dartford on his fine achievement in take fifth place in the 107 kg powerlifting at the Paralympics , and on show we the great example of someone who strive to be the good he can in his discipline . I want to praise the national lottery for its continue investment in our olympic and Paralympic athlete . it be truly the case — the evidence be clear — that this funding have transform UK performance in the Olympics and Paralympics , and other international competition , since the day of underachievement pre - 2000 . it be critical for this Government , work in partnership with sporting body , to build on that success and help to transform the UK into the most physically active nation in Europe . this have be call for by the newly re - form all - party parliamentary group for sport , brilliantly support by the Sport and Recreation Alliance — here I pay tribute to my hon . friend the Member for Spen Valley ( Kim Leadbeater ) for her amazing chairship of the APPG over many year — and it be important for we to get behind that call . we should not be start from a point at which school sport , for 90 % of our population , have be decimate over the past 14 year , and nearly a third of child and young people be now inactive . we should not be start from a point at which child and young people from the least affluent family remain the least active and be fall far behind , or a point at which more than a third of adult be not meet the chief medical officer ' s minimum requirement for physical activity , with obesity and cardiovascular disease the inevitable result . there be so many reason why become a more active nation be vital for our country ' s future . we can reduce the burden on the NHS by cut spending on preventable disease by £ 1 billion per year . more important , we can take up the challenge lay out by the Secretary of State for Health and Social Care by shift the focus from treat disease to prevent it ; move from be an increasingly unwell population to be a healthy , happy and more prosperous one as a result . in that we must categorically include mental health and the huge wellbeing benefit to individual from be fit and active , calculate at £ 71 billion per year but , in reality , priceless to the individual concern . have serve in local government for many year lead public health programme to tackle health inequality , I can vouch for the power of sport and physical activity to reach those who public service sometimes find it hard to support , and to promote attainment , inclusion and , above all , good health . to make those transformative step forward a reality , we need , among other thing , to protect public and national lottery funding for grassroots community sport , recreation and physical activity so that the sector can continue to focus effort on drive up participation , support its volunteer and reduce inequality . we need to incentivise growth in participation by simplify and enhance tax arrangement for sport club , gym , pool and leisure centre . we need a new long - term , join - up plan to give every child 60 minute of sport and play a day , and we need to boost our workforce with locally lead skill development that align with education provision , employee need , local health and wellbeing , and economic priority . let we build on the amazing legacy of our elite sport team and the huge commitment of our grassroots sport infrastructure , such as Dartford football club , Dartford Valley community rugby club , Dartford cricket club and our great basketball club , the Sharks and the Tigers , as well as Dartford ' s central park parkrun , which have just celebrate its 10th anniversary . let we give our huge commitment to these grassroot sporting organisation to transform the UK into the fit , active and healthy country that we can and need to become . may I say what an uplifting day it have be in the Chamber ? we have hear so many personal and impassioned maiden speech , and it have be a pleasure to listen to they . I want to try to keep spirit high , because I believe that , without doubt , we live in the great elite sporting nation in the world . the Lionesses be the current Euros champion . in just the last few hour , England ' s cricketer have set the fourth high test score in 140 year of our great game and be well on their way to a historic victory in Pakistan . our Olympians through the age range from Steve Redgrave to Chris Hoy , and from Jessica Ennis - Hill to keely Hodgkinson . one of our own from Welwyn Hatfield be Louise Fiddes , the 100 metre breaststroke gold medallist in the SB14 classification at the Paris Paralympics just a few month ago — a big part of an astonishing Team GB success . there be inspiration wherever we look , but I fear that success at the elite level be not translate into grassroots participation on the scale that we would all hope to see . compare with our european neighbour , we be an inactive nation . almost a third of child and young adult do less than 30 minute of physical activity every week , and it will come as no surprise to hear that family from low socioeconomic group be be leave behind in their physical education and development . it be our job in this place to work with our community to champion active lifestyle and maximise the opportunity for all to get involve — for the joy of sport , but for the future of our public health too . tragically , physical inactivity be associate with one in six death , and the Health Secretary be absolutely right to say that our NHS need to shift from treat sickness to prevention . by become a more active nation , we can cut spending on preventable disease by £ 1 billion every year . if we get this right , the prize be a healthy and wealthy country . Sport have a unique power to bring community together . I be a very amateur cricketer , and one of the joy of the game be be able to play against and alongside people from a host of different background and live experience . in the last couple of month , that have even extend to play with conservative mp in the Lords and common cricket club . there be a serious point here : the Sport and Recreation Alliance have find that 68 % of people believe that community sport club and group play a crucial role in foster a sense of community in their area . a small number of people in our country seek to drive a wedge between community , as we see this summer with the appalling scene of violence and disorder . sport be part of the antidote ; a means to bring together people from all walk of life . in my constituency , from Birchwood playing field in Hatfield to Welwyn Garden City cricket club in Knightsfield , I will take every opportunity to champion sport and physical activity , and I hope to be a small part of a collective national effort . sorry , Australia , but we be the great elite sport nation on the planet . now let we set the objective of be the most active nation in the world too . I thank all those who have give their maiden speech today . each speak with passion and commitment for all their constituent and for the community they have be elect to serve . I also congratulate the Team GB and paralympicsgb athlete for the golden summer of sporting excellence to which they treat we , and for bring our community together . the commitment and sacrifice make by these sportsman and woman be inspire , and too often we do not give they adequate recognition , so I be really pleased that we be have this debate . it be vital that we ensure that the talent pipeline to sporting excellence be robust and inclusive , so that anybody with the talent and commitment to succeed in sport can do so . their success add billion of pound to the UK economy , bring whole community together , and inspire those of we who will never compete at an elite level to participate in physical activity for the sake of our health and wellbeing . local authority play a key role in ensure that this continue . they run leisure centre and swimming pool ; provide park and open space where people can exercise ; manage bowl green , tennis court and football pitch ; and organise initiative whereby people can undertake physical activity to improve their health and tackle loneliness . this be essential to reduce pressure on the NHS , and to help people make healthy lifestyle choice and enjoy more year of good physical and mental health . the leisure centre and sporting facility provide by council be also essential to ensure that young people of all background who have the potential to reach the high sporting level can hone their craft . sport must not be just for those with the recourse to pay , but must give opportunity for young people to begin their journey to be a sporting hero . for those of we who be look to participate in sport and fitness activity for our health , that have be undermine by the draconian cut and rise cost face by local authority for more than a decade . as a whole , council have face a 27 % real - term cut to their core spending power since 2010 . meanwhile , the challenge — the cost and the commitment they must make — have rise significantly . leisure centre and sporting facility be discretionary service . council do not have a legal responsibility to provide they — and , in the case of council have to constantly mitigate the risk of financial meltdown , they have often be the first service to be reduce , subject to increase charge for user , or close all together . this be an appalling situation that be store up problem for people ' s health and wellbeing , as well as for the future sporting prowess of our nation . despite this , many council be find a way forward to protect their sport and leisure provision , include Amber Valley borough council , which go above and beyond to save Belper leisure centre in my constituency from closure last year . I be pleased that the labour manifesto commit the new Government to provide great stability to local authority by give they multi - year funding settlement and end wasteful competitive bidding , but I also encourage Ministers to work with the NHS , integrate care partnership and integrate care board to promote the value of what council can offer and encourage the NHS to maximise the benefit of social prescribing . when council partner with the NHS , there be benefit for all — council service become more resilient and people benefit from well health . there be so much for the new Government to do , but I be confident that once they have get the economy back on track after year of mismanagement and wasteful spending , more can be do . I commend and thank hon . member for all their brilliant maiden speech . it would be remiss of I not to draw on the speech of my hon . friend the Member for West Bromwich ( Sarah Coombes ) ; this month be Black History Month , and those , like I , of a certain vintage , will remember that West Bromwich Albion in the ' 70 produce an amazing barnstorm football team , with three brilliant , graceful and very talented footballer at its pinnacle : the late Laurie Cunningham , the late Cyrille Regis , and Brendon Batson . I too congratulate our Olympians and Paralympians . they have do our country proud , as other member have say . have be a community ambassador for the London 2012 Olympics , I understand the olympic message and the vision it bring to people and community . it inspire and uplift community and , indeed , nation . I also pay tribute to ATF , a grassroots organisation that work across south Essex , include Southend East and Rochford . ATF be do fantastic work , use sport to bring people together , to heal community divide and to work with people at risk of exclusion . it be testament to the power of sport in transform people ' s life , particularly those who have have run - in with the criminal justice system . since my election , there have be multiple incident of knife crime and machete crime on my community ' s high street . it be scary for many of we and , if leave unaddresse , it can have detrimental , if not fatal , consequence . sport be often the point of intervention for young people , equip they with life skill such as determination and teamwork . it can dramatically improve young people ' s wellbee , and it be an opportunity to bring they back into the fold . I see this for myself as an amateur football manager . I be part of the leadership team of a large amateur football club — one of the large in Europe , in fact . at Old Parmiterians football club , we often support and nurture young people from within the community . we ensure that they join a football team , and we support they . some of these young player have trouble past or be in the wrong network , so football give they a network . be in a team with positive people , and different type of people , help to shape their life through grassroots sport . it be an honour to pay tribute to the success of Team GB and to highlight the importance of local grassroots organisation , such as ATF , that use sport to reduce crime and antisocial behaviour by offer young people a second chance . I warmly congratulate everyone on an excellent debate this afternoon . I particularly welcome the maiden speech of my hon . friend the Member for Bournemouth East ( Tom Hayes ) . I be sure his family , watch at home in Salford , be extremely proud . I echo the remark of my hon . friend the Member for Welwyn Hatfield ( Andrew Lewin ) in congratulate the England cricket team on their outstanding performance today . I congratulate Joe Root on overtake Alastair Cook as England ' s lead run scorer in test cricket yesterday , and his teammate Harry Brook on his triple century against Pakistan today , before he be cruelly catch on 317 when he be arguably just begin to get his eye in . I hang up my hockey stick and put down my squash racket several year ago , since when my enjoyment of sport have largely be as an enthusiastic spectator . it be therefore a genuine honour to meet the inspirational Olympians Rebecca Adlington and Tessa Sanderson at a Women in Sport event early this week . woman in Sport celebrate its 40th anniversary this year . establish in 1984 , at the heart of Women in Sport lie a deep understanding of the sporting need of woman and girl and a passion to address the stubborn gender inequality that still exist . as we celebrate sport today , it be worth remind ourselves that woman ' s right to compete and play at the high level of sport have often be hard - won , and all too recently win . it be just over 50 year since the fa lift the ban on woman play football at official football ground . it be only 40 year since woman be allow to compete in the olympic marathon , and less than 30 year since the first professional boxing match between woman be sanction in the UK . as we congratulate Women in Sport on its 40th birthday , I urge member on both side of the House to reassert our commitment to equality of opportunity in sport ; to challenge message that young girl be fragile , weak and do not like competition ; and instead to reinforce the expectation that girl can be courageous , powerful and fearless in their own way , and be expect to be , and can be , good at sport . last Sunday mark World Cerebral Palsy Day . I be privileged to be invite to join the student of William Howard secondary school in my constituency , not only to mark the day but to welcome back former pupil and paralympian shot put star , Anna Nicholson . Anna be diagnose with cerebral palsy at a young age and be first introduce to field event by William Howard ' s former head of PE , Lenny Miller , who incidentally be the father of another great cumbrian athlete , the hammer throwing star , Nick Miller . Anna , like Nick , begin her athletic career at Carlisle ' s Sheepmount athletic facility , home to the mighty Border Harriers and soon to be home to a new training ground for Carlisle United . what the blue might currently lack in form on the pitch , we more than make up for with the enthusiasm of our fan , with home crowd regularly exceed 7 , 000 , a reminder of the unify power of sport . have be encourage at school , Anna begin compete in 2011 . she be one of the over 200 - strong Team GB who compete in the Tokyo Paralympics , where she place sixth , but this summer , in Paris , Anna go three place well , bring home a bronze medal in the F35 shot put . listen to Anna at William Howard school last week , I could not help but notice the huge impact her word have on disabled and non - disabled pupil alike , because Anna be not just the holder of a Paralympic bronze medal , she be also a chemical engineer and enjoy successful a career in the car production industry . it be absolutely right that Anna ' s self - proclaim superpower be to do anything she believe in . Anna be not the only former William Howard pupil to have compete at olympic and Paralympic level . have win badminton gold in the 2019 european game in Minsk , Lauren Smith go on to compete in Tokyo , before she be knock out in the quarter final . the joy and success of sport transcend the winning of medal . they can be find in the walk netball , run at the brilliant Currock community centre in my constituency , which this week celebrate 90 year of community activity . from box to lady that lift to keep fit with cake , Currock be a community centre that genuinely offer something for every member of our community . the joy of sport can also be find in the village of north Cumbria , like Wetheral , where the village hall offer local pilate , pickleball and swing - fit . and it be to be find in the Cumbria wheelchair sport club , where disabled people can play tennis , basketball and boccia . as we rightly celebrate the performance of Team GB and paralympicsgb this summer , let we also celebrate the school staff , amateur coach , teacher , parent and volunteer who , week in and week out , give their time to support grassroots sport across all our constituency . it be a true pleasure to follow all the wonderful maiden speech today and to hear that share commitment to service and community . it really be inspiring . once again , I feel incredibly proud to be part of this intake . I be also very aware that , when speak at the end of a debate , there be a danger of repetition , and I apologise in advance for any that may happen . however , I can manage one fresh statistic : Root and Brook ' s partnership of 454 be the high ever in english cricket , which be remarkable . I be so pleased to have this opportunity to speak in this debate and to congratulate and take pride in the wonderful achievement of our olympic team . my sport be climb and so I must especially congratulate Toby Roberts for his amazing gold in sport climbing . it be a brilliant competition and , at the risk of a pun , grip to the very end . it be just a wonderful day for the sport . back in the day , when I work at the British Mountaineering Council and , for a period , oversee the competition programme , we never imagine even the possibility of get climb into the Olympics , and it be amazing how far our sport have come . it be not the only new olympic sport that be inspire a new generation . mountain biking , BMX , skateboard and even surf be now on a summer programme and offer a whole new set of opportunity for involvement in a sporting life . there really be now a sport for everyone . there can be no doubt about the power of inspiration provide by our great british athlete , nor of the power of sport for good , whether that be the positive impact it have on mental and physical health , educational outcome , social mobility , crime and antisocial behaviour or just plain wellbee . the evidence be comprehensive and undeniable . indeed , the excellent 2023 report " Healthy Britain " by my hon . friend the Member for Spen Valley ( Kim Leadbeater ) make the case and the solution crystal clear . yet for so many young people , the spark of inspiration once light be allow to go out all too easily . although we enjoy the success of our GB athlete , we must recognise that 14 year of austerity have decimate local leisure service and sporting facility , with the result that , for all too many , there be nowhere to go to pursue a sporting dream or even just an active life . although we rightly invest in athlete to provide inspiration and in exemplar facility for progression , we too often forget those first step into an active sporting life and the facility and coach that enable it . it be those very facility that have feel the full force of austerity . as someone who have the leisure portfolio at my local authority for eight year , I have see the amazing work do by council and leisure trust to maintain any sort of leisure provision , while be hit by cut after cut . despite these good effort , too many swimming pool and leisure centre have close . of those that remain , two third of facility , include all those in my constituency of Rossendale and Darwen , be past their lifespan and at risk of closure or reduced service . play area be overgrown , pitch be waterlogge , and so on , and so on — the consequence be there for all to see . despite our amazing medal success , we remain a relatively inactive nation . we have hear these stat before , but they bear repetition : more than one third of adult do not meet the chief medical officer ' s minimum requirement for physical activity ; and almost one third of child and young people be inactive , mean that 12 . 4 million adult and 2 . 3 million child and young people do less than 30 minute of activity a week . obesity be estimate to cost the UK economy £ 58 billion a year . the British Heart Foundation estimate that the annual cost to the economy of cardiovascular disease be £ 19 billion . it be child and young people from the least affluent family who have be the hard hit . they remain the least active and be fall far behind . it be in our most deprived area where we see the most stark evidence of gap in provision and in participation pathway . for child in these area , horizon can be narrow . to be meaningful and impactful , facility must be truly local and truly accessible — a kick - about area , a basketball court at the end of the road , a skatepark bouldering area , a pump track in a park that people can walk or ride to , a bike library , a community centre offer indoor sport through the winter , or simply be able to access the countryside that we see every day . that , to I , be the gap that we need to address if we be to complete the pathway from inspiration to sustained participation and perhaps excellence . we need to recognise that the task be beyond the national lottery , Sport England or stress local authority budget . we must connect departmental investment to the benefit that it bring . the Government have rightly prioritise prevention and reject sticking - plaster solution . one way that we can turn this intent into action be by properly invest via health , policing , social security and other budget in deliver the long - term benefit that we know sport and active lifestyle can provide . the evidence be clear , the gap be clear and the opportunity be one that we must grasp . I must declare an interest : I will mention Channel 4 in my speech , and I be previously an employee of that organisation . I be really pleased to speak in today ' s debate , follow an incredibly exciting few month of sport . from the football world cup to the Wimbledon championship and the T20 world cup , whatever sport people be interested in , this summer there be something for everyone . of course , community around the world turn their attention to Paris for the Olympic and Paralympic game . Team GB give a formidable performance , win 65 medal at the olympic game , and ParaGB win a massive 124 medal at the Paralympic game , finish second overall in the medal table . I be delighted to cheer on Croydon ' s own Thomas Young in the 100 - metre sprint at the Paralympics this year . he give a stellar performance , and I know that people across Croydon will be look forward to cheer he on at Los Angeles 2028 . there be a number of benefit associate with sport broadcasting , especially when it be available without financial barrier on our publicly own platform . watch the incredible success of our olympic and Paralympic great be inspiring , particularly for our child and young people , who might just find themselves a new hero to look up to and a new sport to try . Sport England emphasise the impact that engage in sport can have on young people , include build positive experience , improve physical literacy and offer they an environment where they can build confidence in a safe space . one of the barrier to engage in physical activity be access , so I be pleased that the Government have commit not just to ensure that child and young people be be teach the require physical education curriculum but to support grassroots football club , local community group and widen opportunity so that as many people as possible can get involve in physical activity . I pay tribute to one of the many grassroots organisation base in my constituency of Croydon East — an organisation that I recently have the pleasure of visit . the Croydon Harriers train at Croydon Arena alongside another wonderful grassroots club , Croydon FC . they work to give young people and child sport opportunity such as training camp and after - school club , and they be part of the fabric of the local community . however , in Britain today not all young people have access to such wonderful organisation . for too many young people and adult with disability , opportunity to get involve in sport can feel inaccessible . Sport England have find that those with disability be twice as likely to be inactive as those without a disability , and the charity Activity Alliance find that only 25 % of disabled child be regular participate in PE lesson . those number be far too low , but the high - profile coverage of the Paralympic game put out by Channel 4 be help to change perception of para sport , bring new audience and increase participation . Channel 4 ' s 2022 report , 10 year on from the 2012 Paralympics , reveal that over two third of the UK ' s population tune into the game , and that 76 % of people say the channel ' s " meet the Superhumans " campaign open their eye to what disabled people can be capable of . almost three quarter of viewer age between 12 and 16 say they be more comfortable talk about disability after Channel 4 ' s coverage . viewership of the game this year reach record high , with 20 million viewer across linear and streaming platform , attract a large proportion of young people than other channel . that be the impact that public service broadcasting can have . our Paralympians be already brilliant and do amazing thing in their sport . what they need be a platform to inspire our nation . Sport can change life . it can connect we and inspire we . I think I speak for member across the House when I say that we be so proud of Team GB and ParaGB ' s performance in this year ' s game . I want to thank they for their contribution to our nation ' s story , for their incredible talent , and for inspire a nation . it be a great privilege to have listen to so many of my colleague ' maiden speech this afternoon , include my hon . friend the Member for East Kilbride and Strathaven ( Joani Reid ) and my hon . friend the Member for Uxbridge and South Ruislip ( Danny Beales ) , whose — rightly very proud — mum be in the Chamber . in today ' s debate , we have hear about the importance of sport in community across the UK , and I want to share with the House the truly inspirational achievement of my constituent Kayleigh Haggo , a Paralympian from Ayr . Kayleigh be a six - time world record holder in frame run , and be prepare to win gold in Paris this year when she be tell two year ago that her sport would not be include in the game . in her own word , it feel like her whole world crash around she , but with true olympian spirit , Kayleigh spend the last two year become one of the good boccia player , and be rank 13th in the world . she be select for Team GB and make it all the way to the quarter - final in Paris . this be a truly inspirational feat . we be all so very proud of what Kayleigh have achieve by represent Ayrshire in Team GB . I try to contact Kayleigh to suggest that she might want to watch this debate , but it seem that she have a more important thing go on : it be her wedding day . I hope that the House will join I in congratulate she on her achievement , and on this very special day . I echo the comment of my hon . friend the Member for Rossendale and Darwen ( Andy MacNae ) about repetition when speak this late in a debate ; I be aware that I be probably the only thing stand between hon . member and train back to constituency , so I will try not to be long - wind . I be grateful for this debate and to those who speak ; if oracy be an olympic sport , many of our maiden speaker today would be medallist and , as with most sport , I would be grateful just to take part . across this House , people be rightly proud of the achievement of our great british Olympians . I be proud particularly of the consistency of our performance in the Paralympics , because it say something about who we be as a nation . I refer not to government of either colour , but to the spirit of the british people . however , it be important that we do not allow our celebration of british sporting success at an elite level to conceal the wide inequality of access to sport and physical activity . one third of Team GB ' s medallist go to private school . I do not mean to disparage they — only sheer hard work and perseverance could lead they to achieve what they do — but when privately educate young people be four time more likely than child in the state sector to get an olympic medal , we have to ask : what be we do to ensure that all young people have the opportunity and support to participate and achieve in sport ? almost half the 1 , 400 member school of the Independent Schools Council have their own swimming pool , 759 have astroturf pitch , and nearly 100 offer row on their own lake and river . meanwhile , in the state sector , 223 school playing field be sell off between 2010 and 2020 . as other have already note , the Department for Education report that there be 41 , 000 few hour of PE teach in the 2023 - 24 academic year compare with 2011 - 12 . that have lead to a situation in which few than half of child from less affluent background be meet the chief medical officer ' s guideline of 60 minute of physical activity a day . I understand that there be pressure on public finance , but mark my word : any saving that we make now by fail to deliver improvement in school and community sport will cost we in the future through increase in childhood obesity and diabete , which will add to future NHS bill . we be head in the wrong direction . the Conservative and Lib Dem - control Durham county council — it be under Labour control until 2021 — have cancel and delay upgrade to leisure facility . the town of Crook , which have a population of 10 , 000 people , lose its swimming bath over a decade ago , and several attempt since to bring they back have end only in disappointment . it be not just young people who be affect . I remember vividly a conversation I have while canvass ; an old woman in her 80 tell I of her sorrow at the closure of the swimming bath , and of have to take two bus — an hour and a half ' s round trip — to where I live , in Bishop Auckland , for the near swimming pool . that have mean that she no long go . she be miss out not only on physical activity but on interaction with her friend ; she say it be the thing in the week that she have most look forward to . sport be therefore not just about physical health , but about loneliness and isolation . in school , it be also about the intrinsic curriculum . I be not bless with great physical co - ordination , but I will always be grateful to my PE teacher , Mr Brown , who do not allow I to use that or my asthma as an excuse . he get I on the run track , tell I to push myself , and put I in the school athletic team . as many do , I learn through sport how to push myself , how to strive for a personal good , how to play fair , how to work as a team , and how to be magnanimous in the very occasional victory and frequently humble in defeat . I learn that sport bring people together and be great fun . finally , I will focus on the mental health benefit of sport . today be World Mental Health Day . I recently meet ManHealth , a group of man in my constituency who get together on a Thursday night . perhaps in order to break down the stigma of mental health , I share my own experience of struggle with depression and anxiety — include in the time since I join this place — which can often be hide with a suit and a smile . one of the young man ask to see I afterwards . he have grow up in the care system , and talk to I about his struggle with anger , temper management and in feel love and accept . he feel acceptance and self - esteem through play rugby , and he be go to try out for a team — I will not reveal which team for the sake of protect his identity . I be incredibly impressed by he and his candour . several of my colleague have make excellent recommendation today that do not need repeat , but I appeal to colleague across the House not just to pay lip service on this . my local authority have face cut of 60 % to its central Government funding , and the chief executive tell I recently that we be in the territory of closing library and leisure centre , so we can not just pay lip service . there be no development without human development . we should be strive to make Britain the most active nation on earth over the next decade , and end that decline . before I call the Front Benchers , may I pass on the congratulation of the whole House to the constituent of the hon . member for Central Ayrshire ( Alan Gemmell ) , Kayleigh Haggo , on her wedding day ? it be probably an adequate excuse not to be watch the speech of her newly elect Member of Parliament . with the leave of the House , I call Louie French . thank you , Madam Deputy Speaker . it be my pleasure to close the debate for his Majesty ' s official Opposition . " inspire a Generation " be the motto of the London game deliver by the previous Conservative Government . throughout the debate , we have hear from member on both side of the House about the inspirational story from each and every constituency represent here today . we hear from the hon . member for read Central ( Matt Rodda ) about the important role that the armed force play , particularly in disability sport , and about the challenge face by his local football club , read FC . the Liberal Democrat spokesperson , the hon . member for Cheltenham ( Max Wilkinson ) , who be not here right now , speak about the physical and mental health challenge and benefit of sport — and about his haircut ' s likeness to Alan Shearer ' s , which be interesting . we hear a fantastic maiden speech from the hon . member for Warrington South ( Sarah Hall ) . I hope that she have successfully secure significant brownie point for mention her husband and father - in - law . as a former rugby league player , I know her local club , Warrington Wolves , very well — I do not think I have many victory there during my youth . we also hear from my hon . friend the Member for Droitwich and Evesham ( Nigel Huddleston ) , who be a fantastic Sports Minister . I pay tribute to he for his dedication and effort in that post , and for support the shadow team in our new role . we hear from the hon . member for Chesterfield ( Mr Perkins ) , who speak about his passion for tennis , about the APPG for tennis , and about the fantastic park tennis project , which I be pleased have , alongside Bexley council , improve three court in my constituency . we hear the maiden speech of the hon . member for Mid Dorset and North Poole ( Vikki Slade ) , who I hope have well balance on those paddle board than I do . we also hear the maiden speech of the hon . member for West Bromwich ( Sarah Coombes ) , who mention her local football club , the Baggies . as a London MP , I could make lot of comment about her former boss , Sadiq Khan , but give the context of the debate , I think I will move on swiftly . we have a maiden speech from the hon . member for North Cornwall ( Ben Maguire ) . I hate to break it to he , but I also prefer the jam first in my cream tea ; I also enjoy a cornish pasty , as member can probably tell . we also have a maiden speech from the hon . member for Mid Cheshire ( Andrew Cooper ) , who highlight the fantastic career of Paula Radcliffe and other local athlete and para - athlete , include his mum . as always , we hear a fantastic speech from my friend the hon . member for Strangford ( Jim Shannon ) . in his passionate speech , he particularly highlight a gymnast from his community whose sporting achievement , include that gold medal performance in Paris , have inspire people in Northern Ireland . like the hon . member , I do not think I would last too long on a pommel horse . we have a maiden speech from the new hon . member for Mansfield ( Steve Yemm ) , who speak with great passion about his new seat . I be sure the former Member for Mansfield will appreciate his kind word today : Ben be not only a great colleague , but a fantastic goalkeeper for our annual football match against the Lobby team . we also have a maiden speech from the hon . member for Redditch ( Chris Bloore ) — I apologise if I have miss anyone , but there be quite a lot of maiden speech today . we hear about Redditch ' s link to Led Zeppelin and Harry Styles and the hon . member ' s love of local roundabout . I can not see he in the Chamber , but I have a bad joke here : I be go to say that those roundabout be perhaps a good background for his Government ' s upcoming u - turn . [ hon . member : " oh ! " ] sorry . we have a maiden speech from the hon . member for Worsley and Eccles ( Michael Wheeler ) . we hear about his love of Eccles cake and a cheeky Vimto , and the Speaker come up . I can tell the hon . member that have your own mum as a constituent be an experience I know only too well — he should make sure that he listen to his mum . we have a maiden speech from the hon . member for Corby and East Northamptonshire ( Lee Barron ) , who reference a constituent who be a BMX silver medallist . we also hear a fantastic maiden speech from the new hon . member for East Kilbride and Strathaven ( Joani Reid ) , who mention the Caledonia Gladiators basketball team and the rich local sporting heritage that she enjoy in her constituency , and hear other fantastic maiden speech from the new hon . member for Uxbridge and South Ruislip ( Danny Beales ) and for Bournemouth East ( Tom Hayes ) . I think I have cover everyone ; if I have not , I apologise . it have be a well - theme debate across the House , and we have rightly celebrate the performance of our athlete and para - athlete . to return to my actual speech , the Paris Olympic game see 327 fantastic british athlete compete — almost as many as there be new member in this place — and 65 medal win , with a deeply proud nation watch along . there can be no doubt that the London 2012 olympic legacy be alive and well and continue to inspire the future of british sport . the legacy that we have hear about today be make possible by record level of investment , particularly from the national lottery and the conservative Governments over this period , investment that be make in the face of the olympic - sized hole in the budget leave by the Labour party in 2010 . we have always be commit to our athlete and club , from the grassroot to the Olympics , and we remain committed ; that be especially the case during the pandemic , when our government invest an unparalleled £ 1 . 6 billion of emergency funding through the Department for Digital , Culture , Media and Sport , support well over 200 , 000 job and 5 , 000 organisation . even in some of the most difficult economic circumstance , the conservative party have always back our athlete with the funding they need to compete at the high level . that be why I , and the sporting industry more broadly , remain disappointed that Government Ministers have yet to confirm the future funding for sport in our country . since the election , we have see an olympic game open and close , we have see a Paralympic game open and close , and we have see the Government lose a chief of staff in few than 100 day — perhaps not an olympic record , but almost certainly a british one . our constituent and the athlete we have be celebrate today deserve an answer from the Government about their future : not next week , not in a month ' s time , but today . as Ministers will know , british athlete need to know whether they be go to be fund during the next olympic cycle lead up to the Los Angeles game in 2028 , and to what extent . they need to know what equipment they can afford and when they can afford it . equally importantly , our world - lead coach need to know whether the funding will be there to enable they to continue train british athlete over the next four year . otherwise , we risk competitor nation lure they away to emulate our world olympic and paralympic preparation — nation around the world be already begin to copy our model of athlete development . our football club need clarity on when Labour will bring forward the football governance Bill , while horserace and the gambling industry be still in the dark over Labour ' s plan . Labour member repeat their confected line about the state of the economy almost as often as they draw breath , but this Government be create a black hole of uncertainty at the heart of british sport . we urge they to hold the line , bite down on their gum - shield , and ensure that our athlete and UK Sport have the support they need and the certainty they deserve . I want to start by say — and I originally write this down — what a collegiate and comradely debate this have be , and until the shadow Minister , the hon . member for Old Bexley and Sidcup ( Mr French ) , stand up again it actually be . I be particularly impressed that my hon . friend the Member for Leigh and Atherton ( Jo Platt ) congratulate the Secretary of State on Wigan Wanderers ' win over Leigh Leopards , although she follow that by quickly point out that there be a boxing club in her constituency . I think the former Minister for Sport , the hon . member for Droitwich and Evesham ( Nigel Huddleston ) , give an excellent speech , with lot of really good advice to the Minister for Sport — the Under - Secretary of State for Culture , Media and Sport , my hon . friend the Member for Barnsley South ( Stephanie Peacock ) — and I be sure she will take some of that on board . he certainly make I chuckle a bit . I thank all those who contribute to this debate , and I be sorry if I be not able to reference everybody individually , but it really have be a busy debate . it have be a pleasure to hear about and reflect on another wonderful summer of olympic and Paralympic performance . not only be such performance a matter of pride for the country , but they inspire a nation . I know the Minister and the shadow Minister refer to he , but it would be remiss of I not to take advantage of be at the Dispatch Box to mention our Alex Yee MBE of Brockley in my constituency of Lewisham North , who win the gold in the man ' s triathlon , and I just think I would share a little story with everyone . in area where we have placard say Brockley , they have now be rename " Brockyee " , and hon . member can look online if they want to see they . Alex Yee do we all proud , as do all of the other Olympians and Paralympians , include Cindy Ngamba — she be in the Gallery early — whose achievement be so eloquently express by my hon . friend the Member for Bolton North East ( Kirith Entwistle ) . the Government value sport that , with the right support , can and will contribute so much to how we deliver our priority mission . I should declare an interest in that , as record in the Register of Members ' Financial Interests , I be fortunate enough to attend the Paralympic game in Paris and see our athlete in action in session of athletic , cycling and swimming . the obvious highlight be see Brock Whiston win the silver medal in the 100 metre breaststroke and Archie Atkinson win silver in the C4 4 , 000 metre individual pursuit . I be not able to see all the Paralympians , but as a smart Whip , it would be wrong of I not to mention Gregg Stevenson — the good friend from his school year of my hon . friend the Member for Bury South ( Christian Wakeford ) — who win gold in the PR2 mixed double row and break a world record . I do not know that he have train in the constituency of my hon . friend the Member for read Central ( Matt Rodda ) , or about the immense impact he have have on so many people . perhaps my great reflection be that these athlete be at the top of their performance pathway . there be so much that we as a Government can and will do to support all part of that pathway , whether people be aim to take their first sporting step or to set a world record . the Olympic and Paralympic game be a rare opportunity to demonstrate the sheer variety of sport in which to take those first sporting step . there be a whole world of sport and activity out there , and one that we will ensure offer access and opportunity to as many individual as possible . my hon . friend the Member for North Warwickshire and Bedworth ( Rachel Taylor ) passionately make the case for grassroots club and activity for all , from the young to old people , to be that pipeline , but also for everyone ' s physical and mental health . the Minister , in open the debate , speak of the opportunity for sport to contribute to the Government ' s mission . she also say — perhaps the shadow Minister be not listen — that we be commit to multi - year funding . we have not be in power very long , so we be still get use to the different term , and we be move at speed although perhaps not as quickly as the opposition would like . the most obvious element of this potential be the health mission , as small increase in physical activity can have such holistic health benefit . that be eloquently put by my hon . friend the Member for Chesterfield ( Mr Perkins ) , who passionately speak about both the cultural and health benefit of tennis , with participant live on average 9 . 7 year long . yet sport can and do impact much more widely in society as well , and it can be particularly influential in engage young people . I be personally hugely invest in how sport can contribute to safe community for they . my hon . friend the Member for Croydon East ( Natasha Irons ) rightly point out the need to invest in our young people . there be some excellent example of how young people can be engage in sport and social activity , with access to mentor and further opportunity provide wide positive message , and they can be show alternative to violent influence . will the Minister join I in recognise the contribution of community trust , such as those at Derby County and Chesterfield football club , in fill the gap leave by local authority , who have suffer huge cut , especially in regard to youth provision ? my hon . friend make a really important point . if we be put club on the record , may I add my local football club of Millwall , whose community trust do excellent work in the local community ? it be important that young people be able to make informed choice away from crime and violence , and towards a future that need not lead they into the justice system but instead provide they with opportunity to thrive . work across Government , that be our mission . I want to touch on the excellent maiden speech that we have hear today . my hon . friend the Member for Warrington South ( Sarah Hall ) give a passionate speech , champion her seat and former local woman leader , and I hope that her presence be present enough for her husband Tom — I wish he a happy birthday and be sure that he be extremely proud of she . the hon . member for Mid Dorset and North Poole ( Vikki Slade ) speak about her beautiful constituency , although I think I remember she call some part of it Shitterton and Happy Bottom — she do . I be rather nervous when my hon . friend the Member for West Bromwich ( Sarah Coombes ) mention Tom Watson , because I once mention he while give a speech at a Friends of Labour Students event and might have slightly regret it afterwards , so I think we should just stick with the son of toolmaker . the hon . member for North Cornwall ( Ben Maguire ) use his maiden speech to campaign for a cornish team at the Commonwealth game , and I wish he luck with that . my hon . friend the Member for Mid Cheshire ( Andrew Cooper ) speak about his constituency be an event capital , make I want an invite to join the banquet , but I be also very interested in the annual pina colada festival . my hon . friend the Member for Mansfield ( Steve Yemm ) speak of his life journey and how he want to ensure everyone have the same opportunity . my hon . friend the Member for Redditch ( Chris Bloore ) give an amusing speech , namechecke many people from his constituency , include Harry Styles several time . my hon . friend the Member for Worsley and Eccles ( Michael Wheeler ) speak about tea and cake . I would not like to say which cake be my favourite , but I will say I be bear in Chorley . [ interruption . ] I do not say which one be my favourite . my hon . friend the Member for Corby and East Northamptonshire ( Lee Barron ) speak about the importance of fight for worker ’ right and how he be such a strong advocate in do so before enter Parliament , and I be certain he will be a strong voice here in Parliament . my hon . friend the Member for East Kilbride and Strathaven ( Joani Reid ) speak passionately about campaigner and champion from her constituency save business , save job and show the talent of woman . I know she will be a doughty champion for her constituency . my hon . friend the Member for Uxbridge and South Ruislip ( Danny Beales ) speak personally about his challenge grow up and how those make he want to make change in politic , and I be glad he have finally make it here . in the final maiden speech today , my hon . friend the Member for Bournemouth East ( Tom Hayes ) pay the most fitting tribute to Tobias Ellwood , who be the first to try to save the life of pc Keith Palmer , to whom we all owe a great debt of gratitude . in finish this part of my speech , I will just say that I know how nerve - wrack it can be to do a maiden speech . you be all absolutely excellent — sorry , they be all absolutely excellent . [ laughter . ] see , we can all make mistake at time . I be genuinely glad that they choose this debate to do so . today , we have hear about the importance of sport in its many form in the country . the 2024 Olympic and Paralympic game may have pass , but enjoy sporting performance of football and rugby be still part of the regular routine for many of we during the winter month . the night may be close in , but million be out there daily , log their run , play five - a - side under newly fund floodlight or try a new sport for the first time . the Government be focus on deliver against our five core mission , and sport can do so much in many of these space . it can be instrumental in break down barrier and create opportunity . the sector can and will contribute to economic growth , and sport and physical activity can and will improve the health of the nation serve by the NHS . that be why I will be work with my ministerial colleague to ensure that sport be a key part of deliver across health and our other mission , and to ensure that we can reflect on the continued success of our elite athlete for many year to come . question put and agree to . resolve , that this House have consider sport and the performance of Team GB and paralympicsgb in 2024 . cost of Rail Fares Motion make , and question propose , that this House do now adjourn . — ( Christian Wakeford . ) I wish to address the deeply concern issue of rise rail fare , which be have a profound impact on my constituent in Woking and , indeed , on commuter across the country . since 2019 , the cost of a season ticket from Woking to Waterloo have increase by £ 773 — it now stand at an astonishing £ 4 , 516 . when people be struggle with the cost of living crisis , these eye - watering fare rise be not only unfair , but counterproductive . if we be serious about promote economic growth and tackle climate change , we must make public transport an affordable and attractive option for everyone . instead , rail travel have become a luxury that many be find they can no long afford , ironically risk debt to earn a living . that be not acceptable . worse still , these rise cost come alongside an increasingly unreliable service . a freedom of information request reveal that more than 55 , 000 rush - hour train be either partially or fully cancel last year . that be a 10 % rise on the year before and the bad record since 2019 . UK passenger be be rail with a terrible ask : to pay more for a deteriorate service . that be just not something I be willing to get on board with . we need to get back on track and secure a fair deal for passenger . but this be not just about rail fare . one of my new constituent , Joanna from West Byfleet , share her experience of the unsafe condition at West Byfleet station ' s car park , where inadequate lighting and overgrown vegetation have create an isolated and unsafe environment at night . despite multiple complaint to south Western Railway , little have be do to improve the condition . that be just one of many example where passenger be be let down , and that be extra to the issue of cost . I want to highlight the plight of Katie , another woke constituent who have voice her frustration at the lack of fast train from woke that stop at Clapham Junction during peak hour . after the 7 . 13 am service , there be a gap of over 90 minute without fast train stop at Clapham — a key station on our network — force commuter like Katie to take long and more expensive route . those be not isolate incident or example ; they be part of a broad pattern of neglect that commuter across our community face . now be the time for the Government to act . the Liberal Democrats and I be call for an immediate freeze on rail fare , which would save commuter in Woking £ 140 a year , and I be sure that it would save commuter across the country similar sum . that policy be not only affordable but necessary . rail fare should not continue to rise while service decline . do hon . member see where I be go with this ? we need long - term reform . the current ticketing system be fragment and confusing , with passenger leave pay more for less . we need a simplified , fair and affordable fare structure that work for everyone . I be aware of the Government ' s nationalisation plan and the Bills before the House as well as the creation of Great British Rail , but ultimately people be not interested in whether train be run by private company or public one . my constituent want train that be affordable , safe and reliable . the Conservative Government ' s failure to deliver on that have leave commuter in Woking and beyond pay the price of Tory chaos . there be no Conservative Members in the Chamber to argue with I , which show how little they care about the issue . let we ensure that we do not repeat in this Parliament the mistake that the Conservatives make . next year will be the 200th anniversary of our railway . we have a real opportunity to freeze rail fare and make 2025 the year we give passenger a fair deal . rise — there be a number of member in the Chamber this evening . I know that some have secure agreement from the hon . member for Woking ( Mr Forster ) to participate in the debate , and that be perfectly in order , but I remind the House that the debate be time - limited and I expect that the Minister will be give plenty of time to reply to any point raise . it therefore may not be possible to accommodate everybody who wish to participate . thank you , Madam Deputy Speaker . I commend my hon . friend the Member for Woking ( Mr Forster ) for secure this important debate and thank both he and the Minister for the opportunity to speak . my hon . friend eloquently articulate the cost and train service challenge face his constituent on the south - west main line . many of they be share by my constituent in Didcot and Wantage in their commuting experience on the great western main line between Didcot and London Paddington . an annual season ticket on this route , without any London travelcard addition , for the 53 mile in each direction cost £ 6 , 300 . a peak - hour day return be £ 81 . sadly , few commuter can benefit from travel off peak . in part that be because the evening peak period for fast train last from 15 . 33 until 19 . 21 — nearly four hour . such a long peak period can create significant overcrowding on the first and last off - peak train , which be not an effective use of the capacity available . give that we be frequently tell that travel volume be low than before the pandemic , it feel like a miss opportunity that such harsh rush - hour restriction have not be reform . to save money , some of my constituent choose to double their journey time by use slow , local train instead of intercity one , which be less than convenient . as well as support my hon . friend ' s call for fare freeze and wide service improvement , I make two broad observation . first , as so often with rail policy , the key question for the Government be : how much do they wish our railway to be use , and how much do they wish the railway to deliver their potential for wide economic value ? to make the most of the high and generally fix cost associate with infrastructure and operation , make the ticketing system comprehensible and affordable will help to increase the volume of fare revenue , as well as the yield from each fare . secondly , the fact that so many people in the south - east of England have long and expensive commute by train be surely partly a product of London ' s profoundly unaffordable housing market . as so often , transport policy do not , or should not , exist in a vacuum . resident in my constituency be fortunate that they can reach the capital in about 45 minute . however , with Paddington sit in the west of London , weekday day tripper only get a limited amount of time to spend in London if they want to enjoy off - peak rate . great Western Railway do run an afternoon service direct to Newbury , but the final train be at 16 . 05 , just five minute into peak time . that mean that my constituent have to pay the extra peak - time charge , or wait three hour for off peak to kick back in . my constituent Elizabeth Capewell have ask whether those with a senior or disabled travel card could use the 16 . 05 service , which would make travel to London much easy and much more worthwhile . I hope that train operator and the Government take that plea on board . I thank my hon . friend the Member for Woking ( Mr Forster ) for bring we this debate and give we an opportunity to raise constituent ' concern and wide liberal Democrat priority . I thank the Minister for attend and give response to our point . I begin by raise the case , as I do this morning , of the poor rail service to Worcester Park station , which be affect my constituent ' quality of life . they be unable to collect their child from school , and they be miss family meal . they be unable to rely on the train service and fear for their safety if they have to wait for a taxi late at night when the train do not come . I want to broaden the discussion to investment in our rail infrastructure . in early 2023 , the previous Government announce much - vaunted funding for upgrade to the Belmont rail line . some £ 14 . 1 million be award from the levelling - up fund to dual - track part of the line to allow train frequency to be increase to four an hour in each direction by the addition of a pass loop at Belmont station . such an increase in accessibility would massively benefit my constituent , but it be also key to get the good out of the cancer hub site that Sutton council have be so ambitious in invest in . that incredibly advanced , world - lead cancer research centre in south - west London will benefit not just Sutton and Cheam but the whole of London . do the Minister agree that invest in these infrastructure upgrade , as well as concentrate on get value for money from exist service , be critical to allow resident to make sustainable transport choice ? do he also agree that it be critical to unleash the economic benefit of investment , such as in the Institute of Cancer Research in Sutton and Cheam , to allow we to achieve our net zero climate goal and to boost the economy , which the Government seem keen to support ? I thank my hon . friend the Member for Woking ( Mr Forster ) for raise this important topic . as the MP for Guildford , I can speak for those of my constituent who commute , and I share in their pain on the daily commute from Guildford . every single week , resident suffer terrible service on the train , with delay and general problem . it be no wonder , then , that constituent who commute to London and many other location across the south - east and beyond feel incredibly frustrate by the fact that fee continue to rise while the service continue to deteriorate . will the Minister commit not just to hold train company to account more effectively , but to ask they to freeze rail fare until their service improve ? in Harpenden , commuter face the absurd reality that a single off - peak ticket can cost £ 18 . 40 , but 11 minute far on people can get an Oyster fare at Radlett for £ 5 . 90 . do my hon . friend agree that this absurd and unfair pricing system need to be review ? I agree , and I completely understand the ridiculousness of train fare across different area . I have incredibly high train fare for travel very small distance in my constituency , which it be deeply frustrating . commuter find the situation frustrating because they want to switch to train . if we be serious about tackle the climate crisis and encourage people to switch their mode of transport to the railway , we must address both reliability and train fare . People look at the train service and say , " it be not convenient , it be not reliable and it be expensive . " we must stop train fare rise , because we need to encourage people to get out of their car and choose the sustainable transport method that be the railway . I congratulate the hon . member for Woking ( Mr Forster ) on secure this debate on rail fare , and all member who have make contribution this evening . for the past 200 year , our railway have be at the heart of our transport network . during that time , they have play an essential role in enable people to travel across our country , visit their love one and seize economic opportunity . this Government be commit to get our railway back on track , which be why we be already deliver major reform to fix our country ' s broken rail network , in the context of a challenging fiscal inheritance . they include the Passenger Railway Services ( Public Ownership ) Bill , which will potentially save taxpayer up to £ 150 million every year in fee alone once all franchise be in public ownership . reform and public ownership be essential to deliver further fare reform . the current system be fragment , with train operator that take no revenue risk make decision on aspect of fare and ticketing . that be hamper the Government ' s ability to make the fare system fit for purpose . public ownership will allow a join - up approach to be take across the network . in Macclesfield we have the pleasure of be serve by both Avanti and northern train , unfortunately . the previous Conservative Government hand Avanti yet another franchise , despite its be one of the least reliable operator in the previous year . do my hon . friend agree that our plan for Great British Rail will not only improve reliability but ensure that rather than profit be repatriate to Italy , they be use for the public good here at home ? I agree , and I can assure my hon . friend that in the very first week , when the Secretary of State take office , she summon a number of company to her office to hold they to account . they will be hold to account , and we be determined to see improvement . fare revenue be crucial to fund day - to - day railway operation , as well as Government priority to put passenger first and improve performance on the railway . however , I recognise the serious concern that consumer have about the cost of rail fare . the affordability of the railway be a key objective for this government , make sure that , wherever possible , price be keep at a point that work for both passenger and taxpayer . a rise in rail fare can affect the family budget of work people , include commuter between Woking and London . rail fare have always be an emotive subject , and rise in fare be often contentious . in that context , it be vital that passenger know that they be get value for money . that be why this Government be commit to review the overly complicated fare system with a view to simplify it . the regulation surround the fare system be root in the privatisation of the 1990 , so there will be many opportunity to modernise the fare system as we move towards establish Great British Railways and bring forward the legislation need to take on fare , ticketing and other operational aspect of the railway . however , there be progress we can make now in improve fare and ticketing . we be progress the expansion of simple , easy and more flexible pay - as - you - go ticket across the south - east . along with simplified ticketing , pay as you go with contactless offer passenger a good price guarantee on the day . for most passenger , it will always provide they with the good price for a single day ' s travel . we be also consider how simplify long - distance fare can unlock well - value opportunity for passenger , as well as smooth demand to make the good use of capacity while minimise crowd . rail fare from my constituency of Lewes to London have increase by 20 % since 2020 , mean that if increase go ahead this year , a commuter from Lewes will incur £ 5 , 500 of cost for a season ticket . for many people whose salary have not increase in recent year while the cost of living have go up , that be a major cost . we have see quite a lot of success cap bus fare in recent year . for some of our local user that have be an improvement . will the Minister support a similar cap on rail fare ? I thank the hon . gentleman for his intervention . affordability be one of our six key objective , so that price , wherever possible , be keep at an affordable point that work for both passenger and taxpayer . we be support LNER to offer its Simpler Fares trial ticket between London and station around Newcastle , Berwick - upon - Tweed and Edinburgh from 30 September this year . naturally , we will evaluate carefully before take further decision . LNER have publish on its website the opportunity the trial offer , include the new 70 - minute flex ticket between Newcastle and London , price at £ 45 subject to availability . the ticket offer a degree of flexibility at nearly £ 40 cheap than the old super off - peak . LNER set out that , overall , around half of standard class 70 - minute flex ticket sell have be cheap than the old super off - peak , accord to its late figure . in addition , those and the vast majority of other ticket on LNER be now sell on a single - leg basis , where a single cost approximately half the price of the previous return ticket rather than be price within a pound of the return , as be often the case . that allow passenger to pay only for what they need by mix and match the right ticket for they for each leg of their journey , for example advance ticket with flexible ticket , or peak with off - peak where those exist . there be a large range of railcard available to make rail travel more affordable for some , with at least a third off the cost of most rail ticket . once establish , I would expect great British Railways to take a fresh look at the railcard suite , so that we can encourage the high possible number of passenger to use our railway . woking be part of South Western Railway ' s critical corridor between Woking and London Waterloo , and be therefore key to ensure strong operational performance . south Western Railway record an 87 % overall satisfaction rating in the Transport Focus rail user survey in September this year . many of my constituent commute into London for work , and they complain that since the pandemic the number of train have halve . they express their dread at the prospect of squeeze on to yet another train . despite the reduction in service and the subsequent overcrowding , price have increase . resident tell I that they pay extraordinary price for sub - par service . do the Minister agree with I that as a principle — order . I make the point early this week that intervention need to be short . they be not mini speech , they should be spontaneous and they should not be read out . perhaps the hon . Lady have finish her comment . I thank the hon . Lady for her intervention . if she would like to follow up with I in write so that she can finish the rest of her point , I would be more than happy to pass it on . south Western Railway also offer innovative product that let passenger choose ticket that suit their need , such as the Touch smartcard . this allow ticket to be add to a smartcard online , via an app or from ticket machine at a station . in recent month there have be an issue with a specific set of point at Woking , for which a temporary fix have be find . in the medium term , a more permanent solution will need to be seek , which may cause the temporary closure of line for plan engineering . for the commuter , season ticket be still a great way to save money on travel and be available on a smartcard . for two to three - day - a - week commuter , the flexible season ticket offer further saving against traditional season ticket . in Woking , flexible season ticket offer two and three - day - a - week commuter into London well value than both anytime day ticket and standard season ticket . motion lapse ( Standing Order no . 9 ( 3 ) ) . motion make , and question propose , that this House do now adjourn . — ( Christian Wakeford . ) we know that across the country people rely on train to get to work , get to school , and see their love one . that be why we be relentlessly focus on secure improve service for passenger , along with well value for money for taxpayer . I thank the hon . member for woke for secure the debate . I be sure he appreciate that rail play an important part in people ' s live across the country , and especially in his constituency . this government be put passenger at the heart of the railway , and I want to reassure member that we be work hard on put in place reform that will create strong , more reliable railway that work for the people who use they . question put and agree to . House adjourn .