Speaker ' s Statement before we begin , I wish to make a short statement about the House ' s sub judice resolution . there be a question on the Order Paper concern special educational need and disability provision . there be legal proceeding relate to the policy of apply vat to private school , and relate in particular to SEND provision . these case concern a matter that be currently before the House and of national importance . I be therefore exercise my discretion to allow reference to these case now and in future proceeding . oral Answers to Questions Women and Equalities the Minister for Women and Equalities be ask — Domestic Violence Prevention Services what assessment she have make with Cabinet colleague of the accessibility of domestic violence prevention service for woman . because this be the first opportunity I have have to do so , may I offer my heartfelt congratulation to the right hon . member for East Surrey ( Claire Coutinho ) on welcome her new son into the world ? I wish she and her family every happiness in this wonderful phase of their journey together . the Government be steadfast in their mission to halve violence against woman and girl . have run a woman ' s refuge before come to this place , I know how important it be for survivor to receive effective , timely support , and we be invest more in those service . in her 2022 report , the Domestic Abuse Commissioner warn of " a Patchwork of Provision " in local service . just six in 10 victim report be able to access a helpline , and only four in 10 report be able to obtain refuge accommodation . local organisation such as WomenCentre Calderdale and Kirklees do fantastic work for my constituent , but not all victim and survivor have the right support when they need it . will the Minister ensure that the upcoming violence against woman and girl strategy include a requirement for the Government to engage with the sector so that woman across the country receive consistent care and support ? let I start by pay tribute to Halifax WomenCentre for its vital work in Calder Valley . I assure my hon . friend that we will engage across Government , draw on expertise in the sector through the development of our new violence against woman and girl strategy , which will be publish later this year . we have provide an increase of £ 30 million for domestic abuse safe accommodation service , as well as do wide work to help local commissioner to identify need and commission appropriate service . organisation such as Voices and the Southside project in Bath provide a wonderful and important service for victim of abuse , but they need the long - term certainty of funding . do the Minister agree that we need to give they that certainty ? I be grateful to the hon . Lady for mention the excellent organisation in her constituency and the work that they do to support survivor . we be invest more in provision , but I understand her point about the need for security of long - term funding , and we will consider that as part of our VAWG strategy . I call the liberal Democrat spokesperson . we welcome the Government ' s mission to halve violence against woman and girl , but a recent report from the National Audit Office make grim reading , state that one in 12 woman be victim of violence every year and that there be more than 2 million victim in the year up to June 2024 . it also suggest while there be a welcome focus on victim , we be not do enough in term of prevention . how will the Minister ensure that this mission will focus on education and prevention in school as well as seek to support every survivor , and be she speak to the Scottish Government about co - ordination ? the hon . Lady be right to draw attention to the legacy picture paint by the National Audit Office . we be invest in a new national police centre for VAWG public protection , and ensure that we have a real focus on tackle high - risk offender by intervene much early and take further measure involve domestic abuse specialist . however , as the hon . Lady say , this be also about prevention . it be a responsibility for all of we across society , man and woman alike , and there be an important role for education . work be under way in the Department for Education to ensure that young people , from an early point , understand healthy relationship and what consent look like . of course , I be always happy to discuss that with colleague across the UK . Gender Pay Gap what step she be take with Cabinet colleague to help reduce the gender pay gap . woman ' s equality and economic growth go hand in hand . because the progress on close the gender pay gap stall under the last government , as part of the Employment Rights Bill we be require large employer to publish gender pay gap action plan alongside their figure to show what they be do to tackle pay disparity . I thank the Minister for her response . do she agree that while the Conservatives think that maternity pay have " go too far " and that the childcare roll - out be a mistake , it be this UK Labour Government who be support woman in my Livingston constituency and right across the country by bring in well protection for pregnant woman and mum on maternity leave ? yes . this government know that support hard - work parent be fundamental for economic growth . our enhance dismissal protection for pregnant woman and new mum will make it clear to they that the law be on their side . that be the right thing for woman , and it be the right thing for our economy . I thank the Minister for her answer ; she be always positive and reassure we back Benchers . what discussion have take place with the Department for Education about encourage young woman to consider apprenticeship in mechanic , joinery and a host of other trade that be equally well pay ? they can do those job every bit as well as man , but they have be historically under - represent . I be very grateful to the hon . gentleman for his kind word and for his passion about apprenticeship , which we on this side of the House absolutely share . I be delighted that next week be National Apprenticeship Week . we be absolutely committed to ensure that more girl see a future for themselves in science , technology , engineering and mathematic . again , that will be great for they and great for our economy . I call the shadow Minister . on Monday , a judge in an employment tribunal bring by the GMB union rule that predominantly female Asda employee on the shop floor and predominantly male employee work in Asda ' s warehouse — completely different role with different condition — be carry out work of equal value . the ruling , which be similar to that which bankrupt Birmingham city council , could cost Asda £ 1 . 2 billion in back pay and an annual wage bill increase of £ 400 million — an even big blow than the additional £ 100 million increase in the company ' s wage bill as a result of the Chancellor ' s Budget . do the Minister agree that private company should be free to set different wage for completely different job , irrespective of the gender balance in those role , without be overrule by the court ? [ interruption . ] I think the response of the House be very similar to the response of the general public and , indeed , the response of business . business know that have pay that be in line with skill , and equal pay for work of equal value , be incredibly important . clearly , matter that have be cover in employment tribunal be for those tribunal to determine , and I would not criticise the result of an employment tribunal from within this House if I be the hon . Gentleman . SEND Provision what recent discussion she have have with the Secretary of State for Education on SEND provision . this government ' s ambition be that all child with special educational need receive the right support to succeed , where possible , in mainstream school . to far support that vision , in December I announce £ 740 million of high - need capital for 2025 - 26 . the Department be work closely with expert on reform and have recently appoint a strategic adviser for SEND , who will play a key role in engage with practitioner , child and family as we consider the next step in SEND reform . I draw member ' attention to my entry in the Register of Members ' Financial Interests . Hertfordshire currently receive the third low SEND funding in the country , despite the number of child in the county with education , health and care plan grow by 223 % in the last decade . what step be the Minister take with her Cabinet colleague to create a fairer funding system that ensure that all child , wherever they live across the country , can have the funding they need to support their education ? I recognise the hon . Gentleman ' s interest in this area , and the interest of member from right across the House in the urgent need to reform the SEND system . however , I gently observe that we inherit the funding mechanism from the previous Government , and that the last Conservative Education Secretary say that the SEND system they have leave behind be " lose , lose , lose " . we be determined to fix it , to build up parent ' confidence , and to make sure that all child get the education and support that they need . I welcome this Government ' s commitment to halve violence against woman and girl , and their investment in the domestic abuse protection order scheme in Croydon . however , Croydon ' s youth engagement team , who focus on help to prevent young woman from be bring into gang through grooming , abuse and vulnerability , be face cut due to the budget constraint face the council . what more can the Government do to support local community and local council to prevent young woman from be drag into gang through grooming and thing like that ? my hon . friend mention a vital area . there be an important role for youth service as part of this , but we also need to do much more around safeguarding . the provision in the Children ' s Wellbeing and Schools Bill on multi - agency child protection measure and much more besides , and the additional investment that we be put into the system around child ' s social care , will make a real difference in tackle the unacceptable exploitation that sadly blight the life of too many child across our country . woman ' s State Pension Age what step she be take with Cabinet colleague to implement the finding of the Parliamentary and Health Service Ombudsman report on woman ' s state pension age . the Government have make and publish their decision . we accept the ombudsman ' s finding of maladministration and apologise for the delay in writing to the woman affect . we have start work with the ombudsman to make sure that lesson be learn , and we will develop a plan for effective and timely state pension communication . it be fair to say that people be disillusion with politic and politician because they feel that thing do not change — not for the well , anyway . the Tories would not compensate the WASPI woman , and it look like neither will we . the Tories here and the Scottish National party Government in Holyrood abandon the worker of the Grangemouth refinery , and I have to say that , so far , our Government have not fare any well . my question be a pointed one : do the Secretary of State and the wide Government not realise that if we do not provide the positive change that we promise and improve living standard , the next Government could be a hard - line , far - right effort that look to impoverish society far ? I can reassure my hon . friend that we have be elect on a manifesto of change , and change be we what will deliver . we have be work hard on Grangemouth . on the question of WASPI , we do not think that compensation be appropriate . the evidence be that 90 % of those affect do know that a change be come , but we can not work out now who do and who do not know . among those investigate by the ombudsman , nobody lose out financially from not know , so we could not justify pay out up to £ 10 billion in compensation . instead , we be go to work to make sure that the problem never happen again . woman across this United Kingdom feel let down by this government , and rightly so . what will the Minister do to reassure those woman ? he need to put action to his word and support those woman who have be wrong for so many year , right across this United Kingdom . we be go to work with the ombudsman to make sure that this never happen again . a detailed report will be publish , and we be committed to make sure that in future , sufficient notice be give of any state pension change . we be also go to develop a communication strategy use the most up - to - date method for the state pension . for example , the " check your state pension " service give a forecast include tell people when they can take their state pension . ehrc : Code of Practice when she expect the Equality and Human Rights Commission to publish its revise code of practice for service , public function and association . this Government be steadfast in their commitment to protect single - sex space and commit to ensure that service feel confident in provide they , with well guidance . the ehrc will publish the revised code once it have finalise the draft and it have be approve by Ministers . that follow the ehrc ' s consultation , which have now close . the Government have recognise that there be confusion or a lack of awareness about the same - sex exception in the Equality Act 2010 and how to apply they practice , so do the Minister agree that the update EHRC statutory code be need as soon as possible to make it explicitly clear that the Act provide for single - sex service for biological woman ? it be vital that service provider have clear guidance about the Equality Act . the ehrc have already publish non - statutory guidance on the legislation for separate and single - sex service provider , and the new Government have also act to underline that single - sex refuge , for example , be fully legally compliant , as I emphasise when I visit such a refuge in September . tackle violence against Women and girl what discussion she have have with the Secretary of State for the Home Department on tackle violence against woman and girl . what step she be take with Cabinet colleague to help tackle violence against woman and girl . I be not sure that Mr Speaker would allow I to go into quite that level of detail on the amount of discussion I have with the Home Secretary on this issue . it would take hour , because this happen every single day . this weekend , the Government announce that we will be spend £ 13 . 1 million to create a national police centre for violence against woman and girl and public protection , and that be due to launch in April . accord to the National Audit Office ' s report publish on Friday , the epidemic of violence against woman and girl be get bad , and current prevention activity have largely " focused on reduce reoffende rather than avoid initial offence . " in Hampshire and the Isle of Wight , which include my Eastleigh constituency , 39 , 221 domestic abuse incident and crime be record from April 2023 to March 2024 . follow recent tragic event , what measure be the Minister take to encourage prevention and foster the cultural change necessary to keep woman and girl safe ? I thank the hon . Lady , and I be sure the entire House agree with the tone with which she speak about domestic abuse in her area . the National Audit Office write what , frankly , can only be consider to be a damn indictment of the previous Government ' s violence against woman and girl strategy . we will do everything we can to ensure prevention , both through education and with those who perpetrate , which will be a fundamental part of our strategy . unlike previous strategy , we will actually do it . many woman fear violence and assault on night out , even more so when alcohol be involve and it be dark . in my constituency , the Tamworth street angel do vital work to ensure that people feel safe in the town centre during the evening , and they offer support when woman need it most . do the Minister agree that we should support such organisation , and will she join I in congratulate the Tamworth street angel on their recent King ' s award for voluntary service ? I join my hon . friend in say what amazing and vital work be be do by people like the Tamworth street angel . it be unacceptable that woman feel unsafe when they be out and about , and this Government seek not only to change legislation — on spike , for example — to make sure our law be right , but to make sure that , on the ground , we be train people in pub , club , bar and across our night - time economy . we can write word on goatskin , but when the rubber hit the road in place like Tamworth , we need people like the street angel to make sure it actually mean something . I call the shadow Minister . three week ago , the Government announce five local inquiry into rape gang , which crucially can not compel witness to give evidence . we still do not know where all the inquiry will be , and we do not know how the town will be choose . as Charlie Peters from GB News originally report , groom gang be suspect to have operate in 50 town . do the Minister recognise that the failure to announce a meaningful national statutory inquiry mean that woman and girl from across the country , who be not from the five select town , will be deny justice and a fair hearing ? if the victim want a national statutory inquiry , why doesn ' t the Minister ? I have spend time with the victim that the shadow Minister speak about . in fact , I will be go to see more victim from across the country . I speak to these victim every single week — week in , week out — unlike many of those sit on the Opposition Benches . previously , absolutely nothing be do to try to get to the truth in some of these town . we will do whatever we can to root out this crisis , which be what everybody in this House want to see , although some member wish to use it for political end . we have offer to open up case , and we have set the taskforce to do exactly that with any victim who wish to come forward . topical Questions if she will make a statement on her departmental responsibility . this month we celebrate LGBT History Month . LGBT individual have shape Britain ' s history and continue to contribute greatly to our society . we be also celebrate Race Equality Week . we be committed to raise everyone ' s living standard by put more money into people ' s pocket through measure such as ethnicity pay gap reporting . these initiative demonstrate our commitment to foster a more equal and inclusive society in which everyone ' s dignity and right be respect . the whole House will be aware of the importance of the Tyne Valley railway line to my constituency , and it be essential that our station be accessible to all . local campaigner such as Active Travel Tynedale and Rosanna Lovett have express their frustration at the inaccessibility of station across our constituency . will the Minister join I in commend their work to make travel truly accessible ? I join my hon . friend in commend that work . I know the Tyne Valley line very well ; it be in a beautiful part of the country . it be important that the rail network be accessible for all passenger , and that be at the heart of our approach . I will ensure Ministers at the Department for Transport look into the case that he raise and provide more information about the action that be be take for his constituent . I call the shadow Minister . the call for evidence start last year by the Leader of the Opposition , when she be Minister for Women and Equalities , ask the public to share example of bad guidance on single - sex space and service . this Labour Government initially share just 42 response — just 1 % of the response — with the Equality and Human Rights Commission , which be the body that give advice to institution on equality in the law . why do the Government rule out 99 % of the public response ? that be a massive betrayal of Labour ' s manifesto commitment to protect single - sex space . the public rightly deserve to have every single one of over 3 , 000 submission consider properly by the ehrc . order . these be topical question — they need to be short and punchy , which this answer will be . come on . the previous Government ' s scope be narrow . we be take action to give all provider the assurance that they need that single - sex space can be provide . I have meet representative from the ehrc to discuss that point and I have write to the ehrc about it . I will take no lecture from the Conservatives on single - sex space , when the use of mixed - sex hospital ward increase on their watch . my living wage intern start next week , just as a Sutton Trust report show that internship be critical entry point to career , but that working - class graduate be 20 % less likely to complete an internship than their wealthy peer and most internship be never advertise . what be my right hon . friend do to ensure that career success be base on hard work and talent , not parent ' social network ? I agree with my hon . friend that no young person should be hold back by their background or expect to work for free . we remain committed to ban unpaid internship , so that young people be pay fairly . we will set out further detail in due course . in Norfolk and Waveney , 44 % of woman on the gynaecology waiting list have be wait for treatment for long than the 18 - week NHS target , and one in 10 have be wait over a year . they be the bad waiting time statistic in England , so will the Minister set out what conversation she have have with the Secretary of State for Health and Social Care to ensure that woman in North Norfolk will no long be leave behind ? we have have many conversation with the Health Secretary about this , because it be unacceptable that woman be let down because of the lack of action by the previous Government . we be overhaul woman ' s healthcare and place woman ' s equality at the heart of our agenda , include by invest an extra £ 26 billion in the health system . working - class boy in the north - east be be hold back by an attainment gap , base on gender and income . the previous Government have no strategy for deal with such attainment gap . what will this Government do ? will the Minister commit to a strategy on this issue ? I agree with my hon . friend that it be disgraceful that the attainment gap rise under the last government , and I will not rest until we deliver for kid from community like our . I agree that it be not good enough that only one in five disadvantaged white british boy achieve grade 5 or above in math and English at GCSE . we be determined to turn that around . we be invest more in our school and in drive up school standard . what step be the Government take to improve female representation in all area of sport , not just on the play field but in the commercial side of sport , include in advertising , management and merchandise ? the hon . Lady raise an important issue . we need to ensure there be diversity in representation at all level in sport . I be happy to look far into the issue she have raise . too many disabled people report be unable to vote at last year ' s general election . will the Minister ensure that electoral administrator be remind of their obligation under equality law to ensure that disabled people can exercise their right to vote independently and in secret ? I agree with my hon . friend about the importance of the issue she identify . I will ensure that the relevant Minister pick up on the point and ensure that electoral administrator be aware of their responsibility . the Government have a long - stand position that they do not engage with the Muslim Council of Britain , so why do the Minister for Social Security and Disability decide to breach collective responsibility to attend a recent dinner host by the MCB ? the Government ' s position on relation with the MCB have not change . I call the Chair of the Women and Equalities Committee . it be the beginning of LGBT History Month . Trans people across the UK be struggle to access healthcare and find it difficult to go about their life with dignity . as their identity come under constant attack from powerful people across the world , progress can not be take for grant . will the Minister reconfirm the Government ' s commitment to the entire LGBTQ + community and outline what step be be take to engage with LGBT people in the UK ? [ interruption . ] order . please do not do that , because I have to get — [ interruption . ] no , it be no use shrug your shoulder at I . I have to get all the Members in . if you do not want other colleague to get in , please tell they . I do . we remain steadfast in our support for all LGBT people . it be essential that they be safe , include and protect from discrimination . do the Minister consider incredibly high rate of first - cousin marriage in certain community , which be up to a hundred time that find in the general population , an equality issue ? what discussion have she have with the Ministry of Justice about that ? we continue to keep these matter under review . we be look carefully at the Law Commission ' s report into marriage publish in 2022 and we will respond in due course . Prime Minister the Prime Minister be ask — Engagements if he will list his official engagement for Wednesday 5 February . I know the whole House will be appal by the death of a young boy in Sheffield on Monday . our heart go out to his family and his loved one . Knife crime blight our community and we redouble every step to ensure that young people be keep safe . on Monday , I meet other european leader in Brussels to discuss the vitally important focus on security and defence in a volatile world . I be determined to reduce barrier to trade , make it easy for business to do business and ensure that a well relationship with our european partner deliver for the british people . this morning , I have meeting with ministerial colleague and other . in addition to my duty in the House , I shall have further such meeting later today . sadly , suicide be the big killer of young people under 35 . Andy Airey , Tim Owen and Mike Palmer be the 3 Dads walk . they each tragically lose their precious daughter , Sophie , Emily and Beth , to suicide . they have campaign tirelessly for suicide prevention to be include in the school curriculum in an age - appropriate way . we meet the previous Prime Minister in Downing Street and suicide prevention be add to the relationship , sex and health education curriculum guidance for consultation last year . I know that the Prime Minister have meet the three dad and support their campaign , but sadly progress have stall . will the Prime Minister please meet I and the three dad so that we can finally get this over the line and ultimately save young life ? I thank the hon . gentleman for steadfastly raise this really important issue , particularly during child ' s Mental Health Week . I have meet the 3 Dads walk . they be inspirational and their courage be extraordinary . as the father of young child , I do not know how they be able to campaign in the way that they do . I be not sure I would be able to do so . of course , I can assure the hon . Gentleman that I will meet they again and push this really important agenda forward . eighty - six per cent . of train at Kearsley station in my constituency be delay or cancel in the past 12 week . that be widespread through Bolton South and Walkden . my constituent Sophie , who commute from Walkden to Manchester , tell I that " almost every day one peak time train be cancel . and when the train finally turn up it ' s overcrowded " . recently , she be strand for hour after constant cancellation because train crew be unavailable . can the Prime Minister reassure my constituent that this Government be commit to build reliable railway after 14 year of Tory chaos ? my hon . friend be right to highlight that the conservative party leave our railway in a terrible state . two year of strike cost our economy £ 850 million in lose revenue . you can not grow the economy if you can not run the railway . we will launch Great British Railways to focus relentlessly on passenger and to clamp down on delay and cancellation . I be pleased that Northern have announce the large ever investment in its fleet to deliver 450 new train , mean more comfortable and reliable journey for my hon . friend ' s constituent . I call the Leader of the Opposition . when Labour negotiate , our country lose . yesterday , we hear that the Government offer £ 18 billion for Mauritius to take our territory in the Chagos island . this be money that belong to our child and their child . this be an immoral surrender , so that north London lawyer can boast at their dinner party . when Labour negotiate , we all lose . sometimes , it do not even bother to negotiate . why do the Secretary of State for Energy Security and Net Zero withdraw Government lawyer from defend the case against the eco - nutters who want to obstruct the Rosebank oil and gas field ? let I deal with the serious issue that the Leader of the Opposition raise in relation to the Chagos case . this be a military base that be vital to our national security . a number of year ago , the legal certainty of that base be throw into doubt . let I be clear , Mr Speaker , and I shall pick my word carefully . without legal certainty , the base can not operate in practical term as it should . that be bad for our national security and a gift to our adversary . some within the conservative party know exactly what I be talk about . that be why the last Government start negotiation about sovereignty and about secure the long - term use of the base . they be right to do so . that be why the last Government conduct 11 of the 13 round of those negotiation , and they be right to do so . that be why this Government have complete that process , and we be right to do so . Mr Speaker , I will set out the detail when they be finalise and they will , of course , be present to Parliament , but if the Leader of the opposition be properly brief on the national security implication when she be ask these question , which she be perfectly entitle to do , then she know exactly what I be talk about in term of national security and legal certainty . if , on the other hand , she be not properly brief on the national security implication , she be not do her job , she be not concerned about national security and she be not fit to be Prime Minister . how can anyone believe that this man be defend UK interest when he bend the knee to anyone who ask he ? his answer be so weak and so waffly it be no wonder that he need a voice coach . but he do not answer the question I ask he — why the Energy Secretary be not defend our country . the Secretaries of State for Energy Security and Net Zero and for Environment , Food and Rural Affairs receive nearly £ 400 , 000 - worth of donation from Lisbet Rausing . it be her money that be behind the court case that will stop an £ 8 billion investment , threaten thousand of job and endanger energy security for all of we . do the Energy Secretary refuse to defend UK interest because he be fund by billionaire eco - zealot ? I shall come to that very issue , but I notice that the Leader of the Opposition do not say that she be brief about the Chagos issue . this be important . when she become Leader of the Opposition , I say to she that I would give she a briefing on any national security issue if she ask for it . that be very important to the way that we run our democracy . she have not ask for a briefing on the Chagos case . that be because she be more interested in chase Reform than in national security . oil and gas will be part of our energy supply for many year to come . we have be absolutely clear about that , but we be go through a transition . it be important because that transition to renewable energy will give we low bill and energy security , it will take Putin ' s foot off our throat and it will be good for the national interest . that be a weak answer , because the Prime Minister do not know what be go on . last week , I ask about the employment Bill ; he do not know what be go on . we ask about the education Bill ; he do not know what be go on . let I tell he what be go on . perhaps he can answer some question . Shell have say that a one - year delay to Rosebank will cost £ 350 million and the loss of 1 , 000 job . Equinor have say that a two - year delay to Jackdaw will cost £ 800 million . the only benefit that I can see be the £ 400 , 000 to Labour Ministers . at a time of war in Europe , threaten energy security and increase competition from the US and elsewhere , we should be get british oil and gas out of the ground . do the Prime Minister have the gut to take on labour donor and his Energy Secretary and approve the licence application when they be resubmitte ? the Leader of the Opposition do not even want to know what be go on ; otherwise she would have ask for the relevant briefing . she know the position on Rosebank . she know that the court case have mean that the licence have to be review . there be a process that have to be go through in the proper way . she understand that , but yet again she be prove that all she can do be student politic , and play party politic . I be speak on behalf of the people of this country . when Labour negotiate , our country lose . the Prime Minister talk about bring growth and investment . last week , he lose a £ 450 million investment from AstraZeneca that we negotiate , which would have deliver growth immediately . that same day , he also lose the £ 8 billion oilfield investment that would have deliver next year . business be abandon the North sea because of his decision . what signal do he think he be send to investor ? as the Leader of the Opposition know , AstraZeneca ' s be a commercial decision . she must understand that . all she do be come here every week carp from the sideline , talk our country down . we have the high investment for 19 year . PwC say that we be the second good place to invest in the world . the International Monetary Fund have upgrade growth . wage be up . inflation be down . there be more to do : reform planning and regulation , build new home , and support a third runway at Heathrow . what unite those ? champion by Labour , oppose by the Tories . it be so hard to believe anything the Prime Minister say . this be a man who need " emergency " voice coach on Christmas eve . this government be so clueless they be borrow £ 8 billion for GB Energy — a vanity project that be not great , not british , and do not produce any energy . its own chairman admit that it will take 20 year to create just 1 , 000 job . meanwhile , 200 , 000 job be at stake in our oil and gas sector right now . do the Prime Minister think that 1 , 000 job in 20 year ' time be worth more than the 200 , 000 job that we have now ? again , the Leader of the opposition clearly have not be brief , or do not want to be brief . GB Energy will be a publicly own energy company that will drive the move to renewable . it be not about the number of job in HQ ; it be about the thousand upon thousand of job that it will generate to give we energy security , which be something we do not have under the last government , and take Putin ' s boot off our throat — something that do not happen under the last government . they lose control of the economy . we be get it back . the Prime Minister can waffle for as long as he like , but we know that Labour promise to bring energy bill down by £ 300 . instead , bill be go up . he be freeze pensioner while shovel money to Mauritius . the Prime Minister be not just manage decline ; he be create decline . he have the power to grant these licence , open these oil and gas field , save british job and bring down bill . why do he find it so hard to do the right thing ? she really need to look into how these licence be grant . I appreciate that the Conservatives ' reset seem to be have no policy apart from cut pension , and have no briefing on relevant issue . let we just remind ourselves that they preside over the big drop in living standard on record . mortgage go through the roof , and they leave a £ 22 billion black hole . we learn last weekend that , under the last government , £ 35 billion be lose on benefit fraud and error . who be in the Treasury at the time ? the shadow Business Secretary , the hon . member for Arundel and South Downs ( Andrew Griffith ) , and the Leader of the Opposition . they want to give lecture . no thanks ! the hon . member for Clacton ( Nigel Farage ) say that his party be " open to anything " when it come to change our NHS and open to an " insurance - base system " . will my right hon . and learn Friend confirm that under a Labour Government the NHS will be there for everyone when they need it , not have to worry about the bill ? the NHS be the lifeblood of our country , and that be why we invest £ 25 billion at the Budget — a record amount — and be make it fit for the future through our plan for change . what a contrast with Reform , whose leader have say that those who can afford to pay should pay for healthcare . under Labour , the NHS will always be free at the point at use for anyone who need it . I call the leader of the Liberal Democrats . can I associate myself with the Prime Minister ' s remark about the terrible murder of the 15 - year - old in Sheffield and say that we support any effective action against knife crime that the Government propose ? at his first Prime Minister ' s question , I tell the Prime Minister about my constituent Andrea . a full - time carer for her mother , Andrea be one of thousand of carer catch up in the carer ' s allowance scandal , hound by the Department for Work and Pensions for repayment . the Prime Minister accept that there be a problem and set up an independent review , and we welcome that . but two month after the announcement of the review , Andrea receive a letter summon she to a tribunal next week . her mother ' s health have be deteriorate — she have have to go into a care home — and this be the last thing Andrea need . will the Prime Minister step in and do the right thing and cancel Andrea ' s tribunal and all proceeding against carer like Andrea , at least until the review be conclude ? we set up the independent review , and I know the right hon . Gentleman welcome that , and it be the right thing to do . I do not know the detail of Andrea ' s case , but if he provide they to I , I will certainly make sure that we have the detail and look into what have happen in her particular case . I be grateful for that reply . the Secretary of State for Work and Pensions write to I and be not interested in engage , so I hope the Prime Minister will be . turn to foreign policy , last night many of we be alarmed to hear President Trump speak about forcibly displace 1 . 8 million people from Gaza . the Prime Minister have speak to the President on several occasion now . do he personally believe that Trump recognise the danger of statement like this to the fragile ceasefire in Gaza and , indeed , to the security of both Palestinians and Israelis ? I be glad that the Foreign Secretary have confirm that the Government ' s position be still a two - state solution — I think that have support on all side of the House — but will he reassure the House that this position and our concern on these dangerous statement from the President will be communicate to the White House directly and firmly ? the right hon . Gentleman raise a very important issue . the most important issue on the ceasefire be obviously that it be sustain and that we see it through the phase , and that mean that the remain hostage come out and the aid that be desperately need get into Gaza at speed and at the volume that be need . I have , from the last few week , two image fix in my mind . the first be the image of Emily Damari reunite with her mother , which I find extremely move . the second be the image of thousand of Palestinians literally walk through the rubble to try to find their home and their community in Gaza . they must be allow home . they must be allow to rebuild , and we should be with they in that rebuild on the way to a two - state solution . the announcement of a third runway at Heathrow be obviously a massive boost to growth in the economy . do my right hon . and learn Friend agree that it be important that the economic boost be spread around the UK , and will he therefore agree to ask the relevant Minister to meet I and other Glasgow mps with the chamber of commerce to discuss the possibility of a new supply chain hub be create in the city , where the material for Heathrow ' s expansion could be reassemble ? my hon . friend be right that the new runway at Heathrow can boost economic growth across the whole country . it would boost the economy by billion and create over 100 , 000 job across the UK , with 60 % of the economic benefit outside London and the south - east . it be good for scottish passenger and scottish business — and particularly for scottish salmon , which be the no . 1 export pass through Heathrow and have be worth £ 970 million over the past five year . I will happily ensure that she get a meeting with the relevant Minister . I can assure the hon . member for Rugby ( John Slinger ) that Reform want healthcare to be free at the point of delivery — [ interruption . ] I be sorry , Mr Speaker , but there appear to be some panic on the Labour Benches — I be not surprised . I would like to ask the Prime Minister for some advice — [ interruption . ] they really be panic , aren ' t they ? get on with it ! order . I want to get to get this question over with , don ' t you ? all you be do be ensure that it go on for ever . quick question , please . I would like to ask the Prime Minister for some advice . what do I say to the 25 , 000 constituent in Clacton — [ interruption . ] order . either get on with it — [ interruption . ] order . we can not both be stand , Mr Farage . I need a quick question and then I can get you the answer . come on . what do I say to the 25 , 000 constituent in Clacton — include 99 - year - old Jim o ' Dwyer , who fly a full set of mission on Lancaster bomber as tail - end Charlie — who be lose their winter fuel allowance and feel the pinch , while at the same time we be prepared to give away a military base and pay £ 18 billion for the privilege of do so ? the hon . member talk about panic . the only panic be for people who know that his policy would be to charge they for use the NHS . what he should say to the people of Clacton — when he finally find Clacton — be that they should vote labour because we be stabilise the economy and boost their job . many of my constituent be express their frustration at the net migration figure , which quadruple — increase by nearly 1 million — under the last Tory Government . unbelievably , the shadow Foreign Secretary , the right hon . member for Witham ( Priti Patel ) , have admit that her party be proud of their open border experiment on Britain . will the Prime Minister explain what he be do to bring those number back under control ? I be grateful to my hon . and learn Friend for raise that point . we know that the Leader of the opposition lobby personally to remove annual limit on student and work visa . the shadow Foreign Secretary still think that the Conservatives have a great record on immigration , forget that they quadruple it and that it reach almost 1 million a year . our Border Security , Asylum and Immigration Bill will give strong power than ever to tackle people smuggler . we have already remove 16 , 000 people who have no right to be here . the question for the opposition be this : will they walk into the Lobby with we next week to secure our border ? after she be kidnap and shoot , Emily Damari be hold in captivity by Hamas in United Nations Relief and Works Agency facility , confirm the fear of many of we that UNRWA be riddle with Hamas sympathiser . the british people do not want our aid steal by Hamas . do the Prime Minister agree that we should stop fund Hamas , follow the example of other nation and divert our aid to other , more trustworthy agency ? on Emily Damari , I have speak with Mandy on many occasion , include when she do not know whether or not her daughter be alive . just listen to she be to really understand the torture that she go through . I speak just the other day to Emily herself about the condition in which she be hold , and I will of course continue to do so . to be absolutely clear — and the hon . Gentleman know this — we be not fund Hamas and never will . we condemn Hamas , and everybody in this House should condemn Hamas . some 54 , 000 woman a year lose their job when they be pregnant or on maternity leave , and one in 10 human resource manager say that they would be reluctant to hire a woman who they even think might start a family . the law have not solve this , so will the Prime Minister please meet I , the Dad Shift and Pregnant then screw to discuss the ringfence pay paternity leave that be need to bring about change ? my hon . friend raise a very important issue in relation to maternity pay and maternity leave . the Leader of the Opposition think that maternity pay be excessive . that be the difference — we know that worker ’ right be pro - growth , and I be proud that our Employment Rights Bill will introduce parental leave from day one , which mean that 1 . 5 million more employee will be entitle to unpaid parental leave and 30 , 000 more father will be entitle to paternity leave . I be happy to ensure that my hon . friend get the meeting with the relevant Minister . I know that , like everyone in the House , the Prime Minister be an honourable member . on that basis , can he repeat his assurance that all rule be follow while the country be in tier 4 lockdown in December 2020 , not just by he but by his team , and also by his voice coach , Leonie Mellinger ? in December 2020 , I be in my office , work on the expect Brexit deal with my team . we have to analyse the deal as it come in at speed and prepare and deliver a live statement at speed on one of the most important issue for our country in recent year . that be what I be do . what be the Conservatives do ? bring suitcase of booze into Downing Street , party and fighting , vomit up the wall , leave the cleaner to remove red wine stain . that be the difference . I be work — they be party . I know that the whole House will support the Prime Minister ' s comment and send our thought to the family of Harvey Willgoose and all those who love he after his tragic and senseless death on Monday . I support the Government ' s action to tackle the sale of certain knife online , but before the national medium attention move on from yet another tragic death of a young person , I know that the Prime Minister will agree that in order to tackle the scale of the crisis engulf too many of our community , we need a whole - system , cross - Government approach to address the root cause of violence . will he commit his government to such a national strategy ? this incident be horrific and senseless , and I thank my right hon . friend for raise it . I think the thought of the whole House be with the victim ' s family and friend , and the school community and wide community who have be impact by this . we be all grateful to the first responder — the police officer and the medical staff who attend the scene — and it be right that South Yorkshire police be give the time and space to carry out their investigation . we need to do everything we can to bear down on knife crime . it be too easy to get knife online , and it be too easy to carry knife without proper consequence . that be why we have make it an absolute priority in government to absolutely bear down on knife crime , and I hope that it be a cross - party issue . I know that the Prime Minister will share my deep concern that family in my constituency , particularly those with disabled child , face agonising wait for essential adaptation to council housing . in my inbox , I have case where delay have leave people unable to use the bathroom or even access a kitchen to simply make a cup of tea . will the Prime Minister meet I to discuss how we can make sure that council have the funding they urgently need to build and retrofit home , to ensure that all child have the start in life they deserve ? I thank the hon . gentleman for raise what be a really important issue for his constituent and for so many constituent . I be pleased to confirm that we have put down £ 69 billion for council — that be a 6 . 8 % cash - term increase — include up to £ 3 . 7 billion in vital additional funding for social care . we have double the funding for the disabled facility grant , with an additional £ 86 million to allow 7 , 800 more disabled and elderly people to make improvement that enable more independent life , and we will continue to do so , work across the House . eighty - three proud pottery worker wake up on Monday morning with no job , follow the collapse of the 200 - year - old Royal Stafford pottery firm . it be a crisis in our ceramics industry , with escalate price for energy , and fake and foreign import cause a real problem . will the Prime Minister , through his office , arrange for the energy company to meet Ceramics UK and the GMB , as the voice of the workforce , so that we can hammer out a new deal ? will he promote , through public procurement , buy british so that proud manufacture job in Stoke can be protect ? I be grateful to my hon . friend for raise this really important issue . it be obviously a question of job , but it be also a question of identity and a sense of place . of course we will work with the energy company and have the relevant meeting , as he suggest . agne live in my Bicester and Woodstock constituency . in 2019 , when she be nine , she be refer by her GP to child and adolescent mental health service . Agnes have have to wait more than five year for an assessment for the neurodiversity that have cause she crush mental health problem . last year , when Agnes ' s dad , Jim , seek to accelerate her appointment , he be tell that CAMHS could not see she or prioritise her appointment " unless Agnes be actively try to kill herself . " Jim ask I to raise this case because he want to ensure that no other child go through the same experience as his daughter . will the Prime Minister meet Agnes , Jim and I to hear their story ? I thank the hon . member for raise this issue in that way , and I pass on to Agnes and Jim how impactful what he have say be , and how important it be that he continue to raise this issue . far too many child and young people be wait far too long to receive the mental health support that they need , and we be determined to ensure that more child and young people can access high - quality mental health support in a timely manner . Llandudno be a beautiful seaside town and a wonderful place to visit , but business be struggle with a rise in shoplifting . in many case , thief be steal in full view of staff because they just do not fear the consequence . the recent funding boost for neighbourhood policing be very welcome , but will the Prime Minister please tell my constituent what more the Government be do to tackle retail crime and deter repeat offender ? for far too long , crime such as shoplifting have be write off as " low level . " that be wrong ; such crime be devastating . the conservative party leave we with rise crime and effectively tell the police to ignore shoplifting of under £ 200 - worth of good . we have get rid of that shoplifter ' charter , and we be work hard to ensure that we take a grip where they lose control . follow the early question from my right hon . friend the Member for Kingston and Surbiton ( Ed Davey ) , I want to raise an equally troubling case . my constituent retire from the police force to care for his wife , work a part - time job to help pay the bill . as his earning be not consistent , there be time when he be above the carer ' s allowance threshold , cause later payment to be withhold . he be now owe thousand of pound , and recently he be diagnose with grade 4 glioblastoma , which have make the situation even more serious . will the Prime Minister agree to look at the situation and ensure that the Department for Work and Pensions support rather than penalise carer ? again , we have obviously set up the independent review into exactly what happen in those case , which be the right thing to do . we will look at individual circumstance , so if the hon . Member be willing to pass the detail to I , we will look at they . Audit Scotland recently expose the incredible funding crisis face our council in Scotland , with a £ 759 million funding gap . it also report that the 12 council that make up the Strathclyde pension fund be reduce their employer contribution from 19 . 3 % to 6 . 5 % . do the Prime Minister agree that instead of take money out of worker ’ pension , the Scottish Government should appropriately fund our council ? my hon . friend be absolutely right to point out the failure of the Government in Scotland . they do not want to talk about that failure . they have get the power , and they have get the resource ; they just have not get any excuse leave . visit to Scotland when he next plan to visit Scotland . the hon . Member ask about visit Scotland . as he know , my first visit , within day of become Prime Minister , be to Scotland , where I meet the First Minister . I have also visit Scotland for the meeting of the Councils of the Nations and Regions in October , for the Interpol General Assembly in November and for the British Irish Council in Edinburgh in December . I look forward to go again very soon . interestingly , the Prime Minister could not tell I when he will next be visit Scotland , but do he agree with the wither assessment of the eminent politic professor Sir John Curtice , who say that the current UK Prime Minister be " the bad thing that ever happen to Anas Sarwar " ? if he do not — and he should — do he think that it be strip scottish pensioner of their winter fuel payment , abandon worker in Grangemouth or attack the national insurance payment of farmer that have catastrophically torpedo labour in the poll in Scotland ? when he do get a date , he can even bring his Chancellor with he to back he up on the number — assume that she be still Chancellor by then . I remember when that rhetoric use to come from SNP Members sit down there — that ' s the same answer you give the last time . order . Mr Doogan , I want no more . the hon . Member have to shout because the SNP Members be so far away at the back and there be so few of they that otherwise they would not be hear . engagement my constituent Matthew and his mum Catherine , alongside Emma Murphy and Janet Williams , have campaign for many year to get compensation for family affect by the epilepsy drug sodium valproate . twelve month on from the Patient Safety Commissioner ' s report on this matter , those harm be still wait for the recommendation to be implement . how much long will the individual and family impact by valproate need to wait for the clarity they seek ? will the Prime Minister arrange for a Health Minister to meet valproate campaigner to discuss this important matter ? this be obviously a really important matter . I understand that the Minister for patient safety meet patient group before Christmas to hear their story , their account and their experience at first hand . we will provide an update on the Patient Safety Commissioner ' s report at the early opportunity to the House . we all know how the song go : " you ' ve get to know when to hold ' em , know when to fold ' em , know when to walk away , and know when to run " . we in Northern Ireland have do all of they , because the system of government that we have be a gamble . well , I be not prepared to roll the dice on the people of Lagan Valley , who have already be without government 40 % of the time . the Secretary of State for Northern Ireland say that he want to stop the cycle of collapse , and so do I , but do not then turn around and tell we in Northern Ireland that we can not deliver public service transformation , if no step be take to stop the collapse . the people of Northern Ireland who I represent — nationalist , unionist and unaligned , like myself — be all out of ace . our public service be on the floor . will this Government be the one to step up to the plate , reform the institution , end the veto and stop roll the dice on the people of Northern Ireland ? since 1998 , the Good Friday agreement have deliver a far more peaceful society in Northern Ireland , and that be really important . restoration of power sharing be a significant milestone , and it allow the institution to make progress on the most important issue to the people of Northern Ireland . we will continue to work with all party to that end . I be delighted recently to visit Chaucer school , a great school in my constituency with fantastic young people and innovative and motivated teaching staff , but 14 year of Tory government do not do enough for more than 300 , 000 child across the country attend school that be stick and keep receive poor ofsted judgment . will the Prime Minister set out how this Government will tackle inequality and tear down barrier to opportunity through our plan for change ? the Children ' s Wellbeing and Schools Bill will ensure that all school can innovate , that new teacher be qualified and that every child receive a consistent core education to set they up for success in life . five month ago , the Care Quality Commission report that two third of maternity unit in England be unsafe , and year of unsafe staffing level have result in the NHS pay an astonishing £ 1 . 15 billion a year in compensation due to avoidable injury cause during childbirth and sometimes death . the previous Conservative Government allow maternity service to deteriorate to the point where many consider it to be a public health crisis . will the Prime Minister commit to improve maternity care and woman ' s health service as a top priority , so that our maternity unit in Winchester and those around the rest of the country be the safe place in the world for woman to give birth ? I thank the hon . member for raise this important issue . woman and baby deserve the high standard of care through pregnancy , birth and the month that follow . we be commit to recruit thousand of new midwife for the NHS while provide support to trust that be fail on maternity care . we be work with the NHS as it deliver a three - year maternity plan , which be make good progress in improve service , include for his constituent . last week I have the opportunity to visit two of the local jobcentre that serve my constituency . the dedication of the staff I meet to help our local community , support people into work and adapt to the area ' s need be inspiring . do the Prime Minister agree that we must listen to their frontline experience as we look to remove the barrier to work that keep people lock out of job ? will he visit those team with I to see the work that they do ? our " get Britain work " White Paper set out the big reform to employment support in a generation , back by £ 240 million of investment . through our plan for change , we will boost living standard and have more secure , rewarding job to make work pay . Chagos Islands ( Urgent Question ) : to ask the Secretary of State for Foreign , Commonwealth and Development Affairs if he will make a statement on the negotiation of the transfer of sovereignty of the Chagos island to Mauritius . as we and Mauritius have repeatedly say , include in joint statement on 20 December and 13 January , both side remain committed to conclude a deal on the future of the Chagos archipelago that protect the long - term , effective operation of the UK - US base on Diego Garcia . secure the long - term future of the base have be and remain our primary objective throughout this process . follow technical talk between the UK and Mauritius last month , we have make very good progress towards this deal . both side have agree that , give the importance of the base to the United States as well as to we , it be right that the new US Administration have the chance to consider the full agreement properly , as I discuss with the hon . member for Clacton ( Nigel Farage ) in yesterday ' s Westminster Hall debate . we be closely engage with the Administration , include share the full detail of the agreement . it would not be appropriate or usual for I to give a running commentary on the detail of those discussion or the agreement . as I have say on a number of occasion , Parliament will have the opportunity to scrutinise the deal in the usual way . follow signature , the Government will bring forward a Bill to implement the treaty . I must reiterate that the Government inherit a situation where the long - term future of the military base , which be vital to UK and US security , be under threat , as opposition member know . the previous Government recognise that , which be why they begin negotiation in 2022 and hold 11 round of negotiation . this Government have secure a deal that protect the base for at least the next 99 year — a period that can be extend . that mean that the UK and the US will be able to operate the base unchanged well into the next century . there will be clear commitment in the treaty for robust security arrangement , include prevent the presence of foreign security force on the outer island and ensure that the base can continue to operate securely and effectively . we would only agree a deal that we be confident protect our national security and that of our ally . the Mauritian Parliament have the opportunity yesterday to debate this at length , but it seem the Minister be perhaps rather more reluctant to be here today . Jonathan Powell , our national security adviser , have be do the round in Washington , where he have be tell everybody , include member of the new US Cabinet , that this be necessary — that we have to give away the sovereignty of the Chagos island — and that in those circumstance a negotiate 99 - year lease be the good option . but that be just not true , be it ? it be not true at all . it do not stand . there be no legal basis on which we have to give away the sovereignty of the Chagos island . an advisory judgment from the International Criminal Court have no force of legal power whatsoever ; indeed , America disregard it so much that it be not even a member . the Americans , by the way , have be pretty busy with foreign policy just lately , so it be perhaps no wonder that Diego Garcia have not be high on their agenda , but when they wake up to the fact that this have be do — wholly unnecessarily — I would not be surprised if we find ourselves , together with the European Union , in their tariff regime . can the Minister confirm that there be no bind legal basis for this transfer of sovereignty whatsoever ? the hon . Gentleman go over ground that he have go over before , with question I have answer in this House and , indeed , which be discuss in yesterday ' s debate . we have be very clear , as indeed be the previous Government , that this base be not on a secure footing . this have be do in full agreement with the US national security apparatus across the piece . he refer to the ICC ; it be , of course , the International Court of Justice that make that judgment . we be very clear that the joint UK - US base on Diego Garcia play a critical role in counter an array of threat to regional and international security , and we will not scrimp on the security of that base or on the solidity of the agreement around it . we will ensure that it be in operation well into the next century and that we be able to operate unimpeded as we do today . that be exactly why the previous Government recognise there be a problem and engage in this process , and it be why we have bring that problem to a conclusion , with a deal that protect our interest and the interest of the United States and that ensure the security of the base and its operation . as I have say , once the treaty be sign , it will be bring before the House for scrutiny before ratification in the usual way . [ interruption . ] I hear chuntere from the Opposition Benches . I have to say , the Opposition seem to have collective amnesia over this issue . they know full well the reason behind this ; many of they be member of the previous Government . they have hear what the Prime Minister just say on the Leader of the Opposition ' s attack . we be very clear that this be about defend the UK ' s security , put the base on a secure footing and secure that for the future , for both we and our ally . at the most recent Environmental Audit Committee sit , we hear about the importance of the Chagos island for the marine environment . can my hon . friend tell we anything more about the specific reassurance we have have on that crucial area for the biodiversity of the marine environment , and how that will be protect after this deal , from the discussion that he have have ? I thank my hon . friend for his important question . it be a delight to appear before his Committee to discuss other matter just a few week ago . this treaty reflect both party ' share commitment to uphold international environmental law , include high conservation standard across the archipelago . Mauritius have express dedication to marine conservation and have align its global initiative to protect 30 % of marine area by 2030 and its commitment under the sustainable development goal , and establish a fit - for - purpose marine protect area be a crucial part of that . we will work with Mauritius very closely on this matter . it be a very important part of the discussion , and I be very glad we have be able to make the agreement that we have . I call the shadow Secretary of State . let we be clear : labour ' s disastrous deal be one of the bad foreign policy failure in modern british history . labour be surrender an absolutely critical strategic defence asset that we operate together with our close security partner — now we be tell we will have to pay billion for the privilege of do so . when Labour negotiate , Britain lose , and lose big time . while this House have be keep in the dark on the detail , our counterpart in Mauritius have not . they have a robust debate in Parliament , which many of we watch on YouTube . it be just extraordinary . the Prime Minister of Mauritius give his Parliament a detailed account , and even a chronology , of the deal and the negotiation that lead to it — detail that Labour repeatedly refuse to disclose to this House and which the Prime Minister of Mauritius set out in no uncertain term so that nobody should be in any doubt . this weak , hapless Government have back down and the House deserve answer today . have the Minister give away our ability to unilaterally extend the period over which the UK can exercise sovereign right on Diego Garcia ? the Mauritius Prime Minister say he have . have the Minister give away our ability to exercise sovereign right over Diego Garcia entirely ? if so , what be the cost ? be it £ 9 billion ? be it £ 18 billion ? be it to be inflation - proof , as the Mauritian Prime Minister state in Parliament yesterday ? if the Minister be frontloade payment , what other service will be cut here in the United Kingdom in the immediate term to make room and pay for the deal ? when Labour be impose taxis on education , family farm and business , and have cut winter fuel payment for vulnerable pensioner , how can this eye - watering amount of money be justify to lease back a territory for which — guess what — we already own the freehold ? will the Minister also say whether he will have to make defence cut to absorb this enormous cost ? should the Ministry of Defence be shoulder the cost ? what budget will it come from ? will the Government count the payment towards the 2 . 5 % defence target ? on the sovereignty of basis , do the deal pose a new precedent for other basis , such as Cyprus ? the Mauritius Prime Minister say last month that his Attorney General meet the Minister and the UK Attorney General . will the Minister confirm what be discuss ? importantly , may I ask again : if the Government think this be such a good deal , do he stand by that and will he defend our interest ? I have to say again to the right hon . Lady that it be her government — a government that she be part of — who start the negotiation and go through 11 round of negotiation . she know full well the reason why . quite frankly , I find it extraordinary for she to talk about defence and the national security of this country , when we be have to rebuild and clear up the mess that her Government make of our armed force and our defence . I be very glad to be join on the Front Bench by the Minister for the Armed Forces , my hon . friend the Member for Plymouth Sutton and Devonport ( Luke Pollard ) . it be this Government who be rebuild our defence , increase our spending , and deliver for our armed force and national security around the world . indeed , this agreement be a crucial part of that . a lot of the figure be speculate about in the medium should , as I say yesterday , be take with a pinch of salt . we have be clear : there be no change to the substance or the quantum in relation to this agreement . the right hon . Lady raise inflation . I be surprised she mention that , because indexation be there in the public statement make about the negotiation on 3 October . indeed , it be part of the agreement from her government , so I be very surprised that she ask that question . lastly , I be deeply disappointed , as be our friend in the overseas territory around the world , that constant false comparison keep be make with our other basis and our other overseas territory . this be not a read - across situation . we be committed to our base on Cyprus . we be commit to Gibraltar . we be committed to the Falklands . we have be absolutely and resolutely clear about that . to continue to suggest that there be some sort of threat to they quite frankly undermine our national security and do not strengthen it in any way . do the Minister agree that , despite the Member for the Trump Government ' s misrepresentation , the UK Government must provide their own independent global leadership base on UK value and UK interest to make a safe world , despite or because of the new US Administration ' s change foreign policy , include close the United States Agency for International Development , and on the Chagos island ? I set out yesterday , in a very important debate on our bilateral relation with the United States , just how much we be co - operate already with the new US Administration on defence , security and our shared priority around growth and prosperity . we be absolutely committed in our wide international obligation . we have set that out , the Minister for Development , my right hon . friend the Member for Oxford East ( Anneliese Dodds ) have set that out , and my colleague have set that out in relation to climate change . we will continue to work with the United States on all the global challenge we face . I call the liberal Democrat spokesperson . I put on record the deep concern of the Liberal Democrats at the way this deal have progress . we accept the ICJ ruling . I think there be a consensus across the House on the importance of the UK uphold the rule of law , so I be bemuse by the confected consternation of those on the conservative Benches . it be the then Foreign Secretary , the right hon . member for Braintree ( Mr Cleverly ) , who in 2022 state : " it be our intention to secure an agreement on the basis of international law to resolve all outstanding issue " — [ Official Report , 3 November 2022 ; Vol . 721 , c . 27ws . ] but under this Labour Government , Chagossians have be ignore , Parliament be without a say , and the lack of foresight on how the US presidential election might affect the deal be troubling . after fail to force through an agreement , Ministers have now give Donald Trump a say about the future of sovereign british territory . can the Minister confirm that before signature , this House will be give a vote on the term of the final deal , in particular to see how UK security interest have be protect ? I have set out on a number of occasion why the deal be right for our national security interest and those of our ally . I have also set out very clearly the normal process . it will go through Parliament . I thank the Minister for his response to the urgent question . I listen carefully to the concern of the hon . member for Clacton ( Nigel Farage ) about the deal . if those concern be about the possible cost , then give that his entry in the Register of Members ' Financial Interests state that he have earn nearly £ 600 , 000 in the past six month since his election , perhaps the Minister might agree with I that the hon . Gentleman could make a donation to the Government to secure our national security — Order . I be sure you want to ask a serious question . thank you , Mr Speaker . apology . will the Minister reassure I , as he have in his response and in countless statement before , that when the treaty come before the House , secure our national security will be paramount through a process that , as he say , be start under the previous Government ? we will not scrimp on national security , as I have say . there have be no change to the substance of the deal or the overall quantum agree . we will present the process in the usual way , as I have say multiple occasion . I want to try to be helpful to the Minister . I be the Deputy Foreign Secretary throughout much of the negotiation and I be in a position to tell the House that neither my right hon . friend the Member for Braintree ( Mr Cleverly ) nor the noble Lord Cameron in the other place would ever , as Foreign Secretary , have do the deal that the Government be now intent upon . I think the Minister must be pray every night for a " get out of jail free " card — that , when the American Administration come to look at the deal , they will veto it and get the Government off the hook . I set out very clearly the reason for the do the deal . it be the right deal for our national security and that of our ally . the right hon . Gentleman know that because his government start the process . we be engage in constructive discussion with our US counterpart . it be absolutely right that they have the chance to consider the deal . we will allay any concern raise , and that have be raise in the House previously , in term of the security provision . they have be provide with the full detail of the agreement . the hon . member for Clacton ( Nigel Farage ) say he want to help UK relation with the US , but he have a very funny way of go about it . opposition Members state over and over again that they understand the desire and the psyche of the US military and its people , yet they ignore the fact that , the ICJ ruling aside , the previous and present US administration understand the language of business and agreement , and not the gentleman ' s agreement that have in the past mar discussion and negotiation about the stability and persistent military presence on the island . it be for that reason that I ask the Minister if he agree that the confirmation of the legal status of the base will cement our role in the Indo - Pacific and put we in a strong position to counter chinese influence in the region . my hon . friend be absolutely right about protect against malign interest . that be exactly at the heart of the deal . he be also exactly right about the history of why the deal be need . that be , of course , recognise by the previous Government , which be why they start the negotiation . we want to put the base on a secure footing well into the next century , which be what I assume they be try to do previously and spend 11 round negotiate . we have come to a deal that be in our national interest . Most crucially , it be our national security and that of our ally that be at the heart of it . there be multiple safeguard in place in the treaty . they will protect our national security and that of our ally . give that what the Minister have tell the House today be so at variance with the report from the Prime Minister of Mauritius , surely it ring alarm bell in his mind about the nature of the polity and the individual with whom he be negotiate — and have he entirely lose his moral compass ? the Government be consider tax death - in - service benefit of our servicemen while at the same time contemplate spending £ 18 billion on save a base that we already own . I be not go to reflect on the appalling record of the right hon . Gentleman ' s Government on defence and our service people . we be get around to rebuild our relationship with our armed force and rebuild our defence , in view of the global threat that we face . the right hon . Gentleman ask about the Mauritian Prime Minister , who be , of course , responsible for his own word . I certainly do not recognise some of the commentary that there have be over the last 48 hour . it be clear that there have be no change in the substance of the deal or in the overall quantum agree . the Minister have describe the conversation he have have with american ally , but can he update the House on the conversation he have have with the wide NATO partnership , give the consequence that this could have for they ? our NATO membership be utterly crucial . we have a " NATO first " strategy . the Prime Minister have meet the Secretary - General in the last 48 hour , and I be with NATO colleague at the North Atlantic Council just before Christmas . we be absolutely clear in our commitment to our NATO ally and our commitment to the United States . they form a bedrock of our security in a globally uncertain time , and that be also why we need to secure the base into the long - term future . a few week ago I have the privilege of meet a large group of Chagossians who have come from , in some case , as far away as France to discuss with member of Parliament their feeling about this deal . I be one of only three mp who turn up , and the Chagossians be devastate by that turnout . they tell we that they have not be in any way meaningfully consult about the deal , so the Minister have a challenge on his hand . he tell the House that meaningful negotiation and discussion have take place . he have a choice today : he can either tell we precisely what those consultation and negotiation be , or correct the record . I be rather confused by that question , because I have be very clear about the engagement that I have have with member of the chagossian community . there be two , and I have give the date on which they take place . we continue to engage with member of that community ; in fact , my official will meet some of they next week , and I look forward to meet they again in due course . as I have say many time before , I respect the range of differ view within the chagossian community . for example , the Chagos Refugees Group — one of the large chagossian group — have welcome the agreement . there be a range of chagossian group around the world , as the hon . Gentleman know , and we will continue to engage with they and listen to all their view . I can assure he that the interest of Chagossians be at the heart of this agreement . the Minister , like the Prime Minister before he , keep imply that if member of this House be arm with the same information that they be arm with , they would come to the same decision . well , I be arm with the information that the Minister have at his disposal ; I do not come to the same decision , and neither do my direct successor , Lord Cameron of Chipping Norton . do the Minister , the other Ministers in the Government and the official who work on their behalf understand that the point of a negotiation be not to get any deal but to get a good deal , and that if you do not get a good deal you should walk away from the table , as we do ? as I say early , the right hon . Gentleman recognise that there be a problem , he start the negotiating process , and they go through 11 round . this be a good deal , and that be why we have agree it . for year , an international rule - base system have be the cornerstone of both our economic prosperity — as the hundred of billion waste on a pointless Brexit have illustrate — and our security . China do not get that , Russia do not get that , and the current occupant of the White House do not seem to get that . do the Government get that ? we be absolutely clear about the fact that national security be our top priority . we need to maintain our security in all part of the world . we be in very dangerous geopolitical circumstance , as I think all member recognise , and that be exactly why we be invest in our defence , in our NATO partnership , and in our relationship with the United States , our european counterpart and many other . we will always put the national security of our citizen and our country first . I have ask the Minister this question before , but if he will forgive I for say so , his answer could have benefit from additional clarity , so , with your permission , Mr Speaker , I be go to ask it again . the Minister have make it very clear , as have his fellow Ministers , that the urgency and necessity of action in this instance be base on the imminence of an adverse court judgment against the UK . he know that the International Court of Justice be not the court that we must be think of here , because the United Kingdom be not subject to the compulsory jurisdiction of the ICJ when it concern dispute involve member or former member of the Commonwealth , so it can not be an ICJ judgment that the Minister be worried about , can it ? if it be not that , what be it ? I have explain on a number of occasion , and the last Government know the reason , why it be necessary to proceed with a deal to secure the future operation of the base — that be very clear — and why our ally want we to secure it . let I give the right hon . and learn Gentleman an example . we currently have unrestricte and sole access to the electromagnetic spectrum , which be use to communicate with satellite and which be guarantee and govern by the International Telecommunication Union , a United Nations body base in Geneva . if we lose it we can still communicate , but so can other . that be one of many example . there be a series of aspect that be important to the operation and the security of the base , its maintenance into the future , and its ability to operate unimpeded . I can tell the right hon . and learn Gentleman that all those consideration , and the protection that we have secure , have be part of why we have reach this deal . we would not have agree a deal that do not secure the unimpeded operation of the base into the future and also leave it continually at risk , as it be at present . we have not be able to obtain any fact from the Government about the cost . the deal be , of course , inflation - link , and we do not know what inflation will be in the future . we do , however , know three fact : first , the base be crucial to our national interest ; secondly , China be seek to expand its influence across the Indian Ocean and Africa ; and thirdly , the Mauritian Government will have clear , unambiguous sovereignty over the island . how can the Minister anticipate that our interest be safeguard if he do not know what relationship future Mauritian government will have with China ? I have answer that question on a number of occasion . Mauritius be one of the few african country not to join the belt and road initiative — its alliance be with India — and we have clear guarantee in the treaty set out the protection against malign interest on the outer island and , indeed , in the surround area . that be why the whole United States security apparatus agree to this . we would not have agree a deal that do not protect . let I give some example . the UK have full control over Diego Garcia , include control over the electromagnetic spectrum , and unrestricted access to and from the base ; there be a buffer zone around Diego Garcia , in which nothing can be build or put in place without UK consent ; and , of course , there be the various different robust mechanism and review process to ensure that no activity in the outer island or the surround area can impinge on the operation of the base . the right hon . Gentleman can be assure that we would not have agree a deal that would allow any malign force , wherever it might be in the world , to use the space around the island or to interfere with our operation . this be about put the base on a secure footing into the future , for our national security and that of our ally . the Prime Minister , and the Minister just now , have stress the strategic importance of the military base at Diego Garcia . can the Minister make it clear that there will be no restriction in the lease as to what the base can be use for or what might be store there , and that the UK will have the right to extend that lease when it expire ? I can absolutely confirm that there will be no change in the operation of the base . that be the basis on which this agreement be found , along with all the provision and protection within it . as I explain in early answer , the lease be for 99 year , with the possibility of an extension at the end of it . can the Minister assure we that he will not be drag down the road of rebuild the empire , as he be invite to do by the hon . member for Clacton ( Nigel Farage ) , and will he also confirm that in international law , the Chagos island in their entirety have become part of Mauritius ? should we not be concentrate on the right of return of all Chagossians to the island , for which they have be campaign ever since the 1980 , when they be so disgracefully remove ? this be an issue of decolonisation , and of the Chagossians ' right of return . I should be grateful if the Minister confirm that any agreement with Mauritius will include their automatic right of return to the archipelago and their right at least to visit , and if necessary reside briefly in , Diego Garcia . they have suffer too long and too hard , and they have be treat so brutally that they deserve justice . the primary purpose here be national security and ensure the functioning of the base , but the right hon . Gentleman be absolutely right to raise the issue of the Chagossians and their treatment in the past , which we all agree be wrong , and their interest be absolutely at the heart of this agreement . it will mean that , for the first time , we can resume visit to all the island , include Diego Garcia , with the appropriate protection in place . hopefully , it will allow settlement on the outer island , which be part of our discussion with Mauritius on the treaty . of course , the Chagossians can , subject to the relevant security clearance , work on Diego Garcia as well . we recognise their land , grave and history , and our package of measure to support the chagossian community — both globally through a trust fund and here in the UK — will be very important . those be some of the issue on which we look forward to engage with chagossian representative over the week to come . the US have the most substantial interest in Diego Garcia , which be the fulcrum of what we be discuss today . although I understand that the Minister can not disclose the detail of the compensatory package that be be negotiate , be it reasonable to assume that the US will be make a substantial contribution to that compensatory package ? as I have say , I be not go to give a running commentary on the discussion . what I will say be that the full detail be be share with the current US Administration , and it be absolutely right that they have the chance to consider they . we be always be accuse of rush , but this have be go on for more than two year . there have be lengthy round of discussion and lengthy round of negotiation , mostly under the previous Government , but it be absolutely right that the new US Administration have time to consider the deal and to be provide with the detail , particularly around security issue , so that they can be absolutely sure about the security of the base and its operation into the future , which be in their interest and our . it be outrageous that we only know the detailed speculation about this deal because of the briefing from the Mauritian Prime Minister to his member of Parliament . it be outrageous that the amount of money be talk about now be £ 18 billion , which be enough to pay for the winter fuel allowance for all our pensioner for the next 12 year . the Minister will not tell this House the actual quantum of money that he be discuss with Mauritius . can he put it on the record now , and can he tell we out of which departmental budget it need to be pay ? I can tell the hon . Lady that the figure that she pull out be categorically untrue . she have the answer in her question : she say " speculation " . there be a huge amount of speculation , and I would take the vast majority of it with a pinch of salt . my right hon . and learn Friend the Member for Kenilworth and Southam ( Sir Jeremy Wright ) speak incredibly slowly and incredibly clearly — so much so that even I understand his question . however , the Minister do not actually give he an answer . when we join the ICJ , we do so on the basis of a carve - out that mean that no ruling by the ICJ in respect of Commonwealth or former Commonwealth country could be bind on his Majesty ' s Government . be it the ICJ that he be concerned about , or another court ? as we have say repeatedly , the base be not on a sustainable footing . this deal put it on a sustainable footing . what do it say about this Government ' s priority that they will deny pensioner the winter fuel payment , leave WASPI woman with nothing and fail to support job on Merseyside by support AstraZeneca at Speke , and that they should be contemplate an emergency Budget to raise more taxis on hard - work british people , while spaffe £ 9 billion on Mauritius ? I be not entirely sure what the right hon . Gentleman ' s question be . if he be talk about the previous Government ' s economic legacy to this one , we have a substantial disagreement . the fact be that we be pick up the piece from the mess in which his government leave the country economically and , crucially , in term of our national defence . we will not scrimp when it come to our national security , we will not scrimp when it come to our armed force , and we will not scrimp when it come to our overseas basis and our commitment to our ally . that be exactly why we be get this deal . I refer the House to my entry in the Register of Members ' Financial Interests . there have never be a satisfactory explanation as to why this deal be rush out hour before a very unpopular government call a general election in Mauritius , which create the impression that this Government be attempt to interfere in Mauritius ' s democratic process . the outcome be that the Mauritian Government secure only one seat in their Parliament in the general election . can the Minister finally tell we why it be imperative to rush the deal out in that timeframe , hour before an election be call ? again , I refer to my previous statement . there have be no rush . we have be engage with our Mauritian counterpart and the United States Administration , and we believe that we have a deal that meet all the interest of those involve and , crucially , that protect our national security . there be no rush . this matter must be so important if it consume so much of the Minister ' s credibility and £ 18 billion of taxpayer ' money . one would think there would be more than four Government back Benchers here to speak about it . be it that they do not care , or do they lack the literacy to discuss these issue ? the Minister say on the " Today " programme this morning that we have pass the situation on to the White House , that we await its feedback and that , when we receive it , we will know exactly where we stand as a Government . be that the type of sovereignty he be after ? there be so many different bit of the hon . Gentleman ' s question that I do not recognise . for a start , I be not on the " Today " programme this morning , so I do not know who he be refer to . I certainly do not recognise the figure of £ 18 billion , so I do not understand at all what he be get at . the Minister confirm to I in a write answer last week that we will not have a unilateral ability to extend the agreement . in December , the Minister for the Armed Forces , the hon . member for Plymouth Sutton and Devonport ( Luke Pollard ) , say that he be confident that member would back it when we see the detail . this be seemingly a renegotiated deal , and we have not see the detail of the original deal or this deal . what be the difference between the previous deal and the renegotiated deal , and when will the detail be present to member of this House ? there have be no change to the substance of the deal , nor to the overall quantum agree . we will present it in due course so that it go through the normal process of scrutiny in this House . I have a simple question : do the Government disagree with anything that the Prime Minister of Mauritius say about this deal yesterday , and if so , what be it ? I refer the hon . and learn Gentleman to the answer I give a few moment ago . the comment of the Prime Minister of Mauritius be for he to make . as I say , there have be no change to the substance of the deal , nor to the overall quantum agree . we believe that we have reach a deal that be in the interest of the UK and Mauritius and , indeed , of the United States and our ally . Parliament have be without a say on the deal , despite numerous effort to raise concern . why should Donald Trump have a say about british sovereign territory when british elect official do not ? when will the Minister ensure that this House be give a final say on the deal ? this House will have a final say on the deal , in the usual way for consider such measure . legislation will be lay in due course . it be absolutely right that the United States Administration have the chance to consider the deal , to raise concern and to be brief on the full detail , which be why we have give they time to do so . of course , our relationship with the United States on these island be also govern by international law and an exchange of letter between the United States and the United Kingdom , and it be absolutely right that we meet those obligation too . we also have share commitment to security in the Indo - Pacific , so it be absolutely right that the deal be agree . it be agree with the US national security apparatus prior to the election , and it be right that the new Administration get their chance to look at it and ask whatever question they wish . will the fcdo team please confirm who be the lead Minister in these negotiation ? these negotiation be between the two government . there be a range of interest at play , and a range of Ministers have be involve in the negotiation . there be equity here for the fcdo , the Ministry of Defence and other part of Government , so it be a joint hmg negotiation . this Labour Government be make choice , claim that they have no money , from tax job , family business and family farm and cut winter fuel payment for pensioner to delay much - need new hospital such as Whipps Cross and the Princess Alexandra . what do the Minister say to my constituent in Epping Forest who be ask how this Government can now find billion of pound to pay to give away british sovereign territory and , in so do , compromise national and global security ? I simply do not accept the premise of the hon . Gentleman ' s question . we will not scrimp on national security . we will invest in our national security , we will secure our basis and we will invest in our armed force . we will invest in our defence and we will protect the british people . we will invest in it , not scrimp on it as the previous Government do . although I might have a different opinion , I always try to be respectful , and I hope that the Minister will receive my question as such . he will be aware of my opposition , and indeed the opposition on this side of the House , to the Chagos deal in term of the citizenship and the identity of those islander , as well as the security our base . to this , I have to add a word of caution on funding , as I see farm be attack by the farming inheritance tax on the one hand and an open - ended cheque be give to Mauritius on the other . will the Minister not rethink this terrible decision , or well still , give the clear division between this side of the House and his side , let we make that decision ? of course the House will have the right to make its decision in due course when legislation be put forward . that be only right and there will be ample scrutiny . the hon . Gentleman have always have a keen interest in the interest of the Chagossians , which I deeply respect . as I have say , there be a range of different view within the community , but their interest be very much at the heart of this . he refer citizenship , and of course they will retain their right to british citizenship , which have be in place since 2022 . many chagossian have choose to make their home here and to take british citizenship . that be right , and we all agree that what happen historically be wrong . english Devolution and Local Government with permission , I would like to update the House on devolution in England and local government reorganisation . the no . 1 mission of this Government be to unlock growth in our region and put money back in the pocket of work people . every one of our proud town and city have a vital contribution to make to growth , but for all the promise of level up , when the rubber hit the road , government ' first instinct have be to hoard power and hold our economy back . since I launch the devolution White Paper in December , I have be overwhelm by the excitement from community want to join the devolution revolution . with the measure I will announce today , if all go to plan , over 44 million people will see the benefit of devolution , which be close to 80 % of the country . that be more progress in a short amount of time than under any Government in Britain ' s history . today , I be delighted to announce six new potential devolution area that will be part of our devolution priority programme with a view to mayoral election in May 2026 . these place will get a fast - track ticket to drive real change in their area . while devolution can sound techie , the outcome be simple . it be a plan for put more money in people ' s pocket , a plan for quick , well , cheap transport design with local people in mind , and a plan for put politic back in the service of work people . today , I can confirm to member across the House that the place on the devolution priority programme be : Cumbria ; Cheshire and Warrington ; Greater Essex ; Hampshire and Solent ; Norfolk and Suffolk ; and Sussex and Brighton . Mr Speaker , a seventh area that be somewhat familiar to both of we , Lancashire , be already decide its mayoral devolution option , and we will look at its proposal in the autumn in parallel with the priority programme . when I become Deputy Prime Minister , I promise that this Government would change the future of the north of England so that northerner would no long be dictate to from Whitehall . the programme I announce today will see the north of England cover by devolution , but this programme be for all of England , as be show by the significant progress in the east and the south . today , legislation come into force create mayoral devolution in Greater Lincolnshire and in Hull and East Yorkshire , which be elect their first mayor this May , as well as foundational devolution in Lancashire and in Devon and Torbay . every place can see a benefit from devolution , and we want to move quickly to realise these benefit within the first term of our Government . whether it be more regular bus service , more affordable housing or the simple fact that local people will have a local champion with regional influence , mayor have a prove track record of deliver growth and high living standard . but we be clear that where a mayor be not use their power to benefit their resident , the Government will have the tool to ensure delivery . we will create strong accountability measure in the english devolution Bill to ensure that mayor deliver the housing , transport and infrastructure that their resident need . but devolution be only as strong as the foundation it be build on . despite the funding injection from this government , council of all political stripe be in crisis . a decade of cut and sticky - plaster politic have leave council in a 14 - year doom loop . that be why we be fix the foundation of local government by reform funding and focus on prevention . I know how vital local government be for achieve our government mission . I also know that reform local government mean tough choice — choice that the Conservatives be simply too unwilling to take . councillor of all type , include district councillor , tell I that the two - tier system be not work , so alongside our wide reform , this Government be commit to make simple , more efficient and clear structure so that resident can access good public service without eye - water price tag . these kind of reform will not happen overnight , but we be determined to deliver fair funding to end the postcode lottery so that everyone get the support from public service that they deserve . that be why today I will be issue a legal invitation to all 21 two - tier area to submit proposal for new unitary council . letter and the accompany write statement will set out the requirement for these proposal . new unitary structure will be the right size to achieve efficiency , improve capacity and withstand financial shock , but I be clear about the need for flexibility when reorganisation go hand in hand with mayoral devolution and when it be couple with ambitious plan for housing growth , so these proposal will be develop with effective local engagement and dovetail with devolution arrangement . I want to reassure member that this process will involve extensive engagement with local community and member of this House . turn to the timing of the local election in May , for certain area a significant amount of work be need to unlock devolution and deliver reorganisation . for this reason , some area request to postpone their election until May 2026 . the Government ' s starting point be for all election to go ahead unless there be a strong justification for postponement . the bar be high , and rightly so . I be agree to only half of the request that be make . after careful consideration , I have agree to postpone election only in place where this be central to our manifesto promise to deliver devolution . we be not in the business of hold election to body that will not exist , and where we do not know what will replace they . this would be an expensive and irresponsible waste of taxpayer ' money , and any party call for those election to go ahead must explain how this waste would be justifiable . to that end , I have agree to postpone local election in East Sussex and West Sussex , in Essex and Thurrock , in Hampshire and the Isle of Wight , and in Norfolk and Suffolk . I have also agree to a postponement in Surrey , give the urgency of create sustainable new unitary structure , to unlock devolution for this area . I intend to move to election to the new shadow unitary council in all these area , as be the usual arrangement for local government reorganisation . we be postpone election for one year , from May 2025 to May 2026 . there be a well - establish precedent , as the conservative party know all too well . North Yorkshire , Cumbria , Somerset , Buckinghamshire and Northamptonshire all have their election reschedule by the previous Government . I will table the relevant secondary legislation when parliamentary time allow , and local election will take place as schedule in all other area . I make it clear that all two - tier area should be make plan to move to simple structure , regardless of election delay . the invitation will be send to all two - tier area , with a timetable take into account that their election have be delay . I know that the devolution journey may not always be comfortable for politician in Whitehall , but it be not suppose to be . after all , we be undergo a generational power shift from Whitehall to the town hall . we have already see a huge amount of good will from Labour Secretaries of State who be willing to give up newly win power for the sake of our town and city . the Secretaries of State for Energy Security and Net Zero , for Transport , for work and Pensions for Science , Innovation and Technology have lead the devolution charge , and now the Prime Minister and I ask Members to do the same . I commend this statement to the House . I call the shadow Secretary of State . I thank the Secretary of State for her statement , and for give I advance sight of it . although we support the principle of devolve power to local area , we be totally against the Secretary of State ' s plan to abolish every county council and district council in England , and we be against the unprecedented mass postponement of local election for at least one year . today be a very worrying day for democracy in this country . the Secretary of State be make local government less accountable to the people and more accountable to she . contrary to her statement , she be not do away with a two - tier system ; she be simply create a new tier of orwellian - sound strategic authority that be close to she and close to Whitehall , for she to use as a pawn to implement this Government ' s deeply unpopular socialist agenda . the reality be that this be delegation , not devolution — not devolution but a clear centralisation . as Dr Andy Mycock of Leeds University set out in his recent paper on the Secretary of State ' s plan , there be clear concern about the potential " power drain of back - bench local councillor if local government be see increasingly as a delivery agent . " let we be clear that this announcement be a huge upheaval of local government right across the country . this be not a government manifesto commitment , and the Secretary of State have no mandate for it . these be her choice , and she have put a gun to the head of local council to force they into a decision with little regard for local people . this be not the invitation she claim in her statement ; it be an instruction . no council should be bully or blackmail into local government restructuring . local government should be local to resident and respect local identity . we have a proud record of support devolution and , rather than this top - down approach , we have work with local people to deliver devolution from the ground up . the Government have try to claim that they be take a bottom - up approach — indeed , the Minister for Local Government and English Devolution say exactly that on the Floor of the House on 20 January — yet the Secretary of State admit in her statement that " all two - tier area should be make plan to move to simple structure " . impose Whitehall diktat on local people , rather than the locally lead approach we follow , be prone to problem , especially when rush . how exactly will this restructuring put more money into people ' s pocket , as the Secretary of State claim ? what evidence do she have that it will mean low bill for taxpayer ? how be this consistent with the Prime Minister ' s claim in March 2023 that council tax would not increase by a " single penny " under a Labour Government ? do the Secretary of State accept that she have no electoral mandate for this huge upheaval ? do she also accept that these change , which will mean that every single council employee in two - tier area have to reapply for their job , will have an impact on local service , include planning delay ? how will this impact on her plan to deliver 1 . 5 million home in this Parliament — a 50 % increase on the 50 - year record level deliver by the previous Government ? council in area of the country include in this announcement be carry very high level of debt — Woking and Thurrock , to name but two . what support will the Secretary of State give to authority face eye - water level of debt , and will this debt be write off ? what be she do to ensure that , as a result of today ' s announcement , authority do not embark on reckless asset disposal programme and spend spree ? can she confirm that election will be delay for a maximum of a year , or be it the case , as we have hear , that election could be delay by up to three year ? I have be very clear that Labour be embark on a once - in - a - generation project to unlock growth in our region , and to shift power out of Westminster and into local community . from the shadow Secretary of State ' s response , I can not quite figure out whether the Conservatives agree or disagree with it . first , this project will unlock billion of pound to spend on frontline service , which be why council have come forward and want to work with we to ensure that we deliver . it will be for local area to decide whether they apply to the priority programme and respond to the statutory invitation to all two - tier area . we have make no bone about the fact that we want to see reorganisation so that money and funding go into the public service that need it most . secondly , the hon . Gentleman talk about money . we have put £ 69 billion into local authority , which be a 6 . 8 % real - term increase . in contrast , there be 23 % cut in the last decade under the Conservatives . he talk about council debt , but it be his Government who push council to the brink . he talk about the impact on local service , and we be work with council to inject the money and resource they need so that they can deliver for local people . it be his Government who bring they to the brink . I can not believe that the hon . Gentleman want to talk about housing target , because his government fail to meet their housing target every single year , leave we with a housing crisis . he should be apologise for his Government ' s record on housing . we be proud of the work we be do on devolution . we be proud that we be work with council . we be proud that we be bigge up the work of our local authority and , unlike the Conservatives , we will continue to support they . I call the Chair of the Housing , Communities and Local Government Committee . I thank the Secretary of State for set out the Government ' s ambition for devolution across England . I welcome the commitment to put power into the hand of local community , so that people feel decision be be make with they , not to they . we have see proposal from area , include Essex county council , that want and welcome some of these change , and we should respond to they . some council will see election postpone but , again , 19 council area be expand under the last government . the expansion of the mayoral model be welcome , build on the success of the last few year . on tackle regional inequality , this statement include part of the country that , frankly , have be fail by successive government . these be major structural reform to local government , and there be concern about disruption to service during their implementation . council be already see this , and it will have an impact on the most vulnerable . will the Secretary of State ensure that these transition arrangement do not have an impact on the essential day - to - day service on which so many of our constituent rely ? I thank the Chair of the Select Committee for recognise that local council and area have come forward , and that this Government be respond to their request and work with they . when I become Secretary of State , I promise they that this Government would set a different tone . we will work with local authority and respect they , regardless of their political colour , and we will deliver for local people . I also welcome my hon . friend ' s comment on the mayoral model ; we have see how that model have bring positive change to local area . I acknowledge the concern raise about capacity and local service . we be ensure that we work with local authority to increase support for they , so that this exercise will deliver well public local service for people and will not be to their detriment . I call the liberal Democrat spokesperson . I thank the Secretary of State for advanced sight of her speech , but I be disappointed that we read the list of cancel election on social medium , well before it be make available to Parliament . how be that allow to happen ? a key pillar of our democracy be the right to vote , with people make a mark for the person they want to represent they . the conservative council that ask for and have be grant the right to cancel their election have create crisis in special educational need and have let their resident down . the Conservatives should have be kick out of county hall last May , as they be kick out of government last summer , but now those council have be give the right to help design the new authority . the plan , which also signal the end of district council , be completely undemocratic . we welcome the move to mayoral authority — it be in train and , as a former council leader , I know council be already work on it — but there be no democratic mandate for the cancelling of council in ancient city such as Colchester and Winchester , the previous capital of England . that be not in the labour manifesto . what active role will those district have in the co - production of the new unitary authority ? when will those district council cease to exist ? for priority area such as Surrey and Hampshire , what assurance will the Secretary of State give that the election will not take place after May 2026 ? for place that have have their own authority for hundred or even thousand of year , what support will be provide to develop meaningful town council with statutory power , so that the identity of place such as Winchester can be maintain forever ? I be disappoint when thing be on social medium first . I respect this House , Madam Deputy Speaker , and I have come here at the early opportunity to update the House . on the cancel election , councillor in those area be elect , and we have delay for reorganisation only under exceptional circumstance , where council have come forward . as I have make absolutely clear , the delay be for a year , from May 2025 to May 2026 . as I state early , I turn down many more council because I believe that democracy be crucial . there be an active role for district council . we be work with district and local authority to ensure that the consultation period and reorganisation be be do with they , not be do to they . it be incredibly important to stress that . may I follow up on two issue ? first , follow the comment make by the Chair of the Levelling up , Housing and Communities Committee , while devolution arrangement be be put in place , there be still pressure on council to deliver exist service . will the Secretary of State look at some additional short - term funding to help council official with that process ? secondly , in the long term , we will need a lot of very good councillor to deliver the new authority . will she look once again at reinstate the right of councillor to become part of the local government pension scheme , so that people who often give up financially in order to be councillor do not have to do so in the long term , with reduce pension ? we recognise the pressure on council . we be deliver a real cash increase to council , with £ 5 billion more in the settlement . the Minister for Local Government and English Devolution will be lead a debate on that later today . we recognise that council have it difficult under the previous Administration , which be why we be work with they . we be give they real - term increase to their budget and we want to see reorganisation that focus on the delivery of service for the people who desperately need it . some of we have be around the local government reform circus on a number of occasion in the past , and I fear that the Secretary of State will find that this piecemeal approach will be disastrous . one of the old local government union in the country , the Federation of Cinque Ports , may heave a sigh of relief , but I suspect that the district , city and county council in Kent will find themselves between a rock and a hard place . we have one unitary authority — Medway — and two that we think be go to be unitary authority , which it now seem will not be unitary authority , so how can the Secretary of State reassure I that we will not be leave with a lot of lame duck local authority for the foreseeable future ? first , the right hon . Gentleman can not be old enough — surely not . I say to he gently that he also can not have it both way : he suggest that the reform be piecemeal , but his Front Benchers be suggest that I be tear down local democracy , which be just not true . local area be come forward , and we be work with local council and local area . I have talk about the real - term cash injection , which my hon . friend the Minister for Local Government and English Devolution will set out in detail later this afternoon , and about the collaborative way we want to work with local authority . I do not see any lame duck local authority out there ; I see local authority , of all political persuasion , deliver vital public service , that have feel absolutely pillare by the previous Government , and now we see a Government determine to change that . I congratulate the Secretary of State and her Ministers on the work they have do on this matter , and on the exhaustive consultation that have take place between mp , local councillor and stakeholder — no one be be force on this journey . we in Norwich and Norfolk be happy to be on the express elevator to devolution . after 14 year of austerity and cut to adult social care and child ' s service under the last government , will the Secretary of State promise we that she will encourage the new local authority to engage in co - development and co - production of those service , and that they will be take in - house , so that we can end the privatisation and outsourcing that have ruin those service for so many year ? I thank my hon . friend for recognise the countless round of consultation by my hon . friend the Minister for Local Government and English Devolution . dare I say it , his door be always open to all hon . member to discuss devolution — I once call he " devo - man " at the Local Government Association conference , and I stand by that . there have be significant pressure on adult and child ' s service in local government , as member from across the House have recognise in question to the Prime Minister and in other debate . I encourage local authority and local service to see where they can co - design service and support people in their local area . these measure be not about party politic or what happen here in Westminster , but about the delivery of the vital service that , critically , many people rely on day in , day out . the Secretary of State be propose to abolish Maldon district council , which cover my constituency , and absorb it within a local authority that will be base mile away , where Maldon ' s councillor will be massively outnumber by councillor from area with no connection to the district at all . how do that enhance local decision making ? we be work with local area use a bottom - up approach to deliver well public service . the right hon . Gentleman ' s party push local authority and local government to the brink . he should be apologise , talk to member on his Front Bench , and get on board by support devolution and local government reorganisation where it deliver for his constituent . I thank the Deputy Prime Minister for her statement . I be excited that Essex , include Southend , will be part of the priority programme . I be keen that local area should keep their local identity , so will she give we some assurance on that ? with regard to opposition to local reorganisation , devolution and postpone the election , the Tories on Essex county council be fully supportive of our programme . will she provide assurance that delay the election be right for democracy and for the taxpayer , because it will save fund in area where local authority will not exist in several month ' time ? my hon . friend be absolutely right ; there be no point have election to a body that will not exist in 12 month ' time . that would cost huge sum of taxpayer ' money , which , quite frankly , be not warrant . he be also absolutely right to recognise that the Conservatives in Essex be the one to come forward . I commend they for that , and for want to reorganise and see well service and power put into their local area . on his point about local identity , that will absolutely be the case . I be a Mancunian , but I be also from Tameside . have a mayor and be part of the combine authority have not stop tamesider be proud of our local area . disappointingly , the Heart of Wessex devolution deal be not include in the priority programme , despite the region be well place to support the Government ' s growth objective and show national resilience in clean energy , defence , digital technology and food security . can the Secretary of State confirm the option available for region that be not in the priority programme but wish to move at pace to enable they to deliver and benefit from devolution ? I thank the hon . member for recognise the positivity that devolution can unlock for local area . the deal she mention be not include in this round because it be not develop enough . however , I urge member and those local area to continue to work with the government because we want to deliver for they and we will continue to make sure we can deliver devolution across the whole of England . as you will know , Madam Deputy Speaker , council such as Bradford have be cut to the bone . we have lose £ 350 million — 60 % of our funding — since 2010 , force impossible cut in social care , in homelessness support , and in special educational need and disability service . the reality be that 14 year of Tory failure have result in our community be devastate and our service decimate . even though additional council tax flexibility have be grant to place such as Bradford , that be no long - term solution . frankly , it be not fair on resident to have to pick up the tab for 14 year of Tory failure . will my right hon . friend confirm how the Government will deliver a long - term sustainable settlement to put council on a stable financial footing , which must reflect real need ? my hon . friend be right to categorise what the Conservatives have do to local authority , and it be not party political to say that ; many council of all different political persuasion will say that the way the previous Government go about local government be not to respect they and not to fund they . we recognise the vital public service that local government deliver and we recognise what it do . the Minister for Local Government and English Devolution will be set out our plan to give sustainable funding for local government into the future , because we recognise that local government be vitally important and consider its work to be critical to this Government ' s mission . may I invite the Secretary of State to publish the evidence that the local government reorganisation will actually , in the long run , save money ? there be none , unless she can publish hard evidence . may I also ask she to heed the warning of the Chair and former Chair of the Housing , Communities and Local Government Committee — the hon . member for Vauxhall and Camberwell Green ( Florence Eshalomi ) and for Sheffield South East ( Mr Betts ) respectively — who warn about the disruption of abolish two - tier local government ; that it will be a mess ; and that the Secretary of State will have to fund that mess out of central Government funding , because otherwise there will be more cut in public service to pay for the reorganisation ? which be it to be ? the hon . Gentleman should speak to his colleague in Dorset , because they have make saving and they understand what local government reorganisation can deliver . we have see that up and down the country . his party use to believe in devolution , and we have see how that can deliver for local area and we can save money . this be not just about save money , however ; this be about create devolution and push power out of whitehall into the town hall so that mayor and local authority can deliver public service that be responsive to local area ' need . that be what we be try to deliver from the bottom up , work with local authority . the hon . Gentleman should get on board . I will take a moment to thank the many council leader and staff from across my area who have work tirelessly to remove barrier and block in order to get a deal for Bedford , Luton , Milton Keynes and Central Bedfordshire . unfortunately — and possibly prove the argument for why we , more than any other , need devolution — those council leader and staff have come into contact with a Government Department that have not try to move barrier out of the way , but have instead put they in the way of achieve the devolution deal that we want and we know be need for our region . let I be perfectly clear . we know that this Government want to build 1 . 5 million home . in a place that be build more home than almost anywhere else in the country , we could have contribute to that , but the situation I mention will put some barrier in the way of do so . in a place with one of the most incredible economy in the country , we could have make a contribution , but we be unable to do so . can the Secretary of State therefore let we know whether she will look again at whether the Bedfordshire , Luton and Milton Keynes offer can move forward , so that we can get the deal in place by 2026 ? I thank my hon . friend for his contribution . I also welcome and reiterate his thank to council leader who have come forward ; I thank they for work with we , and we will continue to do so . the proposal need further development , but we will work to achieve devolution across the whole of England . the Minister for Local Government and English Devolution will happily continue to meet my hon . friend and council leader to develop their proposal . under the proposal , Hampshire county council will be scrap , as will Fareham borough council . of more pressing concern to resident in Fareham , however , be Hampshire county council ' s worry proposal to close Henry Cort community college , a valuable and popular secondary school , which would disrupt the education of hundred of local child and family . give the significant reorganisation to Hampshire county council , be it not right that the proposal should be stop so that the view of local community and parent can properly be feed into the process ? the closure of the community college be nothing to do with local government reorganisation or the work that we be set out today . I kindly remind the right hon . and learn Member that in the previous 14 year her Government take a sledgehammer to local government , which be hit hard by the cut . where there be a 23 % cut in the last decade , we have give a 6 . 8 % cash term increase to local authority , which will hopefully help to turn the tide against the devastation they face under her government . I wholeheartedly welcome the reform and , importantly , the funding injection , which will help council to rebuild after 14 year of disastrous Tory austerity . can the Deputy Prime Minister confirm that her Department will move to long - term funding settlement for local authority as soon as possible , give financial certainty and help to deliver local service for local people ? yes , absolutely . I be really pleased that my hon . friend welcome the cash injection to council . however , I also recognise , and I will say this in the House today , that council be face unprecedented pressure on their service . demand be up and council have have 14 year of devastation under the Conservatives . that be why we want to work with council . we recognise the pressure that they be under , and we want to see long - term funding settlement and to put they on a sustainable footing for the future . that be the difference between this Labour Government that will work with council and the Tories that cut they . I , too , thank the Deputy Prime Minister for end the uncertainty around the Gloucestershire county council election take place this May . bear that in mind , will she set out a clear timetable for those two - tier county such as Gloucestershire as to when they be expect to provide proposal on any wish to change ? will she also confirm that the county council elect in May this year will serve a full four - year term of office ? I thank the hon . gentleman for his comment . on the certainty that he and local leader have request , we will set out a timetable and be write to all mps and local area . as I gently say before , we be try to work with area . this be not about we push down ; it be about we work with local leader and deliver for local people . we will set out that timetable and work with local area around that . I thank my right hon . friend for her commitment to end the farcical situation that we have have for a very long time in Hastings and Rye . we have two tier of local government , which mean that when a resident come to I to talk about a block drain , I have to ask they exactly where the leave be . if they be the top of the drain , it be the responsibility of the borough council ; if they be below the grill , it be that of the county council . I welcome her commitment to end that farcical situation and make service more efficient for resident , but as we embark on this process in East Sussex , I ask she to hear the voice of our seaside community and to make sure that , when we be design a unitary authority footprint , it be of a size that work for our community and that allow we to tackle the inequality that they face . will she comment specifically on what size this Government may consider for unitary authority ? I thank my hon . friend for her comment and for her contribution about what it be like at local level for people , include in Hastings and Rye , when they have a two - tier system in place . I can reassure she about what we be try to do in term of the size of the unitary authority . it be not a hard target . we recognise that certain area may have different need . this be a way of progressing , and we will work with local area to look at what their need be and then adapt . this be not set in stone — we be not say , " it must be this . " it be about try to get an idea of a ballpark figure for the size of the authority , but , obviously , this will be with local area work with we . it be disgraceful that Eastbourne conservative councillor have vote for the cancellation of local election in my town and in Sussex this May , with no consultation , no democracy and no mandate from the people of Eastbourne . they have secure themselves an extra year to squat in County Hall , to press ahead with cut to Linden Court day centre for people with learn disability , Milton Grange for people with dementia , and many more . do the Secretary of State agree that people who rely on those service would consider the protection of they as an exceptional circumstance to justify the continuation of these election , not their cancellation ? I kindly say to the hon . member that , whether we like it or not , the people of Eastbourne vote for those councillor . we have say that we will facilitate a one - year delay for reorganisation that will deliver for the people of Eastbourne . I do not see this as an opportunity for people to " squat " , or whatever else the hon . Member say . those councillor be elect and they be do the job for their local area , and we will continue to deliver the big wave of real - term cash increase — 6 . 8 % or £ 69 billion — to local authority to help they deliver service and turn the tide on the year of cut and failure from the Conservatives . I thank the Government for the additional money to my council , which have go some way to address the horrendous cut from the previous Government . I love my city and the people in it , but we have be fail by government and council , leave we with inadequate housing , job opportunity , transport , education and public service across my city . the council ' s decision and hard work to apply and now be on the priority list for devolution be a positive and tangible opportunity for the people of Portsmouth , especially in what I believe have be the neglect northern part of my city . I be not deny that hard work , collaboration and co - operation will be need across council and party and that strong leadership , communication and transparency will be vital to ensure success . we know that local government be at its good when decision be make by local people , and we have see the positive change of devolution . I will do what I can to support my city , but can the Minister confirm that Portsmouth , in move to devolution , will have both financial and government support to enable it to progress and to meet deadline ? I congratulate my hon . friend on always champion her city of Portsmouth in this place . she have make a valuable contribution since the general election . I can confirm to she that we will be give financial and logistical support to local authority as we move towards support they in deliver good local service . before I call the next member , may I ask people to keep their question short ? I refer member to my entry in the Register of Members ' Financial Interests as a Norfolk county councillor . the Conservatives lead Norfolk county council have nearly bankrupt our county , fail child with special educational need and disability , penalise those with disability , blow £ 50 million on four mile of never - to - be - build road , break our transport system , tax and complicate our recycling centre and leave our road pockmark with pothole . what be it about this glitter record of success that attract the Secretary of State to allow they to negotiate the future of Norfolk ' s devolution ? I be not as close to what be happen in the hon . Gentleman ' s area as he be , but what I will say be that local people have elect their local councillor and it be for they to do that . what we be try to achieve here be to push power out of whitehall into local area and to reform local government so that we can build well public service for local people . I hope the hon . Gentleman will work with we to deliver that for his constituent . get power out of Whitehall and into the hand of local people will be a game - changer for many community who feel very distant from this place , but can we ensure that Whitehall , its vested interest and petty rule do not get in the way of more devolution in the west midland ? do my right hon . friend agree that it be sign of how the conservative party have change that it now fundamentally disagree with Lord Heseltine ' s view of local government set out some time ago ? I absolutely agree . my hon . friend know local government particularly well because of his contribution for many year before he be elect to this place . we do want to see more devolution across the west midland . this Government be determined to work with local authority and local area to deliver devolution , because we know that people with skin in the game will deliver well public service , which those people rely on . I be one of the few scot who be big fan of english devolution . I sort of believe that England can just about survive without the input of scot like I . the right hon . Lady call this reform " ambitious " , but it have all the ambition of a hesitant dormouse . where be the grand Gordon Brown vision of a senate of the nation and region and the abolition of the House of Lords ? the only thing that seem to be go on down there be she stuff that place full of even more labour donor , crony and fail mp . it be the last Labour Government who deliver devolution for Scotland , and we be really proud of our history . I think " timid " be an unfair characterisation . I have never be consider timid in the way that I do my politic . as I set out in my statement , 80 % of England will be cover by devolution under these plan . that be a fantastic step forward for all part of England , and I look forward to continue to work with Scotland — they have get their devolution , which we deliver for they . in Burton - on - Trent , we have a magnificent grade 2 list town hall that be donate to the town by Michael Bass . it now serve as the headquarters for East Staffordshire borough council . what assurance can the Deputy Prime Minister give I that building like this , which be key to our local identity , will be protect as local reorganisation take place ? we value local community asset and be bring forward plan for great power , include community right to buy . we will ask all council to ensure that heritage asset be consider . he will know that the Under - Secretary of State for Housing , Communities and Local Government , my hon . friend the Member for Nottingham North and Kimberley ( Alex Norris ) , who be not in his place today , have be do vital work in this area . if my hon . friend want a meeting with he , I will make sure that he get one . labour be cancel the local election for antidemocratic reason — it be as simple as that . [ interruption . ] Labour member do not want to hear it , but it be as simple as that . if the Secretary of State really believe that there be widespread public support in Essex for this devolution process , let we have a referendum to prove it . and finally , if local government be as skint as she say , why be this Government go pay 18 billion quid to Mauritius to rent back a base that we already own ? how do that help local government ? I want short , on - point question . it be not labour that be cancel the local election ; it be those council that be ask for the opportunity to do reorganisation . I think the right hon . Gentleman would welcome the idea of not waste taxpayer ' money , but maybe I be wrong , and he have have a change of heart . I refer member to my entry in the Register of Members ' Financial Interests as a Leicestershire county councillor . I thank the Secretary of State for her statement on local government reorganisation . as Leicestershire have apply to go forward in the fast - track scheme , but be unsuccessful , can the Deputy Prime Minister confirm the timetable for those other local authority , so that they can also be include in the devolution revolution and secure long - term benefit for our community ? again , I encourage local authority to respond to the consultation . we recognise that some will be disappoint that we have not take their offer forward this time round . some of they need a bit more time and development , but we be absolutely committed to deliver that , because I want to see devolution across the whole of England . I draw attention to my entry in the Register of Members ' Financial Interests . I thank the Deputy Prime Minister for give my constituent in Reigate and Banstead certainty over the timing of election ; however , many of they will be disappoint . one of my big concern , which need to be seriously consider , relate to debt . I be not against unitarie in principle ; there be many benefit and advantage to they . however , I have great concern about debt sit in other district and borough council for which my constituent may end up foot the bill . please can she reassure I that my constituent will not be pay a bill that they do not incur ? the hon . Member make a fair comment , and I welcome her appreciation of the certainty that people need . we will continue to work with local area . I understand that some area have more debt than other . the Minister for Local Government and English Devolution will lead a debate later on the local government settlement . we know the difficulty that local council have face , and we will continue to have discussion to ensure that the hon . member ' s local area will not suffer detriment because of unitarisation . we want to see positivity for her local constituent . I enthusiastically welcome the statement , and the great quality of consultation and ambition behind it . I particularly welcome what it mean for Lancashire . we have be leave behind for far too long , so it be wonderful to see the Government prioritise our great county . full devolution with a mayor , along with local government reorganisation , can unlock our potential , deliver growth , and ultimately put money in our resident ' pocket . will the Deputy Prime Minister join I in call on Lancashire leader to grasp this generational opportunity ? absolutely . I be hopeful that Lancashire will have a mayor by 2026 . we will continue to work with local leader across Lancashire to deliver that , so that my hon . friend can continue to be proud of his local area and the contribution that it make to all people of Lancashire , as I be sure Mr Speaker be as well . when I speak to resident across Guildford , they raise again and again their fear of the impact of debt , and the particular financial problem that we have in Surrey . local organisation have raise again and again their worry about how those problem will affect their bottom line , and the fund that they need to serve resident when council no long provide service . will the Minister agree to meet all Surrey mps to discuss how the Government will address the issue of Surrey ' s finance ? so far , we have not be involve in those conversation . we understand the impact of debt on Surrey , which be why it be in the priority programme . I be happy for the Minister for Local Government and English Devolution to meet the hon . member and other on this issue . we recognise the difficulty in Surrey , and want to make sure that people across the whole of England can benefit from reorganisation , include her constituent . special educational need and disability family in Erewash and across Derbyshire have be broadly let down by Conservative - run Derbyshire county council , as be profoundly show in the recent ofsted report . while I firmly believe that reorganisation of our local service will improve SEND service , news of the devolution plan have cause family in my area to worry that reorganisation might mean further disruption to service . can the Secretary of State reassure I and the many SEND family in Erewash that measure will be take to ensure a smooth handover between the old authority and the new ? I totally understand the concern that my hon . friend raise on behalf of his constituent in Erewash , and the situation that Derbyshire county council face . we put £ 1 billion into SEND , and we have increase funding for local authority . we recognise the pressure ; I think it be fair to say that SEND come up significantly in this Chamber . we be work , hopefully on a cross - party basis , to deliver for child with special educational need and disability . we hear only this afternoon during Prime Minister ' s question about family who be really concerned about the lack of service and support , and we will continue to deliver for they . I thank the Secretary of State for finally confirm that election will go ahead in Devon . however , we have be tell that , if we be not select this time round , devolution would be impose on we . will the Secretary of State please give an explanation to my constituent in Exmouth and Exeter East of what that imposition will look like ? we sign the devolution deal for Devon just this week , and be work to go forward . I welcome the hon . member ' s comment on the certainty that we be deliver . this be the start of a process . we will continue to work with local leader , include member of Parliament from across the House who have interest in their local area , to deliver well public service and push power down from Westminster into local area so that they can unleash the opportunity around transport and skill that we be determined to deliver for the people of Devon . Conservative - lead Gloucestershire county council have a dreadful record . the Care Quality Commission say that adult social service require improvement , child ' s service be describe as catastrophic , the fire service be in special measure , the health service be fail , local authority school be crumble , the SEND system be break , and do not get I start on the pothole . no wonder the Conservatives on the county council want our election cancel this May . will the Deputy Prime Minister agree to meet I and local leader in Gloucester to ensure that we get the good deal for Gloucester resident from local government reorganisation and devolution ? like the rest of England , Gloucester do not fare well when the Conservatives be in power . council have face significant pressure and increase , at the same time as a 23 % cut in the last decade by the previous Government . the Minister for Local Government and English Devolution will happily meet my hon . friend and other member on these issue . we be determined to deliver well funding for local authority , and unlock their potential through the devolution agenda that we have set out . the Deputy Prime Minister have talk a lot about additional resource , but they be not be spread evenly . there be significant additional cost to deliver service in the rural area that I represent , but as well as abolish the rural service grant , the provisional settlement will give around 40 % less spending power per head to rural area than to urban area . do the Deputy Prime Minister agree that that be not fair , and commit to do something about it ? rural area will also receive a cash - term increase ; we have give one of 6 . 8 % . we recognise the challenge that local authority have face , particularly in rural area . that be why we have be work with local authority to turn the tide on the cut under the previous Government , and invest in our local public service to ensure that they be fit for purpose and can deliver for local people . I wholeheartedly welcome the Government ' s announcement on devolution in Essex , which both the conservative leader and the labour - run unitarie be very supportive of . this announcement be right . it be generation - defining , and will deliver real local democracy . Southend and Rochford , and Essex , will be at their very good when decision be make by local people who have skin in the game . do the Secretary of State agree that the benefit of devolution be well achieve where there be strong local leadership and accountability ? I agree with my hon . friend . I be really pleased that essex devolution be go forward , and that there have be cross - party support and real collaboration to achieve it . that be the culture change that I want to see . as the Secretary of State , that be what I envisage go forward , which be why I will work with all local authority to deliver for people across England . I be a strong supporter of genuine devolution of funding and power , but when the Deputy Prime Minister say that she want to devolve power from Whitehall to the town hall , my constituent be concerned that it could in practice mean centralise power from local community to remote county hall . can she confirm that the Government will not impose huge remote unitary county council if that be against the wish of local resident , and how can she justify cancel local election when the county councillor last elect in 2021 have no mandate to lead on negotiate change that be expect to last half a century ? again , I have be clear that where there be cancellation , it be for devolution and reorganisation to go forward . I have make it absolutely clear that it will be from May 2025 to May 2026 . I can not be much clear than that as this Dispatch Box . on devolution and the support for local area , we be clear that we want to push power out of whitehall down into local community . I want to unlock the potential of local area and see reorganisation that deliver for local people , and I hope the hon . Member will engage with that give his comment on strongly support devolution . let ' s see he get on board and deliver it . as we have already hear , Derbyshire county council have a terrible record on deliver SEND service , but it also have a terrible record across everything else , include do a fire sale of our much - love community asset and care home , include the Grange in my constituency , and be rank the bad council for pothole last winter . the opportunity to give the council the treatment it deserve in May be much welcome . in contrast , North East Derbyshire district council and Chesterfield borough council have be do a sterling job . can the Deputy Prime Minister assure I that the good of our council will be involve in any reorganisation and that we will take the good forward ? absolutely . we will work with council to deliver well service : that be what it be about for North East Derbyshire , along with all other area that be come forward . I have be in North East Derbyshire and understand the issue around pothole ; our Government have be invest in delivery to end the pothole scandal that we see under the previous Government . the Isle of Wight council be already a unitary authority . give that the Deputy Prime Minister be postpone our election , can she confirm that that will mean the future reorganisation of the council be on the negotiating table ? otherwise , why would she be cancel our election ? the hon . Member will know that the fact that it be an island produce limitation , but nothing have be take off the table . we want to deliver reorganisation and deliver for the people of the Isle of Wight , and we will continue to work with he , as well as local leader , to deliver that . I refer member to my entry in the Register of Members ' Financial Interests . Nuneaton be recently name the town with the good potential growth in the UK . that be truly an opportunity to transform the life of my constituent , but it also speak to the immense challenge we face . for far too long , there have be serious question about the appalling service level , the SEND crisis , stifle growth and low wage after 20 year of an underfunded Conservative county council that try to push for a rapid resolution to our devolution . get this right be vital . for Nuneaton to achieve that amazing potential require a full appraisal of all possible option and of the good way forward . can the Secretary of State reassure we that support will be give in the process ? absolutely . I congratulate my hon . friend on always see the potential of Nuneaton , and this Government want to work to release the opportunity there . but we also recognise that the 14 year of conservative failure have leave many council and local area without the funding and support they need . that be why we be put a cash - term real increase of 6 . 8 % into local government — £ 69 billion — and we will continue to work with local area to unleash the full potential of all area of England . give the Secretary of State ' s statement , I remind she that proper function democracy cost money . my constituent in Great Yarmouth do not like be represent by unelected councillor , so can she give a copper - bottomed guarantee that the new Norfolk and Suffolk homunculus council will have its election in May 2026 ? I have be consistently clear on the election . election do cost money , but how can we justify have an election to then have another election within 12 month , which will cost huge sum of money for taxpayer ? I gently say to the hon . member that councillor be elect and that we be work with local councillor to deliver for local people . as a councillor for nearly 10 year , I welcome the devolution proposal . as Bournemouth East MP , I back Bournemouth , Christchurch and Poole council become part of the Hampshire proposal , and so do the BCP Labour group . frankly , we have close economic tie and geographic similarity with Hampshire . BCP council vote for a Wessex deal late in the day , and I be disappointed that BCP will not be prioritise for devolution of skill where they could have be under a Hampshire proposal . how can I ensure that my local community will not be leave behind , and will the Deputy Prime Minister secure a meeting for I with the Local Government Minister to put BCP back on the agenda ? I be happy to facilitate a meeting and , as I say before , the Minister for Local Government be happy to meet with local leader . we want to see more devolution . I appreciate my hon . friend ' s disappointment on skill . we want to push forward with devolution , unlock the potential and push power down from Whitehall into local area , and I be sure that his meeting with the Minister will be fruitful . I refer member to my entry in the Register of Members ' Financial Interests . as the Member of Parliament for Lewes , I put on record my outrage and the outrage of many local people who have write to I about the cancellation of election in East Sussex in May . as a county councillor , I be present in the chamber last month when we debate the matter , and every single non - conservative member , include Labour member , vote against it , so to suggest that this have widespread support in East Sussex be just not true . what be the Secretary of State ' s justification for give a conservative administration that have lose its overall majority and hang on by the chair ' s cast vote a mandate to negotiate a generation - define deal on behalf of the resident of East Sussex against their will ? again , we be work with local area to deliver devolution . this be about push power down to local area and about reorganisation , and we be work with local authority to deliver for their local area . I have be clear on the term to which there be a 12 - month delay to those election to facilitate reorganisation and devolution in those area . this be not a new phenomenon ; it happen under the previous Government . we be turbocharge devolution so that we can deliver for local area . I welcome the statement make by my right hon . friend . I also draw member ' attention to my entry in the Register of Members ' Financial Interests . in North Warwickshire and Bedworth , my constituent can see the benefit of devolution just over the boundary in the West Midlands combine authority , and I be sure that they want to see those benefit for themselves . I ask she why conservative - run Warwickshire county council ask to have their election postpone . be it because they want to avoid public scrutiny of their appalling record on SEND education , on fix our rural road and on rural transport ? do she agree that it be well that district and county work together to come up with the good solution for resident on devolution , and will she set out the timetable for the second stage of that devolution , so that I can tell my constituent when they can feel the benefit of investment , growth and well transport ? as I have say , we will work with all local authority to deliver devolution . I understand that some area will be disappoint that we do not take it forward in this priority scheme , but we continue to be commit , and the Minister for Local Government be happy to take that forward . as I say , we will write to local authority and continue to work with they , so that Warwickshire and her constituent can benefit from that . it would be remiss of I to comment other than to say that a lot more area come forward to ask for delay to their election . I be not speculate on the reason . I have be very clear and narrow in set a high bar for the cancellation of those election within a short period of time . that be the right thing to do to go forward and deliver for those local area . what a mess this whole consultation have be . let ' s face it : the council be go to have to jump or be push . as she say in her own statement : " I will be issue a legal invitation to all 21 two - tier " authority . in the spirit of work with local leader , would she accept my legal invitation to meet all the borough leader — cross - party — the mps and the Leicestershire county council leadership to discuss what our shape would look like when it come to devolution ? I have say time and again that we be happy to meet local leader . we will continue that consultation exercise and we will meet local mp . the Minister for Local Government and English Devolution , who be sit next to I , be always open to those conversation . this be not about tell people what to do from the top down ; it be about the direction of travel , which we have make absolutely clear and which the hon . Gentleman ' s party be take in government . we have see benefit in part of England . we want to expand that to other area , work with local leader and Members , and we be happy to meet on that basis . as the MP for England ' s most northerly city , and one of five mp represent the most northern area select for devolution , I warmly welcome today ' s announcement . I keenly look forward to the election for the Mayor of Cumbria , but my excitement be eclipse entirely by the fevere speculation and contest that have be under way among Cumbria Conservative association member for several month now . give that one rumour member of that association be formerly a Member of this House and rack up hundred of hour in a second job during his tenure here , will my right hon . friend assure we that the democratic accountability that she desire for mayor will include a ban on second job ? the Government ' s direction of travel on second job be absolutely clear . as my hon . friend know , I have visit Cumbria and know what a fantastic place it be , and as a northerner , I can attest to the fact that it be even more northern . in her statement , the Secretary of State say that local election in Surrey will be cancel " give the urgency of create sustainable new unitary structure " . do she find it perverse that , because of financial mismanagement by conservative in Surrey , my constituent will lose their democratic right to vote and remove from power the Conservatives who cause that mess in the first place ? again , I acknowledge the situation in Surrey . we have say that we want to work with Surrey to deliver . that be why we be bring this forward . as I say , it be a short - term delay ; democracy come to we all eventually . mayor can make a huge difference to local community . indeed , we have see that in Greater Manchester , where public control of bus service have make a massive difference to resident . I want public control of bus service in Hartlepool , where service be not good enough . do my right hon . friend share my disappointment that the Conservative Mayor of Tees Valley have rule out public control of bus ? when mayor do not use their power , what can we do to force they to do so ? I welcome what Greater Manchester bus have deliver for my constituent in Tameside — well service all round . we want the same for Hartlepool . I gently encourage all member from the Teesside area to work with the mayor to unleash all the power I mention in my statement , in order to deliver well transport and connectivity . that be how we will unlock growth in all our regional area , which be what we want to see across Hartlepool , Teesside and the whole of England . the Deputy Prime Minister say that this be not a top - down approach , but non - top - down approach do not start with the issuing of legal invitation . a legal invitation sound like the kind of invitation my wife give I to do something around the house — it be not an invitation ; it be an instruction that one do not disobey . many business and resident in Fylde be deeply concerned about this . they be represent by Fylde Council and Wyre Council , which have be well run , have keep council tax low and have not rack up debt . any merger would see they join local authority that have rack up massive debt and be not run the kind of service that their local area want and need . from one proud northerner to another , I ask she to nip up the road , have a pint with I , and meet not the local council leader , councillor and other mps , but resident and business themselves . they be concerned about this process , and I be sure they would love the opportunity to have a pint with she — or a vodka cocktail , which I believe she enjoy . the hon . Gentleman could not handle my cocktail , but if he want to buy I a pint , I ' m happy to accept . Lancashire have already agree to come forward with its proposal , and we be work with it . this be not about push people . I have make no bone about the fact that I want to see devolution across the whole of England , but we be take an approach of work with local area , and I hope that he can see that in the way we have take these thing forward . if his wife be give he legal notice , I suggest marriage counselling . Meur ras , Madam Deputy Speaker . I thank the Secretary of State for her statement . the cornish people be proudly subject to the Council of Europe framework convention for the protection of national minority . I respectfully invite the Secretary of State to guarantee that when the devolution Bill be publish , it will in no way contravene the letter or the spirit of that european convention . my hon . friend know that I have meet mps for the cornish area . I recognise the Council of Europe status and the uniqueness of their area , and I hope that that have come across in our conversation . we will continue to have conversation to ensure that we be acutely sensitive to the need of the cornish people , and that we take devolution forward in the way that it be intend : to deliver for people across Cornwall , and to do it with they , not to they . I refer the House to my entry in the Register of Members ' Financial Interests . voter in Chichester will rightly be disappoint that their right to vote have be strip away in favour of create what seem like a rush unitary authority in just 12 month . West Sussex county council fail to fill pothole , find social care contract and deliver education , health and care plan in 12 month , so the suggestion that it would be able to deliver a unitary authority be for the bird . do the Secretary of State really believe that my constituent will get to vote in May next year not just for a mayor , but for a unitary authority , and will their taxpayer money still be use to deliver bold regeneration project locally , rather than to bail out other area when the unitary be create ? this be not a rush process . reorganisation be come because we be work with local area . the area in the priority programme be select for it because they have plan that we feel be credible to achieve within that 12 - month programme . we will continue to provide financial and logistical support to ensure that people across the hon . Lady ' s constituency feel the benefit of reorganisation . after 14 year of local service be hammer by the Conservatives , they have a Labour Government who be deliver for local people . this be very good news for Norwich and Norfolk and it will allow we to fulfil our potential . many of my colleague from Norfolk have speak . whatever they think of the proposal , I urge they to work across party now to get the good possible outcome for our resident . on growth , Norwich already contribute £ 3 billion annually to the economy , but we can contribute so much more . will my right hon . friend outline the power that mayor will have , and will she reassure we that city such as Norwich , which be key driver of growth , will have their voice hear in this process ? I welcome my hon . friend ' s comment , because she talk up what be happen across Norwich and the £ 3 billion of growth already be deliver there . we want local growth plan to work centrally with Government to deliver opportunity across skill , transport , housing and infrastructure , so that we can deliver for people across Norwich . I welcome the spirit in which she have talk about cross - party working . she put the people of Norwich first , and that be why she be elect to represent they . the Deputy Prime Minister say that new unitary authority need to be the right size to withstand financial shock , so will she explain how merging council that be in severe financial difficulty and just hope that they get on with it will provide the security that we need ? as I say , we be work with local area so that we can deliver local government reorganisation . I have also say that the 500 , 000 population figure be a guide for efficiency — we recognise that it might vary . we also recognise the financial constraint that council have face after 14 year under the Conservatives . that be why we have put a cash - term increase of 6 . 8 % into council ; it be why we be consider how to give long - term funding settlement , which the Minister for Local Government will outline ; and it be why we will continue to support , and the Minister will continue to work on , the devolution agenda . this Government have unlock £ 2 billion in the funding settlement for local service across the country . despite what we might hear from the Conservatives in Lys Kernow about £ 5 million here or there , or grumbling about burn the Prime Minister ' s turkey dinner , that be a very welcome boost to Cornwall . what step be the Secretary of State take to ensure that we end the postcode lottery forever and get local people the service they deserve ? this be one part of a package , through which we be try to reverse the decline and decay that we see under the previous Conservative Government . they make cut of 23 % in a decade , as I say , whereas we have implement a cash - term increase for local authority . devolution be part of that agenda . we want to see Cornwall continue to thrive ; I be glad that my hon . friend be in his place , and we will continue to work with he to deliver for the people of Cornwall . I refer the House to my entry in the Register of Members ' Financial Interests . I thank the Deputy Prime Minister for allow the people of my constituency to vote in the Devon county council election this year , and I congratulate she on see through the tired Tory administration , which be seek to avoid the voter ’ verdict . may I ask she for an assurance that when she send out her invitation to the two - tier area , that will include district council as well as the county council , so that we get a representative view from across the entire area ? I thank the hon . member for welcome the clarity we have deliver today . as I set out in my statement , we will be write out to two - tier area . we want to engage with all tier in those area , and the Minister for Local Government and English Devolution will continue that work . if the hon . Member want to meet the Minister at a future date , I be sure the Minister will be happy to meet he . I thank the Deputy Prime Minister for her statement . do she agree with I , as Conservative - lead Essex county council do , that these plan will make local government in Essex clear and more efficient , but also more accountable ? it will mean that we can finally take to task the people who be to blame for the dread pothole that plague my constituency . I thank my hon . friend for his question . [ interruption . ] the Minister for Local Government and English Devolution chunter that there be more to it than pothole , but there be a serious point here — this be about thing like decay local road and people see that local service have be pull back over 14 year of the Conservatives take a sledgehammer to local government . I commend the Conservatives on Essex county council for work with we , because they be put people first in their local area , which be what we want to deliver . I have try to say from this Dispatch Box , as I say in opposition , that as a Secretary of State I will always champion local government ; I be biased , since I come from a local government background . I know the exceptional work that local government worker have deliver for people in exceptional circumstance , and I commend they for the work they do across local government . Lancashire combine county authority have now be establish , and my constituent be keen to unleash its potential , create new job and invite funding and investment into the county . can the Secretary of State reassure my constituent that the Government will help progress that combine authority into the next phase of devolution ? that legal order be , of course , sign this week . I commend the hon . Gentleman , other member and the local leader for work to continue to put Lancashire on the map — of course , Mr Speaker be always part of that as well . we want to see area such as Lancashire reach their full potential , because that be our growth mission . as the Prime Minister set out , people have to see that growth in their pocket across the whole of England , and that be what our agenda be about . it be about work with local leader and member of Parliament to genuinely unleash the growth potential that we have across Lancashire and the whole of England . I be very grateful to the Secretary of State for her statement . one of the point of detail in the statement be that Surrey , where my constituency of Surrey Heath be locate , be exclude from the devolution priority programme , yet election in Surrey have be cancel none the less . my resident face the prospect of have none of the advantage of be in the priority programme and all of the disadvantage of lose their election . can the Secretary of State explain to I and my resident why Surrey have be add on as a kind of addendum to the list that she have provide , and why do it not qualify for the priority programme in the first place ? I thank the hon . member for raise the important issue of the challenge that Surrey face . that be why we have put Surrey within the priority programme , but we do need a reorganisation first , because it would be a single council , so we would have a single council mayoral area , which be not what the devolution agenda be about . the reorganisation be about recognise the challenge that Surrey face and work with local leader to deliver service to local area . at a later date , we can then look at whether we be able to take that forward , but we do recognise the unique situation that Surrey be in , which be why we have put it in the priority programme . I refer member to my entry in the Register of Members ' Financial Interests . in my constituency , we be lucky enough to have a district council that be very well run and very well fund . for that reason , we have be able to preserve , for example , a theatre that be run and own by the council , which would surely have be lose if it have be expose to the bottomless pit of SEN budget and adult social care . I be concerned that the loss of a two - tier system mean that our wonderful institution will be at risk unless they receive some kind of protection . can the Secretary of State offer we anything for the future when we become a unitary ? as I have say , local government reform be about support local area and make sure they can deliver good public service . I recognise that area have face significant cut and that it have be a challenge for they to keep local heritage and local community asset , as I say in a previous answer . that be why we be bring forward other legislation and support to protect those thing as well , but we will continue to engage with local area to make sure that local government reform deliver well service for the hon . member ' s constituent . what do the Secretary of State have to say to the 5 million people who have lose their right to vote in this election , who want to vote before this generational power shift and not after it ? I would say to the hon . member that they have not lose their right to vote . their right to vote will be there , but vote in an election for something that be not go to be there — an election that would cost taxpayer huge sum of money — be not efficient , and it be not a way forward . we be work with local , democratically elect councillor to deliver well local service after 14 year of decay and destruction under the Conservatives . I refer member to my entry in the Register of Members ' Financial Interests . I welcome the Deputy Prime Minister ' s statement today , but I want to pull out a few point of procedural process that we will be go through over the next 12 month . first , senior officer will be spend hundred of hour focus on reorganisation , rather than on the challenge of deliver frontline service . in response to a previous question , the Deputy Prime Minister mention financial support , so will officer ' time be able to be charge back to the Government ? secondly , we have not hear about local consultation as we go through this process . boundary change and boundary review will have to be do internally . I have be on a council where I have do those thing myself , and that alone take over 12 month to achieve and include statutory provision for consultation . also , if we have an election in May 2026 , organisation and political party will need to know what the ward be at an early stage , so that they can do their selection and their approval . I be sure that Reform will learn about the importance of approval process in all - out election . if there be delay in the process , what mechanism do the Deputy Prime Minister have for election to go ahead even without a body in place to be elect to , if she be good to her word that election will happen next May ? finally , how will she keep the House update on progress ? I recognise that senior officer and local area will be work on this issue — they have be work on it to develop their proposal in the first place , so this have come from those area . we have commit to financial and logistical support for those area ; obviously , they will come forward with what they need as part of that process , and we be determined to deliver that on a case - by - case basis . there will be local consultation in that process , and as I have say , to get to the point we be at today of approve area for the priority programme , lot of work have already be undertake , and there will continue to be consultation as part of that process . the detail will be outline in letter that be send out . I do not envisage delay in the process . I have be clear about why I have refuse delay to other election , but these delay have be put in place specifically because we believe they can help the delivery of reorganisation for area , and of well service within a tight timescale . dictator , not democracy , cancel election , and 5 . 5 million voter in southern England be be deny the right to pass judgment on the performance of their councillor over the past four year — interestingly , in area where Reform UK be expect to do rather well . in cancel these election , the Secretary of State have admit that she do not know what will replace they , and it seem there be a serious risk , as previously mention , of area not be ready in 12 month ' time . can the Secretary of State be crystal clear about what will happen in that case : will those election be delay by a further year , or will they go ahead in May 2026 ? the hon . member talk about dictator , but the leader of Reform have not face an election to get to his leadership position — the only leader who have not . we be not cancel election . I have be clear about the rationale , which be not unique or something that have not be do before . this delay be for reorganisation , and for further devolution so that people in local area will get more power from this Government . that be what we promise in our manifesto , and we will continue to deliver for people . I have strict and narrow guidance on which I allow those area to delay their election , and I be confident they will be able to deliver . that be why I refuse other . I be acutely aware that we want to ensure that people have a say in their local area . that be what the devolution agenda be all about : give local people more say and more power . I refer the House to my entry in the Register of Members ' Financial Interests . it be fair to say that in the street of Henley and Thame , strategic mayoral authority be not on the lip of resident during the general election . Health be , however , with the dire situation that the Conservatives leave in my constituency . there be still perhaps a crumb of opportunity in this reorganisation regard realign authority with integrate care board , so that we avoid issue where constituent can not get service on other border . be that be take into account ? although the exact word " devolution " might not have be on people ' s lip , change be , which be why we get the mandate we do . the hon . member talk about health . we put £ 22 billion of extra investment into our nhs because we recognise the challenge that it face . icb be part of the devolution Bill and White Paper , and we will continue to work to ensure that mayor have a say over what happen . I refer the House to my entry in the Register of Members ' Financial Interests . I thank the Secretary of State for answer so many question this afternoon — she have be on her foot for some time . I be dismay by the delay to election in West Sussex , partly because when the district recently go through a reorganisation of its boundary , it take nearly two year to complete . unitary authority be large entity and this be an enormous task , especially give the scope of what have be announce today for the south and east of England . what assessment have the Secretary of State make of the capacity of the Local Government Boundary Commission for England to deliver the boundary review ? will she expand on the financial support that will be give to council to ensure that they be able to merge vital public service ? I hope that my lunch be delay and not cancel , Madam Deputy Speaker . on delay election , I have be clear about the high bar that I set . I absolutely understand the enormous task that be face when look at reorganisation , which be why we will put extra support in place . I can not outline exactly what that will be for the hon . member ' s area , because it depend on what be need on a case - by - case basis . the Government be commit to work with authority to meet that timetable . I have be clear from the Dispatch Box that we want those election to go ahead in May 2026 . we will be work on that basis , and my Department will be work with local leader to deliver it , on the basis that they know the delay be happen . I thank the Secretary of State for her statement , and on behalf of my constituent I thank she for give people the opportunity to vote and give their verdict on the fail Conservative - run Devon county council , which have be badly fail our most vulnerable child for the past decade . Devon be a huge rural area , and there be concern that if it become a unitary it could end up devolving power away from people in a sparsely populated area , and move the centre of power away from local community , which do not feel like devolution . will the Secretary of State clarify what size of unitary authority she will be look for ? part of Torbay be in my constituency — it be one of the small unitarie in the country , with 139 , 000 people . will it be allow to continue as a unitary , or will it be require to be part of a great whole ? I recognise that Devon be a huge rural area , and as I have say in previous debate on this issue , we have issue a guide for unitary authority — it be a guide ; I have say that it be not set in stone . I recognise that Torbay be now a unitary , but it also face challenge and I want to work with local leader . if they want to expand , we want to facilitate that . we want to deliver — our guide principle be well public service that be responsive to the need of local people . I believe that member across the House want to deliver the same , so hopefully work by work together we can provide the investment that public service have not have for the last 14 year , and deliver it in the right way in the right place so that people feel it be responsive to their local need . Southport Attack with permission , Madam Deputy Speaker , I will make a statement update the House on the Government ' s response to the Southport murder . the attack in Southport in July last year be one of the most appalling and barbaric crime commit in this country . for young child and adult to be attack in this way , and three young girl kill , be utterly heartbreaking . the Home Secretary and I would like to thank those people who show great bravery in attempt to stop the attack . for this foul act of violence to happen while child be enjoy themselves at a dance class at the beginning of the school holiday be beyond comprehension . our thought and prayer be with the family of the three girl , and with all those injure as they continue to live with the trauma of that dark day . no one should have to go through what they have , and we be steadfast in our commitment to ensure that they get every possible support . responsibility for this abhorrent attack lie with the perpetrator . Axel Rudakubana have be sentence to life imprisonment . he will serve a minimum of 52 year in prison , and Mr Justice Goose say it be highly likely that he will never be release . when the Home Secretary address the House on this case last month , she outline the multiple interaction that the perpetrator have with state body in the year before the attack . those include police , social service and mental health service . there be serious question about how various agency fail to identify and collectively act on the warning sign . all those question must be answer — we owe that to the family who deserve the truth about what go wrong . that be why the Government be commit to understanding and address the failing in this tragic case through a comprehensive public inquiry . it will examine the issue raise in this case , but also wide challenge around rise youth violence . we be move swiftly to set up the inquiry . we will consult the family to ensure that all critical issue be address , while remain sensitive to the need of those most affected . we expect to announce further detail about the inquiry next month . although we do not pre - empt the conclusion of the inquiry , there be area where action can and must be progress immediately . Prevent be a vital part of our counter - terrorism system . we must endeavour to identify those susceptible to radicalisation early and before they go on to commit terrorist act . prevent receive nearly 7 , 000 referral every year , and our hard - work frontline staff have support nearly 5 , 000 people away from terrorism since 2015 . we must get Prevent right . that be why the Home Office and counter - terrorism policing commission a rapid Prevent learning review immediately after the attack . these be usually internal technical review intend to identify swift learning and improvement for Prevent . however , the importance of the family need answer have mean that today , follow close engagement with they , we be take the unusual step of publish the Prevent learning review . I can update the House that the perpetrator be refer to Prevent three time between December 2019 , when he be age 13 , and April 2021 , when he be 14 . those referral be make by his school . the first referral report concern about he carry a knife and search for school shooting on the internet . the second referral be focus on his online activity relate to Libya and Gaddafi . his third referral be for search for London bombing , the IRA and the Israel - Palestine conflict . on each of those occasion , the decision at the time be that the perpetrator should not progress to the Channel multi - agency process , but the Prevent learning review find that there be sufficient risk for the perpetrator to have be manage through Prevent . it find that the referral be close prematurely and that there be sufficient concern to keep the case active while further information be collect . the review be clear on the concern behaviour that the perpetrator demonstrate . it highlight his interest in the Manchester Arena attack and that he talk about stab people , and it flag that some of the grievance that could have be a motivation be not fully consider . the review also highlight the perpetrator ' s clear vulnerability and complex need , which may have make he more susceptible to be draw into terrorism . the review conclude that too much focus be place on the absence of a distinct ideology , to the detriment of consider the perpetrator ' s susceptibility , grievance and complex need . there be an under - exploration of the significance of his repeat referral and the cumulative risk , include his history of violence . there be potentially incomplete line of inquiry . at the time , the perpetrator could have fall into a mixed , unclear or unstable category for Channel , due to his potential interest in mass violence . indeed , the overall conclusion of the review be that he should have be case - manage through the Channel multi - agency process , rather than close to Prevent . that would have enable co - ordinate multi - agency risk management and support . the Prevent learning review make 14 recommendation for improvement to Prevent . we have accept those finding and rapid action have be take to implement the recommendation . counter - terrorism policing have conduct in - depth assurance visit to every region to determine whether the issue identify in this case have be resolve by operational improvement make since 2021 . urgent work be underway to address the finding . the Prevent assessment framework be launch in September and be now in place across all region . it be develop by expert and be be use to triage and risk - assess all Prevent referral . it will improve decision making at all stage of the Prevent system . roll - out of this tool have be accompany by rigorous mandatory training . we have begin an end - to - end review of Prevent threshold to ensure that Prevent can deal with the full range of threat we see today , from islamist extremism , which be the most significant terrorist threat the UK face , through to the fascination with mass violence we see in the Southport case . this internal review will complete in April and far strengthen the approach to repeat referral and ensure that clear policy , guidance and training be in place . we have complete the first stage of a policy review into how Prevent support referral who have mental ill - health or be neurodivergent . action for improve the operational approach have be identify and will be implement swiftly , with oversight from the new Prevent commissioner . we be also strengthen our approach to the oversight of referral that do not meet Prevent threshold to make sure that people receive the right support . next week , a pilot start in several local area to test new approach to case that be transfer to other service . the Government have appoint Lord Anderson as interim Prevent commissioner . this be the first time in its history that Prevent will have dedicate independent oversight . that will help ensure that Prevent be always hold to the high standard . Lord Anderson ' s first task be to review the perpetrator ' s Prevent history , draw on the Prevent learning review . that will identify whether there be far learn , examine improvement make to Prevent since 2021 and identify any remain gap that require further improvement . he will complete the review within his term as interim commissioner , which will end with the appointment of a permanent commissioner this summer . however , it be simply not enough to focus only on this case . we need to take an even more robust approach to identify learning swiftly and drive that learn through the Prevent system . the Prevent commissioner will be task with oversee a new approach to Prevent learning review that enable rapid debriefing and urgent action after incident , but also that provide a clear framework that bind other agency into the joint learning process . transparency and enable public scrutiny be also fundamental . that be why we will take step to publish the finding of other independent Prevent learning review where there have be an incident of national significance . next week , we will publish the Prevent learning review into the appalling attack on Sir David Amess , to enable further public scrutiny of this important programme . the first duty of Government be to ensure the security of our country and the safety of our people , because nothing matter more . while we can never undo the hurt and pain cause by this unthinkably wretched attack , we can , we must and we will do everything in our power to prevent further atrocity . as the Prime Minister say , Southport must be " a line in the sand " for our country . if that mean ask difficult question about shortcoming or failure , so be it . if it mean hold institution and process to account , we will do so without fear or favour . if change be require to protect the public and combat the threat we face , this Government will not hesitate to act . I commend this statement to the House . I call the shadow Home Secretary . I thank the Security Minister for provide a copy of the statement so early , and for provide a copy of the rapid learning review . I be grateful to he for his courtesy and consideration . let we keep in mind the three young innocent victim of this savage attack : Bebe King , just six year old ; Elsie Dot Stancombe , who be seven ; and Alice da Silva Aguiar , who be nine . their life be cruelly cut short at a Taylor Swift dance class . these young girl have their whole life in front of they — live they will now never lead . their parent and family will suffer forever from the unimaginable grief cause by their loss . I know that they will be in the thought and prayer of every single member of this House . as the Minister say , it be vital to learn the lesson . I welcome and support the inquiry announce by the Home Secretary a couple of week ago . the Security Minister describe it a moment ago as a public inquiry . will he confirm that it will be a statutory inquiry under the Inquiries Act 2005 ? it be important that it have power to compel witness to attend , take evidence under oath and obtain document . it be vital that we get to the truth about the opportunity that may have exist to stop Rudakubana commit these sicken murder . I be pleased that the Security Minister say that Prevent threshold be be review . page 35 of the lesson learn review highlight a number of area for further investigation . the first of those be mental health intervention , which he refer to . will he confirm that the inquiry will consider what mental health intervention may have take place , and whether power should have be use to section and detain the perpetrator in this case ? that be particularly relevant because just today we see the NHS report into the psychotic triple murderer Valdo Calocane , which raise similar mental health detention issue . both Rudakubana and Calocane could have be section and detain under the Mental Health Act . if that have happen , perhaps these murder could have be avoid . the Government announce the new mental health Bill in the King ' s Speech . page 83 to 85 of the accompany note state that the Government have plan to increase the threshold for detention under the Mental Health Act — that be to say , make it hard to detain people . it go on to note concern about black people be more likely to be detain under mental health power . do the Security Minister share my worry , especially follow these six murder commit by Rudakubana and Calocane , that make it hard to detain dangerous people under the Mental Health Act because of racial sensitivity be not the right thing to do ? will he raise that point with his colleague in the Department of Health to ensure that dangerous people such as Calocane and Rudakubana can be section and detain when that be need to protect the public ? I be sure that he would share my view that misplace political correctness about racial quota can not be allow to endanger the public . let I say a word about wide concern regard Prevent . do the Security Minister agree with William Shawcross that we can not lose focus on the main threat that we face , besides the important threat that he discuss in his statement , with which I generally agree ? since 1999 , 94 % of terrorist - cause death have be cause by Islamists , yet only 13 % of referral to Prevent relate to islamist extremist . do the Security Minister share my concern about this disparity ? what step will he take to make sure that those at risk of commit act of islamist terrorism be properly identify and handle ? let I turn to the question of openness and transparency . in the aftermath of the murder , basic information about Rudakubana ' s identity and the fact that he be find in possession of ricin and an al - Qaeda terrorist manual be not make public , even though in other case such information have be make public . Jonathan Hall KC , the independent reviewer of terrorism legislation , have say that it should have be make public . the information about the ricin and the terror manual be make public in October , well before the trial and without risk of prejudice , and Merseyside Police have subsequently say that it want to release more information but could not do so . that create an information vacuum that be fill by untrue rumour , which arguably fuel the subsequent riot . will the Minister confirm that the inquiry into the Southport tragedy will cover communication to the public afterwards , and whether more should have be disclose more quickly ? that be a vital aspect of this case and the inquiry must cover it . I would be grateful if the Security Minister confirm that it will . I thank the shadow Home Secretary for his question . he be absolutely right to focus our thought on the victim and the unimaginable pain that their family will continue to suffer . I be grateful for his support for the public inquiry . let I confirm that it will begin on a non - statutory footing . that be deliberate , in order to get it up and move as quickly as possible , but I can assure he that it will then be move to a statutory footing . the right hon . Gentleman make an important point about mental health intervention , which will have be on the mind of hon . member across the House . the inquiry ' s precise term of reference be still be agree , because we need to agree and discuss that with the family member , but I understand why he have make that point and why he reference the terrible attack that take place in Nottingham . he may know that this Government be support an inquiry into those attack . more generally , I assure he that we will always do what be necessary and right to safeguard the security and protection of the public . the right hon . Gentleman mention William Shawcross ; as I have say from this Dispatch Box previously , we have now implement 33 of the 34 recommendation of the Shawcross review . he also ask I about the review of Prevent threshold , which the Home Secretary have reference on a number of occasion . we be review the threshold — in short , because we think that they have be too low in previous time . that be why we be look very carefully at they again . I understand why the right hon . Gentleman seek to make the point about transparency . the Home Secretary , myself , and all the Ministers in the Department and across Government , follow very carefully the guidance from the Crown Prosecution Service . I know that he will understand , as a former Minister in the Home Office , that our absolute priority be deliver justice for the victim . we could not have get ourselves into a situation where we put ourselves in contempt of court , which would have undermine the judicial process . rightly , we would never have be forgive for that . we be incredibly careful to ensure that we do not do that , while at the same time respect the obvious requirement for transparency . the inability to answer certain question in the aftermath of the attack do give rise to the question ask at the time , and they require careful consideration . we will shortly confirm arrangement for independent expert analysis of these particular issue , because I understand why he raise they . I assure he that the one thing that we do not want to do be prejudice ongoing legal proceeding . I thank the Minister for his statement , and his Department for the sensitive way in which the family be consult prior to its publication ; I have speak with several of the people most intimately impact over the last few day , and I know full well how much it be appreciate . some of the detail in the review beggar belief . I will mention just one . there be spell mistake in the Prevent database . each time Rudakubana be refer to Prevent , his name be record with a different spelling . the review state that it be possible that previous referral do not show up in search . can this House have confidence that , where such issue and training need be identify , the recommendation of the review will be implement rapidly to make sure that the failure of the Prevent programme between 2019 and 2024 be not repeat ? I thank my hon . friend for the exceptional job that he have do represent his constituent and constituency through the darkest of day . I can give he the assurance that he seek . the public inquiry will seek to get to the heart of the issue that he raise , but I can say to he and to the House that we will not hesitate to act in the meantime . it be vital that our response be join up locally and nationally . the measure that the Home Secretary have announce and that I have reiterate today should ensure that that be the case , but we will not hesitate to act far if that be require . I call the liberal Democrat spokesperson . I thank the Minister for advance sight of his statement . the event in Southport be horrify — a brutal , senseless act of violence — and my thought , like those of other , remain with the family of Alice , Bebe and Elsie , whose life be take . we owe it to these three girl and to their family , friend and community to ensure that an act of such hideous brutality be not allow to be repeat . we should all be deeply troubled that warning sign be miss in the lead - up to the attack . the Liberal Democrats have long raise concern about the failure of Prevent . we welcome the publishing of the Prevent learning review , and indeed the introduction of a dedicated Prevent commissioner to give an independent view , but would welcome any detail from the Minister on the power the commissioner will have to enforce improvement on the Prevent system — will the role be on a statutory footing , for example ? more broadly , we must ensure that our national security strategy account for a wide range of threat . as this case have make clear , perpetrator may be motivate by a fascination with violence , but not a particular ideology , which may allow they to slip through the net . how will the Minister ensure that future strategy , both counter - terrorism and otherwise , be watertight to prevent such awful act from happen again ? protect community must be at the centre of this approach , so what be be do to reassure the public that they remain safe from these threat ? what will be do to ensure that incident of this type be not exploit by extremist group ? the Minister be right to say this must be a line in the sand , but it must also be a turning point . we owe it to the victim and their family to ensure that the failure that lead to this tragedy be not repeat . I be grateful to the hon . Lady for the constructive tone of her remark . she ask about the independent Prevent commissioner . we have appoint Lord Anderson on an interim basis , ahead of a permanent appointment this summer , and we will work closely with he to establish the role . he have unique experience and be hugely respect across this House and in the other place , and I be confident that he will do what need to be do to provide the assurance that hon . member be look for . the hon . Lady make an interesting point about seek to ensure that the national security apparatus that keep the public safe be watertight . the assurance that I can give she — I hope this also provide some reassurance to the public , which be she next point — be that we be fortunate in this country to have extraordinary man and woman serve in our national security agency , operational partner , police and across Government who work tirelessly to keep the public safe . I hope that she , and the whole House , can find some reassurance in the commitment of this Government and all those who work tirelessly to keep the public safe . it be our no . 1 priority , and we will use every tool at our disposal to do so . I thank the Minister for his statement . it make I deeply angry to listen to the litany of error by different agency across the public sector , not just in fail to realise the level of threat that Rudakubana pose in each instance of encounter he , but in fail to join the dot and realise the common pattern they be all see — not least because in 2020 , my constituent Jan and Gary Furlong lose their wonderful son , James , in the Forbury Gardens attack . as in the Southport attack , there be systematic failing in the system . the perpetrator have four Prevent referral and be know to mental health service , and nobody join the dot . will the Security Minister ensure that whatever else the inquiry into these tragic and preventable death examine , it look closely at how the agency talk to each other and assess threat together ? agency and Departments can no long be allow to work in silos . give the Minister ' s statement that the Government will take step to publish the finding of other independent Prevent learning review where there have be an incident of national significance , may I ask whether that will be extend to the Forbury Gardens attack ? my hon . friend have be a tireless champion for her constituent . it be humble to meet Gary and Jan Furlong recently with she ; they be incredible people whose decency be inspire . as she know , the terrible Forbury Gardens incident occur before the formalisation of the learn review process . however , thorough scrutiny be give to the Prevent case management of the perpetrator through the coronial process . the Government be commit to learn from these previous failing and from the experience of Gary and Jan Furlong . the Home Secretary have write to the Furlongs and the other family of the victim of the terrible Forbury Gardens attack , and I know she will want to meet with they soon ; I recommend that Lord Anderson do so too , so that collectively , as a Government , we can learn everything possible from that terrible attack . I call the Father of the House . may I press the Minister far on the issue of transparency ? he say that Ministers do not wish to prejudice the trial , but the murderer ' s possession of the ricin and the terror manual be reveal before the trial . there be a suspicion that this information be not release within day because there be a feeling in Government that it might inflame racial tension , but this lack of transparency unfortunately simply feed conspiracy theory . will the Minister confirm whether Ministers take a conscious decision not to reveal that information , and have they learn the lesson so that in future , should such an outrage occur — which we all hope will never happen again — we can be completely transparent ? I can certainly give the right hon . Gentleman the assurance that Ministers do everything mindful of the absolute need to avoid contempt of court and interfere with ongoing legal proceeding . he specifically mention the issue of ricin . the Home Secretary and I be close to this investigation throughout , and the Home Secretary be inform of that fact on 2 August . police investigation be fast move , and it be important that fact be establish as they relate to the prosecution of an individual ; it be not for minister to provide a running commentary on any or every aspect of an investigation . I can say to the right hon . Gentleman that we take these matter incredibly seriously . we be think about how these terrible incident can be manage in the future with regard to the passage of information , but I can give he the assurance that we act in the good interest of secure justice for the victim throughout . I thank the Minister for his important update . as an aside , I hope that he will keep the definition of extremism under review . turn to the case today , I be sure the Minister will agree that we have a collective responsibility to ensure that young people do not develop a world view that lead they to a life of violent extremism . we know that a lot of the grooming of young people start online , and that the perpetrator in this case view harmful content online , which stay online for month on end . what conversation have the Minister have with the social medium company , which have to take some responsibility over the content that be generate and then amplify on their platform ? my hon . friend make a very important point . the Government be crystal clear that content which be illegal must be take down by the tech company . we have the power to compel company that fail to co - operate on such content . I think it be not a controversial thing to say that the tech company have an absolute responsibility , both legal and moral , to keep their user safe , and that particularly apply in the context of young people . as I think she will know , from March , under the Online Safety Act 2023 , they will be require to identify and remove terrorist content swiftly and prevent user from encounter it . the Government have again be clear : should that not prove to be sufficient , we will consider all mechanism , include legislative one , to go far . will the Minister consider make available to interested colleague on both side of the House a presentation of what actually happen on Prevent and Channel course ? in the absence of that , may I ask he , from his personal knowledge of what happen on those course , be I right in think that they be primarily therapeutic ? would he therefore accept that there be some people , not primarily motivate by ideology but psychotic , extremely narcissist and possibly use or abuse mind - alter drug , who , no matter how much therapy they have , would still go on to commit atrocity ; in which case , what power exist , in mental health legislation and anti - terrorist legislation , to prevent they from commit such act ? I be grateful to the right hon . Gentleman , as I always be , for his very sensible and reasonable question . I be very happy to arrange a presentation in the way that he have describe , if he and other right hon . and hon . member think that that would be useful . I think it would be and I think it be a helpful suggestion . the truth of the matter be that , in the context of the Prevent programme , we will be deal with a wide range of different threat . we have speak previously about our increase concern with regard to the number of young people who be present for a variety of different reason , but those reason do include very significant concern that relate to mental health , autism and neurodivergence . we be look at those thing incredibly carefully . as I know that he will understand , the public inquiry will of course look at they as well . I reference early on in my remark some pilot trial that we will be launch next week . they be about look at how we can manage datum in a more effective way and how we can ensure that those people who currently do not meet the threshold for referral into the Prevent programme can be guarantee the support that they obviously require in order to mitigate the risk that they be expose to . I be grateful for the right hon . Gentleman ' s approach . I will think on it far and come back to he with thought about a presentation . it be right that the Prevent system be review in detail to ensure that any failing can never happen again , and I thank the Security Minister for his important and constructive statement . our judicial system and the rule of law be at the very heart of british value , yet we have see repeat attempt by some opposition to demean our value . the Government ' s insistence on follow legal advice have ultimately lead to a successful prosecution . imprison murderer and terrorist should never be put at risk , so do the Minister agree that the House should unite on national security issue , as it have do in the past , instead of play political game ? I be grateful to my hon . friend for his question . I agree with he . I hope the House know that the Government will always want to work in a constructive , co - operative and cross - party way with regard to matter relate to national security . that is , I think , the right approach . I can give he an assurance that in the aftermath of the terrible attack back in July last year , the Home Secretary and I be absolutely determined to ensure that we do nothing and say nothing that would interfere with ongoing proceeding . we would , rightly , never have be forgive have we interfere with that process in a way that might have undermine a trial . that be our motivation : secure justice for the victim and their family . I thank the Minister for his statement , and particularly for the intention to review and reform Prevent . may I ask he to look at the role of social medium , as my hon . friend the Member for Hampstead and Highgate ( Tulip Siddiq ) do early , but to do so in the context of the tragic killing of Harvey Willgoose at all saint catholic high school in Sheffield on Monday ? my sympathy go out to Harvey ' s family , his friend and those at the school , particularly those who witness this tragic and awful incident at first hand . South Yorkshire police have tell I that after the incident , many comment and speculation about what have happen appear online — some downright misleading , while some , as in the Southport case , could have prejudice a future inquiry and future trial . the social medium company have a responsibility in this regard . worse still , perhaps , the police tell I that immediately after the attack , there be a video on social medium of Harvey receive cpr in the school . I find that absolutely appalling . when South Yorkshire police approach social medium — I understand that Meta be the platform — and ask they to take the video down , their answer be that because there be no violence in the video , it be not their policy to take it down . what can the Minister and his colleague do to get the social medium company to behave responsibly in a situation such as this ? imagine how Harvey ' s family and friend must feel see that video online . I be grateful to my hon . friend for raise the circumstance of this awful case , and I join he in send our condolence for the terrible loss of life in Sheffield early in the week . he have make an important point , and have make it in a very powerful way . the tech company do have a responsibility to keep their user safe , and where there be content such as that which he have describe , I do not think any right - minded person think it should be available to be view . the Government have a work relationship with the tech company , and I have listen carefully to what my hon . friend have have to say . I will raise it with colleague across Government , and we will see what we can do about it . the Prevent learning review of the Southport horror be shocking . it reveal a series of massive failure , to the point of gross negligence by people in Prevent . however , it also use some crucial word : it refer to factor that " make he susceptible to be draw into terrorism . " that appear to indicate that the review have find that the killer be a terrorist . I therefore think that the Government and the Crown Prosecution Service need to be crystal clear with the british people . be they now accept that the action of this monster be a terror incident ? the hon . Member have ask I to be crystal clear , so I will be . the perpetrator have be find guilty of a terrorism - relate offence , and will therefore be consider to be a register terrorist offender . he will be subject to the associated sentencing procedure , and will be treat as a person convict of an offence under the Terrorism Act 2000 . I be speak on behalf of my constituency neighbour , my hon . friend the Member for Southend West and Leigh ( David Burton - Sampson ) , who have be work closely with the Home Office and , most important , with the family of the late Sir David Amess . it make I angry to listen to the litany of error that occur when agency be not necessarily talk to each other , but I welcome this announcement nevertheless . the Amess family and the city of Southend deserve it , and more . can the Minister assure I that the Prevent learning review will provide the much - need answer and , crucially , the learning that the family of Sir David Amess deserve ? I thank my hon . friend for raise this matter . Sir David Amess be a much - miss colleague , and his family continue to be in our thought . the Home Secretary meet Lady Amess recently , and we be very grateful to the family for the important representation that they have make . next week , as I have say , we will publish the Prevent learning review of the appalling attack on Sir David . we will never forget he . none of we would wish to pre - empt the public inquiry before it have even start , but base on what the Minister have tell we , it seem inevitable that we will face the issue of different state agency fail to speak to each other about an individual who be come up on their system . if they have speak to each other , they might have realise the serious danger that the Southport attacker pose . my constituent Zara Aleena would have be alive today if agency have talk to each other two year ago . will the Minister ensure that inter - agency communication be at the heart of any lesson learn from this inquiry ? I be grateful to my hon . friend for ask his question in the way that he have , and I be dreadfully sad about what happen to his constituent . he make a very important point about inter - agency co - operation and working . that be one of the thing that we will look very carefully at , and it be certainly one of the thing that the public inquiry will focus on . we have to ensure that there be a join - up response at local , regional and national level , and we will do so . with your indulgence , Madam Deputy Speaker , I will clarify one point that I make to the shadow Home Secretary early . he make some good point about transparency , and I want to be clear with he that it be the Law Commission that will review the contempt of court rule . the tragic event in Southport be horrific , and I welcome the Government ' s review of the Prevent policy . the murderer should have be monitor well . we must implement step to ensure that this never happen again . the tragic incident set off civil unrest across the country , and it find its way to Plymouth . in that moment of extreme societal emotion , the community in Plymouth come together as one and , in the end , our street see minimal public disorder . do the Minister agree that we must tackle the root cause of that civil unrest , which include disinformation online ? my hon . friend make a very important point , and I can give he the assurance that he seek about tackle disinformation online . he make an important point about the response from his constituent in the city of Plymouth . look back at the aftermath of the terrible attack in Southport , in those dark day of July last year , we see the bad of our country in that certain people seem to think that it be acceptable to throw rock , brick and missile at the police , but we also see the good of our country , exemplify by decent people who stand against that . in that context , it be also important to remember the member of the police force — those brave man and woman — who stand against the threat . we should send they our heartfelt thank for all their work . Water Safety Motion for leave to bring in a Bill ( Standing Order no . 23 ) I beg to move , that leave be give to bring in a Bill to make provision about the installation and maintenance of , and access to , safety equipment at reservoir ; to create an offence of damage or destroy safety equipment near body of water ; to make provision about the teaching of water safety in school ; and for connected purpose . my son phone I last week to share the news that he have pass his driving test at the first time of ask . personally , I think the good driver be those who pass it on the second attempt , but there we be . this week , he drop my talented and beautiful daughter — his sister — at school , and then take I to the station for the first time so that I could return to this place . he carry on to his sixth - form college , and the offer have start to come in from university . he have the whole world ahead of he . my child be my world . see their remarkable achievement , and watch they grow into the most amazing , special human being , be the most wondrous thing that any parent could ever hope and pray for . I be sure that , when the time come , every parent await that call when their child pass their driving test , get their exam result or go off to work or study for the first time on their own . no parent should await a call to say that they will never see their beautiful baby again . no parent should outlive their child and have to say goodbye to they , so , in what I bring before the House today , I hope to start the process of prevent that from happen in the awful circumstance I will talk about . today , I shall talk about Sam . Sam be a similar age to my son , and he should also have have his whole life ahead of he . Sam , a 16 - year - old , go out with his friend one day and never return after tragically drown in a South Yorkshire reservoir . I meet Sam ' s father , Simon , for the first time at Thorne fire station last summer . he hand I the sweetest picture of his gorgeous boy and bravely retell the story of what have happen . I know there and then that , should I be so honoured as to reach this place , I would do something for Sam , for his parent and for every family who have lose a love one in a similar way . I begin by acknowledge the work that have already be do on this matter , both here and outside Parliament , to campaign for what have become know as Sam ' s law . in particular , I want to highlight the work do by my hon . friend the Member for Rotherham ( Sarah Champion ) , who be a sponsor of this Bill , and by Sam ' s father , Simon Haycock , who I know be watch today . in May 2021 , Sam have just finish his gcse . it be summer , it be hot , and he and his friend do what countless teenager have do before they : they find a body of water and decide to go swim . when Sam get into difficulty , his friend try to help . they find that the safety equipment be lock . they have to ring 999 and , once the operator have verify that it be a genuine emergency , they be give a code to unlock the equipment before they could use it . in an emergency such as that , every second count . in the wake of Sam ' s death , his father Simon have become a champion of water safety , go into school and community to talk about the danger of enter open water and to campaign for Sam ' s law . there be 141 death in inland open water body in 2023 , and 1 , 455 over the last 10 year . that be about 146 people die every year , most of they child or young adult . search , rescue and emergency service respond to over 100 , 000 call relate to water rescue annually . as we continue to have long , hotter summer , with more people look for way to cool off , there be a risk that those number will only increase far . those be worry figure , but the one that strike home the most for I be the estimate from the Royal Life Saving Society that for every person who die by drown , there be more than 10 near miss . that be shocking . it be too many near miss , and too many people just one step away from leave this world unnecessarily early . that be why I be propose these measure today . the first be to create a legal responsibility to provide , maintain and ensure easy and rapid access to safety equipment around reservoir . too many reservoir do not have safety equipment , and where there be equipment , it can not always be access in a timely manner . it be frequently vandalise — an issue I will come to in a moment — and not replace or repair . the equipment be often lock away , with a laborious protocol for access . Simon Haycock , Sam ' s father , have a simple and creative but game - change plan for this , use state - of - the - art technology . I hope to help he to progress this concept into reality , to save precious second and precious life . I absolutely understand why these protocol be in place . they be introduce to safeguard lifesave equipment , which be why we need to turn to the second point of the Bill . I propose to create a specific criminal offence of the vandalism of safety equipment around body of water . it have be recognise that some specific instance of crime , while cover by a broad category , be so abhorrent that they should exist as a crime in themselves . we have recognise , for example , that assault on emergency worker who be risk their life to save other be particularly heinous . we have recognise that domestic abuse can not just be prosecute as if it be a simple assault , and we have recognise that slavery be more than just kidnap and force labour . it be time to recognise that to destroy , damage or remove lifesave equipment , and therefore endanger life , be not simple vandalism . finally , the Bill seek to expand the national curriculum ' s water safety learn outcome to include a requirement to understand the danger of swim in open water . water safety outcome be already mandate in the national curriculum , and I acknowledge the work of Lord Storey in push for the teaching of those outcome to be mandatory in all school . when it become law , the Children ' s Wellbeing and Schools Bill will ensure that all child receive that education , which be a major step forward . however , the current learn objective do not go far enough , as they be about be able to swim and self - rescue . I do not suggest for a moment that have those skill be not important , but there be nothing in the curriculum that require child to be teach about the danger and risk of swim in open water , from cold water shock to invisible current and hidden object . if we want to stop child , especially teenager , put their life at risk , say , " Don ' t do it , " or , " it ' s dangerous , " be not the way forward . the good thing we can do be to empower they by give they the skill and knowledge to recognise the risk and understand the danger for themselves . many school already do this . they go above and beyond the baseline teaching require , work with group such as the RLSS , the Royal National Lifeboat Institution and the Canal & River Trust . I take my hat off to every school that have lead the way , but now it be our job to lead the way by make sure that this life skill and safety education be not leave to chance . there will be a cost to landowner in add and maintain safety measure , but reservoir be fundamentally different from most other body of water . they be not naturally occur ; they be create . they be manage and operate as part of an intentional and usually profit - make enterprise . I therefore do not think it be unreasonable that those who own or operate the asset should play their part in instal and maintain lifesaving equipment . ultimately , we be talk about people ' s life — not just the life that be lose , but the life of those who lose son like Sam or who lose daughter , brother , sister , friend or partner . there be 146 death a year , but how many life be devastate by those death ? how many life be change forever ? and how many more will there be before we do something different ? Simon Haycock , Sam ' s father , have channel his grief into do something positive , but his word still ring in my ear : " it ' s the absence that get you . one minute your son be there , look forward to the summer holiday and the next chapter of his life at college , and the next he be go . " from the moment the first tear fall down my face as he start to retell that story , I know I have commit to help he achieve his goal . I ask all member to support this Bill today and , more than that , I ask they to take up its proposal and principle by be alive to the need for change and by be aware that there be more that we can and must do . question put and agree to . order , that Lee Pitcher , Calum Miller , Sorcha Eastwood , Sally Jameson , Sarah Champion , Dr Roz Savage , Jim Shannon , Ben Coleman and Andy Slaughter present the Bill . Lee Pitcher accordingly present the Bill . Bill read the first time ; to be read a second time on Friday 20 June , and to be print ( Bill 178 ) . Police Grant Report Members will have see on the Order Paper that the police grant and local government finance report be due to be consider by the Select Committee on Statutory Instruments this morning . I can confirm that the Select Committee have report that these report do not raise any issue within their term of reference that need to be draw to the special attention of the House . I beg to move , that the Police Grant Report ( England and Wales ) 2025 - 26 ( HC 621 ) , which be lay before this House on 30 January , be approve . with your permission , Madam Deputy Speaker , I would like to express my condolence to the family and friend — and to the wide school community at all Saints catholic high school — of Harvey Willgoose , who be the victim of a stabbing in Sheffield early this week and sadly die . I echo the comment make by the Prime Minister that school must be place of safety and learning , not violence and fear . it be a privilege to present to the House the final police funding settlement for 2025 - 26 . this be the first opportunity that the Labour Government have have to set out our commitment to and support for fund the police of England and Wales . in year one of this Government , we be start the hard work of rebuild neighbourhood police and give the police the tool to do the job . in contrast , year one of the previous Tory Government , in 2010 , see the start of massive cut to frontline policing that cut over 20 , 000 police officer , bake in the unfairness in funding that many now complain about , and weaken power to deal with antisocial behaviour and neighbourhood crime , the consequence of which we now see around the country . I will commence my remark by express my heartfelt thank to the thousand of dedicated officer and staff , up and down the country , for their unwavering commitment and bravery . in the month since I be appoint to this post , I have meet many frontline officer from around the country — from Bedfordshire , Cleveland , the Met , West Midlands , Suffolk , Merseyside and Humberside . I have see and hear about countless example of outstanding police work . in the summer , the police demonstrate exceptional bravery and compassion in the face of unimaginably distressing scene in Southport . the following day , those same police officer face the most disgraceful violent attack from criminal and thug , with 302 officer injure while work to keep the public safe . we be incredibly fortunate to have so many courageous man and woman devote to keep we all safe and pursue criminal without fear or favour . this government will never take their service and sacrifice for grant . the police deserve our respect and support , and the investment we be make through the settlement underline our commitment to work with the police to deliver the safe street all our constituent deserve . I join the Minister in thank the hard - work police officer and police community support officer in Essex . last week , the conservative police , fire and crime commissioner threaten to get rid of all 99 Essex pcso , who do incredibly hard work support my community of Harlow . do the Minister welcome the fact that the PFCC have u - turn on that , and will she recognise the £ 27 million in extra funding for Essex police ? I be grateful to my hon . friend for raise the issue of Essex . I will come on to talk more about the funding that be go into all police force , include Essex . I be delighted that the threat that be be make about the reduction in the number of pcso will not come to pass . all police force will benefit from the settlement , as I will go on to talk about . the right hon . Lady refer to neighbourhood policing . in Norfolk , the new settlement will mean four officer on duty at any one time over an area of 2 , 000 square mile . Norfolk ' s chief constable , who be also the national lead , have warn that there be a £ 4 million funding gap for Norfolk , and that he will have to lose experienced police staff as a result . why be the Minister not give Norfolk and other rural area the settlement they need ? I will go on to talk about neighbourhood policing , but all police force be get additional money in the police settlement . on the neighbourhood police money that be be make available , we be work with all police force so that they come up with plan for how they can well deliver the neighbourhood police guarantee in their area . I will talk about that in a moment . will the Minister give way on that point ? I just want to get my next point on to the record , and then I will certainly give way . in 2025 - 26 , overall funding for policing will total up to £ 19 . 6 billion . of that amount , the funding available to police and crime commissioner for their local police force will be up to £ 17 . 5 billion . that be an increase of an additional £ 1 . 1 billion for next year , and a 6 . 6 % cash increase . just so we be all clear , that be £ 1 . 1 billion in addition . rise — I be happy to give way to the right hon . member for Hertsmere ( Sir Oliver Dowden ) . can the Minister , for the benefit of the House , clarify how much of that uplift will be take up by the increase national insurance contribution that have to be make by police force as a result of labour ' s policy ? the national insurance increase that be announce in the Budget be fully fund in the settlement . I think I see the right hon . member for Dwyfor Meirionnydd ( Liz Saville Roberts ) rise . the Minister talk of increase the draft settlement — [ hon . member : " answer the question ! " ] rise — I call the Minister . if hon . member want the exact figure give to police force to cover national insurance contribution , it be £ 230 million . I will now give way to the right hon . Lady . the Minister talk of increase the draft settlement , but extra funding for Welsh police force only plug the gap leave by the Labour Welsh Government reduce police community support officer funding in recent year . plaid Cymru PCC Dafydd Llywelyn tell we that 56 % of Dyfed - Powys police funding now have to come from local resident . surely the time have come to review police funding in Wales and have devolution of police on the table . issue such as the precept in Wales be obviously a matter for the Welsh Government . there be general agreement that a number of member be concerned about the police settlement . it be historical ; it be what we inherit from the previous Government . I know that the previous Government have two attempt to reform the formula and do not do so . I will come on to talk about that in a moment . however , I just want to go through some of the figure so we be all clear about what be be announce today . I have just set out the £ 1 . 1 billion extra be make available to police in the next financial year . that funding be base on the assumption that PCCs make use of the full precept flexibility of £ 14 for english force — I know that be different in Wales . that measure provide important flexibility that could result in an additional £ 329 . 8 million in funding should all force choose to fully utilise it . it be important to make clear , however , that those decision be ultimately make at the local level . I will now come on to the neighbourhood police commitment . neighbourhood policing be the bedrock of our policing model . every community deserve visible , proactive and accessible neighbourhood policing , with officer tackle the issue that matter most to those area . under previous conservative Governments , neighbourhood policing be slash in community across the country and more than half of the public now say they never see a bobby on the beat . shockingly , that number have double since 2010 , erode community confidence and leave people feel less safe . sadly , over the 14 year of those government , as I have say , neighbourhood policing be decimate , with the number of pcso halve and the number of special constable reduce by two third . that have dire consequence for public safety and public confidence . over the 14 year of the conservative Governments , too many town centre and high street across the country be grip by an epidemic of antisocial behaviour . we be at the high level of shop theft for a generation , and that be corrode our community and can not be allow to continue . retail crime be one of the big issue that business across Clwyd East raise with I . it be fair to say that the way in which the last Conservative Government characterise and deprioritise deal with so - call low - value theft be the reason why we be in such a mess and there have be such a rise in shoplifting , which be now at a 20 - year high . will the Minister share my thank to the Union of Shop , Distributive and Allied Workers and the Co - operative party for what they have do in that area ? will she also tell we a little more about how the extra funding will help bolster our neighbourhood police team so that they can do the real tireless work to make sure both our shop and shopworker be keep safe ? my hon . friend raise an important matter . that neighbourhood police presence that we be talk about in our high street and our town centre will be so important in get to grip not only with antisocial behaviour , but with the rise in shop theft and assault on retail worker . this Labour Government want to turn the page and put neighbourhood police back into our community , in every corner of the country . our neighbourhood policing guarantee will see the recruitment of thousand of additional police officer , pcso and special constable , who will be equip with the tough power they need to crack down on the crime blight our high street and town centre . that be why we be double the funding for neighbourhood police compare with the provisional settlement that be publish in December , to a total of £ 200 million , to kick - start the work on neighbourhood police in 2025 - 26 . the impact of good neighbourhood police on local community confidence and crime prevention can never be overstate . that be why it be integral to our safe street mission , which be in turn a core strand of the Government ' s plan for change . I expect police to make use of this funding to increase neighbourhood team across every force next year . that increase in neighbourhood policing , alongside the neighbourhood policing guarantee , will strengthen the connection between the police and the community that they serve , and clearly demonstrate to the public that the police be respond to local concern and priority . I turn to the subject of police officer number . we be commit £ 376 . 8 million to support force in maintain officer number for 2025 - 26 . of this , £ 270 . 1 million will be allocate to force on the condition that they meet their officer target . an additional £ 106 . 7 million will be provide as a top - up grant to support recruitment effort in 2024 - 25 and 2025 - 26 . this funding will be unconditional and distribute base on the extra recruitment that each force achieve . this settlement represent a significant increase in funding for police force , but in return the Government will expect all police force to raise their ambition on efficiency , drive forward improvement to productivity and ensure that every penny invest in our mission to create safe street count . that mean that force will be require to participate in the recently launch commercial efficiency and collaboration programme to unlock immediate cashable saving and develop additional opportunity for increase income generation . our first focus will be on force sign up to national approach to buy energy , vehicle , fuel , temporary staff and software licence . we be also increase firearm licensing fee that have not change since 2015 and be now significantly less than the cost of the service provide by police force . the additional revenue raise will be retain by police force to support the important improvement that be need in firearm license . those be our initial priority area , but we will be go far , ensure that the foundation be in place to deliver hundred of million of pound of efficiency saving by the end of this Parliament . we will also reduce burden , tackle bureaucracy and free up resource within policing , whether that be through well utilisation of AI to rapidly triage and disseminate thousand of digital forensic record and eliminate any wasteful and unnecessary redaction of file pass between the police and the CPS , or support the roll - out of enhanced and rapid video response to improve response time and victim outcome . improved productivity have the potential to unlock million of hour within policing , free up vital officer time for redeployment on to the frontline , unlock further saving for police force and improve outcome . we will ensure that we provide support to force to measure the benefit of these improvement and ensure that time save be reinveste into our priority area , such as the delivery of the neighbourhood policing guarantee . I wish to say a few word about counter - terrorism . the preservation of our national security be the first duty of any Government . this settlement provide essential support for counter - terrorism policing , the funding for which will increase by 14 % to £ 1 . 1 billion to ensure that it have the resource that it need to deal with the threat that we face . despite a very challenging fiscal inheritance — a black hole of £ 22 billion — we have prioritise investment in the police because we recognise that people can not thrive unless they feel safe , and that our country can not realise its potential unless the foundation be strong . no doubt there be much more to do . I have hear the feedback , and I know that some police force be face tough decision to balance budget . I will continue to work in partnership with the police in our quest to restore neighbourhood policing and deliver safe street . I think this be a share mission to improve the life of the people we all serve ; to reduce harm and restore confidence ; to equip and empower our police for the challenge of today and tomorrow ; and to build a fair and safe country for all . the settlement that we be debate will aid we in those endeavour , which be why I commend it to the House . I call the shadow Minister . before engage in the substance of the debate , I thank the brave , hard - work police officer , pcso , police staff and volunteer who work tirelessly to protect the public . they work day and night to make our community safe , and run towards danger while other run away . we recognise the huge sacrifice that they make , give their time , their health , and in the most tragic case , their life . I know that mps across the House recognise our responsibility to support the police in their work . I be therefore pleased that member have express their concern to the Minister about this settlement . the reality be that the funding settlement put forward by the Government be inadequate . everyone in this Chamber who have speak with their local police force know that the settlement will not provide the necessary resource , particularly give the inflationary pressure . last week , when question by Nick Ferrari about the absurd tax raid on our police force and the fact that her settlement will cut the number of police on our street , the Minister say that she be " not pretend that it isn ' t … challenge for police force " . today , however , she and her colleague be attempt to present a different picture , understate the settlement ' s impact on reduce police number , and the financial challenge that it pose to our police force . last week , she state that pcc and chief constable must make local decision about the composition of their force . will she now acknowledge that her Government ' s decision have create that impossible position for police leader ? at first glance , the settlement may appear generous in cash term ; however , there be a sleight of hand . the cash increase be not enough to cover new financial pressure , the big of which have be create by the Government . the funding will not be sufficient to sustain police force . without further action , it will ultimately lead to reduction in officer number . since the funding settlement be announce , numerous pcc , chief constable and representative body have warn the Government about the challenge that it will create . why be police force so concerned ? the impact of this year ' s funding must be assess in the context of two key factor . the first be the Government ' s increase in national insurance contribution . some £ 230 million of this apparently generous settlement will go straight back to the Treasury to pay the Government ' s own tax raid on our own police force . the Government be literally tax the police off our street . economic datum have already show the harm that the national insurance raid have inflict on business and job , but it have also reduce the financial benefit that the police will receive from the settlement . since the Government choose to impose this tax nationwide , it be only right that the Home Office should fully cover the cost of the tax increase for police force , but the Government now claim that the £ 230 million that cover their own tax hike somehow count as a funding increase . it be not a funding increase ; it just cover an extra cost that the Government have impose on our hard - work police force . would that money not have be well spend on more police officer , investment in technology to improve efficiency — something that the Government claim to prioritise — or target intervention ? the shadow Minister , like so many conservative Members , be supportive of the health and social care levy , which be a large and more wide - range increase in national insurance than anything propose by this Government . I have just check Hansard for the entire time that he have be a Member of this place , and not once do he speak out against that tax hike and not once have he reference police funding , until today . what be it about be in opposition that make he think he now have the moral high ground ? that be a false statement , actually — it be misleading . I have definitely mention police funding in the House before . when ? have a play with hansard and let we see . in fact , the sum of £ 230 million alone could have fund the recruitment , or at the least the retention , of thousand of officer who could have be out there protect our neighbourhood . instead , it will be funnel back into the Treasury to cover a host of other public sector pay demand from Labour ' s union paymaster . would the shadow Minister like to explain how he could sit on the Government Benches for several year but not say a word about the 20 , 000 officer who be lose , include the 500 lose in Cleveland ? after the last Labour Government ' s spending and borrowing splurge cause the economic crisis of 2008 , cut be make , but the hon . Gentleman should be happy because thereafter we increase the number of police officer on the street of the UK to record number : 149 , 679 . that be the high number of police officer ever on our street . rise — no , I be go to make some progress , thank you very much . some might say that the Minister be give with one hand and take with the other . however , give the tax rise , it be clear that she be give with the left hand and take back with the far - left hand — [ interruption . ] do the Minister want to intervene ? I wonder whether the shadow Minister know what pay for police . the money come from the Treasury , and when there be nothing leave — for example , because the Home Office in which the shadow Home Secretary be a Minister do not put any money towards many of the scheme set out in their Budget — where do he think the money have to come from ? taxpayer — the people who go out day and night , work hard and cough up for the national insurance rise . it be those small business batter by the Government ' s slashing of rate relief on leisure , hospitality and retail business — absolutely horrendous . those hard - work man and woman out there pay their taxis fund these police officer . the second big issue with the funding formula be that previous conservative Governments provide in - year funding for pcc to cover the police pay award , which be then add to the baseline , so any increase be on top of that already elevate baseline . by contrast , the in - year adjustment for this year ' s pay settlement be not add to the baseline , so about £ 200 million of this apparently generous increase simply make up for that omission . around £ 430 million of that apparently generous increase actually make up for the Government ' s own choice . adjust for that , the increase in funding for police next year be not £ 1 . 9 billion at all , but more like £ 660 million — nearly £ 300 million less than the last increase under the previous Government . that actual increase of £ 660 million be not enough to meet pay and inflationary pressure . freedom of information request from police force highlight the financial strain , with some force not receive the full amount require from the Home Office . that shortfall must then be cover , either by local taxpayer or through cut elsewhere . I would be interested to hear the Minister for Policing ' s view on this , give that her party be a strong proponent of freeze council tax in 2023 — a principle that , like so many other , seem to have be abandon now that Labour be in government . all that mean be that police budget be overstretch and the force will inevitably have to make tough decision . although estimate vary , the National Police Chiefs ' Council project in December a £ 1 . 3 billion funding gap over the next two year , which the council ' s finance lead say would inevitably result in job loss . other estimate suggest that the funding shortfall be close to £ 118 million per year , even when account for the additional funding announce last week . regardless of which estimate we use , either should be of serious concern to the Home Office and the Government . give current staffing cost , the low figure of £ 118 million could mean job loss for over 1 , 800 officer , which be unacceptable . yes , a Labour Government who be borrow like no one be watch and spend like there be no tomorrow could still leave we with 1 , 800 few officer on our street . I would like to explore a little furth the shadow Minister ' s understanding of how taxis pay for thing . he say that taxation pay for police officer and he believe that he have identify a funding gap . will he explain to the House how he would fill that gap ? last year there be funding of £ 900 million - plus ; this year it be only £ 660 million . the hon . Gentleman be completely overstate what the Government be give police officer . [ interruption . ] he be wrong . we manage the finance to put the large ever number of police officer on the street of the UK . the Minister have give no guarantee that she will maintain that . will the shadow Minister give way ? I will carry on ; I be sure that there will be plenty of opportunity for everybody to contribute to the debate . thank to measure introduce by the then Conservative Government , the total number of officer stand at 149 , 769 in March 2024 — the high headcount since comparable record begin . will the shadow Minister give way ? the hon . Gentleman will have plenty of opportunity to contribute . I know that Labour member do not like this fact , but the Conservatives leave office with record number of police and thousand more officer on our street than ever before . all we be do be call on the Government to try at the very least to maintain that number , not reduce it . in reality , the Government be place police force in an impossible position . how do they expect force to meet their financial obligation without cut officer number ? the Government will point to their intention to recruit new neighbourhood officer , but we all know that include only a relatively small number of new officer — just 3 , 000 . Most of the claim 13 , 000 officer be either be reassign , be part time , be volunteer or be pcso with no power of arrest . give the exist budget shortfall , I be concerned that that level of recruitment will not be enough . the £ 200 million allocate in that inadequate settlement appear insufficient to meet the Government ' s state objective . rise — will the Minister be honest and acknowledge that in order to achieve what have be outline , officer will need to be reassign ? if so , will she assure we that those officer will be assign appropriately ? can she assure mps — let she intervene ! I be sure that the Minister will have opportunity to come back to I . can she assure mps that when their constituent ring 999 , they will not have to wait long for an emergency response , because response officer have be redeploy to neighbourhood ? rise — go on — you be welcome . I just think it might be helpful if I give the shadow Minister a reminder . he be right that there be 149 , 769 police officer in March 2024 , but in June — when the Conservative Government be still in power — that figure have be reduce by 1 , 232 to 148 , 536 officer . the number go down on the previous Government ' s watch . by the measurement in September , that be not the case . by the time September come — [ interruption . ] be the Minister go to give we the guarantee that the number will not go down any far as a result of the funding ? the Government have undeniably set well - intentione goal . halve knife crime and tackle violence against woman and girl be ambition that will be celebrate across Parliament and across the country , but what be the actual measure for halve violence against woman and girl ? without enough police officer available to prioritise those issue , progress will be far more difficult . move forward , will the Government commit to fully fund pay increase and ensure that additional tax burden be not place on police force in the year ahead ? what have be put forward today do not do enough to provide the resource that the police need to tackle criminal in our society , mean that the only winner will be those who thrive on criminality . rise — on a point of order , Madam Deputy Speaker . the shadow Minister suggest that I have mislead the House , by suggest that what I say be not true . I would like to be absolutely clear that the shadow Minister mention police funding on three occasion prior to the election , and each of they be an obsequious pleasantry about how wonderful the last Government be . that be not what I suggest he could have say . that be a point of debate , not a point of order . before we move on to the first Back - Bench contribution , I remind Members , include Front Benchers , not to use the word " you . " I begin by put on record my congratulation to Trevor Rodenhurst , the chief constable of Bedfordshire police , on be award the King ' s Police Medal for distinguished service . it be well deserved . like other , I thank the police officer , pcso and all police staff at Bedfordshire police for their service . after year of campaign for well funding for Bedfordshire police , I be very pleased that this Labour Government have demonstrate our commitment to safe street and more police in our community by bring forward this core funding settlement . bedfordshire police have be award £ 67 . 8 million , an increase of 6 . 6 % , as well as £ 1 . 8 million in neighbourhood policing guarantee funding for 2025 - 26 . this increase come after 14 year of Tory cut and underfunding . will the hon . Lady give way on that point ? I will not give way . those cut and that underfunding have require Bedfordshire police to cut spending by over £ 50 million . I thank our labour police and crime commissioner for Bedfordshire , John Tizard , for his commitment to ensure that we make the good use of our fund to increase policing capacity , and for his dedication to tackle violent crime across our county . I particularly thank he for his ongoing desire to work in partnership with other public service and the voluntary sector , with a focus on prevention . Bedfordshire have a diverse landscape , and our police cover urban , densely populate town include Bedford and Luton , which suffer from crime associate with metropolitan area . our county have significant transportation link — road , rail and air — make Bedfordshire a particular hotspot for organised crime , include firearm and drug supply offence . unfortunately , our police force be also tackle the impact of knife crime ; in the period from January 2023 to March 2024 , there be 449 knife crime - relate incident in Luton alone , and in recent week we have see more violent crime in Luton . two stabbing have take place , one of which tragically result in a fatality . despite those factor , Bedfordshire police be still currently fund as a rural police force , due to failure by the previous Government to fix the archaic funding formula . special grant have be provide each year since 2019 - 20 to tackle the disproportionately high gun and gang crime in Bedfordshire , with a further grant award since 2021 - 22 to combat organise crime . I can not comment on the contribution make by the shadow Minister , the hon . member for Stockton West ( Matt Vickers ) , but I and many other member from across the House who represent constituency in Bedfordshire have speak many time about the funding formula for our police force . it be currently await confirmation of the continuation of those special grant , which equate to 5 % of its total budget . announcement be expect later this month , so I urge the Minister to consider the specific circumstance of our police force when take those decision , as the impact of those grant can not be overestimate . I will close by say how pleased I be to see multi - year settlement for local government come in , because that provide local government with more stability in its partnership with our police force , work to ensure community safety . I call the liberal Democrat spokesperson . I rise today to address some of the urgent issue affect community across the country . everyone deserve to feel safe in their home and while walk through their own neighbourhood , but for many people in the UK today , that be simply not the reality . the previous Conservative Government fail to keep our community safe from crime by decimate neighbourhood policing , take officer off our street and leave our community far less safe . our community look to the Government to step up and fix this by properly fund the officer our community need , not simply pass the buck to local police chief to put up people ' s council tax instead . my constituency of Hazel Grove , while undoubtedly the fine in the country , see crime rate high than any of we would want to see , and a force that be strain to give our community the policing it need . in town and village like Marple or Romiley , shop worker be face a surge in shop theft , with little expectation that the police will be able to respond effectively . for they it have become simply part of the job ; that be unacceptable . in recent week in Romiley , a string of burglary have hit small business , include a pet shop , a nail salon and even a charity shop . small business be already struggle with rise cost , and many can not afford to keep take loss in this way . the reality be that neighbourhood policing have be gutte . it be no wonder that 6 , 000 case be close daily in England and Wales without a suspect be identify , and that just 6 % of crime report to the police result in a suspect be charge . the previous Conservative Government slash over 4 , 500 police community support officer since 2015 , leave few officer to prevent and respond to these crime . it be exactly those pcso who call on the small business in my patch to check in on they after they have be burgle , and exactly that sort of community police that victim value . one of the most persistent issue raise on doorstep in my constituency be the scourge of illegal offroad bike . whether in Offerton , Heaviley or High Lane , resident be intimidate by this antisocial and often dangerous behaviour . bike theft be yet another example , with local gang target cyclist , especially teenager . a resident from Hazel Grove recently share their fear after two violent bike theft occur within just one week near Aquinas college and on Chester Road . in Marple , resident have report bike mugging occur in broad daylight ; child have be threaten with knife , push off their bike , and have their bike and phone steal . these be exactly the kind of issue that community policing should be address , but after year of cut , neighbourhood police team lack the officer they need to do their job effectively . if we be serious about tackle antisocial behaviour , we must invest in more visible policing , ensure that officer have the time and resource to act on these concern . the Lib Dems have long champion the local approach , and we would ensure that more police be on our street by scrap the expensive police and crime commissioner experiment , and invest the saving in frontline police instead . we have also be call for a new national online crime agency that would take over on issue like online fraud and abuse in an increasingly complex online world , leave more time for local force to tackle neighbourhood crime . in her opening remark , the Minister rightly thank our police officer and talk about the phenomenally difficult and valuable job they do . the mental health situation in our police force need attention . like so many — too many — in our society , too many police officer be struggle to access the mental health support they need . one of my constituent , Louise from Hazel Grove , get in touch with I about her son , who be just 21 year old . as a new police officer , in only one week he have to respond to multiple suicide and , in one particularly harrowing case , a man who have be hit by a train . the emotional toll of such traumatic incident be immense , yet in his station , Louise report there be no mental health first aider , no formal support be offer , and there be no access to psychological assistance . when her son raise his concern with his sergeant — at the time the only person available to listen — he be simply place on restrict duty with no promise of further help . that can not be the standard response to officer who be struggle with the mental health issue associate with their work . if we fail to support our officer ' mental wellbeing , we will see brilliant , well - train professional leave the force , far weaken our ability to keep community safe . the Lib Dems have also be clear about our support for tackle rural crime . NFU Mutual ' s late figure estimate that the cost of rural crime increase by 4 . 3 % year on year to £ 52 . 8 million in 2023 , as criminal gang target farmyard and field , look to cash in on continue high inflation and ready resale market domestically and overseas . as a vet I spend a lot of time drive around rural area , work with family and livery yard owner in the Meon valley in Hampshire , and in Madam Deputy Speaker ' s beautiful constituency of Romsey . rural crime be a huge issue . it be common , expensive and difficult to tackle . do my hon . friend share my concern that the provisional police grant report do not specifically mention rural crime once ? I be sure that my hon . friend accurately represent your constituency , Madam Deputy Speaker ; if we be creep , let ' s all get in on that ! I share my hon . friend ' s concern about the lack of specificity on rural crime . the Minister and I have discuss question about rural crime before over the Dispatch Box . she be right that neighbourhood be different and that neighbourhood policing can approach rural area , urban area and suburban area differently , but all force should have a rural focus and specificity . my area of Mellor be much more rural than , for example , Offerton , and the crime profile of those area will be different , so I agree with my hon . friend the Member for Winchester ( Dr Chambers ) strongly on that . I urge the new Labour Government to set up an independent taskforce to produce a strategy on tackle rural crime and then to implement that strategy . my hon . friend the Member for North Cornwall ( Ben Maguire ) have push for that with a Bill he have present to this House . the Government should also extend the Equipment Theft ( Prevention ) Act 2023 to include GPS theft — that crime contribute to a loss of £ 4 . 2 million in 2023 alone — and to enforce strict penalty for livestock - relate offence . the issue I have raise today be not isolate concern ; they be the direct result of a decade of government cut and neglect . when our police force be underfunde and overstretch , criminal feel they can act with impunity and law - abide citizen be leave to suffer the consequence . we can not and we should not continue to accept a police system where shop theft become routine , where young people fear for their safety just go about live their life , where rural crime go unpunished and where our police do not get the support they desperately need . our officer deserve well support and our community deserve the reassurance of visible , effective policing . I urge the Government to take these concern seriously and to commit to real investment in neighbourhood policing , mental health support for officer , and strong enforcement to keep our street safe . our community across the country deserve nothing less . I thank the Minister for her speech and for the money that we be go to see . I also associate myself with some of the remark make by the hon . member for Hazel Grove ( Lisa Smart ) about community policing and neighbourhood policing be decimate over the last 14 year . with that decimation come insurance , include motor vehicle insurance , rise through the roof , shoplifter maraud our street without fear and low - level crime go out of control . the last time Labour be in government , we be tough on crime and tough on the cause of crime . follow 14 year of the Conservatives ’ mismanagement , crime and policing have fall into crisis . crime have increase , and despite what have be say in this place , police number have decline . prison have crumble and victim have be deny justice . locally , the borough I lead be home to five police station in 2014 . follow a decade of conservative cut , only a single police station remain stand . everyone deserve to feel safe — safe from burglary in our home , safe from assault on our street and safe from violence in our daily life . in Ilford South , we have all feel the consequence of rise crime . Knife crime , in particular , have plague our street , claim the life of so many young people just start out — people with their whole future ahead of they , who be catch up in gang or victimise . we have see high - profile case of domestic abuse where woman be murder and family shatter . only recently , Jorge Ortega lose his life while work at Ilford train station . he be a victim of violent assault , which deprive his family of a beloved father , grandfather and husband . it be vital that the police be adequately resource to act as both deterrent and enforcer . without fair police funding , we ultimately accept the decriminalisation of low - level crime and the exponential increase of serious crime . we all know that crime can destroy community , devastate family and degrade the bond of our society . after 14 year of conservative cut to police , close police station and empower criminal , it be beyond time for a change . I welcome the Home Secretary ' s funding report , which address the significant issue of police funding cut and acknowledge the vital importance of have officer back on our street . the announcement of a 6 . 6 % cash increase in police funding will mean more uniformed officer patrol our street , protect our community and respond when we need they most . the funding for the Metropolitan police will support police across the capital , ultimately make our street safe . labour be bring back community police , increase police number and begin the hard work of restore public trust . funding be one part of the solution . to deliver safe street and improve community confidence , we need a holistic approach , focus on prevention as well as cure . we need space for young people to go to socialise and to be inspire . in Ilford South , I have have the great pleasure of work with Stephen Addison of Box up Crime — a local organisation that run box club , offer young people an escape , an education and a safe space away from crime , antisocial behaviour and gang violence . as council leader , I lead investment in youth centre in Loxford , a leisure centre in Goodmayes and library across Redbridge , give young people place to exercise , learn and make friend . we also bring back community police locally , as the Labour Government will now do nationally . we deliver enforcement and engagement hub — basis for police and council enforcement officer to engage with the public and conduct patrol , as an affordable replacement for the police station that the Conservative Government defunde . the late one open last week . I be honour to invite my right hon . friend the Home Secretary , when she be the shadow Home Secretary , to launch our very first enforcement hub . I be now delighted to support she in government to deliver community police across the country . today ' s report on police grant give we the opportunity and resource to prevent crime , improve community safety and build confidence in the police . under this Labour Government , the public can rest assure that , once again , we will be tough on crime and tough on the cause of crime , deliver community police , fair funding and the innovation need to prevent crime before it happen . I welcome the Government ' s increase funding for the Metropolitan police , but this commitment do not go anywhere near far enough to deliver what be require for safe policing on the street of London . the Labour party be elect into office on the mandate to restore community policing , which be gutte by the last Conservative Government . the shadow Policing Minister , the hon . member for Stockton West ( Matt Vickers ) , may profess his own interest in police funding , but a more eloquent story be tell by the empty Benches behind he when it come to their commitment on this issue , which be demonstrate throughout their Administration . we need to see real action and a real commitment to neighbourhood police in order to address the ongoing issue of crime and antisocial behaviour that we be see across London , and to give the police the tool that they need to restore trust and confidence in our police service . I be concerned that this grant be not enough to protect current service provide by the Metropolitan police from further cut , let alone enough to restore police number and infrastructure to their previous level . the force be experience real challenge in the recruitment and retention of police officer , which be affect its ability to fill vacancy . I receive regular correspondence from my constituent , who have pass on their experience of be victim of burglary and other criminal activity . the recur theme in this correspondence be the difficulty that victim experience in ensure that their case be investigate in detail and at length by the Met . that be a direct consequence of cut to our force because our neighbourhood team be severely stretch , mean that the time they can spend on each case be limited . my constituency of Richmond Park use to be home to three police station , but after year of cut they have all be close . Richmond police station act as a hub for our community , and provide reassurance to resident that they could quickly report a crime or a development in a case to an officer in person . the lack of these police station in my constituency be cause that connection between the public and the police to be lose , due to the reduce visibility of police officer on our street . do the hon . Lady recognise , as I do , that the previous Government ' s cut to policing have lead to a void of experience in community police ? we need to get that experience back , but that , sadly , will take time . the hon . Gentleman be precisely right . have have conversation with local police team , what I find frequently be that there be a large turnover of police officer in neighbourhood policing , which really affect the ability of police officer to develop a relationship with their local community . that lack of experience can be so tell when it come to respond to issue such as antisocial behaviour . although I represent a Sussex constituency , when I knock on door in town across my constituency I often discover that I have Met police officer live in my patch . I vividly remember a conversation last year with an officer in Burgess Hill , who tell I the only reason he be still in the police be out of loyalty to his colleague . do my hon . friend agree that more need to be do to boost morale in the police ? my hon . friend be absolutely right . when I speak to my local police officer — the officer patrol the street of my constituency — I find very often that they actually live quite some distance from the community they serve . that be obviously a direct result of the cost of live in London , but it create a real problem for Londoners in that they be not serve by Londoners in the police force . my hon . friend be also exactly right about morale — that really have to be urgently address . this story be common across London . More than 100 police station have be close by the Met , while there have be a 64 % reduction in community police since 2015 . however , the Met be now in a position where it can not sell off any more of its estate to balance its budget , and it be clear that it require a significant influx of funding . the Metropolitan police be responsible for police regular and well - attend protest in central London , which require a great intensity of resource to police . in Richmond Park , we regularly see our local officer abstract away from their neighbourhood responsibility to provide additional support at these event , which have result in a lack of cover on our street , which add to people ' s anxiety about the lack of policing . recently , the Metropolitan Police Commissioner , Sir Mark Rowley , have warn about the deeply concern shortfall face by the Met . in December , reference a £ 450 million funding shortfall , the commissioner warn that if substantial funding be not provide , the Met would be force to cut 2 , 300 officer and 400 member of staff in the next financial year . the funding propose by the Government today be , therefore , a drop in the ocean compare with what be require to prevent cut to our London officer , and this provision of funding be certainly not in keep with the Government ' s promise to restore neighbourhood police number to our community . while I can not match the speech on rural crime from my hon . friend the Members for Winchester ( Dr Chambers ) and for Hazel Grove ( Lisa Smart ) , my constituency do have a significant police force , the Parks police , which specifically patrol the Royal Parks . the Parks police play a crucial role in keep crime and antisocial behaviour in the Royal Parks across London to a minimum , while its expertise in its domain enable the force to quickly address emergency situation . in response to a survey I recently conduct , nearly 1 , 000 of my constituent voice their strong opposition to any propose cut to the Parks police , as well as provide first - hand account of time the Parks police help to provide a quick resolution to what could otherwise have develop into a crisis situation . with all that in mind , will the Minister provide we with assurance that the new grant funding for our police force will mean that cut to such important and value police department be not on the table ? I urge the Minister to go far , and to really consider the specific demand of the Metropolitan police and the valuable work it do right across our city in keep our community safe . I associate myself with the remark of my right hon . friend the Minister on the tragic loss of Harvey Willgoose , and extend my deep condolence to his family . I also thank Chief Constable Kate Meynell and all her police officer and staff at Nottinghamshire police for the important and heroic work they do for the community I represent in Gedling . I would like to begin by pay tribute to a constituent , PC Chris Duffy , and his police dog , Reno . when attend an incident in March 2023 , PC Duffy be strike on the back of the head by an attacker in an alleyway , leave he with a seven - inch wound as he fall to the ground . despite what have happen , he get himself back on his foot and 15 minute later arrest his attacker . I be delighted , as his Member of Parliament and as a lifelong school friend , to see he recognise and nominate for a prestigious Pride of Gedling award last year . I pay tribute to pc Duffy and Reno for their heroic service . thank to this Labour Government , resident in Gedling will be the beneficiary of a much - need funding increase for nottinghamshire police . I welcome the Government ' s announcement of a total £ 7 . 2 million boost in funding for nottinghamshire police — a 6 . 1 % increase — mean more police on our street in community across gedle and more resource for our brave police officer to clamp down on crime and antisocial behaviour . the Government be work constructively and closely with our labour police and crime commissioner , Gary Godden , who have be a tireless champion for nottinghamshire police and our hard - work police officer across the county of Nottinghamshire . himself an ex - copper , he understand first - hand the devastating impact of crime and antisocial behaviour on community like the one I represent in Gedling . that be in stark contrast to the previous conservative police and crime commissioner of Nottinghamshire , who spend more time defend her own speeding offence than tackle people offend by speed on our road . as we see under the last Conservative Government , when the number of police officer be cut , it be always the hard - work , law - abide - majority who pay the price . I have see that first - hand in Arnold , Carlton and Netherfield town centre , where lawless thug have try get away with mindless antisocial behaviour . my constituent John have be play dart on a Wednesday evening in Arnold town centre for over 20 year . he recently tell I about the gang of young people smash up bicycle outside a local supermarket at night . John say to I that it be get bad " week by week " and that it be put people off visit the area in the town centre . in Carlton , my constituent Louise recently visit a local church to donate school uniform . she be confront with offensive graffiti daub across the church wall , lead her child to ask her uncomfortable question about what the vile vandalism mean — graffiti on the wall of one of our most beautiful church . and last week I meet Sarah , who be a governor at Warren primary academy , a fantastic school in a wonderful community . Sarah and the headteacher at Warren primary tell I how parent be afraid to let their kid play in Muirfield park due to weekly incident of vandalism of public property , include the burning of park equipment , people carry knife and " off - road biker rip up the park , wear full balaclavas " . think about that : parent afraid of let their child play in park because of some lawless thug and vandal . that be totally unacceptable and must change . local councillor , the community and I have be raise these issue with the police and crime commissioner in Nottinghamshire , as well as the Government . I hope that the new uplift in funding from the Labour Government for our local police be put to good use to increase neighbourhood policing and ensure that this kind of antisocial behaviour be stamp out . on the Labour Benches , we believe that all crime should be prosecute . we believe in the need to take tough action on criminal and those who be intent on attempt to intimidate the law - abide majority . we believe in a zero - tolerance approach to the perpetrator of antisocial behaviour in place like Arnold , Netherfield , Carlton and Warren Hill ; unlike the Conservatives , who effectively legalise shoplifting under the value of £ 200 , slash the number of police by 45 , 000 in their first four year in office and then expect we to thank they for promise the return of only 20 , 000 . Police force number — to be clear to the shadow police Minister — at the end of the last Conservative Government be still 2 , 000 low than when Labour leave office in 2010 . at the same time , what do we see ? we see a rise in fraud , a rise in knife crime and the continued presence of antisocial behaviour . it be this Labour Government who will increase the number of neighbourhood bobby on the beat by 13 , 000 , introduce a name police officer for every community and invest in youth hub across our country so that we can tackle the root cause of antisocial behaviour . I will never , ever apologise for a zero - tolerance approach to antisocial behaviour : it be what my constituent in Gedling expect , and I be delighted that this Labour Government be work with our police and crime commissioner , nottinghamshire police , mps and local councillor to stamp this out . while I be grateful for the additional funding outline in the Police Grant Report , it be clear that it do not go far enough . police force in rural constituency such as mine continue to struggle with historic underfunding , and once again the funding settlement fall short of what be need . dorset police will see an increase from £ 180 . 1 million to £ 191 . 8 million , a 6 . 5 % rise , but the national average increase be 6 . 6 % , which mean that yet again Dorset will receive less than most area despite be one of the most underfunded force in the country . it receive just £ 246 per head , well below the national average . ours be the eighth lowest - fund police force in the country , and that be unacceptable . the current police funding formula be fundamentally flawed . it fail to recognise the importance of rurality , which mean that rural force such as Dorset , which have to police an area of more than 1 , 000 square mile but with a low population density , lose out in comparison with urban force . it fail to account for the very real challenge that rural policing present , include the difficulty of maintain a visible police presence over vast geographical area . in West Dorset , resident already struggle to see a police officer around their community , and this funding report do little to address that issue . the formula also fail to take account of seasonality and the impact of tourism . in West Dorset we see a 42 % population increase during peak holiday season , stretch police resource even far , and the financial strain be already dire . dorset police face a funding deficit of £ 3 . 6 million last year , and that be project to rise to £ 7 . 3 million this year , even before rise cost and increase employer national insurance contribution be take into account . the fact be that much of the additional funding announce will simply go towards cover those increase cost , rather than address the deep - root financial difficulty face by the police force . despite evidence - back request , submit last August , for an additional £ 12 . 2 million in annual funding , the Government have fail to provide that essential support . as a result , Dorset police be force to make severe cut include a 43 % reduction in the number of community support officer , a freeze on staff recruitment , the sale of vehicle and building , restriction on overtime , and a halt to all non - essential spending . this will only weaken the ability of our hard - work police officer to keep our community safe . I urge the Government to revise the police funding formula as a matter of urgency to ensure that rural force such as Dorset ' s receive a fair and sustainable settlement that reflect the true demand place upon they . I recognise and appreciate the additional amount that have be provide , small though it be , and I want to work with the Government to secure the support that police officer so desperately need . this be not just about fairness ; it be about ensure that every community , no matter how rural , have the security and protection that it deserve . I thank my right hon . friend the Minister for her opening speech , and I welcome the almost £ 20 billion of total funding for police in England and Wales in today ' s settlement , an increase of up to £ 1 . 1 billion when compare with the previous deal under the Conservative Government . this be a real - term fund increase of 4 . 1 % , and a cash increase of 6 . 6 % . the announcement of the doubling of funding to kick - start the recruitment of 13 , 000 more neighbourhood police officer be vital . police on Teesside continue to be impact by the legacy of conservative cut . in March 2010 , we have over 1 , 700 officer . after an initial loss of 500 , we still have around 200 few officer than we do in 2010 , so I welcome the new recruitment funding announce this week and the Minister ' s recent visit to my constituency . I trust that she be as impressed as I be by the incredible engagement from not just police officer across Cleveland — particularly those from Hartlepool and Middlesbrough — but other agency and stakeholder , which demonstrate the complete rejection of the terrible event that we see on our street in the summer . I join my hon . friend in thank the Minister for her unwavering support during the trouble last summer , which be appreciate by I and other Members of Parliament whose constituency be affect . will he join I in congratulate Cleveland police on their exemplary work in deal with what happen last summer , particularly as we recognise that some police officer in Hartlepool end the night in hospital as a result ? will he also join I in remind all Members that have temperance in the way that we speak about crime be incredibly important ? not do so make the job of our police hard , not easy . my hon . friend be absolutely right : it be critical that when discuss crime and social tension , we express ourselves in this place and outside with the great care . it fall to everybody on both side of the House to ensure that people do not rush to social medium to try to exploit an already inflammatory and delicate situation . we all have that obligation , and I share his celebration of the response from the community and the police in work together . that be truly remarkable , and it be only as successful as it be because the community and the police work together in that way . the Minister will no doubt remember a very impressive officer from my hon . friend ' s constituency of Hartlepool , who I know only as Coggy . he be the most impressive individual , and he take it upon himself — his colleague do the same across the Cleveland force area — to engage with young people who have lose their way and be not engage . he tell I that on one occasion , he have to remonstrate with a young man by say , " I go to school with your dad , and he would be embarrassed . " the young man say , " no , that ' s not true . you didn ' t go to school with my dad . you go to school with my grandad . " Coggy be a remarkable man . I want to talk about some of the impact on my local force , Cleveland Police , and to put on record my thank to our police and crime commissioner , Matt Storey . a big positive for Cleveland be the doubling of the neighbourhood policing grant , which will help we to deliver on our commitment locally and to drive the Government ' s pledge nationally . it be clear that this Government ' s commitment to fund community policing be like night and day by comparison with 14 year of Tory austerity , but there be some comment that I would like to make . the funding formula still hurt we in Cleveland . we have the budget of a small rural force , with metropolitan level of crime . we need a formula base on need and deprivation , just as local government have have . Cleveland ' s grant be slightly below the national average , which mean that we have to make up the gap somewhere else . the chief constable ' s analogy be that we have a king - size bed with a single duvet : we be constantly move it around , but we can not cover everything . for example , a neighbouring force , with far less need than Cleveland , receive £ 10 million more than we do in 2010 . today , the gap be £ 30 million . we need the funding for our historical investigation unit to continue at its current level and not taper off , as have be plan . the unit be do critical work and have be give excellent inspection report . the work it be do be essential to ensure justice on some very complex issue . I will raise those issue directly with the Minister outside the Chamber . it be clear that under the Tories , neighbourhood policing be slash in community across the country , but this Labour Government be now recruit the neighbourhood police officer that we need to help and protect the public and keep our street safe , and the constituent that I serve in Middlesbrough and Thornaby East will very much welcome that . I want to finish with a comment about the loss of 20 , 000 police officer since 2010 . this have be remark on by the hon . member for Richmond Park ( Sarah Olney ) , prompt by an intervention about the loss of experienced officer . I can not think of anything more reckless and cavalier , and I shudder to think of the consequence that have flow from the loss of that level of experience across our country . it be the most reckless thing to do , border on negligent , as would be see if we be to monetise it in term of the demand place on other public service by the lack of police officer ' presence where they be need . frankly , the Conservatives should reflect very carefully on their record in office and hang their head in shame . when it come to the police , politician be all too eager to demand more and more while give less and less . year of failure and ineffective resourcing from the previous Conservative Government have leave police force across the country overstretch , understaffed and unable to focus on the crime that impact our community the most . while the shadow Police Minister , the hon . member for Stockton West ( Matt Vickers ) , speak about the 20 , 000 officer his Government finally restore , he do not mention the fact that they be fund by get rid of 30 , 000 backroom staff , with officer require to do their job . it be no more than a disingenuous conjuring trick in search of headline . this funding settlement represent a welcome increase , but it be ultimately a miss opportunity . the National Police Chiefs ' Council estimate that the settlement still leave a £ 1 . 3 billion funding gap over the next two year , so rather than improve police provision , it will in fact do no such thing . the situation face the Met , which serve my Wimbledon constituency , be stark . I meet the commissioner , Sir Mark Rowley , recently . he tell I that he still face a £ 130 million shortfall , and be determined to take a strategic approach to the inevitable cut , rather than salami - slice the entire service . what impact this will have on particular area be currently unclear , but in Wimbledon we fear that our police station be again under threat . when I be attack in my home , my life be save by two brave officer from that station who arrive within eight minute of my eld daughter dial 999 . if Wimbledon police station have not be there , I would not be here . that be why , when the Mayor of London seek to close it in 2017 , I take he to court and win . despite Baroness Casey ' s review note that the closure of 126 police station have contribute to the reduction of frontline policing , the current basic command unit commander for south - west London , at a recent Merton council scrutiny session , be equivocal about whether Wimbledon police station ' s long - term future could be guarantee . I consequently raise its future with Sir Mark when we meet , and while he recognise its importance , he be unable to offer any guarantee . it be clear , however , that if we be serious about community police in my constituency , Wimbledon police station must be retain . the settlement also fail to address a critical systemic issue . the police funding mechanism be not fit for purpose , as the Home Office acknowledge a decade ago when the previous Government announce plan to reform it but then — surprise , surprise — do nothing . the National Police Chiefs ' Council have describe the current model as " outdated " , as it lead to large regional disparity in how particular police force be fund , as we have hear . the Home Secretary should have seize this moment to reform how the mechanism work . sadly , she look the other way , just as her predecessor have do for the last 10 year . yesterday , when he appear before the Home Affairs Committee , I ask the Home Office ' s permanent secretary , Sir Matthew Rycroft , whether he have have any discussion with the Home Secretary about reform the police funding mechanism . " yes , " he say , but he then talk about pick the right moment , as there be clearly a lot of politic involve , before finally admit that he be not sure when it will happen . perhaps the Minister can tell we today . to be clear , I welcome the settlement but remain concerned that the Home Secretary be not use the opportunity to address systemic issue , while continue to fund folly such as the expensive and ineffective police and crime commissioner model . politic be all about make hard choice , and I acknowledge that the Home Secretary have more than her fair share to make , but I remain unconvinced that she have make all the right choice on this occasion . I thank the Minister for her update on the settlement . I start by thank Leicestershire police ' s chief constable , Rob Nixon , and all his officer and staff for their dedicated service locally . despite the conservative party ' s protest , we all know that the significant cut to the police budget result in a significant loss of officer . in Leicestershire between 2010 and 2016 , we see 550 officer lose their job — about 20 % of the force . police force across the country , include Leicestershire , see experienced officer , pcso and police staff leave their post . the Conservatives recognise their mistake , promise to recruit 20 , 000 more officer , as though we have not lose that many already . under the conservative plan , we barely get back to where we be in 2010 . the Conservatives have a prove track record of make mistake , promise to fix those mistake , then fail miserably and look for somebody else to blame . it be easy to talk about statistic , but this have real - life impact on our community . in my recent conversation with officer in North West Leicestershire , I be shock to discover that Leicestershire police have only three team of three road traffic investigator — those who investigate serious traffic collision — for the whole county of about 1 million people . this mean that justice for victim of dangerous driving take much time to resolve , cause more trauma along the way . this make my constituent ' ear prick up , as there be limited public transport option and currently no passenger rail . road be the only way to get around . our local beat team be work hard , and it be a pleasure to meet they regularly to discuss the local policing issue face resident in North West Leicestershire . however , like so many of my colleague here today , my community have be suffer from an increase in antisocial behaviour . I welcome this announcement , which be a huge step forward and will lead the way out of the Tories ' mismanagement . we need to ensure that our community have visible neighbourhood policing , which be so important , particularly because our rural town and village experience the same level of crime as our city . visible policing not only make people feel safe but act as a deterrent . I be sure every member will raise their local funding challenge . the last 14 year have devastate our public service , and Leicestershire be no different . I understand that the Minister and the Department use a complex funding formula to decide the police grant , and Leicestershire have historically have a low base . as a Leicestershire MP , I will always advocate for more resource for my community and my key service , include our police . I will work with colleague to ensure that the settlement for Leicestershire work for North West Leicestershire and beyond . there be much talk lately of a crisis of trust in our institution . well , there be no great way to tackle that crisis head - on than by deliver on the basic function of the state itself , which be to keep people safe . everyone deserve to feel safe in their own home and walk down their own street , but that be simply not the reality for far too many people in the UK today . Knife crime continue to plague our city ; scammer , fraudster and burglar be too often allow to act with impunity ; and rural crime , which the provisional police grant report fail to mention even once , continue to fly under the radar . the net result be that trust be shake and victim be leave pick up the piece of their life , devastate by crime that should have be prevent in the first place . I , along with my liberal Democrat colleague , recognise that the situation that the Government have inherit be awful . year of failure by the previous Conservative Government decimate neighbourhood policing . real - term cut be make at precisely the time when great investment be need . in the context of policing , it should be abundantly clear to member across the House that fail to keep pace with inflation be akin to fail to keep pace with crime itself . if that be not clear , then allow I to highlight the following : 6 , 000 case be close each day in England and Wales without a suspect be identify ; 75 % of car theft and burglary be go unsolved ; and pcso number be down by nearly 5 , 000 compare with nine year ago . there be a sense on the doorstep of my constituency , and across London , that crime be be allow to pay , and that the day of effective community policing have be consign to the past . it be vital that the House now give police force the resource they need to do their job properly . the measure the Government have outline be noble in ambition , but flaw in execution . as the London spokesperson for the Liberal Democrats , it would be remiss of I not to highlight three thing . first , hire more pcso in the capital will not in itself address the frustrating situation whereby far too often the officer do the nitty - gritty of neighbourhood police — the safe neighbourhood team — be pull away from their local beat to assist with major event in central London . that issue would not be immediately solve with the great capacity the new support officer would provide . it require a structural shift within the Metropolitan police towards keep those operation separate , as far as possible , so that local policing and national security policing be no long put in tension . the Met itself have sound the alarm and say that despite the Government ' s proposal , it will still be face a budget shortfall of between £ 130 million and £ 450 million . instead of benefit from new blood , the Met will have to decimate the force , cut one in every 10 officer . when I meet my borough detective superintendent a few week ago , as we go through his staff list , he regularly mention position that will soon be subject to " tough decision " . that be the brutal reality that the figure announce today will not fix : officer work in preventive community role , who stop kid turn to crime or be suck into gang and antisocial behaviour , will be lose to " tough decision " . secondly , the ambitious number of 13 , 000 new pcso nationally will seem foolish if in urban area , like London , the thinning out of trust in the police and uncompetitive salary mean that those recruitment drive flounder . it be vital that the Government support the Met commissioner in his attempt to reform the police and win back the trust of London ' s diverse community . finally , the Government must recognise that the funding mechanism build into their proposal be deeply unfair , and amount to pass the buck on to local taxpayer through the fatally flawed and regressive council tax system . increase policing precept simply drive council tax up . we be under no illusion : the police need that money , but it should be fund through Government investment , not increase the burden on work people . indeed , the £ 230 million in this package simply to offset the rise in national insurance contribution be unfortunate . the Government could have reduce the cost of the package by not introduce that foolish tax hike in the first place . I hope the Government listen to the concern outline in the House today and work across party to improve their plan . no expense should be spare in keep our constituent safe , and the Government ought to reconsider and find more sensible way to make the investment our force need . big bank ought to contribute to the safe high street we need , not cut and run from they . social medium company profit from the sharing of graphic , violent video of crime . only today , while prepare my speech , I see on my news feed a video of a violent stabbing in Carshalton that occur last week , flank above and below by advert for local company . that website be not promote the crime , but it be profit from the sharing and viewing of those video . those company , which have fail to do enough to remove such content and to prevent online crime , ought to contribute to a safe , more reliable online space . the Government must focus the burden of taxation on they , rather than pass the buck on to the council tax payer to fund great policing , because those company have a stake in a safe society too . if the Government be so committed to fix the foundation , they must understand that such half measure will mean crime will continue to undercut the very notion of Britain as a safe place to raise a family and do business . it dishearten the shopkeeper across London who feel powerless in the face of shoplifting , and the tradesman I meet on Monday who be rob of their tool and , with they , their livelihood . it unsettle new parent look for home and school or pensioner fear ever more sophisticated scammer . it encourage and even vindicate those who would seek to undermine Britain ' s stability . I want to thank the police officer and pcso of the Metropolitan police , who bravely serve the community of Leyton and Wanstead . I also want to thank the Minister for her leadership in this area . her attentiveness to these issue be manifest in her visit to Leyton and Wanstead , where she see at first hand the problem the additional funding will address . the visit be value by our police force , council and constituent alike . more broadly , we welcome the Government ' s significant investment in our police service , which be much need after a decade in which real - term fund for the Metropolitan police be cut by £ 1 . 2 billion . in combination with the action be take by the Mayor of London , who have double the mayoral funding for policing , the investment need to enable well policing for our community of Leyton and Wanstead . I particularly welcome the large increase in the national and international capital city grant in a decade , which respond to concern I have be raise about the impact of police officer abstraction on our community . at some point last year , a number of our ward have no community response officer at all because of the number of abstraction take place . in total , we lose more than 26 , 000 hour of officer time from Waltham Forest alone , and in Redbridge , we have area that have no identifiable community support officer at all . last Friday , I again meet a group of constituent from Leytonstone who be be blight by persistent antisocial behaviour and criminality , include allegation of drug dealing , fencing of steal good and other organised criminal activity be run out of premise in the local area . I have be work closely with the community support officer locally and the council ' s ASB team , both of whom be actively engage but struggle to make a difference with the resource they have . I want to thank Councillor Limbajee and Sergeant Mubasher for their effort . when it come to tackle crime and antisocial behaviour , Labour ' s commitment to put 13 , 000 additional bobby on the beat in our neighbourhood be essential for lay the foundation for change . it will give the reform and well leadership we require the space they need to work . last week , on the redbridge side of my constituency , we see the opening of a community police hub in Woodford , from which officer will cover South Woodford and Wanstead . as we know , Boris Johnson as Mayor of London downgrade the neighbourhood police presence , as mention by my hon . friend the Member for Ilford South ( Jas Athwal ) , and close wanstead police station and the front counter in Woodford in 2013 . that fail to recognise the value of brick and mortar in connect police with our community . thankfully , that be be redress due to the hard work of the outstanding Labour council in Redbridge under the leadership of Councillor Kam Rai . a neighbourhood police presence be seriously need in the area . the Co - op on George Lane in South Woodford have have at least 30 shoplifting incident in the last 12 month alone . increase police number and the improved police presence will be essential to address that tyranny . there be also good , responsive policing be do across our community . yesterday , for example , I bump into the territorial support group officer in Langthorne Park — I think they be rather shocked to see I . it be a know hotspot , and that be why I and they be there . they tell I that they be act on information from local people and proactively target criminal activity that have be identify . it be that kind of visible policing , back by strong community engagement , that help to restore trust in our police and their ability to protect we . there be , I hope , some early sign of this co - ordinate work pay off , with a significant reduction in ASB report in one of our most affected ward during the final month of last year . that be due to a reduction in the number of abstraction . sadly , too often , when our neighbourhood police engage with serious antisocial behaviour issue locally , all it do be move the criminality to a different location , or suppress it only temporarily . to resolve these problem , we need well join - up work as well as the resource to make police more effective . today ' s announcement of funding for our council as well as for our police be doubly helpful . I would like to see our council licensing department work more closely with the police to shut down premise that be be use for organised crime , even where the evidence be not yet strong enough for the police to make arrest and secure prosecution . alongside the Government ' s action on respect order and on wide work to strengthen prevention , there be more that we can do to ensure that these additional resource deliver a sense of great safety and peace for our community . finally , I want to amplify a point make by the hon . member for Richmond Park ( Sarah Olney ) . the police must be of the people , for the people . however , in London , there be many structural challenge that prevent this from be so , include pay , which this Government have choose to tackle with their significant uplift in the Budget . housing be another issue . when I be a child , I recall Mr Abbott , our local bobby , live in police housing . although this might not be appropriate today , similar housing support be necessary to encourage more londoner to contribute to the peace and security that they hope to enjoy . this grant must be the start of such a journey . I very much welcome this police settlement , and I shall focus my remark specifically on Essex . from 2010 onwards , the Conservatives cut 350 pcso in Essex . last week , the conservative police , fire and crime commissioner announce that he be cut the remain 99 , despite receive increase funding from this Government . I be very pleased to say that , today , he have suggest that he will reverse that decision follow a public outcry and , indeed , a bail - out from the increase police grant . that be a huge relief not only to those pcso and their family , but to our resident whom they so brilliantly support . it be also a huge relief to Unison , which represent many employee in our policing service . when she wind up , will the Minister confirm that she continue to engage with Unison on this and other police workforce issue ? I also need to raise an extremely sad matter in the House today : the loss of six young life on Essex road at the weekend , include four in Colchester , my constituency . all four of those be much love student at the University of Essex . I wish to put on record a tribute to the police and first responder at that terrible scene , and to ask the Minister whether she would meet I to discuss road safety in my area . as I be sure member know , Southend and Rochford be an area of immense cultural heritage , vibrant business and a picturesque coastline . last summer , we face high - profile incident of antisocial behaviour and crime . I would like to thank the Minister for her support during that time . as a new MP , it be a very traumatic time for both I and the community . that be why I be shock when , last week , the conservative police and crime commissioner for Essex announce the sacking of all 99 pcso across Essex . I be pleased that our Labour Government have save the Essex pcso from Tory cut . in fact , this year the Labour Government be invest a record amount of funding in Essex policing . I hope the Minister agree that we need police officer back on the beat in local community , equip with tough power to crack down on the crime blight our high street and to restore confidence among business , consumer and local community that the city centre be a place that people can enjoy . I hugely welcome this police fund settlement on behalf of all my constituent in Burnley , Padiham and Brierfield . they know that police in this country have be underfunde , overstretch and undervalue for far too long . I thank the Home Secretary and the Home Office for bring forward this vital funding package — an essential investment in keep our street safe and ensure that our brave and hard - work police officer have the resource they need to do their job effectively . the report commit up to £ 19 . 5 billion to police in England and Wales , an increase of over £ 1 billion compare with the previous year . for too long — for 14 year , in fact — our police be hollow out and stretch , with officer have to do more with less , people feel like the police be just not there for they , and crime go unpunished . this increase be not a silver bullet , but it mark a step in the right direction , ensure that police force can meet the grow demand of modern crime and public safety . as crime evolve , so too must our approach to tackle it . officer today face challenge that go beyond traditional policing . we be see increase in violent crime , organise criminal network and the damaging effect of anti - social behaviour on our community , especially in Burnley , Padiham and Brierfield town centre . at the same time , police force must modernise to tackle cyber - crime , fraud and online exploitation , which be rapidly become some of the most common yet complex threat that we face . increase neighbourhood policing and funding be in our manifesto . we say it ; we mean it . tough on crime ; tough on the cause of crime . you have , whatever your age , a responsibility to your community . disrespect that , and we will come down hard on you . this funding will strengthen local force , put officer back on the round and go some way towards restore public confidence in police . this funding increase will benefit force across the country , and Lancashire be no exception . our local force be set to receive £ 284 million in Government grant , and approximately another £ 130 million from the precept — in total , around £ 414 million , a £ 23 . 4 million increase . we be not just talk the talk on crime on our street , but walk the walk and put our money where our mouth be . in Burnley , Padiham and Brierfield , resident be call for a great police presence , quick response time and much tough action on repeat offender . they want to feel safe in their community , and see the difference that this police funding will make . with this increase , Lancashire constabulary will be able to invest in officer recruitment , improve resource and deliver the kind of police that local people expect and deserve . I thank the hon . member for everything he be say about improved policing on our street . something that would massively help my constituent be the reopening of the Chichester custody centre . at the moment , the police have to drive people they arrest all the way over to Worthing , which be a two - hour round trip that take officer off our street . instead , they be stick in traffic on the A27 — something I would not wish on anybody . do he agree that open that custody centre would make a huge difference to my constituent ? my power as a Back Bencher be somewhat limited , but I be sure that member on the Treasury Bench have hear the hon . Lady . I have some sympathy , because there be currently a petition to reopen the Burnley custody centre — it be opportune to be able to mention it . currently , police officer have to drive to Blackburn , which feel like a universe away . I be currently lobby my police and crime commissioner , as be local councillor , and I encourage the hon . Lady to do the same . we be have some success and I be hopeful , but we will see . the funding be not just about more money ; it be also about well policing . we need police force that be modern , efficient and equip to tackle today ' s challenge . I welcome the Government ' s neighbourhood policing guarantee , which will put more police officer on the street do the round , ensure that every community have a name , contactable officer who understand local issue and priority . this be not just about visibility ; it be about build trust , improve engagement , get local intel and make police more accountable to the community it serve . as promise , we will deliver 13 , 000 new officer , pcso and special constable , and that will make a real difference to town and city across our country . those officer will play a crucial role in tackle antisocial behaviour , shoplifting and street crime , help to make our high street and town centre safe for everyone . I should be able — anybody should be able — to walk into Burnley , Padiham , and Brierfield town centre and feel safe at any time . I should be able to know that if I call 999 , I will get a good response time for an emergency service . I should be able — anybody should be able — to know that repeat offender will not be deal with lightly and that the kid throw rock at bus in Padiham or Burnley town centre will get a clip round the ear and so will their parent . [ hon . member : " hear , hear ! ] I be not sure if that be policy , but we will go with that . we seem to be in the middle of a crisis of respect in our young people , in part because of long - term police underfunding . at the end of the day , the funding be about make people safe . it be about ensure that when someone call for help , officer be there . it be about ensure that criminal face consequence for their action and that our community feel protect and support . in recent year we have see rise rate of shoplifting , which the previous Government all but decriminalise in small town such as mine . we have see a surge in violent crime and an increase in vehicle theft . those be not abstract statistic but real issue affect real local people . a well - fund , well - equip police force mean safe street , fast response time and great public confidence in police . for those reason , I of course support this funding settlement and encourage all colleague in the House to do the same . we have hear a great deal from member across the House about the grant and the impact it will have on various community . I reiterate my early point that we be deeply concerned about the effect that will have on police . member do not need to take my word for it ; they can listen to the word of police leadership . Mark Rowley , the Metropolitan Police Commissioner , previously say that the force would be " scale back our ability to tackle serious violence and organised crime " . Norfolk ' s chief constable , Paul Sanford , who be the National Police Chiefs ' Council ' s lead for finance , describe the funding package as challenge and say that cut be inevitable . one of Labour ' s own police and crime commissioner , Joy Allen , PCC for Durham , also say the money " may not go as far as we would all hope " and that " we will have to wait and see what this additional funding cover and how long it last " . do the Minister think the £ 100 million announce will be enough to stop those cut ? unfortunately , we have see that sentiment reflect not only in word , but in the action of police force . Lincolnshire Police say there be a budget gap of £ 14 million . to manage that , it plan to reduce the number of police officer by around 200 , bring the total down to 1 , 000 officer by 2028 - 29 , alongside cancel the upcoming police officer intake for March . Lincolnshire be unfortunately not alone . in Essex the shortfall in the Government ' s police funding settlement lead the police force to announce plan to eliminate all 99 of its police community support officer — [ interruption . ] I be come to it ; worry not ! — and reduce staff number by around 65 people . while I acknowledge that that be prior to last week ' s announcement , Essex will still receive £ 2 . 2 million . however , Essex Police have identify a £ 5 . 3 million budget shortfall , so it be still over £ 3 million short . while the additional funding be welcome , it will not be sufficient to bridge the gap . that be a direct result of the funding shortfall . derbyshire ' s chief constable state that its budget shortfall of £ 1 . 5 million by the end of the financial year have increase to £ 5 . 5 million after the Budget . however , it do not stop there . she say that it be compound far by the Home Office grant settlement in December , which increase the amount that the force need to balance the book to more than £ 8 . 5 million . in that context , last week ' s announcement appear to be only 18 % of the previously announce shortfall . meanwhile , pcc across the country — from Norfolk Constabulary to Thames Valley Police , and even in my home force of Cleveland Police — have repeatedly highlight the challenge they face while have to increase the precept . those decision expose the hollowness of Labour ' s so - call neighbourhood policing guarantee . how can the Government claim to be deliver that if force must cut staff simply to maintain officer number at their current level ? another aspect of this debate be the decision to increase funding through precept rise . during last year ' s debate , Labour ' s then shadow police Minister , the hon . member for Nottingham North and Kimberley ( Alex Norris ) , say from the Opposition Benches that " the Government have lift the cap on the precept so that PCCs can raise it by £ 13 next year for band d property . that in itself be a challenge for people ' s finance , but it also create differential challenge across the country … that failure of leadership have consequence for less well - off area " . — [ Official Report , 7 February 2024 ; Vol . 745 , c . 286 . ] yet now that the Labour party be in government , its stance appear to have change . this year ' s precept increase be even more significant than the one announce last year . like so much about this Government , they promise one thing to win an election and do completely the opposite when they be in charge . give their action now , will they acknowledge that they underestimate police funding need when in opposition , and seem to be continue to underestimate they now that they be in government ? of course , we will not do anything to stop the police from get the resource they need , so we will not vote against the motion , but I hope the Government recognise that their action will not only make their job more challenging but risk undermine community across the country . they have use a sleight of hand to pretend that the extra money for police be more than it really be . as a result , police force will not have enough funding to meet cost pressure , and cut to police number be inevitable . if the Minister for Policing disagree , will she guarantee that total police number will not fall from the record level at the previous Government ' s last national workforce count of 31 March 2024 ? I know that my colleague want to work with the Government to empower police force in their constituency by give they all the resource they need . however , we remain concerned that this settlement be a sign that the challenge that the Minister for Policing refer to will only grow over the course of this Parliament . instead of a tax raid , we should give our police force the resource they need and show our brave frontline officer the respect and support that they deserve . first , I express my gratitude to all member who have contribute to the debate . before I respond to their point — and I will respond — I take this opportunity to say a massive thank you to the police officer , staff and volunteer who work tirelessly to keep we all safe . the contribution they make to our society be simply extraordinary , and we be fortunate to have they . I shamelessly take this opportunity to give a shout - out to Orla Jenkins and Jim Carroll , my sergeant and inspector , who almost live in my office — which be not a particularly good thing . they be absolutely amazing , responsive and well - know neighbourhood copper . it be so important that people know the name of their neighbourhood officer and can contact they . I do not plan to repeat the top headline of the settlement that we be debate , as they be cover at length by my right hon . friend the Minister for Policing , Fire and Crime Prevention , but I reiterate that the settlement represent a significant investment in police that will kick - start the delivery of the safe street mission . neighbourhood policing be the bedrock of british policing . that be why we have inject an additional £ 100 million into neighbourhood policing compare with the provisional settlement , which mean that we be double the funding available to force to a total of £ 200 million so that they can carry on the fight against crime and keep community safe . let I turn to some of the point raise during the debate . I welcome the comment from the shadow Minister , the hon . member for Stockton West ( Matt Vickers ) . it seem that he live in wonderland . he have talk today as if we have come from some amazing nirvana with regard to policing , not from a situation where every single part of our system — whether it be our court , our police , our mental health service or our housing — have be so utterly degraded that all of that work land on the hard - work police force that he seek to praise . will the Minister give way ? go on . I be just wonder whether the Minister know how much this national insurance tax raid be go to cost her local police force and those hard - work police officer in her part of the world . I be not exactly sure how much it will cost West Midlands police , but what I do know be that the Home Office be go to give it to they . the shadow Minister have talk as if taxis do not pay for our public service — that be an absolute madness ; money have to be raise to pay for our public service . the Home Office be fund the national insurance rise for West Midlands police and every other — [ interruption . ] I can not believe that it be be argue that our police force be not completely and utterly decimate , and there seem to have be a tiny bit of whitewashing from some member on the liberal Democrat Benches about the role that their party also play in take 20 , 000 police officer off our street . the shadow Minister specifically question the Policing Minister on 999 call and response officer , and on how we will halve violence against woman and girl with the help of this settlement . I want to bring he back from wonderland into the real world and tell he a story about Raneem Oudeh , who call 999 13 time on the night she be murder by her husband . she call out to West Midlands police 13 time , and there be no immediate response — the immediate response that I be be tell have always exist , along with , " oh , something be go to change . " oh my gosh — I do not know what system the shadow Minister think have exist for the past 14 year , but I will tell he what we be go to do . we be go to put specialist domestic abuse worker in every single one of our police force response room , because of the failure of response under police force decimate by the year of conservative government . frankly , I be flabbergast by the shadow Minister ' s gall . my husband often say , " I don ' t know why you continue to be surprised . " my hon . friend the Member for Luton South and South Bedfordshire ( Rachel Hopkins ) raise the issue of the funding formula , as have many other member in the Chamber today . I know that the Policing Minister have visit Bedfordshire and very much hear the particular challenge they face . the hon . member for Hazel Grove ( Lisa Smart ) talk about the mental health and morale of police . I go out to Hertfordshire police recently to see some police officer who be dog handler ; the dog be there to sniff out the hard drive of sex offender and child sex abuser . one of the officer have this amazing dog , Micky , and I notice that it be the first time I have see a police officer look genuinely happy for quite a long time . Morale in police and the health of our police officer have be dreadfully test over recent year , and I note how chuff this bloke be to be do his job with this dog — the dog be lovely . we need to make sure we be look after our police officer , and the Policing Minister inform I that as part of our reform programme , we be have a very close look at how occupational health be hand out to police officer . the hon . member for Richmond Park ( Sarah Olney ) , for Wimbledon ( Mr Kohler ) and for Sutton and Cheam ( Luke Taylor ) all raise the issue of the Met . the Met be large and complex , and my hon . friend the Member for Leyton and Wanstead ( Mr Bailey ) mention — as do many other — the issue of police officer be take away from the frontline in their neighbourhood in order to undertake not just police of the capital , but sometimes national policing in other area . I reassure member that the funding formula for neighbourhood policing mean that it have to be spend on neighbourhood policing and can not really be pull away to other area . do the Minister think that reduce the number of people work in response police to make up the number in neighbourhood policing will improve or reduce response time ? what I think be that we have put £ 1 . 1 billion extra into policing , and what I expect to happen across police force be that we will work with they . as we have see today from member in Essex — [ interruption . ] would the shadow Minister like to intervene ? what be you shake your head about , sir ? rise — go on . as we have hear , once you take out your national insurance tax raid and the pay rise that you take from the base , it be more like £ 660 million , which be £ 300 million less than last year ' s settlement from the Conservative Government . early , I hear everybody groan on your Benches — order . they be not my Benches . I apologise , Madam Deputy Speaker — they be definitely not your Benches . I hear groan early about the black hole that be leave . the shadow Minister make a point about the uplift in pay , but in this year ' s settlement nothing have be put in that budget by his Government to increase the pay of police officer . nothing be put into the budget , because that be the way that they operate . utter rubbish . it isn ' t utter rubbish — it ' s a fact . anyway , I shall go back to the people who be engage with the debate . I say to my hon . friend the Member for Gedling ( Michael Payne ) that I send a massive thank to Chris Duffy , who sound like an amazing officer . I imagine that he be happy in his work because he work with a dog . maybe give every police officer a dog be the answer — that be not government policy , and neither be clip people round the ear , however much we might want to . I say to the hon . member for West Dorset ( Edward Morello ) and to my hon . friend the Member for Middlesbrough and Thornaby East ( Andy McDonald ) — I will repeatedly say this — that I be from the West Midlands police force , and there have not be a year since I be elect to Parliament when the problem with the funding formula have not be raise with I . the west midland be one of the area that the issue affect deeply , so I massively hear that point . two attempt that the previous Government make to look at the funding formula be abandon , so we feel very much that this year we have to create a stable system . I remind hon . member that this be our seventh month in government , but we absolutely hear the argument about the funding formula , which be not reform in the last 14 year . we have inherit this . may I press the Minister on the specific point about the west midland ? she be talk about funding in the west midland and I be also a west midland MP . how do she think that the whopping bill that the west midland force will face from employer national insurance contribution will impact on its budget ? when it come to money , if she be so passionate about neighbourhood police , as indeed be I , what assurance can she give that funding from the abhorrent sale of Aldridge police station will come back into service for resident of Aldridge - Brownhills ? the first thing I would say be that it will cost West Midlands police nothing because the Home Office be go to fund it . apart from the amazing world we have apparently live in with police for the past 14 year , Aldridge police station be shut down under the budget that the right hon . Lady ' s Government give to local area . I be lead to believe today that those be like milk and honey . rise — I imagine the point that the right hon . Lady be go to make be that we have a labour police and crime commissioner , but they can only work with what they be give . I be not go to give way to she , but go on . I think that the hon . Lady be agree with I that the closure of Aldridge police station have come on the watch of the labour police and crime commissioner , who delay and delay make that decision for year . I do not disagree that that be how the budget be give out , but the number of police station that be close under the last 14 year of Tory Governments be phenomenal . I believe that a member mention early the one close by Boris Johnson when he be the Mayor of London . maybe the right hon . Lady would have hear I already talk about the west midland , have she be in the debate . I note that a previous Home Secretary , the right hon . member for Witham ( Priti Patel ) , be come into the Chamber , but for most of the time there have be no Conservative Members in here for any of this debate . will my hon . friend the Member for Middlesbrough and Thornaby East please pass on my massive respect to Coggy ? the Policing Minister want I to confirm to my hon . friend the Member for Colchester ( Pam Cox ) that she meet Unison last week , and she be absolutely happy to meet my hon . friend to discuss the terrible and tragic loss of life in her constituency and in the wide area of Essex . we be all look forward to my hon . friend the Member for Burnley ( Oliver Ryan ) reopen the Chichester custody suite , which he have now become responsible for . many member , include he and my hon . friend the Member for Ilford South ( Jas Athwal ) , have talk with great passion about the importance of neighbourhood police and the problem of antisocial behaviour in our area . we face few thing more often as member of Parliament than complaint about failure on antisocial behaviour in our neighbourhood . I will not do what the previous Government do , and pretend that everything be world - beat and the good it could ever be and that nothing will ever be well than anything that they could ever do . I be not go to do that . Rubbish . the hon . Member say from a sedentary position that that be rubbish , but the conservative literally use to claim thing be world - beat all the time . will the Minister give way ? conservative intervention have not be that world - beat , so no , I will not . thing be not perfect . we all think that there should be more police officer . we all want great resource on every single street . every single constituency MP who speak , speak up with passion because they want their neighbourhood to feel safe . I thank the Minister for her explanation of the funding formula , which be something I have raise with the Policing Minister , too . seasonality be an issue in my constituency of Bournemouth West . I put on record my thank to Dorset police for do so much with the little that they do have , include on thing like antisocial behaviour , which blight our town . I invite the Minister to come and see some of the remarkable work that the police be do with business and the council to tackle some of these challenge . I would absolutely love to come to Dorset . what my hon . friend say be right . I think somebody mention the idea of a double bed with a single duvet move round it , and although huge efficiency could still be make across force , some of our police force do amazing thing . I absolutely praise Dorset police for that work . rise — go on then . I be try to make a constructive point about the Minister ' s remark on efficiency . she say that there be huge opportunity for efficiency to be make . much of the debate have be on funding , but she be signal that thing can be do well . what be opaque to I , not least from the conversation that I have with my own police and crime commissioner before come here , be what productivity target the Government have set and what variation they expect to close across the 43 police force . how many police hour do she expect to be free up from work more efficiently on productivity gain ? or be the Government ' s action add bureaucracy and red tape and make it hard for police force to deliver ? I do not know yet how many hour . I go out to Thames Valley police and see exactly how many officer hour be save by the police have direct video contact . a statement be take from a victim of domestic abuse in eight minute , rather than police officer have to go out to their house three day later . that will be roll out to every police force and will lead to huge time efficiency in statement - taking . as someone who have give a huge number of police statement — every month — I know how inefficient it be . I would be lie if I stand here and say , " it will be 16 , 000 hour for each police force . " we will look at exactly what work and how we can make those efficiency . will the Minister give way ? it be a bit galling when people who have not sit through the debate come in and want to speak . there be no one on the Conservative Benches for the vast majority of the debate . member who have take part in the debate deserve a bit more respect . this government back the police 100 % . we be grateful for the tireless work that police officer , pcso and staff do every single day . we have hear today about some of the crime that they suffer . this investment be a significant step towards meet our share ambition to boost neighbourhood policing and to restore confidence in the police that have be so badly lose , as be mention by many member . this Government have prioritise investment in police in a time of fiscal constraint , but we know that there be more to do . we will work in partnership with the police to deliver our share ambition to boost visible neighbourhood policing , tackle knife crime and violence against woman and girl and reform the police , and to deliver efficiency to make their job easy . this government will always give the police the resource , power , tool and support that they need to get the job do . question put and agree to . resolve , that the Police Grant Report ( England and Wales ) 2025 – 26 ( HC 621 ) , which be lay before this House on 30 January , be approve . on a point of order , Madam Deputy Speaker . in today ' s Prime Minister ' s question , the Leader of the opposition allege that a donor to my party be fund a court case challenge the consent to develop the Rosebank and Jackdaw oil and gas field . that be entirely untrue . she go on to suggest that the Government ' s decision to accept the court ruling be sway somehow by a previous relationship with Dr Rausing . this be a very serious allegation for which no evidence have be provide . I seek your advice and guidance , Madam Deputy Speaker , on the recourse available to I and other member to ask the Leader of the Opposition to come back to this House and present the evidence , and if she can not , to apologise , withdraw the comment and correct the record . I thank the hon . member for give notice of his point of order , which perhaps go far than I have expect . in this House we need to be very careful with language . I be sure that he be not accuse the Leader of the Opposition of deliberately say something that be untrue . not deliberately . I thank the hon . member for clarify that . he will be aware that comment make in this House be not the responsibility of the Chair , but he have put his point on the record , and I be sure that the official Opposition Front - Bench team will have hear it . local Government Finance we now come to the motion relate to local government finance , which will be debate together . I beg to move , that the Local Government Finance Report ( England ) 2025 – 26 ( HC 623 ) , which be lay before this House on 3 February , be approve . with this it will be convenient to discuss the follow motion on council tax increase : that the Referendums relate to Council tax increase ( Principles ) ( England ) Report 2025 – 26 ( HC 624 ) , which be lay before this House on 3 February , be approve . the Deputy Prime Minister and I , like many other in this House , have local government in our blood — we be proud public servant . we know what a difference the sector make every day to million of people across this country , and how much strong local government , work in genuine partnership with central Government , can achieve to change life . I thank the million of dedicated public servant who work in and for the sector for all their effort to deliver more than 800 service that local people rely on . we know it have be a difficult few year , but this statement be an important step towards rebuild the foundation of local government , ready to meet the scale of the challenge ahead so that we can rebuild our country together as part of our plan for change . that be why I take the responsibility of lead the Government ' s work to rebuild the sector with the seriousness and urgency that is , quite frankly , long overdue . today , I will set out funding for local authority in England for the come year through the final local government finance settlement . before I do , I want to say that the Government be grateful to all those who contribute to the consultation on the provisional settlement , which attract 227 response , include more than 45 from member of this House . I be extremely grateful to the Minister for give way , and I appreciate much of what he have already say on the difficulty and challenge local government face , and the Government ' s recognition of that . part of the consultation feedback he will have have be on the local authority that have to fund drainage , such as South Holland , in my constituency , and many other . there be a real problem here , because drainage be not adequately fund through the system ; it do require an extra grant , in my judgment , to those local authority . will he look at this issue , and will he meet I and other to discuss it far , should that be helpful ? I thank the right hon . gentleman for his question , and assure he that it be an issue we be acutely aware of . the disproportionate burden that drainage place on small district council be quite a challenge . we meet representative from a number of district council to talk about the internal drainage board levy system , and , as an interim measure — in the end , I think we do need a more fundamental review of how it be pay for — we have increase the levy grant by £ 2 million to £ 5 million , so we be begin to get there . however , I agree with the right hon . Gentleman entirely : we do need a long - term solution to that . he have my commitment that we will find a way through that as we begin the wide reform later on . as the Chancellor say last week , this plan will be achieve first and foremost through growth , which will be drive by empower local leader work in partnership with local community and local business ; those who have skin in the game be now on the play field , not confine to the terrace as spectator . this new approach have to start with strong and empower local government , because whether we be talk about raise living standard , deliver 1 . 5 million new home and vital infrastructure , get our NHS and social care system back on its foot or create good job and strong community , it all come back to local council deliver for local community . indeed , we can not deliver on the national renewal that work people deserve without grassroots government lead the charge , which mean reset our relationship with local leader and rebuild the foundation from scratch . it mean ditch the slogan and gimmick in favour of a determination to get the basic right , deliver decent local service that people can begin to rely on once more . after 14 year of neglect and decline , that will be easy say than do , and , because of the scale of the challenge , it will take more than six month to fix . but be clear : we have change course . the work have begin with determination and with pace . council of all political stripe be feel the strain , and it will be a long , hard road to get they back to full fitness . this final settlement mark an important milestone on that journey , as we finally turn the page on chaos , austerity and 14 long year of manage decline . in that spirit , the settlement address the financial crisis face council head on , move away from bidding war for wasteful competitive funding pot and towards core , stable multi - year financial settlement . the statement be extremely welcome . in Salford , our core spending for 2025 - 26 will increase by 8 . 7 % . that be above the national average , but it be still less than the 14 % we have have to increase our adult social care budget by to meet high cost . do my hon . friend agree that the Government must move quickly on multi - year settlement and up - to - date assessment of council ' funding need ? I thank my hon . friend for that question and pay tribute to Salford for its leadership in the work it be do in many area of public sector reform in Salford and across Greater Manchester . in the end , if all we do be pay at the back end for a system that , frankly , be break , we will be pay more and more every single year for a system that be deliver bad outcome for service user . that be bad for service user and bad for taxpayer , so we must have a more fundamental response and we fully intend to do that . the multi - year settlement be essential to ensure local leader have the time and space to plan their budget . but we will not stop there . we be introduce a fair system to give council the certainty and stability they need to go from costly crisis management to long - term prevention and the root - and - branch reform of local public service . crucially , I can now confirm that core spending power for the sector will be more than £ 69 billion for 2025 - 26 , a 6 . 8 % cash term increase on this year . I can confirm that , despite some very difficult choice — there have be choice and trade - off to make , as there always be — this settlement will mean that no local authority will see a reduction in its core spending power . I welcome the settlement , which see a reversal of the past 14 year for Hartlepool , where cumulatively we lose £ 235 million in a decade . this year , additional grant funding be go up by £ 10 million , which be hugely welcome . however , there remain the problem of the council tax system itself . in Hartlepool , if you be in a band h property you pay more than £ 3 , 000 more than you do if you be here in Westminster . surely the Minister can agree with I that that be inherently unfair ? will he engage with I and the all - party parliamentary group on council tax reform , which I lead , to bring fairness to town such as Hartlepool ? there be , understandably , many criticism of council tax . it be accept that it be a fairly regressive tax in term of the relationship between the ability of a household to pay versus a property ' s value , but in the end it be a reliable tax that be understand by the taxpaye public . the framework of council tax will be maintain , in the same way as business rate , but that do not mean that we can not do more to make it fair . the good way to make it fair in this settlement be for the Government to play their part . what we have see over the past 14 year be that , despite an acceleration in council tax increase , council have still find themselves impoverished : they can not raise enough money locally , whatever they do , to fund the demand for local public service . we clearly see the role of the Government as an equaliser to the system . take into account the ability to raise tax at a local level , by provide a top - up the Government can ensure that every area get decent local public service , and we can begin to get some fairness into the system . I take my hon . friend ' s point entirely , however , and I look forward to the work of the all - party parliamentary group . I echo the call for a replacement for the council tax system . we on the liberal Democrat Benches have call for that for year . please will the Minister and the Government consider bring forward plan that retain the power for local council to decide level of taxation , but make it a much more progressive model of taxation ? I can not commit to that today . what I can do be to commit , from a political point of view , that the Government be willing to work cross - party and through appg to understand the weight of the issue and the potential solution . I will be honest , though : we need to manage expectation on whether we can get consensus in this place on a new form of council tax or local property tax , but that do not mean we be not willing to listen to argument . we see one area of consensus when the Minister respond to the point make by my right hon . friend the Member for South Holland and the Deepings ( Sir John Hayes ) about internal drainage board , and I welcome his recognition of the problem in area such as Fenland in the Cambridgeshire fen . that be a pertinent point , and I thank he for his comment . will the Minister take this opportunity to tell we whether any council will be bad off when this settlement be net against the additional cost of employer national insurance contribution and those of their supplier ? accord to report that we have be give , a number of council will be bad off . can he rule that out ? the £ 515 million of investment from the Treasury to help council with the increase in employer national insurance contribution have be distribute on the basis of their net service expenditure cost . we think that that be the fairest way of establish an evidence base that could be scrutinise . there have be legitimate representation about third - party provider cost in some critical area , such as social care . we accept the figure from the Local Government Association because we have no reason to dispute they , but our difficulty be that that in itself do not mean that the cost will be pass on directly to the local authority in question . some party be bind by contract that mean that they can not pass it on even if they want to . there will be negotiation about the ability of a provider to absorb that cost , but we do not underestimate the problem . no one be go to pretend that this settlement fix the system . what we want to try to do be stabilise the system through a multi - year settlement with big reform . I commend the Minister for the constructive way in which he address my question , but I think it important to be clear . he seem to be say that as a result of this settlement , a number of council will be bad off . we understand the context , but I think he have just confirm expressly that council will be bad off as a result of the tax rise that the Chancellor have impose and which this settlement do not fully meet . I think that that be true up to a point , but we need to take a couple of factor into account . first , the payment relate to employer national insurance contribution go straight to the council . secondly , this need to be take in the round . for the right hon . Gentleman ' s own council , the social care grant be £ 48 million , the social care change grant be £ 6 . 7 million , and when it come to third - party provider , the market sustainability and improvement fund be £ 10 million . we be try to meet the demand in a very complex environment , but , as I have say , there be no pretend that this will fix a broken system in one fell swoop . the reform will take time . my hon . friend have do an excellent job on behalf of local government with this settlement , in very difficult circumstance , and I think the sector recognise that . however , I have one caveat . in response to the question about council tax , he say that there would not be unanimity , but I think there will be a great deal of consensus that if the former Secretary of State , Michael Gove , think the system be regressive , it be probably very regressive . I hope my hon . friend be keep his mind open — I think he do leave the door a little ajar — about the fact that at some point we will have to have a review of a system that be base on valuation that be more than 30 year old . this be simply not sustainable for the long term . I take my hon . friend ' s point entirely . I credit he for much of the work that be do when he chair the Select Committee , which he do for a long time , and I attribute to his intervention the credibility that it be due . we be focus today on our immediate fiscal response to support council over the current financial year , but we accept that to bring about long - term structural reform , such matter as address a council ' s ability to raise local tax through business rate and council tax must be take into account , alongside , of course , the cost of deliver public service , include the cost of rural service delivery . we be absolutely committed to take all those factor into account . rise — rise — I be go to make a bit of progress . I be mindful of time , and I believe we be guillotine at 7 pm . the Budget will deliver more than £ 5 billion of new funding for local service over and above council tax income . there be no slogan and no gimmick . this be real action — £ 5 billion - worth of real action — and I can confirm that £ 20 million more will be make available for the child ' s social care prevention grant , put prevention and reform at the heart of the recovery . after hear representation from the council affect , we can also announce an additional £ 2 million of support for council with internal drainage board levy pressure . that be on top of what be announce in December ' s provisional settlement , so the grant be now worth £ 5 million in total . we will set aside almost £ 60 million for the come financial year to ensure that local leader have the vital capacity to get their financial house in order , so that council can be effectively support to well understand their spending and , equally , so that they can be hold to account for it by their electorate , which be a vital part of the democratic process . the funding that we be provide include £ 515 million to help local government with the increase in employer national insurance contribution . my understanding be that employer national insurance contribution be not be fully fund by the Government . I would be delighted to hear that I be wrong , because that be really worry I , have speak to my local council . on that basis , do the Minister not accept that by impose this extra burden on local authority , ultimately it be work people who will be affect ? there will be few public service , less money go into social care , and pressure on council tax . this be not a perfect settlement , but it be my honest belief that it be a good settlement . we be keen to make sure that the money go to local authority in a way that be transparent , with an evidence base that can be scrutinise . council be sick and tired of the system be manipulate by government of different type over different period in a way that be not fair . will the Minister give way ? I will make some progress , but to answer the right hon . Lady ' s question on employer national insurance contribution directly , the funding be base on service expenditure cost . the reason be that that allow council to make a decision about whether the money will cover in - house provision , or whether they will have contractual pressure far along in the system that show up in their service expenditure budget . that be the approach that we have take , and the Institute for Fiscal Studies have come out and say that it be a fair way of do thing . as I say , there be no perfect way to deal with this issue in the time that we have , but we have arrive at a good way to do it that get the money out of the door to the place that need it . will the Minister give way on that point ? I will give way for a final time before make some progress . I commend the Minister ' s approach , because it be excellent that we have certainty . the Government be support local council to make wise budgeting decision and to invest in all the crucial thing that we all want to see in our community , include more help for vulnerable people , the important work on child , and infrastructure improvement such as new cycle lane and well park . those be all valuable contribution to our community , so I thank he for that . that be the point . when it come to fairness in the council tax system , we have to be honest and say that there have increasingly be an imbalance , whereby people be pay more and more but often receive few and few universal neighbourhood service . there be a real danger to the democratic process if there be not a link between the tax that people be pay and the quality of public service that they be get in return . in the end , council be wrestle with adult social care , child ' s service and temporary accommodation , and what else can they do but meet the demand ? it be not a good position for the taxpayer or for local authority , and we acknowledge that . our new £ 600 million recovery grant target area with both the great need and the great demand for service . the recovery grant be the first meaningful step towards long - overdue funding reform , but it be only the first step . a long - term and more fundamental overhaul of the way that council be fund be need to ensure that all council can deliver for local resident . the Tories commit to improve and update the way that council be fund through the fair funding review , but in the end they fail to take the tough decision need to deliver it , just like they fail to give council certainty and security so that they could plan ahead , with a decade mark by year - by - year , hand - to - mouth settlement . that be why the 2026 - 27 settlement , which will be the first multi - year settlement in a decade , will introduce an up - to - date assessment of council ' need and resource . we be act where the previous Government fail . we will get on with the job of allocate funding fairly , base on the evidence of need , because council know that every pound count , and they also know that the current system — will the Minister give way ? I will make some progress , but I will take more intervention later . council know that the current system be riddle with inefficiency and be poorly target at meet need . it be vital that we get this right , and we want to hear from all part of the sector to well understand the driver of need , include deprivation , the ability to raise tax locally and the impact on service delivery in rural area . the consultation on these reform run until 12 February , and we welcome representation from all who have a stake in this agenda . we be listen to the sector and , through this settlement , respond to the real driver of cost , especially the spiral demand in area such as social care . importantly , we be take into account the ability of council to raise funding locally . what do the Minister say to resident of the London borough of Havering , who have have a very poor settlement over many decade under all government ? we have one of the old population in London and also one of the young population in London , so the settlement never take into account the factor that I have outline . will he please look at the outer London borough ? it seem to I that all the money go to inner London , and we do not get very much in place such as Romford . where we can agree be that we accept that the old perspective that there be inner - London pressure that do not feature in the outer - London borough might have hold in the past but it do not address the complexity that there be today , because a number of pressure have move outward into those outer borough . I think that that be accept and appreciate . I say that this might not be a perfect settlement , but it be a good settlement . the hon . Gentleman ' s council have a 6 . 5 % increase in its core spending power . so there be room there — this be not a flat cash settlement — and we hope that the local authority will make the necessary decision . we be not interested in score party political point or pit one council against another . we know that council of all political stripe be struggle , and we want to work together , through the later reform that we be look at as part of the more structural review we be undertake , to make sure that we genuinely address that . we hope that when member across the House look at the rationale and the evidence base — whether they agree with the quantum be a separate issue — they can at least say that it hold . that be the work that we be undertake today , and we encourage member to contribute to the process . on the point about inner and outer London , the problem be that outer - London borough be now see inner - London problem , the funding system be archaic and the formula be base on outdated deprivation statistic , use household number rather than population . this unfairly impact borough such as Redbridge , which cover my constituency . it be home to many multi - generational family live under one roof — order . we simply can not have intervention like this . they need to be spontaneous ; they should not be read out from pre - prepare script . can I just make this point ? I think the hon . Member have already have long enough . in a way , there be commonality across the House in recognise that particular problem really ought to be take into account when it come to local government funding , and if it be get right — our intention be to get it right — it will take into account up - to - date population and deprivation statistic . it should take into account the ability of a local authority to raise tax locally through council tax , or through business rate or fee and charge . it should take into account the cost of deliver service , whether that be about the rental cost of acquire a space to operate from or even the cost of deliver service in area such as rural or coastal community , where there be particular issue . the formula should take that into account , so let ' s work through that . we be respond to the pressure , which be why we be make £ 3 . 7 billion of extra funding available for social care authority . that include an uplift of £ 880 million in the social care grant , which include an additional £ 20 million that I have confirm today for the new child ' s social care prevention grant , take the total for that grant to £ 270 million . that pave the way for the national roll - out of transformed family help and child protection service . we have double settlement investment in preventive child ' s social care to £ 500 million next year . if we do not reform the system and focus on prevention , we will continue to pay more and more , too often for worsen outcome . this be happen alongside the Education Secretary ' s work to take forward the Children ' s Wellbeing and Schools Bill , which will crack down on profiteer and improve child protection — something that the Tories fail to do , at a very dear cost to taxpayer , who be leave to pick up the bill . again , the severe pressure on SEND service come across loud and clear during the consultation . as we have announce , we be boost SEND provision and alternative provision by an extra £ 1 billion to start to return the system to financial sustainability and to improve outcome for young people . we be aware of the impact that dedicated school grant deficit be have on council finance , which be why we be commit to work with council , parent , teacher and school to transform SEND provision and the life chance of the child who need it . Cornwall council be now £ 1 . 3 billion in debt . what be the Minister ' s plan to address future settlement , which will obviously be affect by very high interest rate on that enormous debt ? the human cost be that the adult education centre in Camelford be now close . very real pressure have build up , and I will not criticise any council from the Dispatch Box — the day of do that have long go . that be not to say that I agree with every decision make by individual council , or that I would not have choose a different course . in some case , the decision be plainly not in the interest of local taxpayer . however , we be where we be , and we need to stabilise the sector this year and reform the funding system over the multi - year settlement , so that we begin to build back the foundation of sustainability and long - term security . we need to invest in prevention and reform , so that we get ahead of the problem instead of pay at the back end for bad outcome . in the end , we need a funding system that really hold . by do that , we will ensure that most council in most part of the country find themselves in a much well position than they be before the work be undertake . because of the type of decision that have be take , there will always be outlier . whatever system we design , we can accommodate most council in most circumstance , but because of the decision that have sometimes be take , we can not accommodate all council in all circumstance . the Government have commit to work alongside council to work through this . of course , local government reorganisation will accelerate the need to do that in some area , because we will have to reconcile the creation of unitarie with the inherit debt liability . we be fully sight on that . I thank the Minister for meet I and other Croydon MPs to talk about our council ' s legacy of debt . the Minister talk about early help and prevention . will the funding formula take account of thing such as youth service , where early help and prevention can have a massive impact on what council have to spend over a long period ? absolutely . deprivation be a key part of the funding settlement . this be the first settlement in a long time , and probably the first since the area - base grant in 2010 - 11 , in which deprivation be a measure by which the Government allocate money to the sector . if we see this as only a local government problem , we will miss the prevention and reform agenda that we need . my hon . friend and I often talk about this , but the Home Office be work on diversionary activity for young people . in many community , gang activity , child criminal exploitation and knife crime be very real issue that draw too many young people into crime . we need those diversionary activity in the place where people live . we need to address that , and it should be a whole of Government agenda . that be why we be marshal our work around the Government ' s mission , and our approach be anchor to the plan for change . I welcome the focus on deprivation . the Minister say he do not want to criticise the leadership of particular council , but will he praise the leadership of Middlesbrough council ? Mayor Chris Cooke have lead the council out of a good value notice and produce the first growth budget in year , with increase in area care and much else . will the Minister commend that work ? that work be demonstrate by the Department be able to remove the good value notice . we know that Middlesbrough be not at the end of the improvement journey , and the council itself would say that , but the characteristic of strong civic leadership be clearly on display . I appreciate that it be a lot easy to praise a council from the Dispatch Box . when we consider fund for council to deliver vital service , we must also consider the taxpayer . we be committed to keep taxis on work people as low as possible . at the same time , we understand the immense pressure that council be under , which be why we will strike a balance in maintain the previous Government ' s policy of a 5 % referendum principle threshold , which include a 3 % core principle and a 2 % principle for the adult social care precept . we all know that councillor , mayor , police and crime commissioner and council will take into account the impact of increase on household , and it be right that they do so . for the vast majority of council , those principle and the additional £ 5 billion in funding that we have announce will be sufficient to support they in set their budget . however , we know that some council be in difficult position , as we have hear today . for some , unique local decision have have an impact on their financial stability . for other , over a decade of mount pressure have finally catch up with they , and whatever they do , that be the reality . we be determined to work together to find a way through that , include by consider request for additional council tax flexibility and request from council seek exceptional financial support . my own council , West Berkshire , a small unitary authority , now have only 2 % of its net revenue budget in reserve , and have write to the Government seek £ 16 million of exceptional financial support . I urge the Minister to stand with West Berkshire council and to grant that support , so it can continue to deliver those important service . the hon . Gentleman have my commitment that we will review the submission that we have have in good faith and in the spirit of partnership . we recognise that the council that have make exceptional financial support application have do so at the end of a process , not at the start , and that they need the Government to work with they . we will confirm exact allocation later , local authority by local authority , but I take on board what the hon . Gentleman say . the financial legacy leave by the last Government have lead to a record number of council ask for additional council tax increase . the ability to request additional increase already exist , but there be a need to balance they with the impact on local taxpayer . on that basis , we have take a strict approach than the previous Government . that mean avoid excessively high increase and agree to rise only where council have comparatively low level of exist council tax . have carefully consider request , we have agree to modest increase in six local authority : Windsor and Maidenhead , Birmingham , Bradford , Newham , Somerset and Trafford council . however , our strict approach mean that we have not be able to agree to all the request that we have have and that not all request have be meet in full . taxpayer in those area be still expect to pay less than the average amount of council tax , compare with similar council , because of the approach that we have take . we have be clear that all council should take whatever step be necessary to protect their most vulnerable resident from the impact of additional increase . at national level , even with those increase , the overall increase in council tax be not expect to exceed that of last year . without the additional £ 5 billion provide in the Budget and the settlement , there be no doubt that that would not have be possible . in a way , that display the new relationship , because , unlike the previous Government , we will not impoverish council or parade they around to be shame . instead , we will work with they to put they back on their foot financially . we will fix the broken local audit system and the unacceptable backlog that we inherit ; move from a failing , disperse approach towards a focused , proportionate local audit office that offer value for money ; and improve transparency , accountability and confidence in how hard - earn taxpayer money be be spend . however , we all know that there be no quick fix . the legacy that we have be leave be nothing short of scandalous , but this settlement mark a turning point . it will back local government with the long - term funding and certainty that it need to fix the foundation , base on a new partnership with central Government . through reform , fair funding and well stewardship , we will ensure that the sector be fit , legal and decent , so it can stand on its foot as a strong , function arm of the state . the settlement will provide more money for local government , especially in area of great need , such as social care , and more investment in the thing that matter to local community , from support for our high street and town centre to mend pothole and boost local planning department , add up to public service that we can all begin to rely on once again . strong community will support a strong economy , with high growth , deliver high living standard for work people that will be feel in every part of the country . drive by a devolution revolution , we will deliver the great transfer of power from Whitehall to our community in a generation . finally , we will put politic back into the service of work people . our plan for change have local government at its heart and I commend it to the House . may I first put on record my admiration for the fine work of council , councillor and officer right across the country ? that work be often carry out at the most challenging time against a backdrop of real financial pressure on those local authority , not least the rise demand for adult social care , special educational need , temporary accommodation and other . I do not think there be ever a time when we appreciate council more than during the covid crisis — as well as during the cost of live crisis — when we see the fine work they do and how important it be to have those council and councillor help local people . I welcome the extra money provide in the spending review — a 6 . 8 % increase in core spending power . I welcome the approach that the Minister intend to take with the multi - year settlement . that be a sensible way forward . I also put on record my respect and admiration for the Minister . he always take a considered and responsible approach and have huge knowledge of the sector . I promise he that we will work across party wherever we can on the thing we agree on to try and make it easy for local council to do the fine work that they do . the shadow Minister be generous in give way . he quite correctly praise councillor . do he think , as we move forward with the change , that it would not be a bad idea to start think about how we compensate councillor for their effort ? many of they give up so many hour of their week and do vital work for very little by way of recompense . do he agree that we should look at that ? I can only reiterate what the hon . Gentleman have say and what I say early : they do fine work and most do not do it for money but because they have the interest of their local community at heart . that should always be the case , and those be the kind of councillor that we want . where people have expense to do their job , that need to be properly compensate for . will the Minister accept that the majority of the extra money provide through the settlement be raise through council tax increase , which be effectively taxis on local taxpayer — that is , work people ? as he be sensible and consider , do he regret the fact that the Prime Minister stand on a stage in Swindon on 30 March 2023 with the Deputy Prime Minister , who be also the Secretary of State for Housing , Communities and Local Government , state that he would freeze council tax for the first year they be in Government ? that have not be the case . the Prime Minister quite clearly promise " a tax cut for the 99 per cent of work people who be face a rise in their council tax " . his word be also that there would be " not one penny on your council tax " . we say then that those promise be not worth the paper they be write on . how right we be . under Labour , typical council tax bill be to rise by 5 % in April 2025 , in another increase tax on work people . that mean that the average household face an above - inflation increase of around £ 100 in their council tax bill in that year . all that will do in many case be fill the black hole in council finance that Labour be create due to an increase in national insurance contribution . furthermore , it be quite clear that Labour be deliberately fund largely labour - lead urban area at the expense of rural area . I thank the hon . gentleman for give way . he be one of the more reasonable of his party ' s Front Benchers — not that he need my praise . between 2010 and 2024 , Stoke - on - Trent city council have a cumulative loss of £ 411 million . in cash term , if the budget have be freeze and there have be no increase , we would have have that much more in spend . do the shadow Minister accept that the damage that his party do in local government can not simply be fix in one settlement after seven month of a Labour Government ? I have speak before about the financial pressure all council be under . that be principally due to rise demand on service ; that be the reality . eighty per cent of discretionary spend be on the three area I refer to early . there be no doubt that there be challenging circumstance . nevertheless , the vast majority of money raise through the settlement be through council tax , and much of the money raise for core spending power will go on national insurance rise . there be direct cost , but there be also indirect cost that be not cover . many council will be bad off as a result . just to be clear , even rural council will receive a near 6 % increase in their core spending power . it be correct that £ 600 million through the recovery grant be target at deprive community , but we have follow an assessment of need right through the system , include that of rural authority . the hon . member must welcome that . I will come on to that , but we do have a different perspective . the point that I be make principally right now be that there be rise cost on council , both in direct cost through national insurance and through indirect cost , which be not fully cover by this settlement , and I think the Minister accept that fact early in his remark . the reality be that rural area will face high council tax increase to make up for reduced central funding , despite the cost increase of provide service in rural area . to give the House an easy example of this , my local authority , North Yorkshire council , spend more on school transport than it do on the whole of child ' s social care . that be the cost of deliver service in rural area . despite that , the Labour Government have choose to scrap the rural service delivery grant . they have say that they be repurpose it , but it be now clear that this have not be repurpose to support rural area in the way that the delivery grant use to do , despite the high cost of service delivery in those area . the chairman of the County Councils Network , Tim Oliver , have warn that rural area will lose hundred of million of pound due to Labour prioritise urban area over rural one in the way that it distribute fund . the Government be move distribution away from a needs - base formula to one base on deprivation . he have warn that Labour ' s funding formula will mean that rural council would lose an estimate £ 190 million in a single year . he have also state that , when take into account the money need to cover the cost of the national insurance increase , this be the bad settlement for county council in four year . can the shadow Secretary of State just explain his comment ? I agree with my hon . friend the Member for Stoke - on - Trent Central ( Gareth Snell ) that the hon . gentleman one of the more reasonable member on the conservative Benches . he say that the Government be switch money away from a needs - base formula to one base on deprivation . be not deprivation very clear evidence of need in the community ? what be the difference ? of course there be some need around deprivation , but that be not the entirety . the major cost driver for local authority be the thing that I outline early : adult social care , special educational need and temporary accommodation . there may be some crossover , but the reality be that simply base that on deprivation will not work for all authority ; some will be bad off as a result of move from need to deprivation . I have hope that we could move away from this pit area against area . I can assure the shadow Secretary of State that I be from an urban area with high deprivation , but with very high transport cost for child to get to special educational need placement , and also massive temporary accommodation cost . perhaps we need to move towards a well model that take in all the issue we face in all of our area . in that way , we be not fight each other , but work together to get well local council across the country . I do not want to be party political , but it be not we who be change the formula . the reality be that this Labour Government be rob Peter to pay Paul . this be a zero - sum game . if they move the formula around , some council will be bad off and some will be well off . I want everybody to be treat fairly , but this be a very difficult situation against the current spending round . the Labour Government ' s approach be particularly worrying give their intention to move to a new fairer funding formula . " Fairer to whom ? " we might ask , give the point we have just make . labour ' s broken promise on this be clear and follow similar promise break on the fully cost and fully fund manifesto : the family farm tax , the family business tax , the winter fuel allowance , the rise in employer national insurance contribution and , of course , that statement about " not one penny more on your council tax , " we be do so well . we be talk about fairness across the board and not pit one against the other — so far , so good . but give the shadow Minister ' s comment , may I just remind he of the word of the former Prime Minister , the right hon . member for Richmond and Northallerton ( Rishi Sunak ) , in the garden in Tunbridge Wells , where , when talk about his time as Chancellor of the Exchequer , he mention have transfer fund deliberately away from deprived and challenge area to more affluent one ? surely we have to call out the record correctly , and if we want a fresh start , let we have a fresh start . I think my right hon . friend the Member for Richmond and Northallerton ( Rishi Sunak ) be talk about fairness , which we all believe in . the hon . member for Middlesbrough and Thornaby East ( Andy McDonald ) will have a different perspective on fairness from other people . the reality be that there be a political division here . one thing that we must agree on be that the statutory duty on council should be properly fund . my concern be that that will not be the case , and lot of those pressure fall differently on rural council compare with urban council . under the formula that have be propose and on which we will vote this evening , Stoke - on - Trent city council will receive a recovery grant of £ 8 . 2 million . I hope that the shadow Minister be not say that , be the conservative party still in Government , we would not receive that additional cash , and would therefore be £ 8 . 2 million bad off . it be interesting , because the loss of the rural service delivery grant cost my local authority £ 14 million , so it depend where we draw the line and what the priority be . the change in the rural service delivery grant be rob Peter to pay Paul . that be the reality . my resident in North Durham be in a local authority area , County Durham , that be rural and deprived . I assure the shadow Minister that the previous version of the formula be not design to help that kind of rural authority . it may have help wealthy rural authority , but it do not help area that suffer from both the difficulty of provide service in a rural area and the extreme need cause by deprivation . we all have different view on this matter . many part of my constituency be not wealthy and have deprivation that be not sufficiently cater for by some of the formula . that be what we be concerned about . we be keen to see fairness across the board , so we will scrutinise Labour ' s plan very carefully on that basis . the Labour Budget promise a big increase in council spending and the return of the sector to sustainability through a comprehensive set of measure to support local authority in England . as I say , the Government also promise multi - year settlement , and we support those intention . however , most of the money provide to local council under the settlement will be through council tax rise for work people . a number of the rise breach the 5 % referendum limit principle . Referendums on council tax rise of up to 9 . 9 % have be waive by the Secretary of State , so local people can not have a say on these dramatic increase . that mean that local resident in the Windsor and Maidenhead borough , Birmingham , Bradford and Newham all face increase of more than 5 % . Birmingham be notable due to the mess that Labour make there , which Labour be now force resident to pay for , rather than take responsibility . the Liberal Democrats be also raise council tax without allow Windsor and Maidenhead borough and somerset resident a say on how they feel about the increase . council tax rise make up the bulk of the settlement , and rather than labour deliver on its claim that it would fairly fund local government , it be push the burden on to taxpayer . the Government have also increase that burden with their job tax , which will negatively increase cost on local government finance . although they have provide £ 515 million to cover the direct cost of employer ' s NI , the Local Government Association have estimate that the national insurance contribution hike will cost another £ 1 . 13 billion for increase be force upon provider of outsource service . the cost of those outsourced service will inevitably increase , but the Government be provide no money to cover that . council and resident will have to pick up the bill . council tax receipt in 2025 - 26 be forecast to be in the order of £ 50 billion , yet labour ' s nonsensical Chagos island deal be rumour to cost up to £ 18 billion . that be equivalent to a one - off £ 820 deduction from a typical council tax bill . alternatively , it could have pay for a council tax freeze for the whole of this Parliament . as with all thing , Labour be waste taxpayer ' money rather than give they a tax cut . the settlement will make it more difficult for council to deliver on resident ' priority , be they social care or pothole , which I note conservative council have a well record of fill in . it be an undeniable fact that Labour and the Liberal Democrats deliver bad service and charge more . from Whitehall to town hall , under Labour , people pay more and get less . I call the Chair of the Housing , Communities and Local Government Committee . I welcome the real - term fund increase in the settlement , in the context of a decade of cut and financial mismanagement . the Minister outline the additional funding for the child ' s social care prevention grant , which will help provide vital service for child in their formative year , which be really important . there be the £ 660 million recovery grant for place with great need and demand for service . it be important that we continue to focus on prevention , to stop we get to a situation where many council be ask for a bail - out later on . I would like to remind member of the consequence of the situation that our council face up and down the country . for some council , it mean the end of community programme that keep people active , or that mean people can go out and speak to other . I host an event last week on loneliness . many of our constituent report feel lonely , and those vital community service keep they active . because of the situation that council face , some child who be in need of an education , health and care plan be not get that support , and we see some parent and carer have to quit work just to get adequate provision for their young people . it mean that more and more family be end up in completely unsustainable temporary accommodation , and we hear story of family have to travel three to four hour every day just to get to school or work . no one should have to go to bed at night and be unable to sleep because they fear that the accommodation they be in could harm their family . seventy - four child have have their death link to temporary accommodation in the last five year . we be one of the rich country in the world . this should not be happen . People rely on our council service for their wellbeing , and we need to end the chronic underfunding of those vital service . we must remember that what we see today be the result of a false economy of underfunde local government for over a decade . for year we have have to see council cut vital prevention service just to make end meet . the result be that more and more people be in dire need of those service , which be far more costly not just to the local authority , but to the livelihood of the people who need they . we see that in private rent sector inspection , in maintain and repair our housing stock , and in provide the vital youth service that my hon . friend the Member for Croydon East ( Natasha Irons ) reference , which boost the life chance of teenager and young adult . if we be honest , the tragedy of the last 14 year be that it have see more costly service for our local resident . this settlement be a welcome step in the right direction to help council meet some of the pressure they face , but again , if we be all honest , many of our council will still struggle to provide the vital service that resident need and deserve . I be sure that many member eagerly anticipate the start of the Housing , Communities and Local Government Committee ' s inquiry on local government finance . as Chair , I do not want to pre - empt what we will discuss over the next few month , but I want to raise a few specific point with the Minister today . the Minister know — he have receive representation on it and member have raise it — that because large council be big employer , they will be impact by the rise in national insurance contribution , as the shadow Minister , the hon . member for Thirsk and Malton ( Kevin Hollinrake ) , reference . he also reference the LGA datum , which indicate that even with the additional generous funding outline by the Minister , council will still be short by over £ 100 million to cover the extra cost for directly employ staff . the Minister touch on the service expenditure cost , but there be still a gap that need to be fill . be the Minister consider the impact that will have on staffing pressure in our council , and have the Government consider the effect of indirect cost through the commission provider ? our council do not exist in a bubble . the impact of other Government spending area , such as health and welfare , will have a drastic effect on the cost that our council face . I come back to an issue that I have raise multiple time , as the Minister know . I remain concerned about the impact of freeze local housing allowance at a time when private rent have go up by nearly 10 % . that could create extra and significant burden on the vital and well think - out homelessness prevention work that our council do . will the Government finally confirm what work they have do to assess that risk ; whether freeze LHA will impact on family who be struggle with rise rent ; and what pressure — unintended , maybe — that could place on homelessness service across the country ? my hon . friend raise an important point on local housing allowance . when we consider that issue in the Public Accounts Committee , it be pretty obvious that official have not do any proper assessment of the impact that freeze the allowance would have on homelessness . something ought to be do . if the Government take the major step of freeze an important allowance , they ought to know what impact that will have on other service . I thank the former Chair of the Housing , Communities and Local Government Committee — I know of the work that his Committee do on this issue . the reality be that we need to build more home . the Government have an ambitious target , but our resident need somewhere to live in the interim . that will mean more strain on the private rent sector and on rent . I hope that the Minister be consider that impact in his work with official from other Departments , include the Department for Work and Pensions . will the Minister inform the House about the detail of the public health grant for 2025 - 26 ? that will play such a vital role in address major health inequality , which we all want to see reduce in our respective area . we be talk about treatment for drug and alcohol service and smoking prevention , for example . I declare an interest as a co - chair of the all - party parliamentary group on HIV , AIDS and sexual health . vital sexual health service help to address health inequality , so it be vital that council get funding — and certainty about it . extra money be only part of the solution . some resident will yet again face high council tax bill next year . they have the right to scrutinise , ask and ensure that every penny of that be spend in the right place , but the reality be that accountability in local government be far too often not fit for purpose . as the Minister know — he refer to it — the situation get so bad that the National Audit Office refuse to sign off the whole of Government account for the first time ever in November last year . only one in 10 council submit reliable datum for 2022 - 23 , and over 40 % do not submit any datum at all . the Minister outline the mess that he inherit , and the measure that the Government be take to deal with the backlog , but we must ensure that we do not find ourselves in this position again . the Minister also refer to the local audit office . will he confirm what additional long - term step the Government will take to address local government auditing ? the consultation close recently , on 29 January , and I would be grateful if he would outline a timeline for update the House on that . I know that he share my desire to give council the support and flexibility they need . the first step in that be to fix council finance . we welcome the Government ' s commitment to multi - year settlement from 2026 - 27 to give our council the certainty that they have lack for so long . I hope that he and the Government will remain open - minded to some of the reform that our Committee will look at , so that we can all see council up and down the country deliver the effective service that our resident need and deserve . I call the liberal Democrat spokesperson . local government should be the bedrock of our community . council should be empower to deliver local service and invest in infrastructure , and they should be plan to make sure their community prosper . instead , year of conservative mismanagement have leave council across the country on the brink of financial collapse . nowhere be this clear than in my constituency of Woking . woke borough council face debt of over £ 2 billion . that debt be a direct result of reckless local decision make by the Conservatives , enable by a former Conservative Government who refuse to step in until it be too late . this catastrophic black hole have have devastating consequence for my constituent , and because of this crisis and that conservative legacy , public service have be — and continue to be — strip back . community project be now a second thought , and council tax have go up . as Woking ' s new Member of Parliament — elect seven month ago , mind you — I have regularly raise the plight of my council ' s finance and those of the whole local government system with the Minister and the Department , and I will continue to do so . on these occasion , I always sit and wait for the Lib Dems to accept some responsibility for the financial mess they create in local government . there be a 50 % cut in grant to local government during the 14 year , and the big part of that cut come during the coalition Government . be it not time that the hon . Member stand up on behalf of his party and apologise for his role in austerity , which create this crisis ? I be about to be nice to the Minister and the team before the hon . member intervene , which be quite ironic . I be very grateful that the Government have listen to the concern of distressed council , include mine . unlike the previous Government , who impose high council tax rise and high interest rate as a punishment for bankruptcy , this Government have listen , and I be grateful to the Minister for do so . that have save my council alone million of pound . what I find very surprising be the brass neck of the shadow Secretary of State , the hon . member for Thirsk and Malton ( Kevin Hollinrake ) , when he criticise this Government for their tax rise ; the previous Government punish my council with a 10 % council tax rise because it dare to go bankrupt as a result of conservative decision . I have urge the Minister to not impose the same level of council tax rise as the previous Government , and I hope he will not do so . thank to the work of the Liberal Democrats who now run Woking council and the amazing council staff , Woking be turn a corner , but I really worry for its future and that of council like they , and the District Councils ' Network worry as well . the Minister have highlight that there be no reduction in any local authority ' s funding this year , but the DCN say that 0 . 3 % be the average cash increase in core spending power for borough and district . that be not good enough . those council shape their area — they protect homeless people — and a 0 . 3 % increase in core spending power be just not acceptable . turn to county council , the County Council Network say that four in 10 of its member say that they be in a bad position than before the autumn Budget and the financial settlement , and one third say that their service reduction next year will now be severe . consider that there be very little fat leave to cut , I really worry about those service . the hon . Member must accept that part of the difficulty we have in a two - tier system be the inability to move money around that system . it be correct to say that rural council , mainly in two - tier area , have have an increase of nearly 6 % , but we have a huge inability to move that money around . there be around £ 2 billion in the two - tier system that could be free up through reorganisation of local government , so will he stop look both way on reorganisation , and give a commitment on behalf of his party that the Liberal Democrats will support it ? I thank the Minister for admit that the 0 . 3 % rise in DCN funding be happen . I do not think he can say that the Liberal Democrats and I be look both way on unitarisation , base on the statement early and the question that take this debate later than member might have want . we have concern about unitarisation , particularly about the way that the Government be do it . fundamentally , we welcome reform of local government , but it can not be impose on council and local area , and we be concerned that that be happen . my county council , Surrey county council , have 14 day of reserve leave — that be how bad of a state its finance be in . the Minister have talk about the past 14 year ; I be more worried about the 14 day until my local authority , which be protect vulnerable elderly people and child , will run out of money . social care be another area where the previous Government fail miserably , and I worry that Labour be set to repeat the same mistake . council that provide social care be suppose to be well off under this settlement , but the reality be that demand for care be rise , cost be soar , and local authority be still struggle to meet their legal need — I be sure all member know that from their casework , and we see it time and again in tribunal . the Government ' s allocation of funding for social care be simply not enough , and their refusal to commit to long - term reform , and particularly to have a long - term inquiry , will make the problem bad , not well . on top of that , local authority be saddle with extra cost from the Government ' s policy . the increase in national insurance contribution will push up payroll cost for council across the country , yet the Government ' s package of support be lack . council will be short of hundred of million of pound just from NI contribution , and once again they will be push to increase council tax or cut service . the Liberal Democrats be concerned that rural council will suffer as a result of the Government ' s decision to remove the rural service delivery grant in favour of the new recovery grant . the new grant will be allocate through a need and demand basis , and we be concerned that that will exclude rural council from critical funding because it do not consider the specific reason that the delivery of service be more expensive in rural area . stoke - on - Trent will get £ 8 million from the recovery grant , and we be the fifth poor city in the country . the hon . Member and I want to see service in our community fund , so I urge he not to fall into the false trap that the Conservatives be set by try to pit our council against one another . I want service , and he want service ; we need to agree to fund they properly and not be put into some sort of " Hunger Games " competition . I thank the hon . Gentleman for his helpful contribution . we should not have council compete against each other , but although we have to recognise deprivation , and local government funding should be link to that , we also have to recognise the cost of deliver service . our fear be that remove the rural service delivery grant will not do that . last year the rural service delivery grant provide £ 110 million to rural council to compensate for the vast rural area that they serve , but this mean that they will now face high cost . we be concern about , and it will leave rural community and resident struggle , with few service and high taxis . the Liberal Democrats urge the Government to provide rural council with the funding settlement they need . the Liberal Democrats believe in properly fund local government so that we can care for the people we need to care for , house the people we need to house , and protect vulnerable resident . I thank the Minister and his official for put the funding settlement together . it be a step in the right direction and an improvement on what we have see , but as I think the Minister will concede , it couldn ' t not be — it be always go to be well . this be a step in the right direction , but the challenge we face as a society and a country be huge , and the Liberal Democrats and I need to hold the Government to account to make sure that this be the last one - year single financial settlement . we need to make sure that social care be properly fund . that do not mean kick the can down the road in three year ' time . it mean that the homelessness strategy that we be promise in July genuinely solve the problem , genuinely tackle prevention , and be fully fund . we also need to tackle special educational need on a long - term , cross - party basis , not kick the can down the road , which be the fear for those issue . I be pleased that the Minister agree — almost concede — to have a cross - party review into the council tax system . the hon . member for Hartlepool ( Mr Brash ) highlight that his constituent in a band h property be charge £ 3 , 000 more than for a band h property in London , which be unacceptable . it be well know that Buckingham Palace pay the same level of council tax as an average three - bedroom semi - detached in Blackpool . that be not reasonable . we must fundamentally tackle those issue . the Liberal Democrats and I be immensely grateful for the councillor and council staff who give up their time and their life to shape their community . we can not let they down in this House , and they need to be fully fund go forward . I be pleased to say that this be one of the first occasion for many year when in speak in this debate , I do not have to stand up and say how badly Sheffield be be treat , because we have get a fair settlement for the first time in 14 year . Sheffield be a well - run council , and I congratulate Councillor Tom Hunt , the leader of the council , and Kate Josephs , who be the chief exec . we be not at a financial cliff edge . this settlement will not resolve all the problem and difficulty that the council have , but it do mean that the cliff edge be a bit far away , and the council have a bit of room to look at and take serious decision about resource allocation and try to continue with — and in some case hopefully improve — some of the service . in this settlement , Sheffield council have receive £ 16 . 5 million from the recovery grant , which be right . we have lose out in so many settlement , because we be a deprived community , and deprive community have the big cut of all during the year of austerity . that be the reality . some 60 % of our property be in band a . put council tax up do not bring in the same amount of money as it do in more affluent area , and it be right that the Government have recognise that . we have an increase in the grant for social care and homelessness provision , and that be welcome , though I have to add a caveat . the council be say to I that those grant still do not cover the increase cost it be face in those two area . indeed , the national insurance increase have not be totally compensate for by Government . there be some challenge and issue in the settlement . it be not 100 % , but it be an awful lot well than where we have be previously , and that be what we must remember . I be sure the Minister recognise that this be the easy year . we come to the real challenge next year with the long - term settlement . a three - year settlement be absolutely right . fair funding will be look at , and that be absolutely right . it can not carry on . the previous Government be go to do a fair funding deal 10 year ago , but they never get around to implement it . clearly that review be need ; it be just a question now of get on and do it . we recognise that be a massive challenge . if we be go to get that settlement right for the three year , we have get to address child ' s social care , SEND provision , homelessness and the fight for temporary accommodation between different Government Departments , which drive cost up . those issue need resolution . we also need a resolution to adult social care , although I understand that may not come until a couple of year afterwards . if we can at least sort the other issue out , it will be a significant step forward . I will raise three other issue briefly , because I appreciate the shortage of time . I can see the Chairman of the Public Accounts Committee , the hon . member for North Cotswolds ( Sir Geoffrey Clifton - Brown ) on the Opposition Benches , and he will probably recognise this point . we have be tell clearly by the Treasury that from next year , Departments must not spend money allocate for capital project on revenue . the way that local Government have have to be bail out in the past few year be by capitalise revenue expenditure . what happen if the Treasury lock down that activity ? have any thought be give to that ? it clearly need some thinking about . the Chair of the Levelling up , Housing and Communities Committee , my hon . friend the Member for Vauxhall and Camberwell Green ( Florence Eshalomi ) mention public health . why be the grant late once again ? I accept that be probably not the Minister ' s responsibility , but he refer to prevention be important , and it be , and that be exactly what public health be about . from next year at least , can we get the public health grant at the same time as the local government grant ? finally , I echo the comment about the hard work of local government staff and councillor in particular . many councillor lose money , and there be a real challenge about get young people to become councillor . I ask the Secretary of State early about that , but she do not respond directly to my question . when will the Government look at reinstate the right for councillor to join the local government pension scheme ? for many young councillor , that be a real difficulty . they come in , they lose money , but they also lose their pension in the long term , too . I declare an interest as I serve as a local councillor , like many colleague in this House . it be about not just the pension ; the additional cost that young councillor face now to go in and serve their local community may be off - put . on top of that there be the level of abuse that local councillor face for carry out their public duty . do my hon . friend agree that the Government should look at that ? I do . I welcome arrangement be put in place for the police to give more protection to councillor in that space . recognise the financial strain , particularly for young councillor , do not take a lot of money . I ask the Minister to allow that to happen . I forget at the beginning to declare my interest as vice - president of the Local Government Association . I be sure that it be pleased with the settlement . the Minister recognise the challenge that have be outline — they be to be face in future year , but I thank he for this settlement today . I be pleased to follow my very hard - work , excellent deputy on the Public Accounts Committee , the hon . member for Sheffield South East ( Mr Betts ) , who have huge knowledge on local government matter . in fact , whenever we come to local government matter in the Committee , we always defer to he . I echo the opening remark by my hon . friend the Member for Thirsk and Malton ( Kevin Hollinrake ) about our hard - work councillor up and down the country , whatever their political persuasion . often , they work many hour and do not get much pay for it . they do it because they want to improve the lot of their local community , so I warmly welcome that . I even echo his opening remark to the Local Government Minister , who I always think be a fair and reasonable man . he have deal with this matter in a knowledgeable and professional way , and I pay tribute to he . I want to pick up on a couple of thing from the excellent speech by the Chair of the Levelling up , Housing and Communities Committee , the hon . member for Vauxhall and Camberwell Green ( Florence Eshalomi ) . she be very knowledgeable on this whole matter . first , the local health grant , which have be pick up by other , be peanut in comparison with the total health budget , but if we can keep the population more healthy through the thing that she say and other preventive measure , it would be far well for they and far cheap for the country in the long run . I do not know why government of all colour have not pay more attention to that . secondly , I want to pick up on local housing allowance , which the hon . member for Sheffield South East also mention . as he say , the impact on homelessness have not really be calculate , which our PAC report make perfectly clear . the Minister need to look at that relationship and how we can get a close , more targeted local housing allowance or another allowance to alleviate the problem of some of the poor in our society who can not afford the house that they live in , and who have to be subsidise to a considerable extent by the local authority , put even more pressure on it . often , local government be not understand by our constituent , but they certainly know when they be not get the service they pay for from their council . council tax bill be increase up and down the country . I be shocked to read that some people ' s council tax be go up by as much as 10 % , as the Secretary of State have give permission to override the legislation in place for a referendum to be call if council tax be raise by more than 5 % . I remind the House , as my hon . friend the Member for Thirsk and Malton do , that the Prime Minister state in Bristol that he would freeze council tax bill for all . clearly , that be not the case . I would love it if he be able to , but clearly when he say it , it be not realistic . the Public Accounts Committee , which I have the great honour to chair on behalf of this House to try to expose how the taxpayer ' s pound be spend — well or not , as the case may be — have take a strong interest in local government . we will shine a light on the area need , as will the Chair of the Levelling up , Housing and Communities Committee . together , hopefully we can make a real positive difference in the way that service be deliver for people up and down this country . it be clear that local government finance have increasingly become more dependent on council tax rather than central government grant . I listen to the speech by the Liberal Democrat spokesman , the hon . member for Woking ( Mr Forster ) about his local council , but it can not be deny that some council have manage their budget well than other . I welcome the multi - year settlement that this Government have introduce . we often criticise the government , but I think these settlement will be warmly welcome by council , and would , I think , be welcome in other area of Government spending , too . like a business , local authority will be able to plan , invest taxpayer ' money into long - term project with more certainty , and therefore hopefully use money more efficiently . I urge the Government in their review of the funding formula to keep in mind the rural - urban divide , which we have have quite a lot of discussion about this evening . in what I be go to say , I do not to wish pit one council against another in any way — that be not the object of what I be say . I simply say that if we put the emphasis more on one facet and less on the other , we will benefit some council and disadvantage other . the problem with rural council be that in many case it cost more for they to deliver service , which be not properly reflect in the grant . even the House of Commons Library say that scrap the rural service grant and replace it with a recovery grant already demonstrate a divide . accord to the Library , which be suppose to be independent , the change in methodology for allocate money have mean that rural area be lose out to urban area and city centre . now , I do not want to get into deep water , but a need be a need . adult and child ' s social service , which have be mention today , be both high - consume , voluntary part of the budget , and be increase . if the Government take away the need basis and put it into deprivation basis , they will benefit some council and disadvantage other . I repeat : a need be a need . that include adult social service and child ' s social service ; it also include SEND — our Committee produce a report on SEND , which say the system be break — which be a hugely consume part of the budget , and be consume a great and great percentage . will the hon . Gentleman give way ? just a second . another part of the budget that be consume more and more be temporary housing accommodation ; this , again , need a fix in some way or another . structurally , we can not let these area of spending go on unreformed , so that they continue to put huge pressure on the finance of all council . I give way to a former member of the Public Accounts Committee . I thank the hon . gentleman for give way — I do enjoy my time on the Public Accounts Committee . for two year , I lead a small shire district council . we be often tell that there would be money for county council , because that be where the great need be in term of adult and child ' s social care , and various other demand - lead service . I do not even think the divide be urban - rural ; it can sometimes be between county and district , in the same locality . be this the hon . Gentleman ' s quiet way of tell we that when the Government bring forward the order for reorganisation , his party will be support that , to take out that one element of potential divide in our funding system ? I be really pleased that the hon . Gentleman have raise the whole business of devolution , because I be go to come on to that at the end of my speech . what I think we should do be build it from the bottom up , as we do , and let local people have a real say in what they want for the future of the delivery of their local service . I be go to say a little bit more about that and ask the local Government Minister some quiet question about it at the end . I turn to a matter that be bread and butter for the Public Accounts Committee , which the hon . member for Vauxhall and Camberwell Green , the Chair of the Housing , Communities and Local Government Committee , also raise , which be the whole business of local auditing . without proper auditing , there be no guarantee that all the money — I say " all the money " , but I just mean " the money " — that council get from both council tax and local government grant , in one form or another , be be spend wisely and provide value for money . the shocking position that we find ourselves in with local auditing at the moment be not , I think , help the whole system . the Public Accounts Committee recently hold an evidence session on the whole of Government account , as the hon . Lady refer to , where we find that 44 % of council do not submit any datum at all to those whole of Government account , and that 46 % of account have not be audit for nearly five year , in some council ' case . the local Government Minister have lay before the House measure to ameliorate the timing of produce local audits . hopefully , we can get to a situation where we can start those local audits and get a set of figure we can begin to rely on . the next year , once we have start with an established set of figure , we hopefully ought to be able to get a properly audit set of account . will the hon . Gentleman give way ? I will in just a second , but I want to make a really important point to the Minister about why all this matter . why do it matter ? if we do not have a set of properly audit account , we do not have a sound basis on which to know what we be spend money on . as the Local Government Minister know only too well , it be not only the audit account that be important but the assurance that go with they , so that council officer , councillor and the public — the council tax payer — can begin to get an idea of whether something be go wrong with their council . I say to he gently that if more council know that , we might not run into a situation where they issue section 114 notice . however we cut the cake , when a section 114 notice come into effect and the Government send in official to run the council , it always end up with local people get a poor service — they have their service cut — that be more expensive in council tax . it be really bad when a council get into that situation , and that be why we need proper audit account . I be only intervene give the hon . Gentleman ' s position as Chair of the Public Accounts Committee . I think that this be a common interest for the PAC , Parliament and the Government . I do not want to labour the point about the past ; the question now be how we move forward . from our perspective , it be not acceptable at all that the whole of Government account can not be reconcile because of local government audit backlog , so we want to address that . more importantly — this be definitely where there be a common interest — we must rebuild the early warning system , because what we can not pick up effectively enough be whether there be systemic problem , which be more than just one council begin to wobble , that we should be aware of and take action on . the local Government Minister must be clairvoyant — or he must be read my note . I warmly welcome the Government ' s consultation on local audit reform , which would establish a statutory and independent local audit office . it would be responsible for the co - ordination of the system to provide the quality oversight and reporting that be currently miss . there be even talk about set up some form of backstop public auditing system . a lot of reform be be consult on , which be to be warmly welcome , and the Government be to be congratulate on tackle this subject . I really hope , as Chairman of the Public Accounts Committee , that the local Government Minister and the Government succeed in that quest , because if we do it , we will begin to make local government much more efficient . we have not talk much about efficiency , but it be common across public service that if we improve efficiency , we make taxpayer ' money go far . the consultation document — this be the core of the matter — state that " just one per cent of council and other local body publish audit account on time last year and a backlog of nearly 1 , 000 outstanding audits date back to 2015 / 16 " . that demonstrate that real reform be need , and quickly . we be in total agreement , and we will go on examine the matter and push the Government to see how we can do that . I will move on and make some remark of my own on Gloucestershire county council . first , I pay tribute to the chief executive , Pete Bungard , who have run the council for 27 year — as I will say in a minute , it have be pretty well run financially — and to the retire council leader , Councillor Mark Hawthorne , who have lead the council so well . they will both be sorely miss . it be because it have have such constant leadership that I believe Gloucestershire county council be in a strong financial position today . as a Conservative - lead council , it be one of the few that be not raise council tax to the full 5 % . it be raise it by only 2 . 99 % . that mean , base on a band d property , that resident will pay only an additional £ 6 . 65 each month . that be a very creditable performance . I be pleased that Gloucestershire be on track to invest an additional £ 32 . 7 million in local service in critical area for its resident . that include £ 10 million towards road improvement , with a focus on rural road , as part of a £ 100 million four - year programme in Gloucestershire . the Public Accounts Committee recently focus on the condition of local road . over £ 1 billion a year be spend on that , but the Department for Transport admit — this be something we really need to concentrate on — that it do not know exactly how local authority spend that money , as it be not ringfence . as with a lot of area of government , we need well datum on how council be spend money to make sure we get well maintenance of our road and avoid pothole . I be sure that all member of Parliament find , whether they be look through their postbag or knock on door , that everyone raise the issue of pothole . I be pleased that the county council will be invest £ 12 . 8 million in a 200 - place special school for Gloucestershire . send special need child out of county be one of the most expensive action that any council have to undertake , and I think that , in the long term , build our own facility in Gloucestershire will be good value for money . as I have say , the Public Accounts Committee carry out an inquiry into special need , and we report that the system be break . this come back to my early point : just spend more and more money when the structure need to change be not the answer . it do not matter whether we be talk about special need , child ' s social service , mental health service or adult social service ; it be just not the answer . we need long - term structural reform , and I hope we may see some proposal for that from the Government . as the Committee discover , in the last 10 year the cost of SEND service have double , but we be not get double the service . that demonstrate that the system be well and truly break . let I now say something about a point raise by the hon . member for Stoke - on - Trent Central ( Gareth Snell ) , my former colleague on the PAC . during the exchange on the statement this afternoon , I say to the Secretary of State and Deputy Prime Minister that people in Gloucestershire would be pleased that they now have certainty that our election will take place this year , which mean that a new county council will be elect . can the Minister give any indication — I ask his boss this question — of a timetable for when he expect my council to move towards devolution ? I be not against devolution at all , but what I will say loud and clear be that I would like adequate time to be provide for a wide consultation to take place in Gloucestershire so that we can have the wholesale backing of its people and know what they really want the structure for the delivery of local government service to be in the future . if they have buy into it , they will be much happy with any change that may take place . I should be grateful if we could have that timetable either tonight or in the relatively near future , and if the Minister could explain how a transition might work in Gloucestershire . will the new council stay in place for four year , albeit perhaps towards the end of those four year shadow a new unitary authority , so that we do not have election again within the four - year cycle ? that would be very helpful information . on the timetable point , all council in the 21 two - tier area for reorganisation will receive their statutory election . individual council will need to decide whether to apply for the process or not . if they choose to apply , we would expect their proposal to be submit to the Government by November . that be quite a short period for they to work up the proposal , but there will be support in term of capacity along the route . as for how that unlock devolution a bit far down the line , we be obviously concentrate on the devolution priority programme at the moment and get the mayor in place , but the door be always open to area that want to talk about mayoral devolution . the Minister have partly answer the question , but he do say that it be a very short timeframe . I understand that we will receive the letter very soon and that be great , but how long will there be after that for the county council to work up a proposal that might be acceptable to the Government ? that be what it will want to know . I request earnestly that we have enough time to consult people as widely as possible , for the reason that I have just give . [ interruption . ] the Minister be indicate that he will write to I ; that would be very helpful . perhaps he will put a copy in the Library so that everyone else can benefit , and also respond to the question about whether the newly elect council will be in place for four year or not . this have be a very constructive debate , as be often the case when there be relatively few member present . when member on both side of the House can get our tooth into a subject like this and come up with constructive proposal on behalf of our constituent , which be what we be here for , we really be achieve something . thank you , Madam Deputy Speaker , for allow I to catch your eye . I declare my interest as a serve unpaid councillor at Telford and Wrekin council and an honorary vice - president of the Local Government Association . I welcome the Government ' s local government finance statement , and particularly the real - term fund increase of 4 . 3 % for local authority across England . I be particularly pleased to see the £ 16 . 5 million of extra funding for Telford and Wrekin council — a 9 % uplift . what a contrast that be with the last 14 year of Conservative Government , during which authority be , in the word of the Institute for Government , " hollow out " by austerity , with core funding per resident fall by 18 % in that time . we have all feel the impact in our community . a third of English library close during the 2010 , the number of mile cover by bus route have fall by 14 % , and the proportion of council ' budget come from council tax have rise from 36 % in 2010 to 53 % today , hit work people hard in the pocket . I say to the hon . member for Thirsk and Malton ( Kevin Hollinrake ) that it be a bit rich for he to talk about council tax rise , give that council tax double over the last 10 year under the Conservative Government . this settlement be a vital first step — I emphasise the word " first " — in the right direction . however , as we have be say as a sector , and as I have be say as the chair of the Local Government Association , local authority need more funding , but they also need reform and a focus on prevention , because local government be the good preventive service that this country have . when it come to housing vulnerable child and adult , local authority and local government provide that housing . when it come to social care and look after elderly or disabled people , it be predominantly council , not the NHS , that support those resident . council be essential frontline service that intervene to protect our most vulnerable , but they also keep our village , town and city as place where people want to live and bring up their family . I will address the financial situation that local government find itself in . if 10 % of NHS trust anticipate that they would have to declare themselves bankrupt in the next year , it would be on the front page of every single national newspaper . but when it come to council , there seem to be a situation of normalisation . over the last 14 year , more council have go bankrupt than in the entire history of council in this country prior to that , and the normalisation of that need attention . council do vital work in protect vulnerable people , especially the young . that should be celebrate , but my council , like many other up and down the country , be now spend £ 8 in every £ 10 on social care , and some council be spend up to half of their budget on temporary accommodation . my hon . friend refer to the spend on temporary accommodation , which the Select Committee hear evidence about . he may be aware that , collectively , London council — the 32 borough — be spend £ 4 million a day on temporary accommodation . do he agree that that be just not sustainable ? I agree with my hon . friend , the Chair of the Select Committee , that it be not sustainable . it be also bad for child , family , council and community . if child be in temporary accommodation , they genuinely do not know what school they will go to next term . that be bad for child , who be the next generation of citizen . we need systematic change . central Government need to ease the burden on local authority and spread out the load ; build enough affordable home so that we do not have 354 , 000 people who be homeless every single night in England ; move care into the community , as the Darzi report recommend ; and resolve the systemic issue so that social care provider do not face fund crisis every single year . I add my modest voice to the call of other hon . member : will the Government please communicate the public health grant to local authority so that they can set budget for the next financial year in a meaningful way ? my hon . friend make a good argument about the amount of local government funding that have to go into adult social care . the cut that we see under the Conservative Government have hit disabled and old people particularly hard . do my hon . friend agree that the new Labour Government ' s uplift to local government funding will go at least some way towards address the critical cut that have affect disabled people and social care ? I thank my hon . friend and recognise the contribution that she have make for that section of our society . I agree that far more need to happen , and I know that the Minister be as ambitious as the rest of we to ensure that those 14 year of austerity be address . give council the funding that they need be a welcome change from the constant cut under the Conservatives , and it help we to address the emergency in the short term , but it be also important that we have a Government who accept that the long - term systemic issue require transformation , who do not pretend that everything be fine , and who accept that thing need to change and that local government be fast , cheap and more agile in deliver service on behalf of our community and our citizen . as I say early , it be the good preventive service this country have . the Government ' s mission be one that I and many Labour mp back , but almost all of they run through local government . whether it be safe street , housing , social care or reform to the NHS , it require a confident , healthy local government sector that be able to deliver those service . as I say , this be a vital first step . I know that the Minister , who have exceptional experience in the sector and huge amount of respect , also recognise that , and I look forward to see what come next . I start by draw member ' attention to my role as the chair of the all - party parliamentary group on rural service . the APPG be very concerned about the impact this settlement will have on rural local authority and their ability to provide for their resident . it cost more money to provide service in rural area , due to a number of factor include low population density , poor connectivity and large distance to travel , but these fact be not reflect in the funding formula . analysis by the Rural Services Network have show that urban council receive 41 % more per head than rural council in government - fund spending power . resident in rural area now also pay an average of 20 % more in council tax than urban resident do . the removal of the rural service delivery grant , which provide rural local authority with £ 110 million extra to deliver essential public service last year , will force rural council to make yet more difficult financial decision in order to be able to continue to provide vital frontline service to their resident . the consultation state that this grant fail to account properly for rural need , and that funding must be allocate more effectively . however , the Government have fail to follow up on this . instead , they have remove it a year early , with no publish evidence for its removal . that mean that rural council will have the low increase in core spending power between 2024 - 25 and 2025 - 26 . it be disappointing that the new recovery grant will be allocate mainly to urban council . we have hear about this from member across the House today , and I certainly do not want to make this an urban / rural debate , but the Government must accept that there be real rural deprivation and that the continue underfunding of rural council will have a negative impact on people ' s life . my constituency of Glastonbury and Somerton be an example of this . Glastonbury Central be in the 20 most deprived neighbourhood in England , and a third of household in Street experience deprivation in at least one dimension , accord to the 2021 census . be it fair that , because resident live in a rural area , they will have to pay more for less ? let we take home - to - school transport as an example . research by the County Councils Network from 2018 show that the average cost per head for home - to - school transport be a whopping £ 93 per child in rural area , compare with just £ 10 per child in city and town . school transport for child with SEND cost Somerset council £ 11 . 6 million in 2023 , a 157 % increase on 2018 . the council operate 283 route a day for child with SEND . as the council be rural , those route be many mile long , so they take long and be much more expensive than those in urban environment — in some case , cost £ 1 , 650 per pupil per week . or take Somerset ' s increase risk of devastating flooding . Somerset council be the lead local flood authority and be responsible for manage the flood risk from ordinary watercourse , yet it do not have sufficient staffing capacity to deal effectively with the constant risk we face . somerset be so often at the forefront of flooding and climate change . only last week , Somerset suffer immense flooding that force more than 100 resident of the Primrose Hill residential park in Charlton Adam near Somerton to be evacuate into emergency accommodation . Martock , Blackford , Yeovilton , Podimore , Cary Fitzpaine , Mudford and Bridgehampton also suffer as a result of the flooding , with some resident completely cut off and unable to get to work , school or medical appointment . I try to visit some of these community a week ago on Monday and could not get there , so people certainly could not get out . the lack of investment and proper repair and maintenance by the previous Conservative - lead county council have leave the infrastructure fragile and unable to cope . gully and ditch be block , while culvert and drain have collapse and be also block . the funding model for local authority be break , and Somerset council , like many other , face increase cost for social care and SEND provision . as a result , investment be put on hold while budget for other area of council work come under increase pressure . council like Somerset , which face huge pressure from increase flooding , need ringfence funding allocation to manage that flood risk , as council budget simply can not cope . I be afraid that this financial settlement will fail to help rural authority such as Somerset cope with the increase challenge and demand . the Government must recognise the add pressure that rural area face , and this must be reflect in any financial settlement . it be an honour to speak in this debate . the hon . member for North Cotswolds ( Sir Geoffrey Clifton - Brown ) speak about auditor , and we be all aware that auditor be spread pretty thinly , which may , in part , contribute to delay in get account sign off . local authority be complex environment . in my area , we have two unitary authority with population of less than 100 , 000 people , so I commend the Government for look very seriously at a more sensible local government structure . we be fortunate to have a local Government Minister with such experience and expertise . it be a real boon , especially as we embark on such an ambitious and radical programme . I welcome this year ' s local government finance settlement . council have be subject to steep funding cut since 2010 - 11 , and these cut have have a disproportionate impact on the most deprived area . many authority face effective bankruptcy , put essential service and job at risk . by 2025 - 26 , council in England will have receive a 15 . 9 % real - term cut in their core spending power compare with 2010 - 11 . council in the special interest group of municipal authority , like Middlesbrough , have see an average cut of 19 . 9 % . Middlesbrough itself have see cut worth 22 % , which be a real - term cut of £ 55 million per year that amount to around £ 835 per household , so this year ' s settlement of more than £ 69 billion in overall national funding be welcome . it represent a cash - term increase of almost 7 % and a more than four time real increase on the past year . the Government be on the right track in redirect funding to area that be in the most need and have the great demand for service . those area be often less able to raise income locally , as much as the Conservatives seek to pass the buck to local council tax increase . in area like mine , many household pay over £ 3 , 000 per annum more in council tax than be pay by Buckingham Palace , so this settlement be fair for council and will provide welcome relief to the most deprive area . in Middlesbrough and Thornaby East , we very much welcome the settlement announce by the Government and the long overdue reform to council funding . Middlesbrough council be now in a position to invest more money in key service . I welcome the fact that Mayor Chris Cooke , the Labour council and the new chief executive , Erik Scollay , have establish the Middlesbrough priority fund , worth over £ 4 million , and initiative such Middlesbrough ' s empty home strategy , which will use £ 6 million of Government funding to purchase and refurbish empty home for emergency accommodation . while the settlement be under way , many authority continue to face a shortfall , and the Minister have be very candid that this be not a do deal . we look forward to the three - year settlement later this year , because council will not be able to rely on the additional funding be repeat . as colleague from across the House have say , the three - year settlement give council the ability to plan much far ahead . I hope we can extend our commitment to wide investment in our service on a long - term basis , through a fairer funding system that deliver long - term financial stability across all council service . the position of our wonderful councillor have be raise . they do a terrific job , with very little reward , and they be sometimes on the receive end of the ire of member of the public — sometimes justly , but sometimes unfairly and unkindly — so we need to address that . I be a serve councillor at Rugby borough council . I agree with my hon . friend that councillor and council officer go out of their way to serve the public , which be extremely difficult when council have face 30 % to 40 % cumulative cut . we need to remember that they be often try to deliver service with one or both hand tie behind their back , which be why the reform set out by the Minister be so important . I could not agree more with my hon . friend . it be incumbent upon everyone in politic to recognise the work of our local council and to treat they with the respect that they deserve . some of the comment that I have hear in recent time run contrary to that . councillor in my area have be put in harm ' s way by careless and irresponsible comment make by people in this House who really ought to know well . I will finish by talk about not only councillor , but the local government workforce and the issue of pay . the Minister will be aware that local government worker have miss out on the high wage settlement pay out to worker in other part of the public sector in the past year . overall , they have see 25 % wipe from the value of their pay since 2010 . in draw the House ' s attention to my entry in the Register of Members ' Financial Interests , I note that Unison , the GMB and Unite have say that a substantial pay award for local government staff be essential . will the Minister therefore take step to address those concern and look to the upcoming spending review to deliver the finance and provide a long - overdue £ 15 minimum hourly rate for those worker who serve we so incredibly well — I think of the covid day of maintain those public service — so that they be properly compensate for their work ? I rise to speak on behalf of my constituent across Keighley , Ilkley , Silsden , Craven , Worth Valley , and indeed my wide constituency area . I want to focus on a specific part of the Government ' s announcement and the real frustration that all my constituent will now face , as a result of the Government ' s decision , a 9 . 9 % increase in their council tax . that come as a result of a request put forward by our Labour Administration , which run Bradford council , for a 15 % increase in council tax . the Government have instead decide to instigate a 9 . 9 % increase without any opportunity for a referendum to allow my constituent to choose whether they deem that to be reasonable . that be a choice by this Labour Government to impose a significant council tax increase on hard - work family , and not only in my constituency but across the wide Bradford district . rise — I will give way to my neighbour , the hon . member for Shipley ( Anna Dixon ) . I hope that she will join I in oppose the council tax rise . as the hon . Gentleman well know , the cut make to local government by the Conservatives when in government , through the grant , hit council such as Bradford district and those mention by other hon . member the hard . that be why Bradford council be push into exceptional financing , have have to borrow and have have no choice but to put up council tax . even with the council tax rise , it will still be below average . do the hon . Gentleman agree with my assessment ? I be pleased to see that the hon . Member have be give she Labour Whips ' handout note . it be interesting that not once do I hear she oppose the Labour Government ' s increase in council tax . not only that , but she do not call out the mismanagement of the Labour - control authority . I be refer to the whopping £ 50 million of taxpayer ' money spend on the music venue Bradford Live . it be promise that it would open for district of culture — we have be award city of culture in Bradford district , but I refer to it as district of culture because that money should be benefit all the constituent across the Bradford district — and be estimate to cost around £ 25 million , but labour councillor sign off an expenditure of £ 50 million . it be not even open to the public yet , even though it be city of culture now . will the hon . Gentleman give way ? I will not give way , because I do not think the hon . Lady will agree with I and many of the constituent across the Bradford district in oppose a nearly 10 % increase in council tax . I hope that her constituent be watch . not only that ; it also come down to the absolute mismanagement of child ' s service by Bradford council . let we not forget that the previous Conservative Government have to step in and take child ' s service off Bradford council because multiple damn Ofsted report indicate that it be not through the fault of those provide child ' s service and the level of care need on the ground that the service be fail ; instead , the disconnect in management at the very top of Bradford council be so bad and be fail our child that the Government have to step in and set up a child ' s trust , which I must say be now have benefit . be it not ironic that the Labour Government will refer to our 14 year , but in 2021 the Labour administration at Bradford council submit , as part of its statutory duty , a report state that the council be in a " sound financial position " ? yet now the council be claim that it be £ 150 million in debt and seek a council tax increase of 9 . 9 % , despite have request a 15 % increase . what on earth be this Government do to hold to account local authority that be fail constituent in the delivery of service ? where on earth be that accountability ? Bradford Live be not the only place on which huge amount of taxpayer ' money have be misspent ; one City Park , in the centre of Bradford , be another such venue . car park be be knock down . that be not the job of a local authority . we should be rely on private sector inward investment to pay for regeneration project . the job of a local authority be to focus on provide statutory - base service , not dip in and out of regeneration scheme , and fail , at the cost of my constituent . now we see through our city of culture status , which do not seem to be benefit many of my constituent , the council want to construct a fancy art piece in Centenary Project . who on earth in the Keighley and Ilkley constituency be benefit as a result of that work ? as ever , my hon . friend be do an excellent job of stand up for his constituent in Keighley and Ilkley , and expose the failure of Labour - control Bradford council . in Scotland , this finance settlement will not affect my council , but my council be have to deal with a £ 265 million hit , along with all the other council in Scotland , because of the national insurance rise impose by the Labour Government . as well as all the mismanagement by Bradford council , do he agree that many local authority across the UK be have to take money away from vital service to fund this tax hike by the Labour Government ? I absolutely agree . that point have be make not only by my hon . friend , but by many conservative Members . they say that the Government may , on the one hand , be pass down finance to local government , but they be , on the other hand , take it away through the increase in employer national insurance contribution . this be a classic socialist policy : they be take with one hand and tell council how to spend it with the other . not only be my constituent go to be expose to an increase of just about 10 % in council tax , without the opportunity for a referendum to decide , but they be experience vast cut to local service . we have have two household waste and recycling centre close in my constituency . the council be sell off asset . there be asset that have not yet be protect , despite the warm word come from our Labour local authority . asset such as the Ilkley lido , Keighley market and shop be now be consider for disposal , create add worry to many of the occupant of those shop that the council own . we have see parking charge rise in village such as Addingham , which mean that the shop , which need those people to buy their product and to benefit their local economy , be now face detrimental impact . where do the issue of fairness kick in ? in my constituency , the local council , which have increase council tax , spend that hard - earn money on a huge amount of mismanage project , wastage project and project that be not even open . I submit a freedom of information request to find out whether my constituent be get a fair level of spending in the constituency . I ask the local authority how much have be spend on highway in my constituency over a two - year period . there be five constituency across the Bradford district , so one would expect the figure to be about 20 % , but it be about 7 % on average over the two - year period . no wonder the state of pothole in my constituency be far bad than in the inner - city centre of Bradford . how can I justify back any increase in council tax when the spending be so dire ? I want to come back to the issue of accountability . the last chief executive of Bradford council , Kersten England , hold that post for a long period , and oversee the mismanagement of finance and the diabolical handling of child ' s service before the last Conservative Government step in , but — job for the boy — what be she do now ? she be chair city of culture . what an absolute disgrace , in term of who be be hold accountable by the Government . let I quote some of the concern that constituent have raise with I about council tax be raise by 9 . 9 % . one say , " I will be 70 next year , and I be still have to continue to work to make end meet . " another say , " I be disabled and now , as a result of this council tax hike , will have to use my own saving to look after myself . " another say , " I be a single mother with three child and I simply can ' t afford this . " another say , " I didn ' t ask the council to throw money at a concert venue that be not open " — and therefore not benefit my constituent — " yet they have do that and be expect I to pay the price . " another say , " it ' s difficult to see why I would like to live through my retirement , have to spend this much more . " the list go on . there be only one long - term solution , and I will be interested to see what the Government have to say about it . I have long be campaign , along with the former Member of Parliament for Shipley , Philip Davies , to pull our two constituency out of Bradford council and create our own unitary authority away from the mismanagement of Bradford city . will the hon . Gentleman give way ? I give way to the hon . member for Shipley . as the hon . Gentleman know , he and my predecessor put the idea of a breakaway council to his own Government , who reject it as a complete non - starter . let we work together across Bradford for the benefit of all our constituent . I would be interested to hear what the hon . Lady ' s constituent say . she have quote the previous Administration completely wrongly , because they be absolutely behind the campaign to split the two constituency apart . indeed , I have many a meeting with the boundary commission . the challenge be that we have to get consent from the local authority , and we have a Labour - control authority that will not go anywhere near this campaign . why ? because they know that my constituent be effectively the cash cow for the rest of Bradford . we be the dominant contributor to council tax and business rate , which feed city centre project in the centre of Bradford . I would like to understand the current Government ' s position on my campaign to pull my constituency and Shipley — I believe I speak on behalf of many Shipley constituent — away from Bradford council so that we can have our own unitary authority , spend our own council tax and business rate in our own area , ensure that our local priority be indeed prioritise , and leave Bradford city to make its decision . I would be interested to hear what the Minister have to say on that , because that be the only way of achieve a long - term solution for my constituent across Keighley , Ilkley , Silsden , Worth Valley and the wide constituency that I represent . how on earth do one follow that ? I just wish that the hon . Gentleman have speak up so we could all hear he . he make point about council raise council tax , sell asset and cut service . do he believe that have happen to Bradford in isolation ? do he believe that his be the only council that have look at its service and budget and say , " this be tough " ? what he actually describe be eight year of conservative rule in Stoke - on - Trent , where council tax go up in eight year out of eight , town hall be closed and put up in fire sale , child ' s service be on the brink , and a record number of child be in care . what he have describe be a fate that every council face , and the predominant reason be that his party in government take the scissor to the Budget , slash the service we all have and decide that they know well . he may make a fiery speech in this place for social medium clip , but perhaps he need to — will the hon . member give way ? no , I will not give way . we have hear plenty from the hon . Gentleman over the last several minute . he need to think less about detach his constituency from Bradford and more about reattache himself to the reality of the situation that he put we all in . I welcome the fact that Stoke - on - Trent city council have receive £ 8 million through the recovery grant , and I have listen with great interest particularly to the hon . member for Glastonbury and Somerton ( Sarah Dyke ) and for Woking ( Mr Forster ) about the impact on the rural service delivery grant . I go back to the point I have raise before : we have to move ourselves away from this confected game of Top Trumps that the Conservatives want we to have — that deprivation in Stoke - on - Trent be somehow in competition with the need of rural community . the Government ' s trajectory — with the fair funding review , and a look at how and why we end up with the funding settlement we have — will take we towards that place . I know that it will not be immediate , and I fully accept that there be always winner and loser in everything , but my city be one of the five poor city in the country . ninety per cent of home in my city be band a . every time we raise council tax by 4 . 99 % , it raise less proportionally than when my neighbouring district council authority and the county council raise it by 4 . 99 % . not only be we not get the benefit of have band b through to band e ; we be also see the difference of what be pay in neighbouring authority grow every year . that be simply unfair — a system that nobody would design in that particular way . I be first elect to a council in 2010 . in fact , the Minister be the peer mentor appoint to my council by the LGA . I suppose that be why I be here and not run a council . we be show the " jaw of doom " graph demonstrate just how challenging financing be go to be over the next decade , and the prediction that my party make then have turn out to be true . have the last Government freeze in cash term alone — no uprate , no decrease — the amount of money we be receive in 2010 and keep it at that rate until 2024 , we would have have £ 411 million to spend on various project . instead , we lose that money . we then have this perverse idea that suddenly we have to start bid to get some of it back through a levelling - up fund . if we have have £ 411 million over those 10 year , the economic regeneration of my town and city centre would have happen . we would not have have to come cap in hand to a Government to ask for capital funding to build a car park or a new hotel . we simply would have do the thing that we need to do over time in a way that fit with the other project we be seek to deliver . we do not have that ; instead , we get level up , which in my city be basically a car park , which now cost the council more money than it raise because of where it be and how many people use it . we should learn from those lesson . I welcome every penny give to my city by every Department . the disabled facility grant money announce by the Department of Health and Social Care be helpful , but the council administer that to keep people safe in their home so they do not end up in A & E . we could look at how we join up public spending , in Total Place base way , in order to drive those efficiency and productivity gain that will make the system of public sector provision much well . when we look at the funding for local government , I urge the Minister as part of the next phase to think about how we stop the shuffling of wooden dollar . as my hon . friend the Member for Telford ( Shaun Davies ) say , it be local authority that provide the youth club that stop young people go into crime and antisocial behaviour , which then cost much more through the criminal justice system later on . it be local authority that do the check on house to make sure that they be safe and decent , so that people do not end up in A & E because they have live in cold , damp house . it be local authority that make sure that the restaurant we go to meet the food hygiene standard that we want , and that the product we buy be be check by trading standard . those service keep we safe and well , and prevent much great public sector cost far on , so how we fund the public sector , with a Total Place approach , have to be part of the Government ' s thinking . let I end my short contribution to the debate with this . we in Staffordshire today receive the letter that the Minister send about reorganisation and devolution . reorganisation in Staffordshire could be a long , draw - out process because basically no one can agree on anything , and we all pretend we like each other but the secret be that we do not . the comment from council leader and other Staffordshire mps about Stoke - on - Trent have be appalling . we be a lovely place and want to work with everybody . we will undoubtedly end up in some form of North Staffordshire combine authority that make sense logically , economically , geographically and socially — it be where people live , work , and enjoy themselves . when the Minister invite new proposal from local authority and there be an appetite for they but one or two council be hold out — perhaps because some people be more interested in protect their job as leader than in protect the job of the people we represent — I urge he to move at pace and make it quite clear that we will not wait for they . my constituent deserve the same level of investment that go into the west midland , east midland , Manchester and Liverpool combine authority region . without it , we will get far leave behind . my constituency be , as I say , the fifth poor in England . I do not want to be stand here after the next election say that my constituency be still the fifth poor in England . I hope that , with this Government , we can make sure that it be not . I welcome some aspect of what the Minister be propose . it be important to not always fire political shot at each other and to look for common ground and give credit where it be due . I have say this to he before , but I really welcome the move that the Government be make towards multi - year funding settlement . it be so important to move away from the hand - to - mouth , year - to - year , jam - jar approach to funding — particularly capital funding . that ridiculous competition between local authority over an ever - decrease pot of funding have be so damaging , so those move really be thing to welcome . but — there be quite a few but about the local government finance settlement , but I will focus on just three . I represent the wonderful North Herefordshire constituency . herefordshire council have receive a settlement that be well below the national average , well below the average for comparator council , and well below what be need to provide the service that resident need and deserve . an interesting element of the debate have be some member seek to pose a binary conflict between rural and urban authority . I want to get away from that — it be really unhelpful — but it be important to recognise there be serious deprivation in rural area , not just in income but in access to service . the hon . member for Glastonbury and Somerton ( Sarah Dyke ) talk eloquently about the fact that sparse population , long distance and poor transport network all hugely increase the cost of deliver service such as social care or home - to - school transport . that be the impact of geography , but demography be also an issue . herefordshire have 50 % more over - 65 than the national average , which have a knock - on impact on the cost to local government of deliver crucial service . it be absolutely crystal clear that although the Government have take away the rural service delivery grant , which they perhaps view as yet another jam jar , they have not replace it in the new formula with a fair allocation of funding on the basis of rurality . I beg the Minister to revisit that issue when he come up with the multi - year funding settlement . otherwise , the serious problem of rural area have their specific element of deprivation under - recognise in the funding formula will build up so many other problem into the future . [ interruption . ] I can see the Minister be nod . I thank he for that and warmly invite he to Herefordshire so that we can show he , face to face and on the ground , the challenge of provide those service . that be " but " no . 1 , regard rurality . " but " no . 2 , which relate to the impact of the rise in employer ' national insurance contribution , have be reference previously in this debate . I appreciate the nuance with which the Minister answer question on this issue early , and his recognition that it be a really serious issue and that the funding settlement do not fully acknowledge it , particularly the on - cost , because so much of what local authority do be do not just through the staff they employ themselves , but through commission service . I be sure that member across the House have be inundate with correspondence from charity and business work in sector such as the care sector that be desperately worried about the effect of the increase in employer ' national insurance contribution on their ability to provide those crucial service — so often commission by local authority — to local people . when the Minister be do the multi - year funding formula in future year , will he please address that issue and ensure that those cost be fully integrate into the calculation ? my third " but " be also touch on early . the Minister express doubt about whether cross - party agreement could be reach on this matter , but there seem to be quite a degree of consensus across this House that council tax be a broken tax — it be a broken funding system . it be outdated , regressive , unfair , and way overdue a review . we be charge people base on an assessment of property rate that be set 35 year ago and have never be update . council tax be cry out for a fundamental review , so will the Minister please commit to undertake that review , work across party and across the House to find a much fair and more sustainable long - term approach to raise local funding ? I call the shadow Minister . thank you very much , Madam Deputy Speaker . I draw the House ' s attention to my entry in the Register of Members ' Financial Interests as an unpaid parliamentary vice - president of the Local Government Association . it have be an excellent debate , and I applaud the many member on both side of the House who have make insightful contribution to the discussion . not only have they bring up issue affect their own constituency — as , for example , my hon . friend the Member for Keighley and Ilkley ( Robbie Moore ) set out so powerfully in his speech — but member such as my hon . friend the Member for North Cotswolds ( Sir Geoffrey Clifton - Brown ) , speak in his capacity as Chair of the Public Accounts Committee , set out a number of really important point that will affect the detail of how this play out at local level . I be glad that the Minister touch on those point in his introduction . as the House know , local government in the UK spend around £ 40 billion of taxpayer ' money and over 800 different service be deliver by the average local authority . as a consequence , this issue touch the life of more constituent than almost any other area of government activity . the starting point that we have to recognise be the one that be make by the chairman of the County Councils Network , who say that from the perspective of local authority , this be the bad settlement in year . it be clear from the Minister ' s introduction that he be a Minister who know his WOECAT from his BRB from his persnuffle , but the impact of that detail matter so much . in particular , the most significant element be the imposition of employer ' national insurance contribution in the Budget . accord to the estimate of the Local Government Association , local authority face more than £ 1 billion in unfunded cost arise from that alone . Harlow council , for example , have set out that this settlement represent a 21 % cut in its core funding , within which it will receive £ 198 , 000 of revenue support in this year only for over £ 1 million of additional direct cost from national insurance contribution . that cost will rise to £ 1 . 2 million next year , with — as currently project — no funding provide at all . the Institute for Government have analyse the Government ' s Budget overall , and when it look at those element affect local government , it say that the Budget be " heavily front - load " — there be additional funding this year — but that the current plan set out by the Chancellor imply that there will be cut in every year for the remainder of the Parliament , which will make it very " difficult for … local government … to improve " . we need to recognise that although there will be winner and loser , this be a budget settlement for local government that contain an enormous number of challenge , and there remain a number of very significant question , which I will come to in a moment . I welcome the point make by a number of member about the value that we place on our local councillor . I have speak to the Minister , and I agree with the point raise by a number of member about restore the access of councillor in England to the local government pension scheme . we must demonstrate the value that we place on local leadership , and that will be even more significant in the context of extensive local government reform . I know that be something Ministers be consider , and that its cost be minimal in the context of the overall local government finance settlement . as many member have point out , motive local leadership be vital to get this right . with the reduction in the number of councillor and local politician , in a country whose population be project to hit 72 . 5 million by 2032 , we must ensure that that grow democratic deficit be address by engaged , effective local politician with the ability to make decision in their area . let we look at where the money be go , where it be come from and how that be change . as the Minister know , around three - quarter of council funding be spend on social care , and since the fair access criterion that be introduce by the last Labour Government , that be no long a matter of local decision making . it be largely a statutory duty , where clear rule be set out in guidance from central Government about how that money will be spend , and how each resident and each constituency can help and will be treat . as a consequence , the bulk of funding go into the system be be spend on what we might describe as the " must dos " , rather than the " nice to have " , and the fulfilment of clearly define statutory duty . if we cast our mind back to the last local government report of this nature under the previous Labour Government , we see a much long report than the one before the House this evening . that report set out the relative need formula , which be the methodology use for the distribution of funding for all manner of different area of local government activity . in 2010 , around 25 % of local government resource come from council tax , 27 % come from the formula grant , which be essentially a redistribution of business rate , and 48 % — very nearly half — come from specific grant , of which around two - third be the education budget . one of the big change that have take place over that period be the growth in the independence of school and the rise of academy , and therefore a much large share of that funding no long sit within the local authority budget but be pay by the Education and Skills Funding Agency direct to school . while that funding be no long part of the council ' s budget , it be still be spend locally on the same service that it always be . a lot of debate in the House on local government have be about devolution , and one of the most significant area of devolution regard financial responsibility . if we reflect on those same formula element today , 52 % of council spending be derive from council tax , directly under local control , and 27 % come from a grown share of business rate pool , with a focus on incentivise council to deliver growth . a much low 22 % come from grant funding , as the Government seek to give local authority over that 14 - year period a much great degree of control over their own resource . when we reflect on what that formula also tell we , as a number of member have say , the decision to scrap thing such as the rural service delivery grant reflect a criticism of the priority set out by the previous Government . we must also reflect that when we look at the list of the lowest fund council in 1997 , in 2010 , and today , we find broadly the same set of local authority on that list . the consequence of that be clear : no government can cut funding that the council do not have in the first place . while most conservative , and particularly rural , authority do not see any benefit , or no significant benefit in funding through the index of multiple deprivation , for the most part , the Conservative Government for 14 year maintain a significant premium of funding to area for thing such as child on free school meal go into education and in ensure that deprivation formula continue to play a significant part in the distribution of social care resource . the rural service delivery grant be a small step towards recognise , in the distribution of local government funding , the additional cost that be face by place that have never see any benefit from any Government . member from all part of the House — particularly Labour Members newly elect to rural area — have say how awful it be that their local authority be challenge by cost such as pothole and maintain rural road . wait until they find out who decide to take away the rural service delivery grant , which would have provide the resource to deal with that . the big challenge that all local authority face will be deal in parallel with reorganisation and the tight financial environment . as my hon . friend the Member for Thirsk and Malton ( Kevin Hollinrake ) say in the statement on devolution , it be clear that the government — I respect the fact that they have be clear about this in their statement to the House — have make a decision in Whitehall about the form that they expect to see local government in England take . it be also clear that they will ensure that that be implement initially through local authority come forward as volunteer , and subsequently through a statutory invitation to ensure that they do . I hope that the Minister will address a number of those point in sum up . the report be principally about the revenue support grant : local authority do not yet know where they stand on the public health grant . they do not yet clearly know where they stand on school funding . they do not yet clearly know the impact of government announcement on the housing revenue account or the parking revenue account , all of which will have a significant impact . in particular , the statutory override on the dedicated school grant for SEND remain uncertain and a significant budget pressure . let I finish where my hon . friend the Member for Thirsk and Malton finish : if the Government can find £ 18 billion to cover the cost of the Chagos Islands deal , I be sure they can find the fund to make a well fist of it for our local authority . it be my pleasure to close this debate . I thank member from all part of the House for their important contribution . I also pay tribute to the dedicated public servant work in local government across the country for everything they do to deliver for their community by provide essential local service , protect the most vulnerable in our society and help lie the foundation for a good life for work people . they be do that with great resilience in the face of significant challenge over 14 year of chaos , under - investment and decline . turn the page on the many challenge we have inherit will not be easy , but the settlement we have discuss today , as the Minister for Local Government and English Devolution , my hon . friend the Member for Oldham West , Chadderton and Royton ( Jim McMahon ) have say , be a significant step towards rebuild local government as we rebuild Britain . public service be our collective duty , and we be grateful to those who contribute to the consultation on the provisional settlement and to the Members who make representation . their input be vital , because strong , empower local government be central to our plan for change and to deliver the high growth and high living standard that every community deserve . this be the change and national renewal that this Labour Government be elect to deliver , and we will achieve that by get local government back on its foot and work with we in the spirit of true partnership . we be fundamentally reset the relationship between central and local government by deliver the great transfer of power from Whitehall to our community in a generation through our landmark english devolution White Paper . crucially , we be fix the foundation of local government , start with the broken funding system that have leave many council of all stripe in crisis . the final settlement do what be need : it provide a 6 . 8 % cash term increase in council ' core spending power , bring total spending for the sector to more than £ 69 billion for 2025 - 26 , as my hon . friend the Minister state . with the settlement and the Budget take together deliver more than £ 5 billion of new funding for local service over and above council tax income , we be end the wasteful and costly bidding war for fund pot that local council have have to endure and move towards secure multi - year financial settlement . we be provide more money for social care , increase funding for special educational need and disability and alternative provision , and a £ 600 million recovery grant to support council with the great need . we be respond to the driver of cost that we know be put authority under huge pressure . it be clear that there be much more to do , but this settlement mark a turning point for local government after year of neglect and failure . many hon . member have raise important question about the impact on local authority in their constituency . my hon . friend the Minister address many point during the debate , but I will respond to some other . as the distinguished Chair of the Public Accounts Committee , the hon . member for North Cotswolds ( Sir Geoffrey Clifton - Brown ) will know , the National Audit Office ' s 2021 report state that core spending power be 26 % low in 2021 than it have be in 2010 . investment in local authority have be reduce in recent year . turn that around will require time . the opening remark from the shadow Minister , the hon . member for Thirsk and Malton ( Kevin Hollinrake ) , beggar belief . it be as if we do not have 14 year of conservative government ; as if within the space of seven year we can fix the mess that they leave behind , with record cut and record level of under - investment . we will not take lecture from a Government who consistently fail local government up and down the country and decimate public service . that be the mess that we have inherit and be work hard to fix . we will work cross - party where people be serious about tackle the root cause , but we will not tolerate hypocrisy and the complete denial of the failure of the past 14 year . that be the mess that we be try to correct . in rural area , investment have go up by 6 % ; in urban area 7 % — will the Minister give way ? perhaps the hon . Gentleman will listen . the Minister try to respond to his comment but he be not interested in the answer , so he will sit down and listen to my closing remark . I want to respond to hon . member across the House who have take these issue very seriously . this Government have already invest £ 3 . 7 billion in social care . we have recognise the need for investment in response to the rise in national insurance contribution — up by £ 515 million , as my hon . friend the Minister point out . we have invest £ 1 billion in SEND and £ 600 million in the recovery fund . that be a snapshot of the investment that we be put in . local government and local service be starve of much - need support under the last government . that be what we be try to correct . will the Minister give way ? the shadow Minister have have his chance to make his point . it be my turn to sum up , and I want to address the point that have be make . will the Minister give way ? the hon . Member have his chance to make his point . he should have take the opportunity to hear the response from the Minister . on the point about rural funding raise by the shadow Minister and other member , this Government be absolutely committed to tackle the issue that matter to rural community . as I say , place with significant rural population will receive an average increase of almost 6 % in core spending power next year , which be a real - term increase . no council will see a reduction . my hon . friend the Member for Vauxhall and Camberwell Green ( Florence Eshalomi ) raise a number of important point on temporary accommodation and SEND funding , among other thing . the final settlement for the new child ' s social care prevention grant be worth £ 270 million . she work tirelessly on her Committee to raise many issue , include homelessness and rough sleeping . this Government have already increase the investment to tackle homelessness and rough sleeping by £ 233 million , take the total funding to nearly £ 1 billion . my hon . Friend also raise the important matter of the local housing allowance . this Government be focus on increase the availability of housing and tackle the long - term under - investment in house building , which be why we be determined to ensure we build 1 . 5 million high - quality home . we have also invest £ 500 million in the affordable home programme , because we recognise that there have be chronic under - investment in social and affordable home building and in the provision of housing over the past 14 year . the hon . member for Woking ( Mr Forster ) raise a number of point on social care , which I have address , as well as on national insurance . my hon . friend the Member for Sheffield South East ( Mr Betts ) raise important point about investment in SEND , which I have also address . the Chairman of the Public Accounts Committee , the hon . member for North Cotswolds ( Sir Geoffrey Clifton - Brown ) , make a very thoughtful and consider speech . I have address a number of the point he make , include on the rural service delivery grant . he also make a very important point about local audits ; it be a scandal that a number of local authority have not be able to provide the appropriate audits . my hon . friend the Local Government Minister be work closely with the local authority to ensure that that happen . it be , sadly , another legacy that we have inherit , but we be determined to work with colleague , include the hon . and learn Member — my apology , the hon . member for North Cotswolds . he be not a KC , although he do have great expertise in his work . we will work together to tackle these issue — we be have to address they , and we be determined to do so . my hon . friend the Member for Telford ( Shaun Davies ) also raise issue around social care , which be a massive challenge that we be determined to tackle in the come year . we be already invest funding into social care and support local authority that have be struggle . the hon . member for Glastonbury and Somerton ( Sarah Dyke ) raise a number of point , include about home - to - school transport . we be aware that home - to - school transport cost be increase significantly , in large part due to the pressure in the SEND system , and we be commit to address those challenge . the hon . member for North Herefordshire ( Ellie Chowns ) raise a number of really important point . the consultation on the multi - year settlement end on 12 February , and I will welcome she and other hon . member make their contribution and view hear as part of that consultation . will the Minister give way ? no . we be very serious about work with colleague both in Parliament and in local area to tackle these very serious challenge , which local authority need we to address after 14 year of under - investment . rise — I be conclude my speech . the shadow Minister have have his chance . will the Minister give way ? the hon . Member take the opportunity to make a speech . I be sure he will get his click on Facebook and Twitter , so he do not need to continue in that vein . on a point of order , Madam Deputy Speaker . please indulge I . could you give some guidance , on how , under Standing Orders , we can encourage Ministers to debate ? this be , after all , a debating chamber . the Minister be either unable or unwilling to debate with right hon . and hon . member . the hon . Gentleman know full well that that be not a point of order . it be at the Minister ' s discretion whether she wish to take an intervention . I be sure she be come to her closing remark . thank you , Madam Deputy Speaker . once again , I thank hon . member for their valuable contribution , even if we do not always agree . the point be that we can all agree that there be much work that need to be do . I be grateful to the Minister for give way , because I be about to raise a really important point that have not yet be address . a lot of council be see their reserve diminish hugely , and I worry that there be a lot more council in the pipeline that might well come under a section 114 agreement . will she commit tonight to her Department work ever more closely with council to try to prevent they from get into that situation ? as I say in my speech , once we get into that situation it be always more expensive for council tax payer , and they get cut in their service . an exemplar contribution . the hon . Gentleman be absolutely right about ensure that local authority receive expertise and support , which be why the local audit office be so important . I know my hon . friend the Minister for Local Government and English Devolution will work with he and his Committee to ensure we get it right , so that local authority get the right support to ensure their finance be carefully manage . I thank hon . member once again for their valuable contribution . as I hope have be clear throughout the course of the debate , the Government be under no illusion about the scale of the challenge before we . there be no silver bullet to solve they . after 14 year , the idea that within the space of seven month all the underlie issue can be resolve be for the bird . I hope hon . member , include the shadow Minister , recognise that we have to take the issue seriously . just turn up and scoring point will not do the job . we have to recognise that there be serious issue and challenge . where we can work together , we must . I be conscious that I do not give way to the shadow Minister . if he want to work with we , I be very happy to give way . I be grateful to the Minister . I think most of we , certainly on the conservative Benches — this be acknowledge with gentle humour by a number of colleague — be determined to work together in a constructive way , because we recognise that this issue have a huge impact , but I have to ask the Minister a question . she refer to an " investment " of £ 538 million in respect of national insurance contribution . do she really argue that it be an investment to raise taxis on one group of people to provide a grant to our local authority to pay another government tax ? would it not surely be well to go for a low tax , high growth agenda , rather than seek to tax our way into prosperity , which do not have the good track record in economic history ? perhaps the shadow Minister do not hear the opening remark of my hon . friend the Minister for Local Government and English Devolution , or my remark , about what the Government have already invest in local government — billion . do he want I to go over it again ? there be not much time , Madam Deputy Speaker , but I suggest that he go back and listen to the speech and those announcement . he know that , in a very challenging set of circumstance , we have invest an additional £ 5 billion in local government . I hope very much that we can work on area in which we can agree , but where we can not , let we agree to disagree . as I have say , there be no silver bullet that will solve the difficulty that we have to address , many of which we have inherit . today be the start , not the end , of the process of reform and renewal , but with this settlement we have begin the task of put council on a sounder financial footing , fix the foundation , and strengthen the sector for the long term . this will give council the certainty and stability that they need in order to plan , move from crisis management to prevention , and deliver the change that the country need : high growth , high living standard , more job , more home and more opportunity as we rebuild as part of our plan for change . we be put more money into people ' s pocket , and put stability , investment and reform first to deliver national renewal . we be put Government back in the service of work people . I commend this settlement to the House . question put and agree to . resolve , that the Local Government Finance Report ( England ) 2025 – 26 ( HC 623 ) , which be lay before this House on 3 February , be approve . resolve , that the Referendums relate to Council tax increase ( Principles ) ( England ) Report 2025 – 26 ( HC 624 ) , which be lay before this House on 3 February , be approve . — ( Jim McMahon . ) business without Debate Delegated Legislation Motion make , and question put forthwith ( Standing Order no . 118 ( 6 ) ) , Electronic Communications that the draft Online Safety Act 2023 ( category 1 , category 2A and Category 2B Threshold Conditions ) Regulations 2025 , which be lay before this House on 16 December 2024 , be approve . — ( Jeff Smith . ) the Deputy Speaker ' s opinion as to the decision of the Question be challenge , the Division be defer until Wednesday 12 February ( Standing Order No . 41a ) . Motion make , and question put forthwith ( Standing Order no . 118 ( 6 ) ) , Electricity that the draft Electricity Capacity ( Amendment ) Regulations 2025 , which be lay before this House on 16 December 2024 , be approve . — ( Jeff Smith . ) question agree to . Petition - Communications Infrastructure in Hazel Grove I rise to present a petition on behalf of some of the resident of my constituency . I particularly thank Bob , Lesley and Keith , who come to see I at my surgery on Saturday in response to the signature — more than 200 — from their neighbour when Brsk want to come to town to install some telegraph pole . the petition state : " the petitioner therefore request that the House of Commons urge the Government to ensure that the propose installation of communication infrastructure in the area south of Dean Lane in the Hazel Grove constituency be cancel . and the petitioner remain , etc . " follow be the full text of the petition : [ the petition of resident of the constituency of Hazel Grove , Declares that propose new infrastructure such as telegraph pole and overhead fibre optic cable in the area south of Dean Lane be unnecessary and an eyesore . the petitioner therefore request that the House of Commons urge the Government to ensure that the propose installation of communication infrastructure in the area south of Dean Lane in the Hazel Grove constituency be cancel . and the petitioner remain , etc . ] [ p003041 ] child ' s Social Care : North - east England Motion make , and question propose , that this House do now adjourn . — ( Jeff Smith . ) I be glad to have secure the debate . I be also grateful to the member who have stay in the Chamber for a debate that be begin somewhat later than they may have expect . I must start by declare an interest , because a huge proportion of those who work in social care will be member of Unison , and I be proud to say that I be a former national official of that trade union and , along with my hon . friend the Member for Blaydon and Consett ( Liz Twist ) , a co - chair of its parliamentary group . last month I visit Caedmon primary school , a wonderful community school base in Bensham , at the heart of my community . I meet teacher , support staff , school leader and parent , all pull in the same direction to break down barrier to opportunity for every child in the school . I meet parent who , over the past two year , have organise a uniform drive every half term , with a swap shop — a place for parent and child to come together to share the uniform that their child have grow out of . it be set up primarily to reduce the amount of clothing waste go to landfill , but the impact have be so much great . Caedmon serve a diverse community and family from a real mix of economic and social background . follow the cost of live crisis and , quite frankly , the two decade of economic hardship and austerity that Gateshead have experience , the cost of uniform be a financial barrier to family access education . the drive be help parent to save hundred of pound every year . the project be underpin by the school ' s recognition of the systemic cause of poverty and inequality , which have hold too many child back . the headteacher , the remarkable Mr Wisby , have instill in Caedmon school a strong set of value , base on the practice of radical candour . it create an environment for honest conversation between staff , parent and pupil , who often face very challenging circumstance . through radical candour , Caedmon parent know that staff be act in the good interest of their child , even if it involve tough conversation and challenge . I dare say that we could perhaps do with a bit more radical candour in this place from time to time . it be about get to the root of the problem , rather than treat the symptom . Caedmon be tackle the cause of poverty and inequality , which would otherwise hold their child back , and it be just one example in my community of real , transformative work on the ground . we in this place need to have a candid conversation about the challenge that child ' s service be face in the north - east and how we tackle the root cause of poverty and inequality , which have be suffocate my region over the past two decade . I join my hon . friend in praise Caedmon and all the other school in Gateshead , include those in my constituency . do he agree that our proposal that every child should have breakfast before school will be an important way of tackle poverty , with more to follow ? I echo my hon . friend ' s praise for school in Gateshead , and indeed across the wide north - east , which I be sure we will cover in this debate . the change be bring forward in the Children ' s Wellbeing and Schools Bill will obviously make a profound impact through the provision of breakfast club , but they will also have an effect on the cost of uniform by introduce a limit of only three brand item . that will make a massive difference to community such as mine and my hon . friend ' s . compare with people in other part of the country , those in the north - east face the low life expectancy at birth , high level of economic inactivity , the low pay and , disgracefully , the high rate of child poverty in the UK — worse , it continue to grow . fourteen year of conservative austerity and public service cut have destroy our safety net and social fabric , and turn back the clock on opportunity for child and young people in our region . I thank my hon . friend for secure this important debate and for raise , in his fluent speech , many of the core issue . in County Durham we have an issue with child ' s mental health , especially since the pandemic , and it have to be pick up by social care rather than the NHS , as it be traditionally . among all the other profound and deep - root problem that he have set out , do he agree that this be an issue across the region and possibly also nationally ? I very much agree with my constituency neighbour . this be a huge problem and it increase the pressure on child ' s social care , which , as I be sure we be all aware , already take up a huge proportion of local government budget . that be very relevant to those of we who sit through today ' s debate on the local government finance settlement . child ' s social care be lock in a vicious cycle . chronic underfunding have lead to far too many child reach crisis point , push more and more of they into the care system . many local authority have be leave with little choice but to spend an increase proportion of their limit fund on late intervention , and to reduce investment in early support for family and young people . one of the big cost saving for child ' s social care be kinship carer . these unsung hero do a great deal to care for child , often in very difficult circumstance , but they often feel that the state be not there to support they in that work . do my hon . friend agree that more need to be do to properly recognise the contribution that be make by kinship carer ? I thank my hon . friend for raise the vital issue of kinship care . it be something that be very dear to my heart . Gateshead ' s kinship care — a programme I be particularly proud of — have enable the majority of child to safely remain in the care of their family or trust kin , maintain a stable family environment , protect the child and prevent they from enter the care system . it be a key intervention that be make a real difference in Gateshead . far to the point make by my hon . friend the Member for Bishop Auckland ( Sam Rushworth ) about kinship care , many of my constituent have benefit from the Family Rights Group , which provide advocacy and save the Exchequer many ten of million of pound . will my hon . friend join I in commend the work of the Family Rights Group and express the hope that its funding will continue into the next financial year ? I thank my hon . friend for that excellent point . the Family Rights Group save a huge amount of money and do incredibly valuable work , and it be important to talk about the funding here . the funding for child ' s service be incredibly important . since 2010 , for example , Gateshead council ' s budget have be cut to the bone . child ' s service have be cut by a staggering £ 31 million , drive by huge and frankly unfair cut , and the people of Gateshead have have to pay for this in every sense of the word . we all remember the former Prime Minister ' s comment about remove funding from area of need — place such as Gateshead and place represent by those here on these Benches today — and give it to area whose need be deserve but , I be afraid , less acute . but against the odd , Gateshead council ' s child ' s service have recently be praise for their hard work to prioritise prevention and early intervention , and have be recognise by Ofsted for their dedication to our child and young people . on that high note , will my hon . friend also commend North Tyneside council , which for the second consecutive time have be award " outstanding " for child ' s service by Ofsted on all five count ? the council say : " from an ' exceptional ' early help service … through to a ' meaningful ' support offer for care leaver " — child — " receive the good support possible . " be that not what we want for all our child in the north - east ? I could not agree more , and I commend North Tyneside child ' s service . I also commend and echo Ofsted ' s recognition for Gateshead council ' s child ' s service and place on record my personal gratitude to all the staff in Gateshead child ' s service , include the director , Helen Fergusson — no relation — and Councillor Gary Haley for their strong leadership and strong focus on corporate parenting . can I join my hon . friend in congratulate Gateshead Council , and particularly the staff , on the work that they be do to improve child ' s service and on achieve that good rating ? I agree with my hon . friend . we both have experience of represent in the workplace those who stand up for child in and across local government as well as in the health service , and I know we share a passion for the work that they do . they do not always get as much credit and commendation , in this place or anywhere else , as we would like they to have . it should not just be when they receive their ofsted report that we praise they , although that is , of course , an important opportunity for we to do so . I refer the House to my entry in the Register of Members ' Financial Interests . my hon . friend and I previously both advocate for and represent worker in child ' s social care for Unison and the GMB respectively . do he agree that drive up pay and term and condition for those worker be just as important in child ' s social service as it be in adult social service ? I absolutely agree , and I commend my hon . friend for the huge amount of work that he have put into the Employment Rights Bill and several other important piece of forthcoming legislation , which will have a huge impact on the life not only of those work in child ' s service but of the child they seek to serve . we be fortunate to have he and his experience in this place . I want to use the remainder of my time in this debate to highlight some of the success that Gateshead council have have recently . the council ' s multi - agency approach be thrive . despite every effort of consecutive conservative government to tear down sure Start , Gateshead ' s Labour councillor go to great length to protect child ' s centre throughout austerity . in fact , they have now almost double the number of operate family hub . these decision mean the council be able to build a locality - base family hub scheme at pace , ensure that Gateshead family be not leave short . Labour member know the evidence be clear that child who grow up with access to a Sure Start centre have high GCSE outcome than those who do not . this kind of early intervention lead to well outcome at every developmental stage . family hub deliver everything from neonatal class , childcare , and speech and language support , right through to employment support and welfare advice . Barnardo ' s rightly describe they as the " nerve centre " of our community . our mayor , Kim McGuinness , and the North East combine authority be build on this great work . Kim ' s newly establish child poverty reduction unit be the first of its kind and provide an extra layer to this key community - base early intervention . in just month , her funded programme , such as welfare at the school gate , have be roll out across Gateshead to plug the gap . her " Launchpad for Literacy " and read fluency programme be already break down barrier in community such as mine . at every level , Labour be follow the evidence : early intervention be good ; late intervention be harmful . by design , late intervention require the family and the child in question to reach crisis point before they can access meaningful support . I know this Government be serious about support child ' s service to address the chasm of inequality face by child in the north - east , so I welcome their investment , include the £ 1 . 29 million of prevention funding . I also welcome the raft of measure in the Children ' s Wellbeing and Schools Bill , include a child - centre social care system that deliver the good start in life ; £ 44 million for kinship and foster care ; and £ 90 million to expand placement sufficiency in local authority - own residential child ' s home , to help our most vulnerable child and young people . strengthen ofsted ' s power to allow it to act quickly against unregistered provision , great regulation of placement and ensure that care come before profit will also benefit our child . Gateshead ' s success have partly be build on its commitment to a happy , support and directly employ social work team . I welcome the Government ' s new standard to limit local authority ’ use of agency worker in child ' s social care by give the Secretary of State the power to make new regulation . there be so much good work take place in local authority such as Gateshead . however , question remain about the time - limit funding in place for family hub . I conclude by ask the Minister to outline the Government ' s plan to fund early intervention - drive child ' s service , which be so vital in community such as mine . I congratulate my hon . friend the Member for Gateshead Central and Whickham ( Mark Ferguson ) on secure this debate . he be absolutely right that early intervention be good . in this significant Adjournment debate , I have hear other hon . friend talk about kinship care , mental health , breakfast club , early help and care leaver , and of course I will be respond to my hon . friend himself . I be thrilled to hear that Gateshead council achieve a " good " rating across all area of its child ' s service in the ofsted report publish last week . the report highlight the strength of Gateshead ' s early help service , its robust multi - agency collaboration , its strong leadership and its effective support for care leaver in their transition to independence , include a focus on education , employment and training alongside their wellbeing and aspiration . the report be publish only a few week after another north - east council , North Tyneside , secure an " outstanding " rating across all area of its child ' s service , which be a phenomenal achievement . two third of council child ' s service in the north - east be rate either " good " or " outstanding " at their last ofsted inspection . although this align with the national average , it be impressive give the north - east ' s economic backdrop . two third of local authority in the north - east be classify as highly deprived , make it the most deprive region in England . the link between high deprivation and high demand clear , so it be no surprise that demand for child ' s social care service be high in the north - east . roughly a third more child per 10 , 000 be subject to a child in need plan or a child protection plan , or be look after , compare with the national average . that be the high of any region in England . the number of child in care have also grow fast in the north - east than in any other region . that say , it be worth note that the whole country have see the number of child in care rise significantly under the previous Government , with more than 80 , 000 child and young people in care across England on any give day . I thank the Minister for highlight the rise in the number of child in care . will she acknowledge the link between the grow number of child in care and the effect of 14 year of austerity ? my hon . friend be right that when money be consistently take out of public and voluntary service , and when investment be not make in public worker , then our public service — especially our child ' s social care — be drive down . I could not agree more . many child in care live far from their home , family and community , and the cost of care have spiral in recent year . it be crucial to understand that the challenge face the child ' s social care system extend beyond financial issue . these problem be highlight in a 2022 review lead by my hon . friend the Member for Whitehaven and Workington ( Josh MacAlister ) . the Competition and Markets Authority also report on deficiency in the child ' s social care market in that same year . both report call for action , yet two year later no significant change have be make . within four month of be elect , this Government outline their vision and approach to reform in the document " keep child safe , help family thrive " . our reform strategy aim to dismantle barrier by shift the focus of the child ' s social care system to early support , prevent crisis and keep family together . just as my hon . friend the Member for Gateshead Central and Whickham state , early intervention be the good — I think that be go to be one of my new favourite sentence . our plan will ensure that child can stay with their family , support more child to live with kinship carer or foster family , and fix the break care market to tackle profiteer and prioritise child ' s need . we be pleased to see that local authority across the north - east have be so active in explore new reform and policy through their involvement in a wide range of pathfinder and pilot . we recognise that young people leave care often experience poor outcome in various aspect of their life . we be committed to ensure that they have stable home , access to health service , support to build lifelong , love relationship and opportunity for education , employment and training . there be many thing that this Government aspire to do in this space , and we be get on and do the job . we be also provide funding to local authority to support care leaver who wish to stay live with their foster family up to the age of 21 in an initiative call stay Put . we have increase support for young people leave residential care through the Staying close programme . additional funding have also be give to local authority to provide extra support for care leaver at high risk of rough sleeping . in response to question about school uniform , the Children ' s Wellbeing and Schools Bill include measure to limit the number of brand uniform item that school can require . school uniform should be affordable for parent , and brand item be often more expensive than non - brand equivalent , so it be right that we will limit the number of brand item that school can require . it be encouraging to hear my hon . friend the Member for Gateshead Central and Whickham talk about Caedmon , which sound like a wonderful school . I be sure there be many other wonderful school in his constituency , as there be in all our constituency . with regard to breakfast club , the Department be work intensively on the delivery plan . we will work with 750 early adopter school from this April to ensure we get implementation , funding and support resource right before a national roll - out of new breakfast club . we publish our funding methodology alongside guidance for early adopter on 16 January and we will work closely with school on the rate to ensure the funding be sufficient for the ask . funding for national roll - out be , of course , subject to the next spending review . as we learn from more early adopter to help develop our statutory guidance and support package , more information will be make available . with regard to mental health , it be absolutely right to mention the wellbeing of child — it be a prevalent and relevant conversation . the Government be determined to make sure that child have the mental health support that they need in our school and be deliver by our health service . let I turn to kinship care . kinship carer take on a role at a time when they be least expect to raise a family , and we recognise the serious challenge they face , include financial one . we recently announce a £ 40 million package to trial a new kinship allowance to test whether pay an allowance to cover the additional cost of support the child can help to increase the number of child take in by family member and friend . that be the single big investment make by any Government in kinship care to date . we be also legislate to mandate all local authority to publish a kinship local offer , ensure transparency and accessibility of information for kinship family . there be much more we need to do in this space , and I recognise all the organisation that work in the kinship space , whether charity or business . however they support kinship family , they have my support and encouragement . I be enormously grateful to my hon . friend the Member for Gateshead Central and Whickham for speak so eloquently about child ' s social care . early intervention and prevention work be need , include through family hub , and make sure that child at a young age and their family get the support they need . keep family together as much as we can be crucial to how this Government will continue to work . the social care system be a subject that mean a great deal to I and to which I have dedicate so much of my work life . I be honour to be in this position in Government . our opportunity mission be focus on break the link between child ' s background and their success . I be determined to improve the life chance and support for child from deprived and disadvantaged background . this Government set out an ambitious plan to reform child ' s social care , back by new funding and legislation . by prioritise the voice of the child and work in partnership with local government , we will deliver last change for the most vulnerable child in our society . question put and agree to . House adjourn .