Oral Answers to Questions Culture , Media and Sport the Secretary of State be ask — Physical activity : low - income family what step her Department have take to reduce barrier to physical activity in low - income family . get people active be absolutely vital , particularly those who be not active at the moment , which will include those from low - income family . that be why we have a sport strategy to get 3 . 5 million people more active . it be why we be invest around £ 400 million in grassroots sport facility up and down the country , include £ 4 million in Newcastle upon Tyne Central . we be ensure that that money be target particularly on the most deprived neighbourhood . I hope the Secretary of State will join I in congratulate Newcastle United woman on their promotion to the championship . this season , they have help inspire more than 300 young girl to take part in Newcastle United Foundation ' s Premier League Kicks session , but with a third of young people in Newcastle inactive and our childhood obesity rate the high in the region and among the high in the country , we can not leave it all to the foundation . how frequently do the Secretary of State meet the Department for Education to ensure that disadvantaged young people have access to sporting opportunity in school ? specifically , what comparison have she make between sporting facility in the state and private school sector ? this be a really important area , and I congratulate the Newcastle United woman on their success and , indeed , all woman take part in sport . that be why , through the future Lionesses fund , we have invest £ 30 million for 30 pitch across the country to make sure that woman get more activity and more opportunity to take part in sport . the specific question be about engagement with the Department for Education , which I have regularly . in fact , it sit on the taskforce I be talk about to get more people active , as do other Departments . we all need to work together to make sure we get more sport in school , more people active and equal opportunity for young girl in school across the country . I call the shadow Secretary of State . More than 1 million girl who consider themselves sporty while at primary school drop out of sport as teenager . I be one of those girl , and I do not do any sport from puberty until my late 40 , when I discover run . this weekend , I will be run my second London marathon in aid of Bristol Refugee Rights — feel free to donate . on this Government ' s watch , inequality between girl and boy on physical activity have get bad , with 22 % few girl than boy take part in team sport . I do not want any tepid word about thing the Secretary of State say she be committed to . we have 860 , 000 girl miss out on the joy of physical activity — why ? I hope the shadow Secretary of State do very well on Sunday , and I wish she the good of luck . I be absolutely committed — these be not just warm word — to ensure that more girl and woman get involve in sport . I say that they be not just warm word because we have a plethora of policy already in play on this issue , whether that be : invest in football and work with Karen Carney on her woman ' s football review ; build pitch to ensure that girl and woman have priority access to sport ; the £ 400 million for multi - sport facility , which go across the country ; or the taskforce that I talk about , which will get 1 million child more active . we be particularly prioritise people who be inactive at the moment , which unfortunately do include girl . rise — I call Tanmanjeet Singh Dhesi to ask question 3 . [ interruption . ] will the Secretary of State answer the question and allow the shadow Minister to come in ? rise — can you sit down , please ? question 2 have be withdraw . we be now at question 3 . music industry : ticket price what discussion her Department have have with the music industry on take step to help reduce ticket price . our Department speak regularly to industry stakeholder about how to make sure that live music continue to reach a wide range of audience . ultimately , ticket pricing strategy be a matter for event organiser and ticket platform , but they have to comply with the relevant law to ensure price transparency , allow consumer to make a fair and informed decision . whether it be on music or other entertainment , this Government have consistently fail to act in the interest of fan when it come to ticket touting . last year , they reject the recommendation and warning of the Competition and Markets Authority to strengthen legislation and protect consumer from illegal reselling practice in the secondary ticketing market . will the Minister concede that the problem have get much bad for fan ? when will the Government finally put a stop to that ? I disagree with the hon . Gentleman . the Government bring in the Consumer Rights Act 2015 , which be strengthen by the Digital Economy Act 2017 , which bring in anti - bot regulation that deal with some of those secondary ticketing issue . it be a tricky problem to solve . we be try to do so through those regulation , but if there be more that we can do , we will look into that . I call the shadow Secretary of State . rise — order . the hon . Member complain about the other question , but it be not my fault that no Government Members have stand to ask a supplementary question . I keep a political balance , and I be not go to break that for he . I call Thangam Debbonaire . ticket tout be a scourge on our live music industry . secondary ticket website inflate price and pocket the profit , which make cultural and sport event unaffordable for many family and damage the relationship between fan , artist and venue . while the Government fail to act , Labour have commit to tackle soar ticket price on the secondary market . surely the Minister agree that only Labour will put fan back at the heart of music and cultural event . surely the hon . member would not expect I to agree with such a ludicrous statement . we bring in law and we have anti - bot regulation , and we have have ticket tout arrest for their activity . I know that Labour have bring forward its own proposal — effectively a price cap on resale — which we do not think be workable . we have see that in Ireland , and it simply increase fraudulent activity ; it do not deliver for fan . we simply do not believe that what she be propose will make any difference . heritage sector : Net Zero what step her Department be take to help the heritage sector reach net zero . early this year , we publish a review of the barrier face by owner of historic home to reduce their energy consumption . it make a number of commitment across planning , skill and finance to assist the heritage sector on its journey to net zero , include consult on the role of local list building consent order to drive change at the local level . in 2022 , North Tyneside ' s world heritage site Segedunum be successful in access fund through the museum estate and development fund for urgent repair . that will contribute to reduce the site ' s carbon footprint . currently , other than the Heritage Fund and potential regional government funding , there be no other source of funding that would help cultural and heritage site meet climate change target . what be the Government do directly to ensure that heritage site can be resilient against climate change and have sustainable future ? I thank the hon . member for raise that issue . she talk about one of the substantial fund that we have to help repair and restore museum , heritage site and other activity . I be glad that that be make a big difference in her constituency . we have be look into the important area of how historic building can reduce their energy consumption . it be obviously difficult , since 2 % of building in the UK be list . we want to help they to reduce their energy consumption , which be a particular challenge for owner of historic home . Historic England have guidance to help museum , and we will look at what more we can do . when it come to valuable heritage asset , I be really concerned about those house in the ground of our many military estate which be not bind by any of the obligation to maintain and care for they . in many case , the Ministry of Defence and other be pursue a policy of manage decline , which be allow those valuable heritage asset to rot under our very nose . may I encourage the Minister — in fact , the Secretary of State — to speak with Ministers in the Ministry of Defence to challenge that policy and see what can be do to address it ? I give her advance warning that I be keen to look at that as part of a Select Committee inquiry . I thank my hon . friend for raise that important point . it be something that we support when an asset be in the community rather than on the exist military estate . I recently visit the battle of Britain bunker at RAF Uxbridge , where there have be an amazing partnership with the local council . she raise an issue specifically about MOD site that be still in use , which we shall be very happy to look into for she . I call the shadow Minister . the Heritage Alliance estimate in its refresh manifesto that the UK need to double the number of conservation - skilled retrofit worker if we be to meet our net zero target by 2050 . our build environment be at risk , yet the Government have stall on training and have no plan to upskill the next generation . labour will change the apprenticeship levy , make it more flexible to ensure that worker have the skill they need for the future . what be the Minister do to meet the workforce challenge of retrofit our heritage building ? our Department have a huge number of initiative under way to help people to deal with skill shortage , not just in the heritage sector but in the creative industry . the Secretary of State and I be discuss that with the Creative Industries Council just this week . one of the challenge that we face be the dynamism of the workforce and the need to ensure that it have the specific skill of the kind that the hon . Lady mention . we be look at bootcamp and t - level , which be much more practical vocational skill . I be happy to look into and discuss with the noble Lord Parkinson what more we can do with the heritage sector . Torquay United Football Club what recent discussion she have have with the National League on the financial sustainability of Torquay United Football Club . I share my hon . friend ' s concern about the financial issue face Torquay United . I urge all party to find a swift solution to this distressing situation . the Government be seek to support the professional game through the Football Governance Bill , which will establish an independent football regulator . as the Minister know , recent week have be difficult for Torquay United fan , with the club enter into administration follow year of fan struggle to get answer from the owner , and a completely flawed plan for a new stadium , which make no progress whatsoever . what role will prevent the circumstance that have drag down Torquay United and other club play in future development in how the game be govern ? I agree that meaningful engagement with fan be crucial . I want to put on record my thank to the Torquay United Supporters Trust for its action to support the club and the fan . I share the concern about the financial situation right across the game . that be exactly why the Bill will give power to the regulator , which will be able to monitor and enforce financial regulation and deal with club ownership , fan engagement and club heritage issue , to ensure that club be protect for the very fan who be their bedrock . sport Facilities : fund what assessment she have make of the effectiveness of the multi - sport grassroot facility programme in fund new sport facility . what assessment she have make of the effectiveness of the multi - sport grassroot facility programme in fund new sport facility . between 2021 and 2025 , the Government have commit more than £ 325 million to grassroots sport site across the whole of the UK . that be part of our commitment to ensure every community have the facility it need . so far , almost 2 , 400 site have be support , create more opportunity for people of all background across the country to get active . thank to the UK Government ' s multi - sport grassroot facility programme , almost £ 100 , 000 have be invest across Anglesey to improve sport facility at Holyhead Hotspur , Plas Arthur in Llangefni , T ŷ Croes and Bodedern . sport help family across Ynys M ô n be more active , healthy and happy . will the Secretary of State join I in thank Ynys M ô n gymnastic club , Barton Dance and Drama Academy , Ynys M ô n celt basketball club and all those work hard to make my summer activity fair at the Canolfan Holyhead on 8 June a success ? it be fantastic to hear about the community event take place in the hon . friend ' s constituency . I be delighted that she have put together such an active and exciting event , and I wish she all the good on 8 June . such event bring community together . I wish she and everybody a wonderful time . Cromwell Athletic , who play at Mary Ann Meadows in my constituency , have have to cancel almost 70 % of their grass pitch game this season because condition have make the ground simply unplayable . the pitch improvement programme show that we need around eight 3 g pitch in Warrington to cope with demand . could my right hon . friend set out what support be available to club with significant junior membership ? I invite she back to Warrington to see some of the team who be struggle to access 3 g pitch , to talk about how we can help they . through our investment via the Football Foundation in England , we be actively support team such as Cromwell Athletic up and down the country to get new artificial grass pitch . we fund the goalpost at Barrow Hall Primary School and put in a new artificial grass pitch at Cardinal Newman Catholic High School . it be a pleasure to visit my hon . friend ' s constituency , and I would be happy to meet he to discuss this issue far . National Symbols : regulation if she will make an assessment of the potential merit of bring forward legislative proposal to regulate the use of national symbol by commercial and other entity . the correct use of many national symbol , such as royal name , state emblem , the royal arm and the Government coat of arm , be already subject to Government regulation . I think many people would be quite angered by the way certain national organisation have try to change our national flag , the cross of St George and the Union Jack . be it not time that we protect and cherish our national symbol by appoint a Minister of the Crown from the Cabinet Office to oversee that ? will the Minister also look at the Union Flag Bill of 2008 , which would enshrine in legislation the protection of our cherished national flag ? the Union Jack should be a unifying symbol for the whole country . it have look the way it have for the past several hundred year and I see no point in mess around with it . I be not sure that we need legislation ; we just need some common sense . would Ministers be equally keen to prevent organisation , such as political party , use image of his Majesty the King in their propaganda ? I do not know how to answer that question , if I be honest ! [ laughter . ] our party have always be proud to use the Union Jack , because we be a proud Unionist party , and we will always be proud to support the royal family . charity and Voluntary Organisations what step her Department be take to support charity and voluntary organisation in the context of increase in the cost of living . the Government be invest million to support charity across England with cost of living pressure , and that include the Community Organisations Cost of Living Fund , which be award critical support to frontline service . what do it say about the state of the nation when , during the bad cost of live crisis in live memory , charity and voluntary organisation such as Calmer Therapy in the Wansbeck constituency be struggle simply to make end meet ? like many other charity , Calmer Therapy be have to do more with less . it be face more pressure and continued pressure , with crumble building and excessive bill . what conversation have the Minister have with the Chancellor about plan to support charity and those who be desperately rely on they to survive ? I want to put on record my thank to the charity up and down the country that have do some incredible work over some of the most challenging time . I recognise that when cost be rise and donation be fall , demand for their service often increase . that be why I have conversation with my right hon . friend the Chancellor and why we secure a significant package of £ 100 million to support those charity . it be welcome by the sector . I be grateful to the National Lottery Community Fund for help we to get that money out as quickly as possible to so many charity around the country . footballer : risk of Dementia what recent discussion she have have with representative of football club and association on ensure the wellbeing of football player , in the context of their increase risk of dementia . I have discuss the issue of dementia with the Professional Footballers ' association , specifically around the Premier League ' s promise to allocate funding towards the new brain health fund for football player impact by dementia . I be pleased that the fund be launch in September last year , and I will be write to the pfa shortly to seek its assurance on the current working of the fund and how the PFA be engage with former player . my constituent be the former Celtic , Chelsea , Blackburn and , more importantly , Norwich City football legend , Chris Sutton . he have recently bring to my attention the very distressing fact that former professional footballer be four time more likely to die of CTE — chronic traumatic encephalopathy — dementia than the wide population due to repeat head impact . Chris be just one of a group of former player who be champion these issue and push for well provision to support the wellbeing of ex - player and their family . can the Minister reassure I that the football industry will create a properly finance dementia fund to help player , and of course their widow , who be affect by the CTE dementia scandal ? my hon . friend be right to raise this incredibly important issue , and I want to record my thank to Chris Sutton and all those involve in this important work . we welcome the practical support that those involve in sport give former player in these circumstance . the PFA and Premier League ' s brain health fund have an initial amount of £ 1 million in financial support for former player and their family , to improve their quality of life . the fund will remain in place until the PFA and the Premier League establish a charity that will involve a great many football stakeholder so we can provide a much long - term support vehicle . I can reassure he that I take this area of work incredibly seriously and will continue to put pressure on those involve . I be grateful to the Minister for that answer and hope we will hear more in that regard . the number of child who be vape continue to rise at an alarming rate . statistic from 2022 show that current use — within the last 30 day — among 15 - year - old be 25 % , but the percentage will obviously be significantly high now . we know about some of the harm to which vaping lead , which should cause we grave concern , but we certainly do not know about all of they . in that context , do the Minister think it be a good thing that the strip of football club such as Blackburn Rovers be sponsor by vape company ? if not , will he join I in seek to change that ? I know that there have be many discussion about sponsorship within various sporting body . it be for the individual club and the football authority themselves to set guideline of that kind , but the hon . Lady have raise an interesting point and , if she will allow I , I will give it further consideration . I call the shadow Minister . everyone deserve to feel safe play the sport that they love . in the context of , sadly , too many former professional player suffer from dementia , what step be the Department take to ensure that sport governing body have the guidance they need to ensure the safety of professional player ? the hon . Lady have raise an important point , as have other member . the Government be lead work on concussion in particular . we have work with stakeholder and develop the first guideline to be distribute to the grassroot , which have also aid professional sport . the evaluation of this be ongoing and will be invaluable in help we to improve sport - relate education and health . we have also convene a sport concussion research group to identify the question that still need answering , as well as an innovation and technology panel , whose member be look at the practical , technical solution that will aid safety and mitigate concussion . however , as I have say , this be an incredibly important area and one on which we will focus . gambling Operators Levy what her plan timetable be for respond to the consultation on the statutory levy on gambling operator . the statutory levy represent a generational change in funding arrangement , and we have to consider properly the evidence provide during the consultation . we will publish a response set out our final decision soon , but we remain on track to introduce the levy via secondary legislation this summer . it have be month since the consultation close , with no response , and about 10 other consultation relate to the White Paper be also await a response . be the Minister try to kick change into the long grass , and if not , will he please confirm when the response will be publish ? I reject that accusation . there be 62 proposal in the White Paper , half of which will be finalise as a result of the consultation or be complete . a further three consultation have end , and we be now analyse those . the levy be a priority , because we want the fund to be direct where they be need most , on the basis of evidence , and we be work at pace to ensure that happen . I also point out that it be this Government who introduce it . Artistic Spaces if she will take step with relevant stakeholder to help provide space for artist to create and display their work . high - quality affordable workspace be essential to ensure that we can retain our fine creative talent . the Government be commit to encourage local authority and property owner to make space available for cultural activity . Arts Council England be already support artist ' space through funding and broker partnership . the national portfolio boast numerous workspace that receive revenue funding , such as Spike Island and Yorkshire Artspace , which offer space for artist to create work and gallery space for exhibit new work . Leighton Buzzard , Dunstable and many other part of my constituency be bless with an abundance of artist , painter , sculptor and other , but they have very few place where they can create their work — they need more studio space and more workspace — and even few place in which to exhibit . provide such space should be essential — it aid economic activity , increase footfall and increase wellbee — so how can we ensure that it be essential , as the Minister say , and not an afterthought ? it really do matter . I thank my hon . friend for raise his concern about the creative community in Leighton Buzzard — it sound like a buzz creative community . as I say , we support creative industry primarily through Arts Council England , which have initiative that look at workspace . I encourage organisation in his constituency and community to make application for grant , because there be specific fund available . art venue be vital to our local culture and our community , but they be also hotbed for new talent to display or perform their late work , which be critical to the UK ' s creative sector . pub be increasingly use for show artwork as much as they be for perform music — think of pub such as the Crown Inn back in the day , or the Hope and Anchor in Islington . that be why it be so important that we save pub such as the Punch Bowl in Warwick , which a developer want to convert into a house . last year be the bad year for the closure of music venue . what be the Minister do to stop that rate of closure ? we share the hon . Gentleman ' s concern about grassroots music venue , which be why we have a specific fund set aside to help save some of the most treasured community venue . we also have the Localism Act 2011 , which allow community to designate a particular community asset of value , give community time to raise fund to save those kind of asset . it be something that we be talk about a lot with music venue group , and we be also look at give they help to buy the freehold of property so that those kind of asset can stay within community and remain a talent pipeline , as he suggest , for many year to come . English Football : Financial sustainability what recent discussion she have have with the Premier League and English Football League on the financial stability of football club . as my hon . friend will know , the Football Governance Bill be introduce to Parliament last month , and it will help with the financial sustainability of football as a whole . I have meet the Premier League , the English Football League , many stakeholder and parliamentarian to ensure that the legislation be appropriately draft . I have meet over 90 club and senior executive from the league many time . I be grateful to the Secretary of State for that answer . we do not have to look too far across the east midland to see that club such as Nottingham Forest , Derby County , Coventry City and Leicester City have find themselves in some form of difficulty , so I welcome the Government ' s plan to introduce a regulator to bring some stability to the football pyramid . however , how do we ensure that we strike a balance so that we do not strangle and over - regulate the good league in the world , the premiership ? as my hon . friend mention , the Premier League be world lead . it be worth £ 7 billion , and we absolutely want to ensure that it stay first and world class . that be why the legislation take a proportionate approach . it take on board the fact that the regulator will have to work very closely with the league , include the Premier League . we call it an advocacy - first approach , and have work very carefully with the team , I be very confident that the legislation take a balanced and proportionate approach . football be nothing without the fan , and the Secretary of State may recall that a while ago I mention to the Sport Minister the idea of a postponement promise . that be in response to a spate of fixture that have be cancel at very short notice . the Minister say that he would raise it with the EFL , and I understand that he do so . I be grateful for that , but I wonder whether the Secretary of State agree that we need to keep the momentum go forward . will she and the Minister continue to work with the EFL to come up with a solution that work for fan ? the hon . member be absolutely right about the importance of fan and community to football , which be why the Government be bring forward legislation to protect fan across the country . my junior Minister be a value colleague who support I and work very hard across his portfolio . I know he have raise this issue with the EFL , and I will talk to he about it . topical Questions if she will make a statement on her departmental responsibility . this Government recognise just how important the art be , which be why the Chancellor use the Budget to extend , introduce and make permanent a range of tax relief to drive growth and investment in our creative industry . we have provide tax relief worth £ 1 billion over the next five year for museum , gallery , theatre , orchestra , independent film production , film studio and the visual effect industry . in addition , as Sunday draw near , I want to wish all those run and take part in the London marathon the good of luck — in particular , the shadow Secretary of State , the hon . member for Bristol West ( Thangam Debbonaire ) . with Monday mark the 35th anniversary of the Hillsborough tragedy , we will always remember the 97 victim who be kill unlawfully . do the Minister agree that , in their memory , we must take a stand against those who think it be acceptable to ridicule this disaster in order to rile up rival team ? if so , what be she do to tackle this issue of so - call tragedy chanting ? Tragedy chanting be absolutely abhorrent and have no place in football , or indeed in any sport . the Government fully support the football league and the police in their effort to identify and deal with the culprit . Tragedy chanting can be prosecute as a public order offence , with guilty individual be issue with football ban order prevent they from attend match in the future . will the Secretary of State join I in congratulate the amazing success of Romford football club , which have now get through to the fa vase final at Wembley on 11 May ? give the proud Essex town that Romford be , do she agree that BBC Essex and the regional tv and radio channel really should promote that in their broadcasting , instead of say that we be not Essex ? do she agree that we should be give that prominence ? first , I extend my congratulation to Romford football club on reach the final of the fa vase — it be a wonderful achievement and I wish the team the good of luck at Wembley . on the issue of BBC Essex , as my hon . friend will know , the BBC be operationally and editorially independent of the Government , but I know that my hon . friend have raise his concern directly with the BBC , and I be sure that it will get back to he . I call the SNP spokesman , John Nicolson . since we last meet , the medium regulator Ofcom have again reprimand GB News for breach impartiality rule . Ofcom say that news programme should not be present by politician . the Tory Benches host a plethora of Ofcom rule - breach mp who leave this place to freelance as pretendy news presenter on a channel that spread conspiracy theory and disinformation , and that undermine Ofcom . I be on the side of journalism , not disinformation . do the Minister agree with I that GB News should drop the propaganda and obey the regulator ? I be in favour of medium plurality ; I think it be important that there be channel for everybody to watch , and GB News be a very popular outlet . I think that the person to regulate GB News be Ofcom , not those on the shadow Benches . Crewe Amateur Musicals Society open what I be sure will be a fantastic production of " Kinky Boots " at Crewe Lyceum this evening , but I be concerned that Arts Council funding do not do enough to support exist group and activity . as well as join I in wish the Crewe Amateur Musicals Society good luck this evening , can my right hon . friend meet I to discuss Arts Council funding ? I wish the Crewe Amateur Musicals Society the very good of luck with their performance . we channel a very large amount of money to Arts Council England . with lottery funding and Government funding , that be about £ 444 million every year . we also have a number of tax relief for the perform art . I also encourage the group in my hon . friend ' s constituency to apply for the late cultural development fund round , which open in February and support organisation such as the one he cite . Cambridge have a long - establish and flourish local music scene but , as elsewhere , time be hard . the Music Venue Trust recently report that , nationally , there have be 67 emergency case for its expert so far in 2024 . with soar maintenance and operating cost , and with inflation mean that the grassroots music sector be operate on a profit margin of just 0 . 2 % , do the Minister accept that this be unsustainable for any business ? it have be a particularly difficult period for a number of music venue . obviously , we go through the pandemic and then an energy crisis , and we try to support venue through those difficult time . we be now work very closely with the Music Venue Trust , which have access to Arts Council funding that be help it to buy the freehold of some music venue . we also have a grassroots music fund that be help with some of the issue that the hon . Gentleman cite , and I be sure it would be happy to look into the particularly treasure venue in his constituency . the Secretary of State will be aware of the proposal by Universal Studios for a theme park in Bedfordshire — a £ 10 billion investment in the country . she will also be aware of the strong local support , lead by Conservative Mayor Tom Wootton , so can she assure I and other Bedfordshire mp that she be work hard with the Treasury to get a response to that proposal , and that a Government proposal will be forthcoming before the summer ? my hon . friend be right to raise this very exciting opportunity for Bedfordshire , which I be pleased to have discuss with he . we be liaise closely with the Treasury , and I be also happy to continue liaise with my hon . friend . what discussion have the Government have , or would be willing to have , with Glasgow City Council and the Scottish Government on the prospect of Glasgow step in to host the 2026 Commonwealth game ? this country be proud to have host the Commonwealth game twice in the past decade , most recently in Birmingham . I have have conversation with the Commonwealth Games Federation on its plan , and I know it be currently consider a host of option . I will see what it come out with before I commit to any further engagement . will the Secretary of State join I in congratulate the magnificent and mighty Portsmouth football club on win League One and secure promotion to the championship this week ? do she agree with I that Pompey ' s fantastic victory demonstrate the magic of football in bring community together , inspire young people and encourage health and fitness ? I be very pleased to congratulate Portsmouth football club on its success . my hon . friend be absolutely right to highlight the importance of local club and what they do in their community . it be not just the match on a Saturday ; it be also about what they do to encourage people to get involve in their community and to get fit and active . go around the country , I have see some fabulous example of what sport club — not just football but rugby and cricket — do for their local area . the Carney review reveal that woman ' s football have a long way to go on minimum professional standard , union representation , mental health support and more . will Ministers give these recommendation parity with the change need in the man ' s game ? I be pleased to have speak to Karen Carney on a number of occasion about her review and the importance of woman ' s football , and I be also pleased to take on board all her recommendation . the Government approve all the review ' s recommendation , and I be pleased to chair the first implementation group , which be ensure that the recommendation will be implement by the Football Association and other . since I last raise the closure of small music venue , two a week continue to close . there be now a grow consensus within the live music sector that a £ 1 levy should be put on large music venue and those who be make massive profit at live event . the Culture , Media and Sport Committee be look at this , and I have listen very carefully to the evidence . if it be recommend , will the Minister put in place a levy similar to the one in other country across Europe ? we be very sympathetic to that concept , which have work well in football . we be closely watch the industry discussion about the idea of a levy that would support grassroots music venue which , as we all know , be the talent pipeline for our world - lead music industry . we do not want to see they wither , so we be watch this matter closely and I have have recent discussion with relevant organisation on it . far to that question , and as other have say , brilliant grassroot music venue all over the country be struggle with spiral cost . the Grayston Unity be one such venue that be crucial in not only ensure access to music , but develop the skill pipeline for people work in that sector and , we hope , become the star of tomorrow . what be the Minister do to ensure that she understand , and reassure those venue that she get , the spiral cost they face ? as I have say , we have a number of initiative under way . Arts Council funding be support the Music Venue Trust in relation to own freehold of property and we have our support grassroots music fund , which have be top up recently because of some of the issue cite by the hon . Lady . we want to try to help music venue through these difficult time , because we believe they be so valuable , not only to the talent pipeline , but in give community access to local music and perform opportunity . we hope that these venue will continue long into the future . rise — order . if we have very brief question and answer , I will try to get everybody in . I call Chi Onwurah . the " Space Investigators " exhibition at the Great North Museum celebrate the amazing history of the north - east in designing and manufacture telescope . what support do the Minister offer so that region such as ours can well understand and promote our great industrial heritage ? I be pleased that work have be go on in the hon . Lady ' s constituency on these important matter . of course , through Arts Council funding and through Department for Culture , Media and Sport funding , we support institution across the country that support the history of , and what be go on in , their local community , as well as art across the country . this be the 900th anniversary of the founding of Edinburgh city and St Giles ' cathedral . celebration be plan to mark it , so will the Minister tell we whether the Department be go to be work with the devolved Administration and support the local council in celebrate that anniversary ? and would she like to come and join the party ? it sound like a superb party and I shall certainly send the invitation to Lord Parkinson , who be the ministerial lead on these issue . at the most recent british - Irish Parliamentary Assembly , I ask the Irish Tourism Minister about their ticketing policy and its success , and they say it be very much a success . so may I suggest that rather than dismiss labour ' s proposal , the Government should look at the evidence from the Irish Government , rather than listen to outlaw company such as Viagogo ? I speak to official this week about the irish example and they be concerned that it have lead to an increase in fraudulent activity . however , we will obviously keep this under review . Omaze have have a big impact on charity fundraising . although it be raise money for extremely good cause , do the Secretary of State agree that when people buy ticket for fundraise they should have some idea of what proportion of the money they be spend be actually go to those charity ? should we not have more transparency in this area ? the hon . Gentleman raise an important point . he will be aware that we have look at a range of issue in relation to gambling , lottery and society lottery . the prize draw be an area of work we be examine at the moment to get a well understanding of what the market be like . he rightly say that it be important that people be aware of how much of the money they be spend be go to charity , and we will continue to work in this area . Church Commissioners the hon . member for South West Bedfordshire , represent the Church Commissioners , be ask — Easter Church Services to ask the hon . member for South West Bedfordshire , represent the Church Commissioners , what recent assessment the Church have make of trend in the number of family that attend a church service over the Easter period . although we do not yet have confirm number of worshipper for this Easter just go , our clergy report high attendance , among all age , at service , which support the post - pandemic trend of people return to service on Easter day in person to celebrate the resurrection of Jesus . the future of the Church be reliant on young family attend and receive the good news of the Holy Gospel . what assessment have the Church make of initiative like the pupil chaplain scheme and regular " Messy Church " at all Saints Torre in achieve that ? I be delighted to learn about the pupil chaplain scheme that all Saints Torre be run with Torre Church of England Academy ; I will bring it to the attention of the Church nationally . the Church of England have commit £ 40 million since 2022 to increase provision for child and young people across the country . I thank Father Paul Jones for his service at all Saints Babbacombe and his wife , Jackie , who have lead a Rainbows group at the church for many year . their important work , which include inspire the next generation , have be note and appreciate . Electoral Commission Committee the hon . member for Luton South , represent the Speaker ' s Committee on the Electoral Commission , be ask — Integrity of Elections to ask the hon . member for Luton South , represent the Speaker ' s Committee on the Electoral Commission , what recent discussion the committee have have with the Electoral Commission on the integrity of election process . the committee have regular discussion with the Electoral Commission on issue relate to electoral integrity . the commission be work to ensure upcoming election , include those in May and the next UK parliamentary general election , be well run and command public confidence . it continue to make recommendation to UK Governments and legislature to far safeguard the UK ' s electoral system , where appropriate . I congratulate the hon . Lady on her newly acquire responsibility in this area . I be sure she bring the same diligence and independence of mind that her father bring to matter in this House for many year . we will be well serve by she . spotlight on Corruption write to the National Crime Agency in December last year highlight the danger of UK election be expose to dirty money and foreign influence . the commission no long have power to raise prosecution , but it can investigate . will the hon . Lady use her office to bring the Electoral Commission ' s attention to the Spotlight on Corruption report and see what assessment it make of it ? I will bring the report to the attention of the Electoral Commission . the commission have say that it take all possible step within the current regulatory framework to prevent unlawful foreign money from enter UK politic , and it publish information about donation to ensure transparency . it can sanction political party that accept impermissible foreign donation . it work with the police , who can investigate unlawful foreign money enter UK politic through permissible donor . however , it can not take enforcement action against organisation base outside the UK . the commission will continue to recommend change to ensure voter can have great confidence in political finance in the UK . House of Commons Commission the hon . member for Broxbourne , represent the House of Commons Commission , be ask — Food Waste : parliamentary estate to ask the hon . member for Broxbourne , represent the House of Commons Commission , what step the Commission be take to reduce food waste on the parliamentary estate . the House of Commons Commission take food waste extremely seriously . we work with organisation , such as FareShare , to use unused food and distribute it , but we also take food that be not eat on one day and safely use it in other recipe on another day . we have probably all be to event and occasion here where the host have perhaps enthusiastically over - order . it would be useful to be assure that none of that food go to landfill and that way be find to reuse it . these day there be a number of initiative and app where venue and store can make food available at discount price at the end of the day . could that be something that could be extend to staff — obviously not to member — particularly those who work late on the estate , so that absolutely no food in this place go to waste ? we will always look at suggestion . I can reassure the hon . member that our catering team recently achieve the high mark in the Sustainable Restaurant Association " Food make good " rating . one of the area that we be assess on be our commitment to reduce food waste , but clearly we will look at the hon . member ' s suggestion and we will act on they if they have merit . I call Theresa Villiers — not here . Church Commissioners the hon . member for South West Bedfordshire , represent the Church Commissioners , be ask — Families and Households to ask the hon . member for South West Bedfordshire , represent the Church Commissioners , what step the Church have take to support family relationship , parenting and marriage since the establishment of the Archbishops ' Commission on Families and Households . the report of the joint Archbishops ' Commission on Families and Households be enthusiastically receive by the General Synod at its meeting in February . the Archbishops ' Council be now incorporate the report ' s recommendation into the work programme . the key message from the Archbishops ' Commission be unambiguous : family , relationship and love matter . the no . 1 action point from the commission be " to maximise the protective effect of family " . what step be the Church of England take to achieve that in Kettering and across the whole country ? I be grateful to my hon . friend for his interest in this important area . I can tell he that the commissioner have have meeting with Departments and with the child ' s commissioner to work alongside Government to strengthen family relationship , parenting and marriage . the Church itself want to play a more active role in this crucial area and be produce new resource to help parish do so . I be sure he will know that , in his own constituency , St Andrew ' s Church be already exemplify much of this good work under the excellent leadership of the Reverend Tom Houston , who train as a youth worker prior to ordination . same - sex couple be able to show love and be a good family as well , so why will the Church of England not recognise same - sex marriage ? the hon . Member will know that this be an issue with which the General Synod continue to be involve through the living in love and faith process . we be work through these issue and the Church will have hear very clearly what he have say , and I can assure he that that work be be take forward . abortion Legislation to ask the hon . member for South West Bedfordshire , represent the Church Commissioners , if the Church will publish a statement on its position on amendment table to the Criminal Justice Bill relate to the decriminalisation of abortion before Report stage of that Bill . the Church of England believe that the foetus be a human life with the potential to develop , while recognise that there can be strictly limit condition under which abortion may be morally preferable to any available alternative . the Church also believe that every possible support , especially by Church member , should be give to those who be pregnant and in difficult circumstance . the Church would support new clause 15 and 34 and believe that , while woman should not face criminalisation , anyone coerce a woman to have an abortion , or provide one beyond the legal limit , or supply an abortion kit for a late - term use should be prosecute . I welcome the support for new clause 15 and 34 . I think the Second Church Estates Commissioner have give implicit opposition to the new clause in the name of the right hon . member for Kingston upon Hull North ( Dame Diana Johnson ) , but I be gobsmacke not to have have a clear statement on the criminality of terminate a pregnancy up to the moment of birth by whomsoever . be the intention to drive we into the arm of Rome ? be he as gobsmacke as I be ? I be grateful to my right hon . friend for his interest in these serious issue , which , give their importance , I be sure the House will want to treat sensitively . I will convey his comment to the leadership of the Church , but just to repeat : the Church be support the two - week reduction in the age of viability from 24 to 22 week , base on the late available evidence that foetus do survive from 22 week onwards . it be also support protection for down ' s syndrome child to make the case that abortion beyond the legal limit should not be acceptable for such child . the Church support the continue prosecution of medical practitioner who assist with abortion beyond the legal limit . Electoral Commission Committee the hon . member for Luton South , represent the Speaker ' s Committee on the Electoral Commission , be ask — disinformation in election to ask the hon . member for Luton South , represent the Speaker ' s Committee on the Electoral Commission , whether the committee have have recent discussion with the Electoral Commission on the potential impact of disinformation on the integrity of election . the committee have have recent discussion with the Electoral Commission on the matter raise . the commission recognise the risk pose to the integrity of election by disinformation and misinformation . it run campaign raise awareness of the voting process , so voter have accurate information on which to rely . the legal regime that the commission regulate be focus on ensure that political finance be transparent and that campaigner material include an imprint show voter who have produce the material . it do not have a role in regulate the content of election campaign material , but encourage all campaigner to undertake their role responsibly and transparently . I be grateful for the hon . Lady ' s answer . recently , we have see a decrease in the effectiveness of search engine such as Google , with material generate by AI , which be design to produce only thing that sound like information , poison the well , so to speak , with a marked impact on search result . with this automation of fake news and fake oracle , what plan do the Electoral Commission have to put out guidance on AI - produce material ? the commission encourage all campaigner to undertake their role of influence voter responsibly and transparently , and indeed encourage voter to think critically about the campaign material that they see . it expect anyone use AI - generate campaign material to use it in a way that benefit open and transparent political debate , and to label it clearly so that voter know how it have be create . campaign material must also carry an imprint tell voter who have publish and pay for it . the commission ' s role be to ensure that the financing of campaign be transparent . it do not have a role in regulate the content of election campaign material , such as prevent the use of deepfake . Church Commissioners the hon . member for South West Bedfordshire , represent the Church Commissioners , be ask — armenian Church : Jerusalem whether the Church have take recent step to support the armenian church in the old city of Jerusalem . the Bishop of Southwark have raise this issue repeatedly in the other place over the past six month , and it remain an ongoing and very concern issue . only 15 day ago , an unlawful eviction be lead by the israeli police within the premise of the armenian Patriarchate , with no court order or permit present . those of we who be good friend of Israel need to call out the violent activity of the settler movement . the armenian Christians have enjoy the good part of 2 , 000 year in their part of the old city in tranquillity . the appalling incident on 3 April be lead not just by thug but by an israeli officer call Assaf Harel . frankly , there be downright intimidation and an attempt to force out Armenian Christians . the christian population in the old city have decline from 25 % a century ago to just 1 % . will the Church of England stand up for Christians in the old city ? I be extremely grateful to my right hon . friend for his sustained interest in this really important issue . it would be an absolute tragedy if there be to be no Christians leave in the Holy Land . the House will have hear the figure that he have just present . the pressure face the armenian church exemplify those face by other church in Jerusalem and the west bank . the armenian Patriarch of Jerusalem be one of the custodian of the Holy Land and overseer of the four quarter of the city . the Church of England be absolutely clear that the historic settlement and the status quo of Jerusalem need to be maintain . the lack of any call for restraint from the israeli Government be escalate tension in Jerusalem , and that remain a great concern . sale of Land whether the Church provide guidance to parish on the sale of land where there be local opposition to that sale . when the Church Commissioners sell land , they seek to engage all those who be affect by a sale or development . the commissioner be not aware of any land that they own be for sale in North East Bedfordshire . I be grateful to my hon . friend for his response . the word " engage " be interesting in this context . it be the case that there be a church in my constituency where there be local opposition to the sale of allotment land . discussion be hold initially with the diocese , and then at Church House in Westminster . my hon . friend will be aware that in such discussion there be an imbalance of power , so can he assure I that there be adequate guidance to enable parishioner and local community to combat effectively pressure to sell land where there be clearly local opposition ? I particularly agree with my hon . friend about the importance of allotment , for which there be often a very long waiting list . the land at Henlow be own by the diocese of St Albans , and I will ask the diocesan secretary to contact he . of course , he can also speak to the Bishop of Bedford and the Bishop of St Albans , whom we both know well . charity law place a fiduciary duty on organisation to gain good value from the sale of their asset . that may be an issue that my hon . friend would want to raise with the relevant Government Minister , in the context of what be happen in his constituency . Church Schools what recent assessment the commissioner have make of the contribution of church school to education in ( a ) Harrow East constituency and ( b ) England . the Church of England educate more than 1 million child in its 4 , 700 school , which include 40 % of all primary school in England . church school in Harrow East do incredible work , and among they be St John ' s School in Stanmore , which have many child for whom English be not their first language and who be from disadvantaged background . that school achieve a reading progress score of 4 . 5 compare with the average score in the rest of the local authority of 1 . 1 . that excellent achievement be to be warmly commend . I be very proud of the fact that parent in Harrow East have the option of a Church education or the religious - ethos education of their choice . however , as we all know , the birth rate be drop , as be the number of child who need primary place in Harrow . there be therefore a direct threat to the roll at St John ' s and other religious - base school , which may become unviable . what action be the Church take to enable young people , particularly those who have recently come to this country , who may be of a christian faith but not necessarily of the Church of England faith , to identify with a Church school and get that sort of education ? it may surprise my hon . friend and the House that there be some Church of England school in which all the child be from other faith . that be because Church school be community school and welcome all . I will draw his concern about fall roll number both to the diocese of London and to the national education department of the Church of England . however , in my experience , parent have a pretty good nose for find their way to a good school . the result at St John ' s , about which I have just tell the House , should help in this case . business of the House will the Leader of the House give we the forthcoming business ? the business for the week commence 22 April will include : Monday 22 April — consideration of a Lords message to the Safety of Rwanda ( Asylum and Immigration ) Bill , follow by debate on a motion on hospice funding . the subject for this debate be determine by the Backbench Business Committee . Tuesday 23 April — Second reading of the Football Governance Bill , follow by , if necessary , consideration of Lords message to the Safety of Rwanda ( Asylum and Immigration ) Bill . Wednesday 24 April — remain stage of the Renters ( Reform ) Bill , follow by motion to approve a statutory instrument relate to terrorism . Thursday 25 April — debate on a motion on Lesbian Visibility Week , follow by debate on a motion on the Buckland review of autism employment . the subject for these debate be determine by the Backbench Business Committee . Friday 26 April — private member ' Bills . the provisional business for the week commence 29 April include : Monday 29 April — consideration in Committee of the Post Office ( Horizon System ) offence Bill . Tuesday 30 April — consideration of Lords amendment to the Digital Markets , Competition and Consumers Bill . Wednesday 1 May — remain stage of the Automated Vehicles Bill [ Lords ] . Thursday 2 May — business to be determine by the Backbench Business Committee . the House will rise for the early May bank holiday at the conclusion of business on 2 May and return on Tuesday 7 May . may I take this opportunity to put on record my deep sympathy to Mr Speaker on the loss of his dear father , Doug Hoyle ? I remember he as a real character and an important figure in the Labour movement over many decade , serve both as an MP and then as a peer . he be a proud northerner and represent the tradition of the Labour movement . I know that he be incredibly proud of Mr Speaker , and I know how much Mr Speaker and Cath care for he in his later year . my thought be with they both . the attack by Iran on Israel have rightly be condemn by all side of the House . thankfully , its intention be thwart , and we join together in call for restraint and de - escalation in the aftermath . we can not let those recent event deter or distract from international effort to bring about a sustainable ceasefire in Gaza and create the condition for a lasting two - state solution . as global conflict increase , it be unacceptable that the Government have reject recommendation from the cross - party Procedure Committee for the Foreign Secretary to be accountable in this House . it be simply not the case that he or the Government have be " forward - lean " in that regard , as the Leader of the House have say . statement by his now deputy — the Minister of State , Foreign , Commonwealth and Development Office , the right hon . member for Sutton Coldfield ( Mr Mitchell ) — have be few and far between , and his appearance at Select Committees have all but dry up . many time in these exchange , the Leader of the House have assure we that member would have the opportunity to question the Foreign Secretary , say that " when the Procedure Committee bring forward measure … I be sure those measure will be put in place " — [ Official Report , 30 November 2023 ; Vol . 741 , c . 1061 . ] , so why have she now block that — or do she lose the argument in Government ? she seem to struggle to be hear in Government lately . I know that she be keen to talk about defence spending too , although apparently no . 10 block she . do she want to take the opportunity today ? I know that she , like I , will be concern to hear that the UK now spend less on defence as a percentage of gdp than when Labour be last in office . the Leader of the House be not listen to when it come to legislative business before the House , either . I be really puzzled that she be unable to support a flagship piece of Government legislation , as she apparently think it be unworkable . forgive I , Madam Deputy Speaker , but be it not the job of the Leader of the House to ensure that any Government legislation table be well draft , think through , and will achieve its aim ? she chair the Government ' s legislation committee , do she not ? she have more influence than nearly anybody else on the drafting of a Bill , so what go wrong ? after our Easter break , we have return to groundhog day . it might be a new term , but it be the same old story : more decent Conservative Members announce that they be stand down ; Treasury Ministers hit the airwave and get the number wrong ; a weak Prime Minister who can not face down his own party , run scared from his own legislation and refuse to say how his cut to national insurance will be fund ; the former Prime Minister , the right hon . member for South West Norfolk ( Elizabeth Truss ) , still unable to show any contrition for her action directly cost mortgage holder hundred of pound a month ; Cabinet split and rival faction all on open display , with ever more extreme position and platform take ; and yet more Tory sleaze and scandal . today ' s revelation about the hon . member for Fylde ( Mark Menzies ) be extraordinary . they raise very serious question about the misuse of fund and the pressure put on other to facilitate it . perhaps more importantly , they also raise question about how these issue be handle by the conservative party . there be a worrying pattern of cover - up and inaction , so can the Leader of the House shed some light ? what do the Chief Whip , the Prime Minister and the party chairman , the right hon . member for North West Durham ( Mr Holden ) , know and when ? why do it take the publication of the story today for the Whip to be remove ? have this matter be refer to the police , and if not , why not ? it seem that yet again , like with the hon . member for Hazel Grove ( Mr Wragg ) and so many other recent case of sleaze and scandal , the Government be too weak to act decisively , and instead choose to brush thing under the carpet . the truth be that they have give up on governing , and give up on win the next election : it be all about save their own skin and the inevitable leadership battle . I can tell the Leader of the House that we on the Labour Benches have be there before , and it do not end well . the public do not easily forgive politician who put party before country and do not focus relentlessly on fix the problem they face . I join the hon . Lady in formally convey my sympathy to Mr Speaker on the loss of his father ; I have speak to he privately , and write to he as well . I also congratulate 3 dad walk on be award the petition of the year by the Petitions Committee for their important work on suicide prevention , and wish all colleague — 18 of they in total — and everyone else run the marathon good luck . on Monday evening , the very special jewish festival of Passover begin . like their ancestor before they , jewish family around the world will gather around their Seder table to retell the story of the jewish people ' s exodus from Egypt . however , this year many of they will be leave an empty seat open at those table for those still hold captive by Hamas in Gaza . I hope this will be the last jewish holiday where they be unable to celebrate with their family , and wish chag sameach to all those celebrate . I also thank all hon . member for their resolve and support with regard to Israel ' s security — that be an important message that we send from this House . the hon . Lady mention the issue of the Foreign Secretary , and the Government ' s work in that regard , be accountable to this House . since the Foreign Secretary be appoint , we have have eight Foreign , Commonwealth and Development Office statement , three prime ministerial statement on foreign affair , a general debate in Government time on the situation in the Red sea and 17 Westminster Hall debate respond to by fcdo minister , as well as oral question in both Houses . we be stick with the usual precedent of both Houses . the hon . Lady ask I to comment on defence , and I be very happy to compare this Government ' s record with the last Labour Government ' s record . we have have the large uplift to the defence budget since the end of the cold war . when we come into office , we inherit a defence budget and equipment programme with a £ 71 billion black hole , on Royal United Services Institute figure . I remember from my own constituency that Portsmouth , Faslane and Plymouth be have to state the case to continue to be naval basis in this country . the previous Labour Government know their record with member of the armed force be poor , because in 2005 they disenfranchise all of they by change the rule on voter registration . the hon . Lady point to the vote on smoking . I think free vote in this place on such matter be good . however , whatever our difference of opinion , in future year I be hopeful there will be few fag packet around on which labour economic team can do their sum , and I think that be a jolly good thing . Labour Members seem to be continue to push their line on national insurance contribution . good look to they in that respect , but let I just point out some of the reason why it will not get traction . national insurance contribution receipt do not determine the NHS budget or pension , it be only the Labour party that have cut the NHS budget and it be actually Labour ' s policy — at least , it be when I come into the Chamber — to support our tax cut . I hope that be helpful information for the hon . Lady . the hon . Lady mention some very serious allegation and other incident that come to light during the recess . these be very serious matter and some of they be under police investigation , so she would not expect I to comment on they , but we take these matter very seriously . we have take action again this week to improve online safety and other matter . the deepfake phenomenon be more widespread than we might think , and the public may well be fool into think that something be the case when it be not , or that a person they know be manifestly different , and we need to expose such scam . the hon . Lady talk about defence , and someone might be tempt to believe a person be commit to this nation ' s nuclear deterrent , but note that , in reality , the same person be content to serve in the Cabinet of the last Labour leader and that six of his Front Benchers vote to end our nuclear deterrent . they might think that the Labour party be the party of the NHS , but as we know , it be the only party that have cut the NHS budget . they might be tempt by the sound of " securonomic " , only to discover that that be build on unfunded pledge and unspecified tax increase . someone might be tempt by the look of the shadow Chancellor ' s commitment to end unpaid internship , only to find that she have use they herself , or of Labour ' s campaign against fire and rehire , only to discover that that be exactly what Labour HQ do under the current Labour leader . they might be suck in by talk about its wanting to protect pensioner and then learn that it will not commit to our triple lock , and that hundred of thousand more pensioner be live in absolute poverty under the last Labour Government . business might be flatter by email and online ad from Labour , unaware of the 70 new regulatory burden that would be pile on to they under a Labour Government . my advice be : " Don ' t be tempt ! " People should not be fool by a shadow Foreign Secretary who nominate the right hon . member for Islington North ( Jeremy Corbyn ) to be Prime Minister ; a shadow International Development Secretary who want to turn our armed force into a hippy hit squad ; a party that , until last year , have a shadow Minister for disarmament ; a shadow Energy Secretary whose poor judgment on national security and our interest lead to disaster and to Op Shader ; a shadow Deputy Prime Minister who hold other to standard she do not think should apply to herself ; or a party that talk tough on border , but as of yesterday , have vote 132 time again strengthen they . the Leader of the Opposition have spend four year in office post picture to his profile of Neil Kinnock , Tony Blair and Margaret Thatcher . do not be fool : behind that profile sit a man with no plan for this country , except the vested interest of militant union , and support for the argument of those who would do this nation harm . it be deepfake Labour lead by catfish Keir . do not fall for it . rise — Order . before we proceed may I , on behalf of Mr Speaker , thank the Leader of the House and the shadow Leader of the House , and all other member who have express their sympathy to he on the loss of his father ? Lord Hoyle , Doug Hoyle , be a dedicated parliamentarian , an inspirational , kind and amusing gentleman , and a very proud father . he will be very greatly miss , and I be sure the whole House will join I in send our sympathy to Mr Speaker and his family . our thought will be with they as they make arrangement for Lord Hoyle ' s funeral . I call the Father of the House . we will remember Doug Hoyle ' s smile , we will remember he with a smile , and I remember that he get elect eight month before I do . question on the Cass report in this House be follow yesterday by those in the other place , and the Lords Minister say that he would respond to a number of point in writing . if information be give by the Minister that be not give to this House , could it be put in a write statement or put in the Library ? many of the point , especially those make by Baroness Hayter , be important . we need an inquiry into how thing get into the state that have to be expose by the four - year review by Dr Hilary Cass , for which we all thank she . one thing that have not yet happen , but may happen in the next week or two , be the publication of the report from the Select Committee on the Holocaust Memorial Bill through its hybrid procedure . it be come later than we anticipate , and may contain some interesting recommendation or decision . will the Government say , as soon as possible , whether they intend to go on try to ram this proposal through ? they have already spend more than £ 30 million achieve nothing in the last eight and a half year , so will they have a roundtable and consider spend £ 20 million get a memorial up in the next two year , during the lifetime of some of the holocaust survivor , and move the learn centre to the Imperial War Museum ? I thank my hon . friend for that question , and I will certainly ensure that his request about the Cass review be undertake . he know that a process be be go through at the moment for the memorial , and I will again ensure that the relevant Secretary of State have hear what he say today . there be also question to that Secretary of State on Monday , and he may wish to make use of that opportunity . I call the SNP spokesperson . may I associate myself with the remark about Passover and about Mr Speaker ' s late father , and send my sincere condolence to he and his family ? since we last meet for business question , the Leader of the House have be keep busy , and I think that one of her social medium post on x during the recess be particularly eye - catch . indeed , it be unique because it ask her constituent to contact she directly , so outraged be she by a burn injustice . it start : " damn right . I know many people will have strong feeling on this … email I … and I will make sure your concern " be hear . those be such strong feeling that you may wonder , Madam Deputy Speaker , what cause that righteous anger , which be not just from the Leader of the House but from member across the Chamber . be it child get sick swimming through human faece in the river of England , or perhaps the endless strike in the NHS in England ? be it arm sale to Israel , or an economic crisis that be trigger by a former Prime Minister , now saviour of the west ? be it the cruel , immoral , illegal and ruinously expensive Rwanda scheme ? perhaps the angry post be just a response to the Leader of the House ' s constituent in Portsmouth , who be now furious — rightly enough — about the likely demolition of the brand new border control post in Portsmouth , which be among a herd of such white elephant around the UK , and a direct result of the right hon . Lady ' s ongoing Brexit confusion that will cost a fortune . no — that be not what prompt the outburst . the Leader of the House and many of her colleague be furious about England ' s new football top — " damn right " they be . so , no , the farce of the doom border post on the right hon . Lady ' s doorstep have not figure in the busy social medium output we see from she . her government ' s disastrous Brexit import charge be none the less come in on 30 April , cause even more costly confusion and raise very real concern about food shortage , as well as her own local difficulty . may I ask the Leader of the House for an urgent debate on these new Brexit charge and the ongoing catastrophe of Brexit , which scot reject , yet be force to suffer the ill effect of ? her constituent will be interested to hear an answer — ideally before she waste more time launch into another anti - scotland video script . first , I should thank the hon . Lady for her concern about Portsmouth port , which be do very well . we have a brand - new passenger terminal and an enormous number of new ship visit , which be project to increase our local economy by £ 300 million over the next few year . that be in addition to massively increase and diversify the freight come into that port . I hope she will welcome the news that the United Kingdom be export more and have just become the fourth - large exporter in the world . we be do very well . I be always keen to facilitate my constituent who wish to make complaint to all sort of organisation in their ability to do that . I just say to the hon . Lady that our nation ' s flag be important to the people of Portsmouth . I suggest that she might like to think twice before she mock that view . these thing and these tradition be important . they be not the worship of ashe , but the preservation of fire . the hon . Lady have be busy , too , during the recess , pen article about how much my colleague and I hate Scotland and the scottish people . she have do it again in her opening remark and her question to I . at some point , she will have to say why she think that be the case . I know that the scottish rugby team have be do well against England , but that be not ground to justify her accusation against I . the SNP seem hellbent on expose hate where there be none . I understand that of the 9 , 000 hate crime report under the SNP ' s new law , with 3 , 419 make on 1 April alone , only nine will qualify under this new law , and seven of those nine have now be dismiss . Police Scotland deserve our thank and our sympathy . I be sure that those police officer join the force to do something much more helpful for their community . it be only the Conservatives who have stand against this lunacy , and we will continue to do that . other party have the opportunity to repeal this law and choose not to . we on the Government Benches know that law and movement base on hate and division always try to curtail freedom , and we know that in the end such movement always fail . I associate myself with your remark , Madam Deputy Speaker , about the late father of Mr Speaker . the Chairman of the Backbench Business Committee , the hon . member for Gateshead ( Ian Mearns ) , be with his family right now , because his daughter - in - law be still extremely ill . I be sure the whole House will send our sympathy and good wish for a speedy recovery . [ hon . member : " hear , hear . " ] on behalf of the Backbench Business Committee , I thank my right hon . friend the Leader of the House for the allocation of time for the hospice funding debate . I hope that will take place on Monday . it be heavily subscribe , I believe , and a lot of Members will want to take part . we have now fill our Chamber time . on 2 May , there will be a debate on security in the western Balkans and another on pension scheme . on 9 May , if we be give the time , there will be debate on miner and mining community and on the BBC mid - term charter review , both of which be popular matter for discussion . we have also allocate all the time available to we in Westminster Hall . if the Leader of the House have more time that she need to allocate to the Backbench Business Committee , we can readily fill up that time if she wish . the Mayor of London make a solemn promise before the last mayoral election that he would not expand the ultra low emission zone to outer London . no soon have he be re - elect than he start a consultation on expand ULEZ to outer London . the fact that 66 % of respondent object seem to have no bearing on his decision ; he immediately introduce ULEZ to the whole of outer London , and people be suffer as a result . at this election , he be promise not to introduce pay per mile if he be re - elect . can we trust he ? not a bit of it . the reality be that his adviser — this be a speech . will the hon . Gentleman give way ? order . if the hon . member for Harrow East ( Bob Blackman ) be out of order and have to sit down , I would tell he so . I do not need the hon . member for Cardiff West ( Kevin Brennan ) to tell I how to conduct the affair of the Chamber . thank you , Madam Deputy Speaker . one of the Mayor ' s key adviser have let slip that the Mayor be plan to do precisely that if he be re - elect . can we have a debate in Government time on promise make at election and promise break ? first , I thank my hon . friend for step up in place of the Chair of the Backbench Business Committee . I be sure that all member will join he in send our thought and love to the hon . member for Gateshead ( Ian Mearns ) and his whole family at this difficult time . I also thank he for the advert for future Backbench Business Committee debate . my hon . friend be absolutely right to point out the abysmal record and broken promise of Labour ' s London Mayor , whose war on motorist will , I be afraid , continue . he be target people through the ULEZ and low - traffic neighbourhood , which disproportionately hit those on low income . meanwhile , Transport for London be not in a financially stable position , and every year , 15 , 000 few home be be deliver than the Mayor promise in his London plan . labour have a record of fail not only those in Wales , Birmingham , Nottingham and countless other place , but Londoners , who will be safe with Susan Hall . I urge all hon . member to support she . the Prime Minister have say that he would hold a general election in June or July if the result of May ' s election be not that bad for his party . may I ask the Leader of the House to persuade the Prime Minister to consider the good of the country when consider and decide on the timing of the general election ? I thank the hon . Lady for that innovative question . date of election be way above my pay grade , but I will again urge everyone to vote conservative when that opportunity arise . last month , Niyak Ghorbani be wrongly arrest for hold up a placard say that Hamas be terrorist . he be later de - arrest . yesterday , just yard from this place , the same man be once again arrest for hold the same sign . he be then de - arrest again . Hamas be terrorist , and we should all say so and defend freedom of speech . will my right hon . friend organise a debate in Government time on how we can end two - tier policing and restore public confidence in the Metropolitan police ? I thank my right hon . friend for his question . this be an important matter that other hon . member have raise in the Chamber , particularly when the first incident happen . the policy be clear , and I be pleased that , in both situation , the arrest be reverse , but it go to show the importance of our have in place not just the right policy , but the operational policing plan , as well as training be undertake to ensure that officer , who often face difficult and confusing situation , know exactly what they should be do and when . I shall ensure that both the Home Secretary and the head of the Metropolitan police have hear his remark . it be over a year since Sir Brian Langstaff make his final recommendation on compensation . the Government have accept the moral case for compensation to be pay . More than 100 people have die in the last 12 month , and still no money have be allocate for compensation . it be a step forward yesterday that amendment be table to the Victims and Prisoners Bill in the other place , but the amendment that this House agree , which include a three - month timeframe for a compensation body to be set up , have be remove by Government amendment in the other place . could we have a statement from the Minister on why it be take so long to set up this compensation body , and to get compensation pay ? if the Government want to , they could expedite matter , as they have do with the Post Office scandal , and could bring a stand - alone Bill to this House . I be sure that the House would get that Bill through to get compensation to these people before they die . I thank again the right hon . Lady for her diligent work on this incredibly important issue . she meet the Minister concern — the Paymaster General — yesterday , and he will have give she an update on his work . we recognise that many victim have wait too long for compensation . this government establish the inquiry , and the Minister establish the compensation review that be do . the Government amendment that the right hon . Lady refer to include a provision for interim payment to be make to the estate of people who be infect by contaminate blood product , have pass away , and be register with the infected blood scheme or its predecessor scheme , where an interim payment have not already be make . I have regular meeting with the Minister who be oversee this matter . she will know that he be work at pace . I be glad that we have grip this issue , but we need to get those interim payment and full compensation to people swiftly , and I be confident that that will happen . one of the big issue that my constituent raise on the doorstep be the condition of our road . a lot of work be be do to fix the road in Gedling and Nottinghamshire , but cash be a big issue . I warmly welcome the fact that , as part of the new East Midlands Combined Authority , Nottinghamshire and Derbyshire will have one of the large devolved transport budget . give this change , could we have a debate in Government time on infrastructure and investment in the east midland ? do my right hon . friend agree that such a debate would be a good opportunity to highlight the fact that , have do so much work to secure a devolution deal for the east midland , my hon . friend the Member for Mansfield ( Ben Bradley ) be the person well place to lead the east midland into this new future ? my hon . friend be right that on 2 May , those in the east midland will have the opportunity to ensure that that happen . my hon . friend the Member for Mansfield ( Ben Bradley ) — that be not how his name will appear on the ballot paper — have help to secure the big single devolve transport budget in the country . he have plan to invest that in road resurfacing and well bus and train route , and he have a plan for how that will attract job and investment . in contrast , the Labour party have waste £ 38 million of taxpayer ' money on its fail Robin Hood Energy scheme , and like other labour local authority , Nottingham City Council have declare itself bankrupt , which raise council tax and make the hard - work people of nottinghamshire pay for Labour ' s failure . if my hon . friend secure a debate on this topic , it would be well attend . I add my sincere condolence to Mr Speaker and his family on the loss of his father . a report from the Jo Cox Foundation call the abuse of MPs a " threat to democracy " . that apply to abuse of not just mp , but elect member at all level , particularly local councillor . accord to the Local Government Association , 70 % of councillor have have similar experience to mps . I have a meeting with the Bath and North East Somerset group leader last week , at which I hear harrowing story . we mps now get extra security through Operation Bridger , but local councillor do not get the same protection . be it not time that the Government put their mind to protect elect member at all level ? may we have a statement on that , please ? the hon . Lady raise a very important matter . she will know that the defend democracy taskforce , head by the Minister for Security , be look at these issue , and be , in some case , provide support to councillor or council across the country . the Secretary of State for Science , Innovation and Technology also meet Mr Speaker and I early this week about online abuse that hon . member face . there need to be more focus on what platform be do , their state responsibility , and whether they be live up to they . I will ensure that that Secretary of State and the Minister for Security have hear what the hon . Lady have say today . I applaud the Government ' s effort to try to sort out the Gibraltar - Spain border . I be sure that I speak for the whole House when I say how encouraged I be by the agreement announce last Friday . however , the EU Commissioner have be contrary on the issue of airport good and mobility , and we have be give only some detail on the direction of travel in those area . the Chief Minister of Gibraltar , Fabian Picardo , have go on record to say that Gibraltar will never be spanish , a sentiment in which I be sure the whole House will share . in the light of the comment by the EU Commissioner , will my right hon . friend make time for a debate in the House , in which it can be make clear by all party that the House will never compromise on british sovereignty on the Rock , or its people ' s right to self - determination ? I thank my right hon . friend for afford the Government the opportunity to state again at the Dispatch Box that we will never compromise on the british sovereignty of the Rock , or the right of its people to self - determination . Gibraltar be incredibly important to we strategically and culturally . Gibraltar enable we to defend its interest and our , and as a consequence , we will defend Gibraltar from anyone who have other idea . may we have a debate in Government time on the role of regional Mayors ? Lord Houchen , the Conservative Tees Valley Mayor , seem to believe that his role be to benefit his mate , while distance himself as far as possible from the conservative party in whose name he be stand , whereas Chris McEwan , our Labour party candidate , and Kim McGuinness , our fantastic candidate for North East Mayor , believe that their role would be to bring opportunity to every corner of the region , and to be a voice for everyone in the region . who be right ? the fact that Ben Houchen irritate the Labour party so much be a testament to his good work . he save Teesside Airport from closure , and it be now deliver new flight for local people . he secure the UK ' s first and large freeport , which be already secure billion of pound of private investment , with the Teesworks site have secure investment from Thai bank . the demolition and decontamination of land have be deliver ahead of budget and time , ready for reinvestment , and he have do many other thing , but the statistic that stand out most be that he have increase the employment rate in the area by 3 % above the national average . he be do a great job . he be a good man , and I hope that he will have the opportunity to continue to do that good job in the wake of the appalling smear by the Labour party . I thank my right hon . friend for allocate a slot on Monday for the hospice debate . do she agree that the Prime Minister ' s decision to establish the Darlington economic campus , follow relentless campaigning by I , my fantastic Tees Valley colleague and our marvellous Mayor Ben Houchen , be a game changer for Darlington ? do she far agree that save our airport , launch Teesworks and restore Tees pride be further example of why Ben Houchen should continue to serve Teesside , Darlington and Hartlepool ? can she find time for a debate on the modernising revolution that Ben have unleash , which be benefit every part of our great region ? I thank my hon . friend for ask another question with regard to our Ben Houchen , because his achievement simply could not possibly be cram into one answer . he be also enable Net Zero Teesside , the world ' s first industrial scale carbon capture , usage and storage facility . he be deliver over £ 200 million of investment in Darlington , Middlesbrough and Hartlepool ' s rail station to improve rail capacity , and he be use reallocate High Speed 2 money to transform local transport , include the long - overdue Darlington northern link road . again , I urge anyone who have the opportunity to vote on 2 May to enable he to continue that good work to do so . one of my constituent recently get in touch after flee domestic abuse in his relationship . owe to societal stigma , male survivor be often overlook , leave they without adequate safeguarding service or police support . give that one third of domestic abuse victim be male , will the Leader of the House find time for a debate , in Government time , about improve support for all victim of domestic abuse ? the hon . Lady raise a very important point . many of the measure that we have introduce to deal with domestic abuse or with people try to control other in one way or another , include financially , apply to everyone who be in the unfortunate position of be a victim . advertise these service to everyone who might be affect be also important , so I shall ensure that the relevant Home Office Minister have hear what she have say . I welcome the Government ' s work to expand the role of community pharmacy as part of our healthcare system . I particularly welcome the Pharmacy First scheme , which be successfully pilot in Cornwall . however , while we be place more demand on pharmacy , the number of community pharmacy in Cornwall be fall , with both Boots and Asda announce closure . I know that my hon . friend the Member for North Cornwall ( Scott Mann ) have write to Asda oppose the closure of its pharmacy in Bodmin . pharmacy owner tell I that the current funding arrangement be not adequate to meet the grow demand . may we have a statement from the Department of Health and Social Care on the Government ' s plan to maintain , and hopefully increase , the number of community pharmacy , particularly in rural area , and ensure that they receive the funding that they need ? I thank my hon . friend for welcome the excellent service Pharmacy First , which be a much appreciated and convenient scheme that enable people to access certain prescription drug without have to go to their general practitioner . give that pharmacy be private business that receive NHS funding for pharmaceutical service , closure decision be obviously make by those commercial organisation , but my hon . friend ' s local care board will have a responsibility to ensure good coverage of those service . I shall ensure that the Secretary of State for Health and Social Care have hear his concern , and that all his constituent be able to make use of all available service , include Pharmacy First . I join the Leader of the House in wish the jewish community , whom I be proud to represent , chag Pesach sameach . will the Leader of the House join I in congratulate Bernard , Jonno and the entire team at Radcliffe football club on reach their high ever position as champion of the northern premier league ? they will be lift the trophy this Saturday . will she agree to a debate in Government time about the importance of grassroots football and its benefit to local community ? but more importantly , up the Boro ! I be sure that the whole House will want to join the hon . gentleman in congratulate Bernard , Jonno and the whole team on their incredible achievement . as the hon . Gentleman know , we have recently hold debate on the importance of community sport to not only help community but provide a pipeline of new talent . I shall ensure that the Secretary of State for Culture , Media and Sport have hear what he have say . for year , the town of Amlwch have be forget , but not on my watch . anglesey freeport and the UK Government ' s recent purchase of the Wylfa nuclear site mean job and investment come to the north of the island — but I be not stop there . along with a local resident , Mandy Jones , I have launch a campaign to get the supermarket Aldi to come to Amlwch to give my constituent the opportunity to shop locally . will the Leader of the House support my Aldi to Amlwch campaign , and if it be successful , will she join Mandy and I in cut the ribbon ? I congratulate my hon . friend on all her achievement : the freeport ; the partnership between the county council and Stena Line , which will be a huge boost to the local economy ; and of course her championing of energy project , the prosperity park and the inaugural trade centre of excellence in Wales . she have help to secure all those thing . I will be very happy to do all I can to help her late campaign , which sound like a good one . although I can not commit to a date until she give I one , I hope that if I be able to attend , I will be able to help cut the ribbon — perhaps with a sword . I be recently able to visit California , in the United States , with the Scottish Affairs Committee to look at the opportunity there and the ecosystem that have be create . everyone we speak to in the space sector speak very highly of our university and the sector in this country . however , we regularly hear of a skill shortage in that industry , which be a massive opportunity not just for Scotland , but for the whole of the UK . it be some time since we have a debate in this place on the opportunity in the space sector . would the Leader of the House consider set aside time for such a debate ? I thank the hon . Lady for all she be do to support this grow and important sector in every part of the United Kingdom . the Government be very aware of the need to ensure that we have skill and a grow workforce that can contribute to it . we be deliver on our commitment to build a whole - UK space ecosystem by work with business , academic institution and the devolved administration , and we have back that with funding . she will know how to apply for a debate , but I shall make sure that the Secretary of State have hear her keenness to give this very important matter more of an airing . can we have a debate on the importance of improve NHS service and expand capacity in Barnet so that I can update the House on the excellent progress make towards the enlargement of Barnet Hospital A & E , with planning permission secure , work under way , more staff arrive , and patient expect to have a significant improvement in facility by January ? I congratulate my right hon . friend on all the work she have do on this matter , particularly secure the £ 6 . 5 million redevelopment of the urgent and emergency care unit in her local hospital . I think that the timeline she outline be correct , and the work will certainly have a massive impact on improve patient waiting time and reduce ambulance handover time by create additional capacity . she will know that she can air question to the Secretary of State on this matter on 23 April , which be next week . I be absolutely delighted to tell the House that 81 student from the Bobby Moore Academy in West Ham will be welcome to the Royal Opera House today to watch a performance of " Swan Lake " . I hope that they absolutely love it and that it inspire a lifetime of get joy from the art . I be sure the Leader of the House will agree with I and my right hon . and learn Friend the Leader of the Opposition that every child should have the opportunity to fall in love with the art . can we have a debate in Government time where we can explore way that we can give working - class community like mine great access to the art ? I hope that all student from the Bobby Moore Academy have a wonderful time watch " Swan Lake " today . the hon . Lady know that we be absolutely committed to ensure that every child can experience high - quality performance . the funding that we have distribute have be across the whole of the UK , which be very important . she have just miss the opportunity to raise this issue with the Secretary of State for Culture , Media and Sport , so I shall make sure that she have hear what the hon . Lady have say today . can we debate whether change to the Standing Orders be necessary ? they be the near thing that we have to a write constitution . yesterday , there be multiple reference to guest in the Gallery . a few week ago , when an hon . Member make such as reference , the fellow actually get up and take a bow . it may be that the current Standing Orders be no long fit for purpose and that allow such reference should be in the gift of the Chair , but we ought to make the change , rather than just go on ignore the Standing Orders . I thank my right hon . friend for raise a question that be actually in my brief , which be quite a new experience for I . other Members have raise similar concern , and I will make sure that Mr Speaker hear that . I think some flexibility be appreciate , as we quite often have particular people that we in the House want to acknowledge and send support to in that manner , but I will make sure that Mr Speaker have hear that point . it will be a matter for he , as well as for the whole of the House . in the meantime , I be sure that we can rely on my right hon . friend to loudly tut whenever that happen . on Tuesday , the Prime Minister be able to rely on Labour vote to pass his flagship smoke Bill . do the Leader of the House agree that , sadly for Government Members , that show a Prime Minister in office but not actually in power ? we have free vote on some matter in this place , and after the initial shock , confusion and pressure from have to decide which Lobby to go into , that be appreciate by hon . member . on that vote , the Prime Minister put forward world - lead legislation , which he have pass by this House . I think that that show that he be very much in control . my local newspaper , the Grimsby Telegraph , carry a recent report praise the work of community police officer Dave Cave , highlight the importance of community police . I be pleased to say that , in Humberside police , both chief officer and the excellent police commissioner , Jon Evison , also support community policing . could we have a debate in Government time to explore police method and the importance of community police ? I be sure that everyone in the House would want to send their congratulation to pc Dave Cave for his near 20 year of service . I be sure that all colleague would join I in do that and would congratulate he on that well - deserve award . he exemplify what it mean to be a police officer and a fantastic community champion . I be sure that my hon . friend know how to apply for a debate , but such an opportunity would also afford we the ability to shine a spotlight on the very good work do by our police force . we do not note and praise they enough for it . constituent of mine in Pontypridd and Glyncoch have get in touch regard concern about the operation of Craig - yr - Hesg quarry . will the Leader of the House support I in secure a debate to ensure that real - time silica dust monitoring be invest in up and down the country , so that my constituent and many other live near quarry site do not have to live in fear ? I be sorry to hear about the situation in the hon . Lady ' s constituency . the next question to the relevant Secretary of State be not until 9 May , so I will write and make sure that he have hear what she have say . as a keen motorcyclist , I welcome the Government set out an ambitious vision for the moped , motorcycle and entire power light vehicle sector in their 2021 transport decarbonisation plan . a road map to realise that vision be in their joint action plan with the Motorcycle Industry Association . the key to reduce emission and alleviate congestion be improve access to the sector through a full - scale licence review . can we please have a debate in Government time on the Motorcycle Industry Association ' s a licence to Net Zero campaign ? I thank my right hon . friend for raise that campaign . he will know that the Department have be meet with that body — I think that they meet at a roundtable on 17 January — and with other part of industry on the issue that he touch on . although there be no current plan to reform category l vehicle licence , official meet stakeholder at the end of last year , and I think that they be due to have a follow - up ministerial roundtable with the relevant Minister shortly after the May recess , which that particular trade body will be attend . however , I thank my right hon . friend for continue to campaign on its behalf . I echo the condolence pay to Mr Speaker and note that mass be offer in the crypt chapel last night for the repose of Doug Hoyle ' s soul . we have hear the Leader of the House reinforce the Government ' s rejection of the Procedure Committee ' s recommendation for the Foreign Secretary to be scrutinise at the Bar of the House . she have also write to encourage the Procedure Committee to investigate the operation of the Standing Orders govern Opposition day . what be the point of the Procedure Committee investigate matter on her recommendation if the Government simply dismiss its recommendation ? it be important that I raise these matter with the Procedure Committee , but it be up to the Committee what it decide . on the latter point , the Committee have a meeting yesterday to discuss my correspondence . I think it do a very good job , and the Government do not dismiss its finding . more often than not , we agree with its finding . where we have disagreement — and we disagree with only part of that particular report — we publish our response . of course , the other place also have a stake in this matter . last month I be target by a honeytrap plot , which I immediately report to the police and the authority . I put on the record my sincere thank to Leicestershire police , who have be exemplary in take it on . I also thank the whip for their support . however , I have significant concern about how this be handle by parliamentary security . will the Leader of the House ask Mr Speaker to conduct a full review of the system for report and investigate incident report by mp , so that lesson can be learn and no MP have to go through the same experience ? I be very sorry to learn of what happen to my hon . friend . I thank he for put on the record his thank to his local police force , which have be fantastic in its work . I will of course ensure that not just Mr Speaker but the whole House of Commons Commission have hear his concern . I know that the head of security here take these matter very seriously , and I be sure this will be follow up . I associate myself with the remark of the Leader of the House and the shadow Leader of the House on the sad passing of Lord Hoyle , who be a much - love icon of Warrington , and in wish my fellow Jews chag Pesach sameach . my constituent Adam Rowland recently meet the Prime Minister , who promise live on television , no less , that he would be in touch with he regard his negative reaction to the covid vaccine and his difficulty access the recommend treatment on the NHS . since then , despite repeat request , Adam have have no response from anyone in Government and feel like he be be treat as some sort of pariah and anti - vax conspiracy theorist . he be not . he be just a man who do the right thing in take up the vaccine and be one of the unfortunate minority who become ill , and he need some support . will the Leader of the House please help Adam get the response he be promise ? of course I will do that . if the hon . Lady give I the detail , I will follow it up straight after this session . those who be injure by vaccine need access to support , healthcare and answer , and we should ensure that they get they . the Government be absolutely right to fund the doubling of dental training place over the next five year , because they understand how important access to NHS dentistry be for our constituent . for a person grow up in Broadland , the near dentistry training place be currently in Birmingham or London , because the east of England be the only region that do not have a dental training school . may we have a debate on the importance of have a new dental training school in East Anglia , and preferably at the University of East Anglia ? my hon . friend be absolutely right that increase the number and make sure that every region have medical school and dental school be vital , and not just for grow the workforce but for ensure that the workforce be locate where it be require . I will ensure that the Secretary of State have hear what he have say today . my hon . friend will know that we have have a huge catch - up job to do since the pandemic . we be do that with 23 % more treatment deliver in the last year alone , with an additional 1 . 7 million adult and 800 , 000 child receive NHS dental care , but more need to be do to ensure that everyone can remain dentally fit . let I join other Members in send my sympathy to Mr Speaker and his family on the loss of his father , Lord Hoyle . I have write to the Health Secretary four time on behalf of a constituent to ask why 65 to 69 - year - old have be exclude from the recent so - call " expansion " of the roll - out of the NHS shingle vaccine . those who be turn 65 be eligible for it , but those already 65 to 69 be miss out and must wait until they be 70 to become eligible , despite the extra vulnerability of their age group . not a single response out of the four from the Minister give I a straight answer as to why 65 to 69 - year - old be be exclude from this vaccine roll - out . will the Leader of the House advise I on any other way I can get a clear response from the Minister that lay out clinical or practical reasoning to back up her Department ' s decision to exclude 65 to 69 - year - old from the shingles vaccine ? the hon . Lady raise an important question . if the Department have respond to she — I will certainly ask why it have not — the reply would have talk about the step change in the roll - out and how the Department be go to manage the expansion of access to that vaccine . that be understandable , but I know that it be not acceptable to many member in this House , because from the logic of that it follow that there will be a vaccine available to people who would benefit from it , and the evidence show that it be clinically effective and cost - effective for those individual , but they will not be able to access it now . member be right to press the policy on that front . obviously , she can raise this issue at question , but I know it be a concern for a large number of Members and so will make sure that the Secretary of State have hear this and will ask the committee that look at this policy to sense - check what it be do . progress have be make at Alstom in Derby , with a potential order of 10 train approve for funding . we hope that will secure the site ' s future , and I thank my right hon . friend the Transport Secretary for his hard work on this matter in recent month . however , question remain about the future of rail in the UK , include , of course , about the future of great British Rail ' s new headquarters in Derby . may we have a debate in Government time on the issue ? first , let I thank my hon . friend for all the work she be do to ensure that this new HQ be establish quickly . I know that a lot of close working have be undertake with Derby - base partner , include the city council , to create a share plan for that hq , and that she have be diligent and have be table write parliamentary question on this matter . I shall ensure that the Secretary of State have hear she continue campaigning on it today . she will know that the next Transport question will take place on 16 May , which will be after that timetable have be confirm . I have be deal with a long - run case involve constituent who lose their investment in the Paradise Golf and Beach Resort in Morocco . some 800 investor , the majority of they british , lose investment in the resort after construction abruptly halt in 2016 . I have contact the Foreign , Commonwealth and Development Office numerous time , as well as write to the relevant ambassador . the fcdo confirm the moroccan ambassador ' s willingness to meet investor , but no meeting have be arrange to date . may we have a debate in Government time on how the fcdo can well support those , such as my constituent , who have be leave high and dry in this situation ? I be sorry to hear about that situation and will of course make sure that the fcdo know that the hon . Lady have ask about it again today . the next question to the ministerial team will be on 30 April , so I shall make sure that they have hear that she might raise the issue then . if my office can facilitate get either consular assistance or more long - term assistance for those investor , please do call on we . as someone who grow up in Birmingham , it pain I to see the total financial mismanagement of Birmingham City Council by the Labour party . its record stand in stark contrast to that of Mayor Andy Street . if growth , regeneration and house building be leave to the Labour party alone in the west midland , it will mean no progress at good , but regression at worst . do my right hon . friend agree that voter should support Andy Street in May , to ensure that they keep a Mayor who can at least actually get thing do ? whatever people ' s political persuasion , they recognise that about Andy Street . he be above politic . when it have come down to fight for the people he represent , he have choose to side with they , in some case against the policy of his own party . he deliver for people . he have build more home for young people and family than in any other region . he have secure new and improved rail service across the region . hundred of million of pound have be spend on redevelop wasteland instead of build on Birmingham ' s green belt . some £ 10 billion in Government investment have be secure for the region , and 10 time the amount of transport funding than anyone else have ever manage to get in . he have secure some 100 , 000 new job from his covid recovery plan , 4 , 000 apprenticeship and four metro extension . and that be all without raise a single penny of additional tax . if people want that record to continue , they need to let Andy Street continue as their Mayor . the Leader of the House will have follow the effort of the Secretary of State for Environment , Food and Rural Affairs to oppose plan for an incinerator in his constituency . she will also be aware that minister have now issue a direction to the Environment Agency " to temporarily pause the determination of certain environmental permit for new waste incineration facility " , say that will give Department for Environment , Food and Rural Affairs official the chance to " lead a piece of work consider the role of waste incineration in the management of residual waste " . she will also be aware that the majority of permit for incinerator be consider and grant by local authority rather than by the Environment Agency . much to the annoyance of resident across Calderdale , this pause do not apply to permit apply for from local authority rather than from the Environment Agency . do she agree that unless all permit be pause and all application be consider as part of this piece of work , it look as if it be one rule for Government Ministers and another rule for everybody else ? from what I know of the situation , I do not think what the hon . Lady say follow . there will be different consideration in different case . I suggest that she raise this at the next departmental question if she be concerned about other project . I will ensure that the Department have hear what she have say today . if she be go to make such accusation , she need a bit more evidence than that which she have furnish we with today . I know that the Leader of the House will be look forward to next Tuesday , 23 April , which be St George ' s day , as we celebrate with the Royal Society of St George , host by Mr Speaker in Speaker ' s House . will she ensure that we have a debate in Government time about english affair ? we often hear about Scottish , Northern Irish and Welsh affair , but how about a debate on England ? also , can we please have a public holiday for St George ' s day , perhaps combine with May day , so that we have one great celebration for our country ? I thank my hon . friend for afford we all the opportunity to come to the event that he have put together next week and have a jolly good knee - up to celebrate St George ' s day . I hope that he have extend the invitation to many member , although the SNP spokesperson may not wish to attend , give the comment she make early about the english flag , or she might need a little encouragement to do so . he be right that we should be celebrate our national , regional and cultural heritage across the county of England , and I hope that the event next week will give we the opportunity to do so . in January , the Bank of Scotland branch in Brodick close . in March , the post office in Brodick close . in May , the post office in West Kilbride will close . and in October , the Royal Bank of Scotland branch in Largs will close . as bank abandon our town , especially across North Ayrshire and Arran , and as our postmaster struggle to stay afloat , will the Leader of the House make a statement set out the importance of access to cash and financial inclusion ? do she share my view that we need minimum service standard for bank and post office , include physical outlet in our town ? I thank the hon . Lady for raise that important matter . there be that expectation . she will know that , in particular , the Department for Levelling up , Housing and Communities have a programme of work and share good practice about how these service can be maintain — and physically maintain as well — even if particular branch be close . I will make sure that that Department know that the hon . Lady may benefit from some advice in that respect , but I know that colleague from across the House have have similar situation , but have manage to retain access to banking , which be vital for local business in particular , and also those service from the Post Office as well . Mr Deputy Speaker , I bring good news from Kettering , where northamptonshire police have be pleased to announce that , after five year of its groundbreaking Operation Crooked , burglary have now be halve . a key feature of this campaign have be that , since 2019 , specialist burglary team have ensure that every burglary victim get a visit from the police , while the quality of investigation , forensic analysis and intelligence gathering have be improve . may we have a statement from my right hon . friend the Leader of the House to congratulate Northamptonshire police and all its officer on this tremendous work and to encourage other police force to follow Northamptonshire ' s example ? I thank my hon . friend for bring we more good news from Kettering and congratulate he on the work that he be do there . I will , of course , join he in praise and congratulate Northamptonshire police on this huge achievement , which I know will have take a great deal of effort and determination on its part . he will know that , since 2010 , our community be safe , with neighbourhood crime such as burglary and robbery down by 48 % on roughly the same resource , and a large part of that in recent year have be the additional recruitment of 20 , 000 more police officer , which mean that we be just shy of 150 , 000 officer in England and Wales , high than the previous peak before the police uplift . that be a huge achievement and we should praise his local police force for its part in it . the Conservatives have cut 21 , 000 police officer , decimate our local neighbourhood team . there be now 10 , 000 few police officer and police community support officer in our neighbourhood team than in 2015 . and the percentage of people report never see a police officer on their street have double since 2010 . can we have a debate about the number of police officer and the Conservatives ' claim about what they be do about it , so that they can explain why they cut 21 , 000 police officer in the first place ? we can also then talk about Labour ' s pledge to put a neighbourhood team in every community . I think the hon . Gentleman have his fact wrong . we have record number of police officer . on roughly the same resource — when we leave aside online fraud — we have halve crime . the outlier across the country be in Labour - control area . they be in London , under the current Labour London Mayor , where knife crime and serious and violent crime have soar . they be also in area such as the west midland where there be a Labour police and crime commissioner . the stat speak for themselves . a person be 40 % more likely to be a victim of crime if they be in an area that have a labour police and crime commissioner . our police have do a tremendous job since 2010 : we have halve crime on roughly the same resource . that be what people get with the Conservatives . Hajj begin in mid - June , when thousand of british Muslims will travel to Saudi Arabia for their pilgrimage to Mecca . last week , I meet City of London Commander Khan who highlight to I the grow issue around Hajj fraud . thousand of Brits be be target by rogue tour operator and when they get to Saudi Arabia they discover that they have no hotel and no tour . will the Leader of the House consider a debate in Government time highlight the grow issue around Hajj fraud and economic fraud in general ? my hon . friend have provide her own answer . I thank she for raise awareness of this important issue , and send a clear message to anyone who might be target with such appalling fraud . these kind of crime be terrible in any circumstance , but try to exploit people undertake this particular pilgrimage be really unpleasant . I thank she for raise the matter . she will know that the Government take it very seriously , and have a recent campaign to combat this type of fraud . I will certainly ensure that all relevant Departments be aware of her campaign , and assist she in any way they can . follow the publication of the Cass review and its damn conclusion that child be give unscientific medical advice , do the Leader of the House stand by her statement that " trans man be man and tran woman be woman " ? — [ Official Report , 1 March 2021 ; Vol . 690 , c . 60 . ] do she still believe that this be the starting point and end point of the Gender Recognition Act 2004 , and will she make a statement on how we be go to protect our child and young people from dangerous indoctrination by gender ideology ? when I be Minister for Women and Equalities , I set up the first inquiry look at why so many child be be refer into trans service . there be a 4 , 000 % increase in the number of girl , for example , who be be refer into trans service . the Government have consistently raise such matter . the Cass review be an important review . the gender recognition consultation that look at whether we need to reform the 2004 Act be also an important piece of work for Whitehall . it have a record number of response — more than 100 , 000 — and although I do not read they all , I read the one from healthcare professional . they raise concern that the rule about refer people into such service be too restrictive and look only at one particular type of condition as oppose to the raft of condition that they be deal with . I hope that work inform Whitehall . it certainly lead to other review , include the Cass review . I think that be important . these issue need to be grip , but while we do so , we need to send a clear message to people who be tran that their right and their ability to lead a good quality of life be also protect . that be the aim of the current Minister for Equalities . I refer the House to her many statement , include on the provision of same - sex space . she have always take care to mention certainty and support for tran people . last summer , I be a lone voice among the Warwickshire mps in call for Warwickshire not to be subsume into the West Midlands Combined Authority under Andy Street . thank goodness I do . it be forecast by PricewaterhouseCoopers to be the worst - perform economic region in the country . Andy ' s tram be not run . we now understand that in eight year he have build only 46 social rent house — that is six a year — despite 64 , 000 people be on the waiting list . last night at a husting , he say that he do not realise that it be his responsibility , or that there be a need for that housing . by comparison , Mayor Khan start 11 , 000 council home in 2022 - 23 , and the labour candidate for the west midland mayoralty , Richard Parker , have promise 2 , 000 social rent home a year . even in Warwick , my little local district council have build more than Andy Street . as chair of the all - party parliamentary group for council housing , I ask for a debate in Government time on the importance of deliver social rent housing . I think there be a pattern to labour ' s question here . while we talk about the record in office of Conservative Mayors , the opposition try to smear they . however , it do afford I the opportunity to recap on Andy Street ' s record . he have win £ 10 billion of investment from central Government , have secure and deliver the 2022 Commonwealth game , have recover the regional economy after covid , have secure the investment zone , have extend the metro , be make Coventry an all - electric bus city , have reduce and retain low bus fare , and have build more home for young people and family than any other region . some 15 , 690 home be build in the west midland last year alone , and it be the only region that be on track for its housing target . in stark contrast , the Labour London Mayor have miss his target . Andy have deliver 4 , 000 apprenticeship and have be a champion for community cohesion in some very difficult time . he be stand on his record ; he be stand on the fact that he have stand up and fight for his constituent and those he represent . the London Mayor ' s much more deficient record sit in stark contrast . Springburn Winter Gardens Trust have submit a bid to the community ownership fund to stop our winter garden — once the large glass house in Scotland — collapse . could we have a debate in Government time on the need to protect our build heritage ? watch and listen from the Public Gallery today be my four - year - old constituent Callie Lang — until she get bore for some reason . I be sure that you care , Mr Deputy Speaker , as do the Leader of the House and I , about girl ' voice be hear . in keep with that , Callie would like a Bill that guarantee a free annual seaside holiday for all child . she say that she will accept an amendment to apply the legislation just to child at Scaraway Nursery School in Milton in my constituency . will the Leader of the House advise Callie on how she might make that happen ? I thank the hon . Lady for her question and for raise the important work that her constituent do . I notice that my right hon . friend the Member for New Forest West ( Sir Desmond Swayne ) be not in his place and be therefore unable to tut , but no one else be tutte , and we welcome Callie to the House today . I will certainly ensure that the relevant Department have hear the ambition that the hon . Lady have outline , and that it furnish she with all the advice it can . can the Leader of the House explain what have happen to some of the Government ' s flagship law and order Bills on her watch ? the Sentencing Bill be nowhere to be see ; in effect it be now the suspend sentencing Bill . the Criminal Justice Bill be now the criminal justice delay Bill . the House will be aware of her previous career as a magician ' s assistant . can she explain why we be witness these baffle disappear act ? the hon . Gentleman know that I will announce future business in the usual way . I hope to give all Members early sight and warning of when legislation be come back to the House , and I will continue to do that . rise — Order . I understand that the hon . Lady wish to raise a point of order arise directly from matter that have be raise at business question . for that reason and that reason alone , I be prepared to take it now in order to ensure that the Leader of the House be here . on a point of order , Mr Deputy Speaker . I want to give the Leader of the House the opportunity to clarify something she say in response to I early when I ask about the allegation relate to the hon . member for Fylde ( Mark Menzies ) . she suggest that some allegation have now be refer to the police . be she refer to these allegation or to allegation regard other member ? if it be the latter , I think people outside this place have be give the wrong impression . as the hon . Lady have indicate , although that be a point of order , it be not strictly one for the Chair . give that the Leader of the House wish to respond , I be quite prepared to permit that as well . far to that point of order , Mr Deputy Speaker . I be very happy to clarify . the hon . Lady be ask about a raft of allegation , start with those relate to the hon . member for Hazel Grove ( Mr Wragg ) . my understanding be that that particular issue be be look into by three police force . I be not aware of any other police investigation . on a point of order , Mr Deputy Speaker . early , I ask a question relate to Gibraltar , and I feel that it would be remiss of I not to bring the House ' s attention to my entry in the Register of Members ' Financial Interests and mention that I visit Gibraltar on behalf of the Gibraltar Government several year ago . again , that be not strictly a matter of order for the Chair , but it be now a matter of record , and I thank the right hon . Gentleman . I also thank the Leader of the House and the Opposition Front Benchers for their attendance . Commons Scrutiny of Secretaries of State in the House of Lords Procedure Committee Select Committee statement we now move on to the Select Committee statement on behalf of the Procedure Committee . Dame Karen Bradley will speak for up to 10 minute , during which no intervention may be take . at the conclusion of the statement , I will call member to ask question on the subject of the statement . these should be brief question , not speech . I also emphasise that question should be direct to the Select Committee Chair , not to the relevant Minister . Front Benchers therefore may take part in questioning . I start by add my own condolence to the many that have be express today to Mr Speaker and his family . I thank the Backbench Business Committee for find time for this statement and pass my regard to the Chair of that Committee , the hon . member for Gateshead ( Ian Mearns ) . with permission , I would like to make a statement on the Government ' s response to the Procedure Committee ' s report on Commons scrutiny of Secretaries of State in the House of Lords , which be publish yesterday . follow the appointment of the noble Lord Cameron as Foreign Secretary in November last year , Mr Speaker write to the Procedure Committee , ask we to examine how Secretaries of State who sit in the House of Lords could be scrutinise by this House . the Committee publish its report on 23 January this year , and follow its publication I make a similar statement to this House to explain our conclusion and recommendation . in that statement , I urge the Government to act quickly on the matter , give the strength of feeling across this House . the Government send their response only after the House have rise for the Easter recess . it be for that reason that the Committee be unable to publish it until yesterday afternoon , once the Committee have meet . despite that , I hope all right hon . and hon . member have now have the chance to read the Government ' s response in full . it be with regret that I make this statement to inform the House that the Government have reject our recommendation . the reason put forward by the Government for reject the recommendation that Lords Secretaries of State should be scrutinise by this House at the Bar of the House be that it be " untested " as a method for routine scrutiny , and that our recommendation would have " significant constitutional implication " . I be sorry to say that I find those argument unconvincing . our report be clear that while our recommendation may be novel in the modern era , they be not wholly untested . moreover , our recommendation be limit to this Parliament to deal with issue that this House face now , without set a precedent for the future — we be very clear on that . I suggest that the Government have not make the case that our recommendation could have unforeseen constitutional implication , and have fail to adequately set out what they think such implication could be . the Committee be still of the view that the Government should agree to our recommendation to use the Bar of the House to allow question to be put directly to the Foreign Secretary by all member of this House . in reject our recommendation , the Government suggest that there be sufficient mechanism in place — scrutiny in the House of Lords and in Select Committees of both Houses , as well as response by other Foreign , Commonwealth and Development Office Ministers to member of this House at departmental question , statement and urgent question — to discharge the Foreign Secretary ' s accountability to this House . our report deal with those point in detail . we be clear that we have great respect for the work that the House of Lords do in its scrutiny of the Government . moreover , the Foreign Affairs and International Development Committees do excellent work hold the fcdo to account , as do other Committees in both Houses . however , their work complement and add to the scrutiny that be undertake in this Chamber ; it be not , and can not be , a substitute for that scrutiny . as we note in our report , Select Committees and this Chamber have unique mandate , function and purpose — they be not synonymous . the Government say nothing in their response to make we think again about this matter . all member of this House must have the ability to scrutinise fcdo policy by question the Foreign Secretary in this place . the alternative proceeding through which the Foreign Secretary have be , and will be , subject to scrutiny have the potential to exclude some member of this House from be able to conduct effective scrutiny on behalf of their constituent . I suggest that this be an unacceptable state of affair , and I respectfully submit that the Government ' s response miss this key point entirely . scrutiny by elect mp on behalf of their constituent be a fundamental part of our modern democratic system , and while I welcome the appointment of my right hon . friend the Member for Sutton Coldfield ( Mr Mitchell ) to the position of Deputy Foreign Secretary early this week , the point still stand that the current arrangement do not allow all member of this place to put their question directly to the individual with ultimate responsibility for the work of the fcdo . lastly , the Government argue that our proposal risk undermine the constitutional balance between the two Houses . my Committee respectfully disagree . our report be clear that our recommendation be to enable scrutiny of Secretaries of State in the House of Lords at the Bar of the House of Commons , not to require it or to summon such individual . we recognise and continue to respect the right of the other place to govern its own affair . however , by reject our recommendation on scrutiny at the Bar of the House on this basis , the Government be put the cart before the horse . they be use concern about comity to pre - emptively exclude the possibility of even have discussion with the other place about how to facilitate the arrangement we have recommend . the Government ' s refusal to engage with our recommendation in a meaningful way mean that we will never know whether the other place would be willing to engage with we in facilitate such opportunity for scrutiny of Secretaries of State in the House of Lords . this be a regrettable situation for we to find ourselves in . the Government response to our report be most disappointing . it ignore the genuine concern of many member of this House that the holder of one of the high office in the land , the Foreign Secretary , be unable to be scrutinise by all the member of this House . it do so at a time of increase international uncertainty , when the life of many of our constituent be directly affect by crisis abroad , for which the Foreign Secretary hold ultimate ministerial responsibility . the Government response misread the mood of the House on this matter and undermine the principle of accountability of Ministers to this democratically elect House . I urge the Government to think again on our recommendation and to revisit this matter urgently . I thank the right hon . Lady . we will now take question to the Chair of the Select Committee , and I call the shadow Leader of the House . I thank the Chair and all member of her Committee for their diligent work , which be carry out in good faith in the expectation that their recommendation would be take forward . do she agree with I that there be wide support across this House — cross - party support — for her recommendation , and that the Government have misread the mood of the House ? what plan do she have for the House to express its view on her Committee ' s report and perhaps to take forward its recommendation , despite the Government ' s response to they ? I thank the shadow Leader of the House for her question . she be correct that we as a Committee take evidence from all member of this House . we listen to representation and we conduct an all - Member survey . it be very clear from those response that there be a desire to ensure there be opportunity for proper scrutiny by member of this House of the Foreign Secretary . we be not as a Committee propose to do any further work on this matter . as I say in my statement , I urge the Government to rethink their response and perhaps come forward with some other suggestion . I call , as a member of the Committee , Patrick Grady . I thank the Chair for her statement . be it not predictable that this be go to be the Government ' s response ? as I say in the Adjournment debate I have on this topic just before Easter , if the Government have want to make arrangement for the Foreign Secretary to appear at the Bar of the House or be otherwise scrutinise by the House as a whole , they could have bring forward such provision without any reference to the Procedure Committee . that also apply to the point make early about opposition day . the Government can at any time bring forward recommendation and change to Standing Orders . would it not make more sense if the Government present we as a Committee with their recommendation , which we could scrutinise , rather than ask we to come up with recommendation that they then reject out of hand ? I thank the hon . Gentleman , who be a fellow member of the Committee , for his question . I think he be reflect the sense of frustration that be feel in the Committee when we meet yesterday afternoon . it be in the Government ' s gift to change any matter they wish to change . they control the Order Paper and can make such decision . as a Committee , we stand ready to scrutinise and to be consult on propose change . however , it be often helpful if the Government give we some indication of the change they may want , so that we can at least spend our time productively in give advice on those recommendation , rather than see our recommendation reject out of hand . I call , as a member of the Committee , Kevan Jones . I thank the right hon . Lady for her statement and for her work as Chair of the Committee . she mention the announcement this week that the right hon . member for Sutton Coldfield ( Mr Mitchell ) have be appoint Deputy Foreign Secretary , and she will also know that the Foreign Secretary have specific responsibility for oversight of MI6 . he or she appear before the Intelligence and Security Committee , which I sit on , and obviously the nature of some of those issue can not be discuss publicly . do the right hon . Lady have any information on whether the remit of the right hon . member for Sutton Coldfield have be change so that he can reply to non - secure question that member might have , for example on the operation of MI6 ? the right hon . Gentleman make a very good point . the appointment of a Deputy Foreign Secretary be what happen in the past — there be precedent for that , for example when Lord Carrington be Foreign Secretary and in previous time . it be something that we have be keen to see , because it mean that the House have more opportunity to scrutinise a senior member of the Foreign , Commonwealth and Development Office team . I be afraid I do not have sight of the change that may have be make to the portfolio of my right hon . friend the Member for Sutton Coldfield , and perhaps that be something that the Leader of the House , who be in her place and listen intently , could inform the Committee about at some point . in principle , no one should be in government who can not be scrutinise in the elect Chamber represent the people of this country . that be the principle that all government should apply , and I do not think that this appointment should have take place until that issue be sort out . be there a view from the Foreign Secretary himself , Lord Cameron , on whether he should be here answer question in this Chamber ? the hon . Gentleman tempt I , but that be definitely above my pay grade . the Chair of the Committee have , in the view of the Liberal Democrats , do great work on try to bring the noble Lord Cameron to the Bar of the House . she be right to say that the last time one of the four great office of state be occupy by a Member of the other place be 1982 . Lord Carrington resign from the role of Foreign Secretary after Argentina invade the Falkland Islands . he do so partly because Back Benchers in the House of Commons have be warn about that possibility , and there be a feeling that the Foreign Office have not heed their warning under Lord Carrington . give that the UK ' s relation with some of it adversary be as tense as they have be since the early 1980 , do the right hon . Lady think that the noble Lord Cameron might want to avert such an outcome by answer question at the Bar of the House ? the Committee consider all the point carefully , and look at the evidence and at precedent . that be why we come to the conclusion that the Bar of the House be the right place for scrutiny of Secretaries of State in the House of Lords . we be keen to ensure that proper scrutiny could be do by this place , because we as elect representative will often reflect what our constituent be tell we and what we be see on the ground in a way that no other body in this place can do . member of the other place do extremely good work in scrutinise the Government , but without constituent they be perhaps not able to reflect what we hear from people on the ground . likewise , member of Select Committees do not generally ask constituency - base question in their work ; they tend to ask question on a theme or on the overall topic of the day . we have that unique role in this place , and that be why we be keen to ensure that there could be some form of scrutiny . we be disappointed that the Government have reject that . I thank my right hon . friend for the work she do on the Committee , and for be so mild - mannered in report to the House today the feeling of the Procedure Committee . do she accept that there be strong anger on the Committee , not so much about the response from the government — we expect that they might reject our recommendation — but about the nature of that rejection , and the failure to answer any of the point or put forward any detailed justification for reject our recommendation ? do she agree that it almost make we member of the Committee feel that we be hold in contempt by the Leader of the House ? I feel that my hon . friend have make his point effectively , and I thank the Clerks of the Committee for help I perhaps to tone down the response , base on the Committee meeting we have have . there be also real concern that we do not receive the response before the House rise for the Easter recess , during which we be all focused on our constituency and not necessarily in Westminster . the need to bring Committee member together and for the Committee to be quorate mean that we be unable to report the response until yesterday . that be another matter of great concern to the Committee . I thank the Chair of the Committee , and the Committee for their excellent work on this piece . I be a Back - Bench Member of Parliament , represent a diverse constituency with many diaspora community from country that rarely get much of a hearing in this place , such as Sudan , Bosnia and Kurdistan . do the right hon . Lady share my concern that whereas the Secretary of State be an experienced statesperson with knowledge of the different area across the Foreign Office , have more junior Ministers represent the Department here mean that they do not have that expertise across the piece ? it be right that all member of this place be able to question he accordingly . I think that all Ministers in the Foreign , Commonwealth and Development Office be exemplary and carry out their role with distinction . the hon . Lady be correct to say that the Secretary of State have a unique role in any Department , and they have the overarching view . that be why Select Committees call in the Secretary of State at least three time a year for an overarching evidence session on all the work of a Department . I be a great fan of the noble Lord Cameron and delight that he be in his role . I think he represent the United Kingdom superbly , and I would love the opportunity to see he at the Bar of the House . it would be incredible to see he , because he would answer question thoroughly and rigorously , and we as member of Parliament would take much from those session back to our constituent . on a point of order , Mr Deputy Speaker . the seriousness of what we have just hear from the Chair of the Procedure Committee can not be understate . the world be more divided and dangerous than at any moment I can remember in my 24 year in Parliament . we have war in Ukraine , war in the middle east , and an increasingly assertive China . last night the Government effectively reject the Procedure Committee ' s recommendation for the Foreign Secretary to take question from this House , and it be untenable that in this time of disorder , the Foreign Secretary — a great office of state for a reason — refuse to be accountable to this House . my party think that have a Foreign Secretary in the Lords be absurd 100 year ago in the day of Lord Curzon , and the appointment of the first ever Deputy Foreign Secretary this week be an unconstitutional sop . we have not need it in 223 year of this Parliament , and he be not the man who meet the Foreign Secretaries of Israel , of our arab partner , or of the United States . he simply do not have the accountability of the Foreign Secretary . give what we have hear , and give the strength of feeling across this House , what now to get the Foreign Secretary to take question from member of Parliament at this most dangerous of geopolitical moment ? I be grateful to the right hon . gentleman for the point of order and for give notice of it , but he have hear the statement and the exchange on the Select Committee report , include the response by the right hon . member for Staffordshire Moorlands ( Dame Karen Bradley ) , and I be afraid that there be nothing I can add to they from the Chair . I thank the right hon . Lady for her statement and for answer seven question . Backbench Business Access to Redress Schemes [ relevant document : correspondence from the Chair of the Committee of Public Accounts to the Comptroller and Auditor General , on Government compensation and financial redress scheme , report to the House on 29 January 2024 . ] I beg to move , that this House recognise the challenge face by individual and business in access effective dispute resolution and obtain redress in case of injustice ; believe that the Government need to address these specific challenge , namely a fragmented and inconsistent redress landscape ; consider statutory guidance to be an essential measure to ensure compensation and redress scheme follow common principle and lead to fair and independent outcome ; and call on the Government to create statutory guidance with common principle for set up and operate a redress scheme . it be my honour to move the motion that stand in my name and that of the hon . member for Hazel Grove ( Mr Wragg ) . I thank the Backbench Business Committee for grant this debate . I also thank the Chair of the Public Accounts Committee , the hon . member for Hackney South and Shoreditch ( Dame Meg Hillier ) , for her recent correspondence with the Comptroller and Auditor General , call on public body to have redress scheme that be effective , timely , proportionate and fair . Samuel Beckett famously write : " try again . fail again . fail well . " what if we learn nothing from our previous failure ? what if we simply fail , fail again and approach the failure as in the past , only to fail a bit differently and with many of the same mistake as before ? that be the situation we face with compensation and redress follow scandal . I imagine that every Member of this House will have receive correspondence from a constituent who have be fail and treat unfairly in the wake of a scandal . rather than be able to access swift and fair redress , they have instead be subject to further hardship , delay and unfair treatment . sometimes that mistreatment can be as devastating as the pain cause initially by the scandal . there have rightly be significant attention nationally in recent month on the Post Office Horizon scandal , and in particular on the various scheme set up to provide redress to the victim of what be the most widespread miscarriage of justice in british legal history . a sub - postmaster of a post office in my constituency be one of the hundred wrongful convict . Janine Powell be wrongfully accuse of steal £ 74 , 000 from her post office branch in Tiverton . she be subsequently sack and arrest , before be convict at a trial in Exeter in 2008 . she describe feel " confused ; dismayed ; numb " . that be because Ms Powell be sentence to 18 month in prison , serve five month . she be send to prison just two day after her daughter ' s 10th birthday . she say that the hard part of her wrongful imprisonment be leave her child . she say : " I ' ve miss out on do thing with they — I can ' t get that back . " no amount of money could ever make up for what happen to Ms Powell , but compensation can at least try to make up for some of the loss they face . sadly , the various Post Office compensation scheme that have exist have fail to provide swift and fair redress , as I know from another constituent case that I be deal with . accord to the law firm Howe and Co , which represent 150 sub - postmaster , the compensation scheme " continue to be exceptionally slow … and refuse to entertain application from person who be plainly entitle to apply " . this afternoon , I hope to outline that the Post Office case be but one example of a wide problem . no guidance exist on when and how compensation scheme should be establish or what an oversee body should look like . that mean that each scheme have its own unique and dysfunctional set of rule . reinvent the wheel each time a scandal emerge mean that victim be fail by the very system that be mean to right the wrong of the past . the hon . and gallant Member be make an important point about how we seem to have unique circumstance in try to overcome some of these issue . for example , the sodium valproate issue be raise through Baroness Cumberlege ' s " first do no harm " report . as with the infected blood scandal and the Horizon scandal , it have be outline time after time that redress should be forthcoming . however , the Government again seem to be drag their foot . why do he think that would be ? the hon . member be exactly right to draw a thread between several of these scandal . that be partly because when a new scandal emerge , the organisation responsible be often the organisation charge with redress . Andrew Bailey , while chief executive of the Financial Conduct Authority , say in 2017 that " it just do not seem to be sensible that , every time one of these thing happen , we have to set up something new . " beyond the Post Office scheme , we have hear criticism both here and in the press on the infected blood inquiry , as the hon . Member mention , and Windrush . that criticism have point to intolerable delay or the problematic feature that often let the offend firm or institution off the hook . I be interested to develop my hon . friend ' s think about the Financial Conduct Authority . if I be able , I will speak at great length about it later in the debate . it administer the Financial Services Compensation Scheme , which be a fund set up by levy on financial service company themselves . it be the maladministration of the FCA or a lack of proper regulation that often lead to these claim be bring . essentially , the people pay for the scheme have to do so because of the incompetence of the FCA . my right hon . friend be exactly right . the FCA be not directly accountable to Parliament , but be accountable to Parliament through the Treasury . I , too , have have constituent find themselves in a David and Goliath scenario , try to tackle issue of unfairness with the FCA . likewise , in finance , we have see the mis - selling of interest rate hedging product and widespread financial misconduct against small and medium - sized enterprise by the Royal Bank of Scotland , for example . last year , the all - party parliamentary group on fair business banking conduct the first systematic review of compensation scheme in the UK and find flaw common to several of they . scheme be frequently blight by unnecessary complexity , delay and a huge emotional and legal burden on victim . often scheme be shroud in secrecy and lack proper independence . I be listen to the hon . Gentleman ' s speech carefully , and he be make some excellent point . will he join I in deplore the method by which organisation avoid their responsibility to many of our constituent ? for example , the business of my constituent George Dosoo , LD Partnership , take on a loan from RBS , now NatWest . in 2012 , he discover that a sum of £ 150 , 000 be remove without authority from the partnership account . despite George obtain recent legal opinion indicate that his case have merit , NatWest maintain that the case be time - bar and will not reopen it . do the hon . Gentleman agree that time - barring be another device that be far too often use by business and institution to deliberately undermine our constituent ' ability to obtain recourse ? the hon . member be right about time - barring . I have a similar case with a constituent of mine , which might chime with hers . Nigel Cairns be trap in what he describe as a " complete nightmare scenario , with no way of escape " after egregious misconduct by a bank . in 2007 , Nigel take out a loan of £ 350 , 000 from HSBC . he have his house demolish in readiness to rebuild . in preparation for the work , the bank declare the termination and return of the loan . that be in 2007 , when the financial crisis be very much with we . the bank subsequently agree to reinstate the loan , but alter some of the term and condition so that the interest rate become double what Nigel have originally agree to . after 10 year of repayment , the bank declare that unless he could sell the property or repay the loan , it would have to foreclose on he . the Financial Ombudsman Service refuse to look into the matter initially and subsequently Mr Cairns receive only £ 1 , 500 for the stress and anxiety of the case . the APPG ' s review , look across 12 compensation scheme , find that over the past 20 year , the number of people affect amount to a little over 78 , 000 people . when we consider some of the harrowing case we be describe today , that number be thankfully quite small , but it say to we that it be a small enough number that these people could have timely redress and compensation , if only we have a body that could sort it out . that bring I on to another example : infect blood . during business question this morning , the right hon . member for Kingston upon Hull North ( Dame Diana Johnson ) , as she always do on a Thursday , drive home on behalf of her constituent the need to compensate promptly those people affect by the infected blood scandal . in the last 24 hour , we have hear of a propose Government amendment to the Victims and Prisoners Bill to try to bring about compensation . I completely agree with the right hon . member that by not set a deadline for that compensation , we allow this issue to run and run . in the other place , the liberal Democrat peer Baroness Brinton seek to take that up with the Government , and propose an amendment that be much more vigorous in set a timeframe for compensation , but the Government choose not to adopt it . I have a constituent whose friend who have be affect by the infected blood scandal . some of the tale that she have pass on be really harrowing . her friend say : " in my 20 I be plan my funeral and feel like I be contaminate and filthy . I meet and marry someone prepare to date a woman with poison blood . " she speak of how it cause a " host of long - term devastating side effect " . she continue : " I lose my career as an IT consultant , it make I infertile so I have be unable to have a family , and we have we have to stop IVF and surrogacy attempt because I become too ill to be a parent . I ' ve have brain , body , psychological and emotional impact from this virus . and then decade of exhausted fighting for an evasive and oft - deny justice , which cause its own damage , include most recently the end of my marriage . " such people deserve to be compensate promptly . they do not need the stress and worry of a scheme that always seem to roll out into the future , and of have to fight at every turn . mass redress scheme be set up on an ad hoc basis . they be voluntary , and establish to tackle a specific scandal , follow failure of a give organisation ' s internal complaint procedure . how do we ensure that the victim of our large and most damaging scandal , and any unfortunate future victim , be protect from unfair treatment and appropriately compensate ? we need the framework for redress to be improve to ensure that we do not make the same mistake again . this debate be a call to action for Ministers . the Government must establish a clear framework base on good practice . the hbos read compensation scheme be another example . in 2017 , after 15 year , six individual be sentence to a cumulative 47 year in prison for their role in a fraud that leave its victim , in the word of the sentencing judge , " cheat , defeated and penniless " . eight year on , we have have more than two year of the discredit Griggs review , and a further two year review the review and come up with new recommendation . we be now in the fourth year of the Foskett panel . we would think that by now that we would have get it right , but all the perpetrator of the crime be out of prison , the victim have yet to be compensate , and serious question remain about the panel . there be a set of underlie principle that would establish a common - sense bedrock for any compensation scheme and how it should be build . on the composition of the Foskett panel and the huge delay in the compensation due to those defraud in the hbos scandal , there have be allegation that Lloyds bank have a big part in decide who be appoint to the panel . would that not explain the delay , and why people be not be pay the compensation that they believe they deserve ? the hon . member be right that in redress scheme , the perpetrator of the injustice be often charge with try to put it right . of course , the perpetrator have a vested interest — indeed , it be not even vested ; it be just an interest — in try to pay out as little as possible , and in accept as little culpability as it can . do the hon . Member agree that many victim be annoy by the way that these scheme become a feeding frenzy for lawyer , who in many case be the only people who ultimately benefit ? what really stick in the throat of many victim be that many lawyer may be get more out of the scheme than the individual affect . I be grateful to the right hon . member for his intervention . probably nobody in this place know more about the Horizon compensation scheme than he do . Lee Castleton , one of the sub - postmaster affect by the scandal , say that during the past 25 year , " £ 135 million have be pay to some of the victim , but we ' ve have £ 150 million plus pay to lawyer . " we need a set of underlie principle . we need : a collaborative approach and process ; timeliness ; independence ; recognition of adversity ; transparency ; broad eligibility ; great accessibility and legal cost ; a clear appeal mechanism ; and , finally , fairness and efficiency . the hon . and gallant Member be kind in give way . move back to the sodium valproate scandal , we keep say that justice delay be justice deny , but in that case , it be not only child but grandchild who be impact , because it look as though the effect of sodium valproate disorder be be pass on to grandchild as well . scheme need to be not only fair but pragmatic , so that once compensation be deliver , they can still be open to claim . I say that thinking of the further after - effect of one of the big scandal in the health service since thalidomide . the hon . member be exactly right about how young generation can be affect . we have recently see attempt by some Horizon victim , and indeed child of victim , to seek compensation . the tragedy of his point about justice delay being justice deny be that old victim of these scandal be die before they see that justice , and before enjoy any of the compensation that they deserve . I set out nine underlying principle that would establish a common - sense bedrock for a compensation scheme . to deliver those principle for fair redress and to guarantee independent oversight , we need an arm ' s length body to design and adjudicate the scheme . the exist voluntary mechanism for redress be far too fragmented . we need a standing , independent body that can provide consistency for victim of scandal — no matter the sector — which can be activate whenever a new scandal emerge . it should be constitute of expert , so that it guarantee independence of judgment , and should be accountable directly to Parliament for the expenditure of any public fund and for its overall conduct . critically , victim must also have representation on the panel . the structure would come at no extra cost to the taxpayer , as the current compensation framework often prove lengthy and costly for both victim and taxpayer . take together , the nine UK redress scheme — whether active or complete — study by the all - party parliamentary group on fair business banking have cost at least £ 3 . 7 billion . that figure cover not only the amount of compensation that have go to victim , but , as we have discuss , the fee to solicitor , accountant and firm that have engage to undertake review — and indeed firm that be review review . more often than not , victim be leave feel cheat . they eventually cling on to some sort of late , inadequate consolation of redress and compensation . in the case of the Post Office , many of the 555 sub - postmaster who be expose to the scandal have still receive little compensation , because most of the money be swallow up . we need lesson to be learn from the array of scandal that I have set out . I be curious to hear what the Minister have to say about the proposal for an arm ' s length body to deal with situation of the kind that I and right hon . and hon . member have describe . it be a pleasure to follow the hon . member for Tiverton and Honiton ( Richard Foord ) , and I be grateful to he for introduce this important subject . I be sorry that it have not attract more attention from hon . member on both side of the House . how often have we say , " there be nothing new under sun " ? I will start my remark by refer to August 1975 . Tanya Price have a whooping cough vaccine at the age of six month . shortly after , she develop convulsion , and 18 month later , she be describe as a " motionless and expressionless be " in a debate in this House by her MP , the late Robert Adley , who be my predecessor but one as MP for Christchurch , although at that time the constituency be Christchurch and Lymington . Robert Adley work tirelessly for month to try to obtain redress from the health service for Tanya ' s injury , which be cause by the whooping cough vaccine . that be 48 year ago , under a Labour Government , but little have change in the Government ' s institutional reluctance to admit to medical failure and institute redress scheme . Robert Adley describe fight Tanya ' s battle as fight the NHS , which he describe as be like " spar with a giant octopus . " that be all those year ago , but I do not see that the situation have change . in his Adjournment debate in the House of Commons on 22 March 1977 , Robert Adley say : " this fight have be go on for a long time . certainly in the last four year a group of parent have seek to get what they see as justice for their child but they have have precious little satisfaction . the battle be in many way a repetition of the thalidomide debate … the result be decay confidence in all the immunisation programme . it represent a flirtation with tragedy , particularly when most of the other vaccine appear to be safe , harmless and have little or no disadvantageous side effect . " he rightly severely criticise " the position adopt by the Secretary of State in his refusal to consider compensation , and until … recently , his refusal … at least … to discuss the problem openly " . — [ Official Report , 22 March 1977 ; Vol . 928 , c . 1244 . ] it would be wonderful to say that thing have move on . one of the consequence of the thalidomide scandal be the setting up of the royal commission head by Lord Pearson , which take some five year to report , eventually do so in 1978 . it be set up follow the Robens Committee on Safety and Health at Work , and in the light of concern about thalidomide . when the Pearson report be publish , it be welcome by the then Prime Minister as a comprehensive review . it be design to remove unnecessary litigation , time delay and all the rest when get redress for people who have suffer medical injury induce by vaccine or other drug . paragraph 1 , 398 — it be a long report — recommend the following : " we conclude that there be a special case for pay compensation for vaccine damage where vaccination be recommend by a public authority and be undertake to protect the community . we have reach this conclusion when we be ask by the Government for our view . " the Pearson Committee also recommend strict liability for vaccine damage . sadly , those recommendation be not implement , although we do get the vaccine damage payment legislation of 1979 . I have be campaign to get that legislation bring up to date , so that it be relevant to the circumstance of all those who have suffer loss and damage as a result of do the right thing and take their covid - 19 vaccine . it have be an uphill struggle . the most recent information I have be that there be so many application under the vaccine damage payment scheme that the Government can not cope . in three year , only 163 out of more than 9 , 000 claim have be successful — those be the figure as at 31 January . of those claim , 4 , 000 be still await a resolution ; 2 , 000 have be outstanding for more than six month , and some for more than 18 month . that be directly damaging to all those people who be think of engage in civil claim , which the Government keep advise victim to do . make a civil claim against a large multinational pharmaceutical company — or the Government , for that matter — be an expensive business . I have a constituent whose father have the £ 120 , 000 compensation , but for whom that be wholly inadequate because of the severity and longevity of the injury and disability that he sustain as a result of the vaccine . he be find it nigh on impossible to get access to justice , because solicitor will not take up his call . even start an action will cost ten of thousand of pound . that be an intolerable situation , and one which , all those year ago , Lord Pearson be try to avoid . the Government ' s feeble response be , " if you think you ' ve be injure by a vaccine , go and seek compensation through the court . " it do not work quite like that , as sadly have be see by all those people whose case it have already be establish be cause by vaccine . one would think that if the vaccine damage payment scheme have establish that an individual ' s damage be cause by the vaccine , as night follow day , the Government would concede liability in a civil action . far from it ; they insist that individual must fight the case before the court . it be about power , be it not ? as the hon . Gentleman rightly say , the individual do not have the financial mean or expertise to take forward those case against either a corporation or a Government . in the Post Office scandal , the Post Office spend £ 100 million of our public money defend a case that they know they would not win , because they be try to stop the truth come out and to bankrupt and stop the individual from conclude the case . that be right . these be deep - seat institutional failure . this be not a party political issue , but one that affect everyone in this country . this House be unable to persuade government and the official serve they to get real about what many people be suffer as a result of the delay . it seem as though the Government ' s policy , perhaps lead by the Treasury , be always to postpone the inevitable . the hon . member for Tiverton and Honiton refer to the contaminated blood scandal . I find it unacceptable that those people whose case have be establish as deserve proper compensation be still wait . there be similar case in the Post Office scandal , as the right hon . member for North Durham ( Mr Jones ) say , and in the sodium valproate case , which have give rise to huge report , which I hope briefly to come to later . go back to the issue with which I be primarily concerned , because I chair the all - party parliamentary group on covid - 19 vaccine damage , there be now get on for 10 , 000 claim under the scheme . almost half be yet to be deal with , so people be wait for their claim to be resolve . under the system that operate , if their claim be reject by the independent panel , they have the right to have their case review . that process itself generate further delay , sometimes in excess of a year . meanwhile , there be a three - year limitation on be able to bring civil action from the time the cause of the civil action arise . I raise this issue with the Prime Minister in a private meeting and at Prime Minister ' s question a few week ago . I be pleased to say that , follow that , I have a meeting set up with the Secretary of State for Health and Social Care next week . but I will not hold my breath , because I just do not see any willingness on the part of officialdom , even if there be willingness on the part of Ministers , to address these outrageous injustice . it go to the heart of trust in public service and in Government if people can not trust the Government to do the right thing . if they take the vaccine and it turn out to have be very bad for their health , the deal should be — it always use to be — that the Government look after they and see they right , but that be not what be happen . instead , those people be be put through the ringer , and enormous amount of bureaucracy and time be be waste , and to very little effect — except that the Treasury can probably say , " well , we can ' t actually guarantee that we will have to spend this amount of money now . " year ago , when I be a shadow Treasury Minister , I look at the issue arise from the Equitable Life scandal . that be a failure by the Treasury ' s own team of regulator to protect investor in pension scheme under Equitable Life . at one stage they be think to be as good as invest in the Consolidated Fund . you may remember , Mr Deputy Speaker , that everybody be join in have Equitable Life pension . well , the regulator be asleep on the job . the ombudsman find that that be the situation and order compensation . the Government refuse compensation and say that they would make ex - gratia payment . as be the case today , we know that much of the money that be eventually set aside have not yet be deliver to the victim of the Equitable Life scandal , and that the Treasury be refuse to distribute the money , say " well , that be basically a win for the Treasury . " be it surprising that confidence in our institution and in government — with a small " g " — be rapidly diminish ? today ' s debate be of fundamental importance . I hope that the Cabinet Minister , when he respond , will come up with some specific proposal on what will be do in relation to all the individual case that will be refer to in this debate , as well as deal with the deep - seat institutional problem to which I have refer . the Minister without Portfolio , my right hon . friend the Member for Tatton ( Esther McVey ) , with whom I have previously raise this matter in Cabinet Office question , and who at one stage I think would respond to this debate , be charge with ensure that we address the issue of the time bar on covid - 19 vaccine damage claim . I would be very grateful to my hon . friend the Minister if , when he respond to the debate , he can give we some positive news on that point , even if not on many other . the covid vaccine damage payment scheme be not a strict liability scheme , and it be not even a compensation scheme , but it be well than nothing . why be it , however , that the £ 120 , 000 maximum payment under the scheme have not be update since 2007 ? it would now be about £ 200 , 000 if update . why be we update everything else in line with inflation , but not the vaccine damage payment scheme for people for whom take a vaccine be disastrous ? again , we can not get any answer out of the Treasury or the Government . sometimes there be expression of sympathy , but they be not much use . what we want be action . what justification can there be for erode the value of vaccine damage payment to the extent that I have refer to ? the Cumberlege report , " Independent Medicines and Medical Devices Safety Review " , be set up in 2018 in response to concern about the Primodos hormone pregnancy test , the use of sodium valproate in pregnancy and vaginal mesh . the review , which be lead by Baroness Cumberlege , publish its report in July 2020 . it make a number of serious and compelling recommendation , include the establishment of an independent redress agency . if the hon . member for Tiverton and Honiton , who introduce the debate , think that the Government be go to respond positively to the suggestion he put forward , I just ask he to look at the record . that be an ex - conservative Health Minister make a clear recommendation , on page 11 , to set up an independent redress agency : " a new independent Redress Agency for those harm by medicine and medical device should be create base on model operate effectively in other country . the Redress Agency will administer decision use a non - adversarial process with determination base on avoidable harm look at systemic failing , rather than blame individual . " how long do it take for the Government to respond to that report ? they publish their response not in 2020 but in July 2021 , exactly one year later , which fit the pattern we be discuss . it take they a year to respond to the report and they cursorily reject its recommendation for a new redress agency , state : " we do not accept this recommendation . we do not believe that a redress agency would make product safe and support our commitment to patient safety . we also believe it be already possible for government and other to provide redress where this be consider necessary , the government therefore have no plan to establish an independent redress agency . " it take the Government a year to prepare that wording and explanation . all one can do , really , be despair . there be an opportunity today for the Minister to say , " well , that be all under a previous government . now we have a new Government and they will accept all the recommendation of the Cumberlege report . " the Cumberlege report also recommend that discretionary scheme should be establish for sodium valproate , hormone pregnancy test and pelvic mesh . that would " provide discretionary payment for the cost of additional need " cause by the harm associate with those product . the Government response also reject that recommendation , note : " patient have the right to take healthcare provider to court for clinical negligence , or manufacturer to court for product liability . " it far explain on page 23 : " while the government be sympathetic to the experience of those patient who give evidence to the report , our primary focus be on improve future medicine and medical device safety . it be therefore crucial that we focus government fund on initiative that directly improve future safety ( include specialist mesh centre and support for family affect by medicine in pregnancy ) . for this reason , redress scheme will not be establish in response to recommendation 4 . " that be the situation in relation to the hapless individual who be at the wrong end of that particular NHS procedure . more recently , and before we have get as far as any inquiry into it , we have be face with the prospect of have to deal with the scandal of all those young people who be live with the consequence of be give puberty blocker at the behest , if not the recommendation , of the NHS . when Sir Chris Whitty be ask about that on the radio early this week , he seem totally unapologetic , almost to the point of diffidence , although he be insistent that we should do something about people who be engage in smoke tobacco or vape . so another compensation issue will arise in relation to all those people who be persuade by the NHS to do the wrong thing . one recommendation that do come out of the Cumberlege review be for the establishment of — this sound really great — a patient safety commissioner for England . when , in my capacity as chair of the all - party parliamentary group on covid - 19 vaccine damage , I approach Dr Hughes and ask whether she would take up the case of the victim of covid - 19 vaccine , she be very sympathetic , but say — and this come back to the issue of the culture — that she have only the equivalent of one man and a dog in her department . she be be starve of the resource that would enable she to fulfil the remit that she have be give by the Government , which , again , be absolutely intolerable . she explain that she do not have time to deal with the vaccine damage issue because , perfectly reasonably , she be concentrate on sodium valproate and pelvic mesh . on 7 February this year she publish her report set out further recommendation for redress in relation to those matter , include a recommendation for the creation of an independent redress scheme to provide both financial and non - financial redress . the Government have not yet respond to that report ; perhaps the Minister will respond to it today . in February , in response to a parliamentary question , the Health Minister responsible say : " the Government be now carefully consider the … recommendation , and will respond substantively in due course . " that be just not good enough , especially as the Government seem to be rely on some very feeble initiative to which they have draw attention . there be now — this be exciting news , Madam Deputy Speaker — a new risk acknowledgment form to be complete by those for whom valproate be prescribe . there be also a " claim gateway " on the NHS Resolution website for those wish to embark on clinical negligence claim . the Hughes report criticise these arrangement , and criticise the " claim gateway " description because there be no new legal framework to enable people to engage in litigation and no guarantee of help with legal aid . we hear that a child who challenge the decision by a north London comprehensive in relation to the wearing of religious symbol receive legal aid money amount to £ 150 , 000 . how be that possible , when people who want redress because they have be do down by the national health service do not get anything at all ? in the foreword to her report , Dr Hughes say " the case for redress have already be make by the first do no Harm review so my report would primarily focus on ' how ' to provide redress rather than ' why ' . " I hope that , in his response today , the Minister will accept that the Government should now focus on how to provide redress rather than why redress be need . in her foreword , Dr Hughes also say : " all those we speak to have approach this process with openness and goodwill despite the considerable challenge they face . as time progress , these challenge intensify and , understandably , there be now a grow sense of frustration and anger among patient . confidence in the government to do the right thing be erode . over the year , while these patient have be suffer , I have see other healthcare scandal in this country rightly receive recognition and redress , from thalidomide to vCJD and , most recently , the infected blood scandal . fairness demand that those harm by valproate and pelvic mesh receive the recognition and redress to meet their need . " if the Government agree with that , why do they not say so now ? why be they continue to kick the can down the road and deny people access to the compensation that they rightfully deserve ? I have speak for long than I expect , Madam Deputy Speaker , but , as I have say , there be a long history to this . I hope it will not be another 48 year before another Member of Parliament for Christchurch stand up and say , " 48 year ago , a former Member for Christchurch be argue this very point in the House . " let we learn from history . let we not be complacent ; let we get angry for action . it be a pleasure to follow the hon . member for Christchurch ( Sir Christopher Chope ) . I learn about many different redress scheme , many of which I have not even consider , so he have do the House a service this afternoon . I also congratulate the hon . member for Tiverton and Honiton ( Richard Foord ) : it be a real pleasure to be able to speak in such an important debate , and I thank he for introduce it . when injustice have occur , and particularly in case of widespread injustice , it be imperative that those who be wrong be provide with meaningful avenue of recourse . proper justice can not be achieve until victim receive the redress to which they be entitle , but as we have hear this afternoon , time and again that simply do not happen . what we often see be an excessively bureaucratic process administer by the party at fault , move at a snail ' s pace while the victim ' redress be minimise and they continue to suffer . indeed , someone say to I just today , " the folk in suit and boardroom always seem to benefit from the misery and hardship of other , while the actual victim be last in the queue for redress . " the right hon . member for North Durham ( Mr Jones ) refer early to the number of lawyer who have benefit from the scandal involve Post Office Ltd while the victim themselves have not receive proper compensation . we be all painfully aware of the well - document issue that have plague various compensatory scheme in the United Kingdom . other have already mention the Windrush , infect blood , vaccination and , of course , the most widespread miscarriage of justice in british legal history , the Post Office Horizon scandal . without proper redress , justice be deny for victim , who can not find closure for what be often a deeply traumatic chapter of their life . through my work as chair of the all - party parliamentary group on post office , I be sadly all too familiar with the suffering of Horizon victim , who have shoulder the burden and have have to fight tooth and nail to get the financial redress they be entitle to . despite everything , they be still be subject to humiliating and derisory offer . even Alan Bates , who valiantly lead the campaign for justice for sub - postmaster , and take on the Post Office and win , recently speak of the pitiful offer of redress he receive . he highlight to the Business and Trade Committee the perennial delay and the deadline miss by the Post Office and the Government , who be administer the three compensation scheme . similarly , campaigner Christopher Head , the young horizon victim , tell I that the offer he receive be just a tiny fraction of what he and government - appoint forensic accountant have estimate he be entitle to . I regularly meet sub - postmaster victim in Motherwell and Wishaw , and to see the effect on individual at first hand be truly awful . despite my repeatedly advise they to apply to the Horizon shortfall scheme because many of they be not prosecute , they want nothing to do with any of the scheme , because they feel traumatised by what they have already go through and the thought of deal directly with Post Office Ltd again cause they great hurt . the application form for the redress scheme for Horizon be legally complex . even Dan Neidle , a legal expert , have say that he would require legal advice when fill they out , and the amount of money give by Post Office Ltd to victim be derisory and token . as have already be say , however , lawyer be make million of pound from the misery of other . in addition , Post Office Ltd do not make it clear on the form that applicant could claim for damage to their reputation , mean that many folk have already settle for far less than they should have . far , there be the absence of an option to claim punitive damage , which Mr Neidle say a lawyer would spot immediately but a layperson would not , and it be really difficult to come back on this . shockingly , Post Office Ltd have continue to attempt to suppress the truth by warn sub - postmaster who receive an offer under the HSS that they could not legally mention compensation term to anyone , include other applicant , the press , their family or their friend . that be totally inaccurate and highlight the need for an independent adjudicator to provide oversight . the Minister have say on the Floor of the House that no one will be pursue for speak about Horizon compensation , but that do not help someone who be already traumatise . it take one of my constituent about 10 year to admit that he have be pay into his post office and have take out another mortgage to try to cover the cost . it be ridiculous that , on top of everything else , people be ask to sign a non - disclosure agreement . an applicant to the HSS have describe the process of try to get fair redress as " soul - destroy " . we have already hear that Lee Castleton have show that lawyer be make more money than the victim of Horizon . if any good have come out of the Horizon IT scandal , it be that the affair have demonstrate the need for statutory guidance and for an independent oversight body to administer compensation scheme , as have be call for already today . for that reason , I support the motion . the Government must create statutory guidance , with clear principle for operate a redress scheme . it will save victim of future scandal — there will be future scandal — from the additional pain and suffering that Horizon , infect blood , windrush and vaccination victim have have to endure . I be hopeful about yesterday ' s announcement of Government amendment to the Victims and Prisoners Bill that would establish an arm ' s length body to administer the infected blood compensation scheme , regulation around payment , application procedure and appeal . I sincerely hope that the Government be finally learn from the failure of redress scheme in the past . last month , the Parliamentary and Health Service Ombudsman ' s report on Women against State Pension Inequality find that thousand of woman bear in the 1950 be entitle to compensation . that could and should lead to the payment en masse of financial redress to the WASPI woman , who have campaign tirelessly for year . my hon . friend the Member for North Ayrshire and Arran ( Patricia Gibson ) have secure an important debate on redress for the WASPI woman . it be essential that any compensation scheme that be set up to remedy this injustice be administer fairly , independently , transparently and efficiently . if lesson be not learn from the failure of redress scheme such as the one for Horizon victim , proper justice will not be achieve and thousand of victim will have be fail by the UK Government again . I be look forward to hear the Minister ' s response . I agree with the hon . member for Christchurch that it be really difficult to understand why more mp be not here to stand up for their constituent , regardless of whatever scandal they have be involve in and whatever compensation scheme to which they be look for redress . I hope the Minister be listen carefully , and I hope to hear a good response later on . it be a pleasure to follow the hon . member for Motherwell and Wishaw ( Marion Fellows ) , who have do fantastic work in this area ; on occasion , we have be join at the hip in our approach to the Post Office . I thank the hon . member for Tiverton and Honiton ( Richard Foord ) for open the debate , which be very timely . I agree with the hon . member for Christchurch ( Sir Christopher Chope ) that it be disappointing that there be not more member here . like he , I remember when Thursdays be full day , but now they seem to be optional extra for Members of Parliament — that be show both my age and his . I declare an interest as a member of the Horizon compensation advisory board . I congratulate the APPG on produce the report , which identify the unbalanced power relationship when the citizen come up against the mighty state or corporate world . we have compensation scheme when thing go wrong , but to get to the truth in the first place usually take a number of year — the Post Office Horizon scandal be a good example — so the victim have already fight to try to reach that point . in many case , the victim — certainly those of the Post Office scandal , and other too — want compensation , but most of those I speak to also want the truth and an acknowledgment that they have be damage , through no fault of their own , in the case of the Horizon scandal by the Post Office , and in the case of some of the banking scandal by the disgraceful activity and greed of corporation . as I say , it be regrettable that in most case the victim spend year try to get redress . when there be public acknowledgment that something have go wrong , they be usually at the back of the queue and forget about when compensation scheme be produce , which be one of the issue that the APPG report highlight . when we be design compensation or redress scheme , we should put the victim at the centre . they be mainly over - bureaucratic and complicated , not just for the victim but for those try to administer they , who in many case be try to do a good job but get bogge down in the detail , even when we try to take the lawyer out of the process . one of the hurtful thing for many individual be that legal cost usually take up more of the financial pot than what go to the victim . I will talk a little later about the Horizon compensation scheme , but the postal service Minister , the hon . member for Thirsk and Malton ( Kevin Hollinrake ) , be try to cut through that knot by have single pot with fix sum . that would not only make it easy for victim to understand the scheme , but cut the duration and expense of legal proceeding , both for the victim and for the Government . the Minister have be criticise by some party for do that , but I think it be a good step forward . however , even when we get scheme that we think should be easy to administer , we get the greed of certain lawyer . as the hon . member for Christchurch do , I be go to give a historical example : the mineworker ' compensation scheme . in the end , I think that scheme pay out over £ 3 billion for victim of vibration white finger and coal dust . it should have be quite simple to administer , because it have basically a chart with the number of year that someone have work and the effect , in term of the amount of damage that have be do , but we see a feeding frenzy of lawyer , who , not content that they be get their legal cost pay by the Government , prey upon the victim to deduct money from their compensation . People might think that I be a bit of an anorak on this subject , but that be one of my early campaign : Lord Mann , who be the hon . member for Bassetlaw at the time , and I expose the greed of not only the lawyer but , sadly , some trade union — in my case , the Durham area of the National Union of Mineworkers . these scheme should be quite simple to operate , but every time we have a scandal we go back to the drawing board and reinvent the wheel . that , I think , be the problem . I be not sure that we could design a scheme that could cover every single instance , but we could certainly have some foundation on which to build . I have see this at first hand on the advisory board . I give credit to the civil servant in the Department for Business , Energy and Industrial Strategy who be try to administer the scheme , but they have go back to square one . in the early day of the advisory board , I be actually refer back to the mineworker ' compensation scheme as a way of try to simplify the system . I think that we need from the Government , in response to this report , some work to look at get in place a bare framework for compensation scheme that could be adopt when we get these type of scandal . I understand that in all this there be worry about the financial implication , and I sympathise with the Minister , because he have the Treasury hover in the background . however , if we get to a situation where we be pay out more in legal fee than to victim , surely it would be simple to cut out the middleman and pay the money directly to the victim . that framework , which I think the APPG refer to , need to be put in place as a matter of urgency . there be another thing that always strike I , which I have see in the Post Office scandal . frankly , I do not blame the victim . do they trust the Post Office one iota ? no , they do not . would I , if I have be through what they have be through ? no , I would not . it seem that , every time , it be the people who be involve in the system who determine not only how the scheme be design , but how it be administer . I find that appalling . that be not just the case with the Post Office scandal ; it be true of some of the banking scandal too . that have to change . we can not have the people who create the problem try to administer the redress scheme , because then victim do not trust what be go on . I will come to the historical shortfall scheme for the Post Office scandal in a minute , but my feeling , look at how it have be administer by the Post Office , be that it be design in the early day to try to reduce the amount of compensation so that the Post Office do not have to go to the Treasury to fill the gap . that be the complexity that we have generate . we have a fragmented and inconsistent system , which lead to a waste of money and frustration for the victim , and slow thing down . I want to touch on a couple of scheme . I will start with the Post Office Horizon compensation scheme , which I know more about than some of the other . we have three separate scheme . I and my fellow member of the advisory board ask , " why would we start here ? " we all agree that we would not want to , but we all feel that we could not unpick it and have one scheme , because it have already be put in place . we start off with the historical shortfall scheme , which be design by the Post Office to try to get redress for some of the case that come forward , but there be serious issue . the first be with disclosure of evidence by the Post Office . I do not mind put it on record that on occasion I think , " have it be lose or be they just frustrate the system ? " I think that it in some case it be just frustrating the system . the second issue be that the Post Office be administer the scheme . many individual be ask to make application without any legal advice at all and , lo and behold , the advisory board — to be fair to the Minister , he have take on board our recommendation — now have to look at some of those case again because of the way the scheme be administer . right from the start , it be not fit for purpose . we then have the group litigation order scheme — the famous 555 include Alan Bates , who take the Post Office to court and secure the landmark 2019 judgment . that be a completely separate scheme from the HSS . the GLO scheme be initially resist . at first , the Government ' s line be that the postmaster have settle the case in the High Court — basically because they be outgunne by the Government and the Post Office , who use a tsunami of public cash to spend £ 100 million on lawyer , but it be now come out of the inquiry that they never have a case to defend . they be try to defend the indefensible . just think : £ 100 million spend on lawyer . we could have pay the victim out of that . we could have cover at least part of one of the scheme through that alone . we understand victim ' anger when they see that happen . we then have the overturn conviction scheme , which come out of the 104 or 105 individual who have already be through the Court of Appeal and have their conviction overturn . that will be the redress mechanism for all the other victim who will have their conviction quash when the legislation pass Parliament . that , again , will be a different scheme from the other . very early on , the postal affair Minister introduce the £ 600 , 000 one - off payment to people , and he have now introduce a £ 75 , 000 payment in other scheme for people to accept as a final offer without go through the evidence or anything like that . People might say that that mean that some people will get more money than they lose . that do not really bother I , give the trauma they have go through , when the alternative be go through a long , laborious administration process . we would pay as much as that out for lawyer anyway ; why should it not go to the victim ? credit to the postal service Minister , he have bring these payment forward . we must try to have such payment in other compensation scheme . we be in danger of have a fourth scheme . I have a meeting with the postal service Minister last night and , as I have previously tell the House , we be now look at the pre - Horizon scheme , Capture . to be fair to he , he be determined to get to the bottom of what the Post Office do in prosecute and bankrupt people . if the Government accept that victim be wrongly prosecute and , in some case , bankrupt , which scheme do they fit into ? do they fit into one of the three exist scheme , or will we have to generate yet another scheme ? that show the complexity of these argument when compensation be need . I would resist come up with a fourth scheme — we have to try to adapt some of the other scheme , and we on the advisory board will obviously work with the Minister . lesson need to be learn from how the Post Office have handle this , and that could be the basis for the Cabinet Office ' s work in look at the pillar that be need . all scheme , and certainly the Post Office scheme , have to disclose information . the Post Office have be notoriously slow in disclose the information need to progress a claim . have some of that be deliberate ? in the past , I think it possibly have , but what do we do where the record no long exist ? I be sure some of the record no long exist in the example raise by the hon . member for Christchurch . do we just say that no one have a claim ? no , I think we need to take quite a generous view . if it can be prove , for example , that people have lose out because of the damage from a scheme , and if it can be prove that they be not just make it up , we need a mechanism to deal with that . otherwise , victim be go to feel that they will not get justice . interestingly , I have more information on the pre - Horizon system , Capture , than the Post Office do . I have a full set of document , all the software and all the floppy disk from the early Capture case . when I put this to the Post Office , I be ask where I get it from , and I say that one of the victim who contact I have a very assiduous wife — sadly , Mrs Tooby be no long with we — who keep everything . it say something that I have more evidence than the Post Office . the hon . member for Christchurch talk about litigation . well , how would a person litigate that ? it be a pretty one - sided argument . the Post Office have no evidence at all in those case . it know that the evidence exist , but it do not have the box of evidence that I have . again , try to avoid litigation should be part of the process because , as the hon . Gentleman say , it be costly . People do not have access to that kind of cash . even if they do , it be also costly to the Government . who win ? the lawyer , and we do not get the swift redress that be need . other scheme have be mention , and evidence on the Windrush scheme have be lose . landing card record and other such thing have all be destroy by the Home Office , so how do we do it ? we have to take a sensible approach and , to be fair to he — I know I keep praise he — the postal service Minister have . where the information do not exist , we should err on the side of victim . we should not say , " we can not move forward because we have no evidence . " that have be one of the problem with the Windrush scandal . I have also work with LGBTQ veteran who be dismiss from the armed force because of their sexuality , which be a great example of the government set the parameter of an inquiry before it be set up . Lord Etherton do a very good job with his inquiry , but we have a ridiculous situation in which the Government say in advance that the compensation have to be cap at £ 50 million . I keep ask , " why £ 50 million ? " apparently the only reason , apart from the Treasury want to keep control on expenditure , be that the Department see what the canadian scheme cost and say that it be roughly the same thing . the Government do that before set up the inquiry . to be fair to Lord Etherton , he have no choice but to recommend £ 50 million . I have look at the case and meet some of the individual concern — fight with Pride be a great organisation — and there be no way that that compensation be go to be enough . I tell the Minister for Defence People that , if he think he be go to get away with £ 50 million , it be completely for the bird . People have lose wage , pension entitlement and other thing that need to be take into consideration . if we be not careful , people will say , " actually , it ' s not worth go through this scheme . we ' ll just litigate and go all the way . " that be another example of how the Treasury , or somebody else , set limit beforehand be not a good idea . the other example be the infected blood inquiry . the Government argue that we have to take time to make sure we do it properly . I agree with all that but , bluntly , we know it be about save money , and it be possibly about kick the inquiry until after the election in the hope that it will be somebody else ' s problem . be it go to be costly ? yes . no amount of compensation will address the damage do to the contaminated blood victim and their family — I have read their testimony — but it will help to right some of the wrong . the Government need to stop kick this football around and work on a cross - party basis to agree the way forward . I get into this through my constituent Tom Brown , who be a fantastic individual who fight very hard and with determination because he have not steal £ 84 , 000 , but he pass away before Christmas . as the hon . member for Tiverton and Honiton say , it be sad that people be die before they at least get some redress for the harm that be do . that can not be right . many more infected blood victim will pass away before they get compensation . follow the APPG ' s excellent report , we need to build the pillar of a framework that can be put in place for such scandal . that should apply not only to the Government but to the corporate world , too . my hon . friend the Member for Hackney South and Shoreditch ( Dame Meg Hillier ) chair the Public Accounts Committee , which be look at this , and we need to change the Treasury ' s mind on accept that we will have more of these scandal in the future , whether we like it or not . we should be mindful of that in the account by put consolidated funding aside for these type of compensation scheme . if we have that framework and that Treasury thinking of keep that money aside , we could at least then not keep reinvent thing , which be what we be do . the sadness be that we keep make the same mistake over and over again , which be unjust for the victim , inefficient for Government and just feed those in the legal profession — sorry to keep have a go at lawyer — to a point where they get more than the victim , which can not be right . we have to approach this issue , as the all - party group do , on a cross - party basis , as it be go to affect not just this government but future government . Most people across the House would want we to have a system that ensure that people get compensate when thing go wrong , so some consensus across the House in design such a system or framework would be worth get . if we could do that , we would show the public something . that go to the point the hon . member for Christchurch make — people may say that the Government and Parliament can not do thing , but we can if we get our act together and work across the party to get what we all need , which be redress for the these individual . it be a pleasure to follow the right hon . member for North Durham ( Mr Jones ) . I do so with a small measure of trepidation , as a recover lawyer ; it be 23 year since I leave legal practice , so it give I a certain perspective . he be right to say that we be talk about the imbalance of power between the big corporate , Government body and public body , and the individual private citizen . beyond that , the real problem be about culture , because nothing in nature or law say that a big corporate , public regulator or public body have to treat people badly ; that be the choice of the people who make up those body . that problem be not new . as I have be listen to this debate , I have be reflect on the fact that not long after I be first elect to this House in 2001 , one of the first piece of casework in which I become involved relate to 36 resident in the south end of shetland whose asbestos roof have all fail follow the grounding of the Braer , off the south end of Shetland , some 10 year early . the casual observer might think it common sense that those roof have work perfectly functionally for decade and then suddenly , after a tanker full of Gullfaks crude be dump on top of they , thing start to go wrong . the problem be that they do not go wrong immediately ; it take time for their failure to become apparent . as a consequence , those people be at the tail end of those who be claim from the International Oil Pollution Compensation Funds . everybody believe before the Braer that the sum put into the IOPC fund could never be reach , but of course the Braer maxe out the fund . by the time the asbestos roof claimant come along , there be no money leave to pay the compensation . however , money be leave to defend a court action , which be what happen when my constituent raise one . I have never understand the judgment in the case , but my constituent lose and , as a consequence , be leave have to carry their own loss . I be certain that have there be more money in that fund at the start , their loss would have be meet . so , yes , this be about the imbalance of power , but it be also about the culture of the organisation concern . an understanding be require on the part of these body , be they corporate or public , of the purpose for which they be there . that be what I wish to draw the House ' s attention to today . last night , I be fortunate to host a showing upstairs of a BBC documentary entitle " King of the Swindlers " , and the parallel with the Post Office Horizon scheme and its victim be there for all to see . there be only a couple of hundred victim of the " King of the Swindlers " , whereas , as we know , thousand of sub - postmaster be affect by Horizon . the " King of the Swindlers " concern a Ponzi scheme perpetrate by a financial adviser in the north - east of Scotland , Alistair Greig . he be eventually convict of fraud and sentence to 14 year ' imprisonment , which be later reduce to 10 on appeal . the victim come from everywhere from Shetland in the north , down through Orkney , along the highland east coast and the Moray coast , through Aberdeen and down into Angus . they be all people who have live and work as builder , tradesman or shopkeeper , save a bit here and there . they put their money into this Ponzi scheme and lose out . the constituent who first bring this to my attention lose out to the tune of £ 130 , 000 , and his mother lose £ 37 , 000 . Alistair Greig be responsible for his fraud , but he be able to carry it out as a consequence of the serial ineptitude and incompetence of the Financial Services Authority , later the Financial Conduct Authority . a journalist , Dale Haslam of Aberdeen ' s Evening Express , who have do tremendous work expose what go on , point out to I last night that if the FSA have get it right the first time Greig ' s wrongdoing be bring to its attention , he would have be stop after only one victim . however , it miss the opportunity not once , not twice , but three time to stop what he be do . as a consequence , the number of victim run to hundred . those who lose out be all small business people who have work hard , save £ 100 here and £ 1 , 000 or £ 1 , 500 there . they put all that money together and trust it to Alistair Greig , usually on the recommendation of friend , family and other , because that be how business be often do in such community . these people do not make that money by flip property or come up with a great wheeze in the City ; it be all hard win . eventually , in desperation , they raise a legal action against Sense Network Ltd , the company that stand above Greig in the financial food chain , but they lose twice : in the first instance , and at appeal . the legal action pursue by the 95 victim who have the determination , courage and stubbornness to pursue it do serve a purpose : eventually all the victim be allow compensation from the Financial Services Compensation Scheme . that of course come with an £ 85 , 000 cap , so my constituent who have lose £ 130 , 000 be immediately £ 45 , 000 down . however , those 95 victim of Alistair Greig who support the legal action and make the compensation for everybody possible be leave with a legal fee bill of £ 1 . 9 million ; they be have to pay some £ 30 , 000 each , although the exact number vary . so my constituent start with £ 130 , 000 , come down to £ 85 , 000 , and be leave with something in the region of £ 50 , 000 . let we not lose sight of the fact that Alistair Greig be able to do what he do only because the Financial Services Authority and the Financial Compensation Authority be poor at do the job that this House charge they to do . I invite various people to the screening of " King of the Swindlers " last night . I invite the legal team , include the solicitor who act for the victim . I will be happy to introduce she to the right hon . member for North Durham , because she be a sterling example of what good people in the legal profession can do , as a member of what I would still regard as a caring profession . I hate to think that I have give the impression that I be down on all lawyer ; some of my good friend be lawyer . if the system be implement fairly , people can get proper legal advice without it cost a fortune . I do not disagree with that . I see enough of that in my time in practice . the right hon . Gentleman know of my experience with the historical shortfall scheme , and of go into hand - to - hand combat with the lawyer who be instruct by the Post Office . in that case , we be able to make progress for my constituent . a local solicitor , Anne Robertson , a sole practitioner operate in Orkney , take on one of the three big firm in London and leave they run for cover . the victim be leave with a £ 1 . 9 million legal fee because the inadequacy of the regulator leave they with no option but to do what they do . we invite the regulator to the showing last night . I invite they in the middle of March ; they reply last week in a letter , say , " no , sorry . we have nothing to add . we be not go to come . " foolishly , the FCA give I time to reply , and I have a telephone conversation on Friday night , as I leave Shetland on a ferry to go to Orkney , with Chris Wilford , the head of public affair , and Mark Francis , the director of enforcement and market oversight . apparently , that be a proper job title ; I think it be some sort of ironic term , but that be what be in his contract . the response be , " of course we be accountable , but we don ' t like be accountable to you . this be an informal process . " all I be ask be for they to come along , sit in room and watch a documentary , along with the people who have lose their life saving to this man , and explain the decision that they have take . that be all they have to do . they could walk out of the room at the end of the night , and I would be able to ask no more of they , but they be not even prepared to do that . I think I would be up against some really slick type , but I have rarely come across two more nervous - sound individual . it be your reputation — it precede you . that could be right , but I doubt it . my reputation be as a friendly and approachable character . we go through the process and eventually I say , " if these people have not take that court action , how much would any victim of Alistair Greig have get back ? " the silence be absolutely deafening . I let it run for as long as I could , and eventually I say , " well , I think I understand now why you be so reluctant to come to the House of Commons next Wednesday . " the call do not go on much after that , but I do say that I think that the matter require escalation , and ask they to call back on Monday with arrangement for I to speak to the chief executive . I do not get a call , but I do get an email on Monday say that they have nothing furth to add . the chief executive of the Financial Conduct Authority be Nikhil Rathi . interestingly , a couple of year ago that job command a salary of £ 455 , 000 per annum . I calculate that the Prime Minister ' s salary be about 37 % of what we pay the chief executive of the FCA . for job like that , it often feel that the more you pay , the less you get . I contrast the lack of moral courage of people like that , who will not sit in a room with the people whose life have be affect by the decision they have take , to that of some of the people who be in the room last night , include the solicitor Philippa Hann and Robert Morfee . at first , the judge in the Sense Network case be not go to turn up , but he be there in the room . we expect judge to plead the independence of the judiciary , and rightly so , but out of respect for what these people have be though , he be prepared to turn up , watch the documentary and share the space with they . that speak well to his strength of character . another person who be in the room be Judy Greig , the ex - wife of Alistair Greig , who be responsible for the scheme . she divorce he after his crime come to light . he make himself bankrupt , but she refuse to do that , so she have end up carry some of his debt . she be now 72 year old . she be work in a supermarket and still support the victim of her husband ' s criminality . her remarkable strength of character be in contrast to that of people like the chief executive of the FCA who , despite the very well - fund taxpayer salary that they get , simply lack the decency and moral courage to sit down in a room with their victim . that be why I think that the question of culture be at the root of the issue . since I become interested in the last few day in the detail of what be go on in the FCA , I have find very little to offer I comfort . apparently , the FCA say that 60 of its staff be earn salary below the £ 29 , 500 per year set by the Joseph Rowntree Foundation as the minimum amount that people need to earn to reach an acceptable standard of living . it be a possibility that the FCA will establish its own hardship fund in 2024 , if there be enough demand among staff . this be an organisation where the chief executive be pay £ 455 , 000 a year . some of the commentary on the culture in the FCA be pretty damning . in one anonymous online report , a former colleague describe the ceo as " a very high iq , but not as much EQ " — emotional quotient . as we know , culture come from the top of an organisation downwards . Unite , the union that represent many FCA worker , talk about the " toxic " environment for staff representative , who have be give " minimal information " by their boss . again , this come down to culture . how the FCA treat its staff read across to how it treat people like my constituent , who find themselves in need of its service . we set up the FCA for a reason , and the FSCS for another reason . the FSCS be only suppose to be there in case the FCA fail in any way . it be pay for by company in the financial service sector , which be regulate , so they pay for the regulation , and for the failure of that regulation . this be something that the Government seriously need to look at soon . in the meantime , if the FCA want to do anything to persuade I or anybody else in this House that I be wrong about the culture within that organisation , it can put the final sum of £ 1 . 9 million in a cheque to the 95 claimant who be the victim of Alistair Greig and Midas Financial Solutions . I call the SNP spokesperson . I thank all hon . member for a very thoughtful debate this afternoon . I have enjoy all the contribution , which have raise some very important injustice . I will confine my observation to four issue : Windrush ; the Women against State Pension Inequality Campaign , or the 1950 - bear woman ; Horizon ; and the infected blood scandal . each one have cause hardship . each one have be scandalous , include in the way that people catch up in these scandal have be treat and be give warm word , but very little action . all involve miscarriage of justice and , because of the delay in redress , we find that many victim be unfortunately no long with we because they have wait so long . we should take some time to reflect on that during this debate . there be people who have just not see that justice , not see that redress and not see that compensation . first , let I turn to the WASPI woman . we welcome the publication of the long - overdue report by the Parliamentary and Health Service Ombudsman , which have find failing by the Department for Work and Pensions and have rule that the woman affect be owe compensation . however , it be staggering that , as the chief executive of that organisation say , the Department for Work and Pensions have clearly indicate that it will refuse to comply . that be unacceptable . the Department must do the right thing and it must be hold to account for any failure to do so . I believe that , if the will of this House be test on that issue , it will join all of we who believe that the Department for Work and Pensions must acknowledge its failing and urgently deliver a fast and fair compensation scheme for the woman affect . member could of course support the private Member ' s Bill in the name of my hon . friend the Member for Kilmarnock and Loudoun ( Alan Brown ) , who be try to force the Government to publish proposal for that compensation scheme for woman bear in the 1950 . we also have the Windrush scandal . just like so many other issue that have be raise by hon . member today , it be shameful that people have be wait so long for compensation from the Government and that people have sadly pass away in the meantime . this year mark the fifth anniversary since the launch of the Windrush compensation scheme , yet nearly 1 , 500 claim from the Windrush scandal be still to be settle by the Home Office . a great grandfather who have help advise thousand of victim of the Windrush scandal on compensation have say that he fear that the Government be " wait for we to die off . " I hear that phrase all too often when discuss issue such this . there be a real sense from people that they believe that the Government be wait for the victim to die off . the Windrush compensation scheme have be painfully slow , with 53 people have die while their claim be be process . do the hon . Gentleman agree that the delay also add extra heartache , not just because the individual have sadly die , but because then there be usually a legacy case which be pass on in a will , and that then lead to further complication , far delay and further agony for the family involve ? I be delighted that the right hon . Gentleman have make that perceptive point . when the other place discuss the amendment in relation to infected blood , that be the sort of debate that it be go to have . it be the Government ' s intention that the estate will be pay , but what the right hon . Gentleman say will confuse matter . both the other place and this place will have to think about what that will mean . the other issue with the Windrush scandal be that the Home Office be in charge of the compensation scheme . an independent body should administer that scheme . the Government try to do something similar with the infected blood scandal , when they be very resistant to an independent arm ' s length body be set up , despite Sir Brian Langstaff ' s recommendation . it be clear that the Government be nervous about that . the only reason that they table their amendment in the other place in relation to an independent compensation scheme in that particular scenario be that the will of the House force the Government to accept an amendment to set up that independent body . I do hope the Government will consider set up an independent organisation to administer the Windrush compensation scheme , as that be a far well position to take . as I have mention infected blood , Madam Deputy Speaker , let I say that I welcome in part the amendment that have be table in the other place . what be miss from that amendment be a timetable . People be wait for justice . they need that timetable to know what be go to happen . it be unfortunate that the Government have not build on the amendment that be pass in this place through the Victims and Prisoners Bill . there be , I be afraid , a concern that the Government amendment in the other place be water that down . I wish to pay tribute once again to constituent who have be affect by the infected blood scandal , affect by Windrush , and involve in the WASPI woman case . the last case that I will mention be the Post Office scandal . before the hon . Gentleman move on to his last point , do he agree with I that trust in politic have take a real dive ? the cover - up and then the length of time that it take to address the case of wrongdoing only far harm the public ' s trust in politic and politician . in the case of the Equitable Life scandal , despite the ombudsman say that people should receive full compensation , around 90 % of victim have still only receive 22 % of what the Government have acknowledge that they be owe . that be despite the ombudsman make it clear that finite resource should not get in the way . do he agree that an independent agency be vital to stop the public trust erode even far ? I think that be true . I get the sense that there be an anti - politic feel out there . that be not just direct at some individual ; it be a systematic issue . I think that people get very frustrated at the systematic delay that can take place in order to find redress . I wish to pay tribute to my hon . friend the Member for Motherwell and Wishaw ( Marion Fellows ) and to the right hon . member for North Durham ( Mr Jones ) who have do fantastic work in highlight the Horizon scandal . I do hope that the Government act swiftly , because we have to remember that 250 sub - postmaster have die without see justice . I believe that justice for all be vital , because justice delay be justice deny . order . before I call the shadow Minister , I just want to emphasise to those who might be want to participate in the next debate how important it be to get back for all the wind - up , include that of the SNP spokesperson . it be rather discourteous not to do so . thank you . I congratulate the hon . member who secure this debate and the hon . member for Tiverton and Honiton ( Richard Foord ) who open it and raise some very important issue in respect of deliver appropriate redress scheme in a timely manner . today , we have hear from the hon . member for Christchurch ( Sir Christopher Chope ) about vaccine damage and from the hon . member for Motherwell and Wishaw ( Marion Fellows ) about the Post Office and the constraint of non - disclosure agreement . my right hon . friend the Member for North Durham ( Mr Jones ) have bring his expertise and track record of campaign to the Chamber to speak on the Post Office and the miner ' compensation scheme . and we hear from the right hon . member for Orkney and Shetland ( Mr Carmichael ) on a save scheme and the miss opportunity by the watchdog to prevent people from become victim of that scheme . by definition , those who be eligible for redress scheme will already have suffer detriment , and many , as we have see with the infected blood scandal and the Post Office Horizon scandal , will have spend year battle for recognition and justice , and suffer avoidable hardship . we therefore owe it to they to ensure that we get the redress scheme right , and that they be set up as promptly as possible and operate as efficiently as possible , while ensure that we protect the public purse from fraudulent claim . learn from previous scheme , so that we be not constantly reinvent the wheel or repeat mistake , and build up corporate expertise be therefore of vital importance . each scheme will , however , have its own complexity and sensitivity , and it be important that they be fully recognise . as my right hon . friend the Member for North Durham highlight , victim should be at the centre of design redress scheme . the National Audit Office produce a briefing in 2008 , build on the experience of some previous compensation scheme , such as the miner ' chronic obstructive pulmonary disease and vibration white finger scheme , which be all too familiar to my right hon . friend , to I and to other colleague who represent former coalmining area . the NAO briefing stress the importance of the right governance and project management , commit sufficient effort and appropriate skill to set up scheme , consider the capacity need , design out the likely bottleneck or delay , and be prepared to deal with external pressure . there may well be further lesson to learn since then . in January , my hon . friend the Member for Hackney South and Shoreditch ( Dame Meg Hillier ) , who chair the Public Accounts Committee , ask the National Audit Office to " conduct a thematic review of government compensation and financial redress scheme " , and the National Audit Office agree to do so . I look forward to read that report . sadly , as we have see in instance such as Hillsborough , the infected blood scandal and the Post Office Horizon scandal , long before get to any form of redress scheme , actually get to the truth in the first place can be an uphill struggle , with victim vilify , shame , shun , imprison and financially ruin . on 6 December last year , when the Government publish their response to the Hillsborough report , the Opposition , along with the victim ’ family , be bitterly disappointed that the Government stop short of propose a Hillsborough law , which be why I raise it at Prime Minister ' s question that day . this week , we mark the 35th anniversary of Hillsborough tragedy . as hon . member will have hear , my right hon . friend the Leader of the opposition raise the propose law again with the Prime Minister yesterday , but we still receive no positive response . the purpose of a Hillsborough law would be to prevent such a hideous cover - up by the authority , which be an appalling affront to the survivor and the devastated family of those who die , and leave they have to struggle for far long to get justice . the purpose of the propose Hillsborough law would be to put a legal responsibility on public official to tell the truth in any form of formal inquiry or proceeding , and to ensure that individual would face criminal sanction if they breach that law . to be honest , it be extraordinary that that be not already the case . importantly , the propose Hillsborough law would also provide victim with parity of legal funding in inquest . that would avoid the sort of David and Goliath situation where victim simply can not afford to challenge the authority . all public body need to be open - minded and even - handed when consider complaint or hearing from whistleblower , and not rush to cover up and silence concern , and hound whistleblower out of organisation . those in charge of public body need to contemplate the thought that mistake may have be make , system may be at fault , and there may be individual who do not hold to the ideal of public service , or inappropriate culture within an organisation . often , early recognition and acknowledgment of a problem could help to bring justice soon to victim , prevent further victim and ultimately save the public purse . instead , it seem to take year of struggle , heartbreak , investigative journalism and even tv drama before the victim ' voice be hear and believe , and justice be deliver . in term of whistleblower , I think of the senior paediatrician in the Letby case who raise concern . even though he be a senior paediatrician , his concern be dismiss , and Letby go on to murder again — all the more tragic , because it could have be avoid . to return to the redress scheme , it be all very well look at good practice and try to build on previous experience to streamline matter and avoid reinvent the wheel . skilled civil servant can have the very good guideline in the world , but without political will from the Government to prioritise , victim will continue to wait , and sadly some may never live to receive their compensation . on whether people survive to get justice , I draw attention to Baroness Cumberlege ' s " first do no harm " report on the harm cause by mesh , sodium valproate and primodo . a lot of those victim be already die . my mam be one of the victim of mesh . she will be 80 in January , and I hope that she live to see some compensation and redress . do my hon . friend agree that these thing really have to be speed up , because it be not fair ? when people have be harm , in this case by the state through medical intervention , redress should be forthcoming quickly . indeed . my hon . friend make an important point . recently , the Government have dither and delay on three high - profile redress scheme . I will turn first to the Windrush scandal , which reveal the huge injustice in our citizenship and nationality system . the scheme be set up in 2018 , but a Home Affairs Committee report in 2021 point out that in early 2021 , the average time from claim to payment be some 434 day . even in February this year , the Home Office ' s own datum show that some 14 % of live claim be drag on for more than six month . as we have make clear in this House , Labour be determined to ensure that the Windrush generation and family get the compensation and justice that they be owe . if necessary , we would place the Windrush compensation scheme outside the Home Office if it continue to fail . Labour have plan to restart and improve community engagement and outreach work to encourage application to the scheme and speed up compensation payment , to ensure that every victim get every penny of the compensation that they deserve . as part of our commitment to the recommendation of the Wendy Williams review , Labour would establish a Windrush commissioner to monitor the compensation scheme and the re - establishment of the major change programme and the Windrush unit within the Home Office , and to be a voice for the family affect , to ensure that a scandal like Windrush can never happen again . my heart drop at the idea of another commissioner . the point , which my hon . friend make early , be that we need Ministers who will drive thing forward . a good example be the hon . member for Thirsk and Malton ( Kevin Hollinrake ) , who on a number of occasion I have call a poacher turn gamekeeper . he do excellent work on the banking scandal , and he have drive thing forward because he be a Minister who actually care about the victim and be prepared to make tough decision within Government . indeed . without political will , thing can not be drive forward . as my right hon . Friend say , ministerial intervention be crucial . I turn to the infected blood scandal . the opposition be disturb to hear the news yesterday evening that the Government be yet again delay the compensation scheme by try to remove from the Victims and Prisoners Bill a requirement to set one up within three month of the Bill ' s become law — yet another miss opportunity , yet another delay . in 2022 , Sir Robert Francis KC produce his report " Compensation and Redress for the Victims of infected Blood — Recommendations for a Framework " . in April last year — a whole year ago — Sir Brian Langstaff produce his second interim report of the infected blood inquiry . as the Minister know , there be absolutely no reason why the Government can not go ahead with set up a scheme before the publication of the final report on 20 May . time be of the essence . every week that pass without further Government action matter . those who be infect with contaminate blood be die at a rate of one every four day . the Labour party want to ensure that justice and compensation for victim and their family be deliver as a matter of the utmost urgency , but we have still not hear the Government ' s final decision on compensation . they tell we that they will not make public any final detail until after the publication of the final report in May . I urge they yet again to speed up the process of deliver justice to victim and their family , include by get on with the work need to set up the structure of the compensation scheme , so that victim be compensate as soon as possible . the Post Office ( Horizon System ) Offences Bill afford we the chance to make a huge stride in right the wrong of the past , and we on the Labour Benches be pleased to give it our full support . this have be an interesting and informative debate . the Government should always try to learn from past experience and do their utmost to get redress scheme right , make they transparent and easily accessible to victim while protect the public purse . it be a pleasure to respond to a thoughtful debate in which we have hear some very good speech . hon . member have have the opportunity to display the considerable expertise that they have build up , often while deal with difficult constituency casework . it be a reminder to we all that we be here to serve the need of our constituent and to help they find redress when hardship , difficulty and , sometimes , the system get in their way . it be a pleasure to hear experienced member of the House hark back to the glorious day when we have a full work Thursday . I share their desire for that — and not just because we would have have more people in attendance for this debate . it be particularly good to hear the consider speech of right hon . member for North Durham ( Mr Jones ) , in which he savagely attack lawyer . I look forward to the leader of his party reading and consider his remark . we be here to debate the detail that have be raise thank to the diligent effort of the all - party parliamentary group in write to the Government with its thought about how we might make general improvement . the Government firmly believe that access to redress be fundamental in uphold justice and fairness in our society . it be imperative that individual have avenue to seek recourse when they have be wrong or harm . in recognition of that , the scheme through which the Government provide redress be numerous . the Government have do more than most in the past few year to address historical wrong . in 2017 , the infected blood inquiry be set up , and in October 2022 interim payment of £ 100 , 000 be make to everyone in the UK infect blood support scheme . the Windrush programme be set up in 2019 , the Horizon shortfall scheme in 2020 , the overturn conviction scheme and the LGBT veteran scheme in 2021 , and the group litigation order compensation scheme in 2023 . yesterday , my right hon . friend the Paymaster General set out our next step in support the victim of the infected blood scandal . the Government have be steadfast in our commitment to provide diverse compensation scheme that cater to vary need and circumstance . we remain committed to uphold the rule of law and ensure that all citizen have access to effective mechanism for resolve grievance and hold institution accountable . there be , rightly , considerable interest across the House in how we can ensure good practice . I be grateful to be able to engage with some of those idea today . although I acknowledge the interesting idea moot by the APPG , I think we should sound a note of caution . we must be wary of any approach that would set up a uniform system for redress and compensation . each set of circumstance be often very different , and scheme need to be capable of reflect those difference in order to ensure that the affected individual get the good possible redress . any reform process would need to ensure that we do not lose personal understanding of the claimant who be access the scheme , and that we provide adequate support and understanding of their personal experience . I urge hon . member to keep claimant at the centre of our thinking during consideration of any reform — that have be at the heart of what hon . member have say in the debate . I do not disagree with the Minister — I agree that victim should be at the centre , and that no two scheme will ever be perfectly the same — but there be broad framework . what tend to happen — it certainly do with the Horizon scheme — be that people try to reinvent the thing every time . surely we could put in place some parameter that civil servant could use as a template when face with a future compensation scheme . I be go to come to that point . although the right hon . Gentleman be right that there be currently no public guidance , that do not limit the sharing of knowledge between Departments and policy area . there be a great deal of dialogue and share learning between official when scheme come into existence . the hon . member for Tiverton and Honiton ( Richard Foord ) suggest in his opening remark that the wheel be always be reinvent . that be not the case ; a learning process happen within Government . I do not suppose that lesson be not be learn and that one set of civil servant be not pass lesson on to another set ; rather , this be about victim have the reassurance that when there be a perceive conflict of interest , they have somewhere else to go . the point I be make be very much that we have internal scheme of learning , and we ensure that each new scheme learn from the experience of those that have go before it . rise — I will give way one more time to the right hon . Gentleman , but I be run out of time . that be not my experience . when we be set up the advisory board for the Horizon compensation scheme , I ask official to look at the mineworker ' compensation scheme , which be a massive scheme . the problem be that , with the turnover of civil servant , corporate knowledge be lose . we need corporate knowledge to be hold centrally in Departments — possibly in the Cabinet Office ; otherwise , thing leave to Departments do not happen because people leave . the right hon . Gentleman be right : the Government require a mean of retain corporate knowledge . that be something that I have be work on since I come to the Cabinet Office 18 month ago . I will not go into it now , but we be put in place a number of novel programme to ensure that , as people move on , we retain their learning — not just with regard to redress scheme , but more broadly across Government . he be right about that . although there be a richness in have civil servant who have work in many different Departments and have a broad understanding of how Government work , there be sometimes a danger that , in have that rotation , we lose expert knowledge . I will move on to some of the progress that have be make on the major scheme that the Government have under way . in respect of the Horizon IT scandal , let I reassure the House that the Government be determine for postmaster to receive the compensation that they deserve . as of 31 March this year , approximately £ 190 million have be pay to over 2 , 800 claimant across three scheme : £ 111 million on the Horizon shortfall scheme ; £ 39 million for all payment , include interim payment , on the group litigation order scheme ; and a total of £ 41 million for all payment , include further interim payment , on the overturn conviction scheme . with regard to the Windrush scandal , as of February this year the Home Office have pay over £ 83 million across 2 , 307 claim . on infected blood , as I mention early , the Government have pay over £ 400 million in interim compensation to those infected , and bereaved partner , register with exist support scheme since 2022 . let I turn to the specific point make by other contributor . alas , my hon . friend the Member for Christchurch ( Sir Christopher Chope ) ascribe to I a great power than I possess : I be unable today to respond formally to the Cumberlege review , but he will be aware that the Government be in the midst of very serious consideration of its finding and recommendation , and I know that he will hold our foot to the fire to ensure that that formal response come soon . to go back one more time to the right hon . member for North Durham , I be grateful for his acknowledgment of the work do by my hon . friend the Member for Thirsk and Malton ( Kevin Hollinrake ) . his comment about lawyer aside , I very much agree that we need scheme that reduce the opportunity for legal opportunism — we owe that to our tax - pay constituent , and also to those who have be wrong . the Government understand that there be broad lesson to be learn from scheme that have go on in the past , but also from the four big scheme that be currently under way . it will also be necessary for we to consider the response of the National Audit Office to the letter write early this year by the Chair of the Public Accounts Committee , the hon . member for Hackney South and Shoreditch ( Dame Meg Hillier ) , so that we can well understand how we can build on the good work that have already be do to help our constituent when similar wrong befall they in future . I be very grateful to all member who have participate in today ' s debate , often prompt by conversation that they have have with individual in their constituency and therefore often pay great heed to just one person ' s case . in recent year , there have be one or two positive development on access compensation — for example , the interim compensation award that we hear about have help to speed up redress — but there be still some serious problem that be common to so many of the case that we have use to highlight the problem this afternoon . we can no long have the same organisation that be responsible for the original harm also responsible for adjudicate what be fair compensation . even in case where there be not a conflict of interest , victim might perceive that there be , and as we have hear , they have nowhere else to go , so there need to be the right of appeal . we can not have the ludicrous situation in which an individual or small business who be subject to mis - selling , for example , have no recourse but to go back to the very bank that lend they the money in the first place . we need an independent , expert arm ' s length body that could oversee redress scheme and would provide a cost - effective way to tackle mass scandal . it would ensure speedy resolution that place the burden on those who commit the wrongdoing , not the victim who be catch up in these appalling situation . the recommendation of the APPG on fair business banking be an excellent way of introduce that framework . I conclude by thank all member who take part in today ' s debate . question put and agree to . resolve , that this House recognise the challenge face by individual and business in access effective dispute resolution and obtain redress in case of injustice ; believe that the Government need to address these specific challenge , namely a fragmented and inconsistent redress landscape ; consider statutory guidance to be an essential measure to ensure compensation and redress scheme follow common principle and lead to fair and independent outcome ; and call on the Government to create statutory guidance with common principle for set up and operate a redress scheme . Covid - 19 : response and Excess death [ relevant document : e - petition 639085 , launch a Public Inquiry into excess mortality in England and Wales ; e - petition 628188 , Investigate UK excess death not relate to Covid . ] I beg to move , that this House have consider the covid - 19 pandemic response and trend in excess death ; and call on the covid - 19 inquiry to move onto its module 4 investigation into vaccine and therapeutic as soon as possible . we be witness to the great medical scandal in this country in live memory , and possibly ever : the excess death in 2022 and 2023 . its cause be complex , but the novel and untested medical treatment describe as a covid vaccine be a large part of the problem . I have be call an anti - vaxxer , as if I have reject those vaccine base on some ideology . I want to state clearly and unequivocally that I have not : in fact , I be double vaccinated and vaccine - harm . intelligent people must be able to tell when people be neither pro - vax nor anti - vax , but be against a product that do not work and cause enormous harm to a percentage of the people who take it . I be proud to be one of the few member of Parliament with a science degree . it be a great shame that there be not more member with a science background in this place ; maybe if there be , there would be less reliance on Whips Office briefing and more independent research , and perhaps less group - think . I say to the House in all seriousness that this debate and other like it be go to be pore over by future generation , who will be genuinely agog that the evidence have be ignore for so long , that genuine concern be disregard , and that those raise they be gaslit , smear and vilify . one do not need any science training at all to be horrify by official deliberately hide key datum in this scandal , which be exactly what be go on . the Office for National Statistics use to release weekly datum on death per 100 , 000 in vaccinate and unvaccinated population — it no long do so , and no one will explain why . the public have a right to that datum . there have be call from serious expert , whose request I have amplify repeatedly in this House , for what be call record - level datum to be anonymise and disclose for analysis . that would allow meaningful analysis of death after vaccination , and settle once and for all the issue of whether those experimental treatment be responsible for the increase in excess death . far more extensive and detailed datum have already be release to the pharma company from publicly fund body . Jenny Harries , head of the UK Health Security Agency , say that this anonymised , aggregate death by vaccination status datum be " commercially sensitive " and should not be publish . the public be be deny that datum , which be unacceptable ; yet again , datum be hide with impunity , just like in the Post Office scandal . Professor Harries have also endorse a recent massive change to the calculation of the baseline population level use by the ONS to calculate excess death . it be now incredibly complex and opaque , and by sheer coincidence , it appear to show a massive excess of death in 2020 and 2021 and minimal excess death in 2023 . under the old calculation method , try and test for decade , the excess death rate in 2023 be an astonishing 5 % — long after the pandemic be over , at a time when we would expect a deficit in death because so many people have sadly die in previous year . some 20 , 000 premature death in 2023 alone be now be airbrush away through the new normal baseline . shocking thing happen during the pandemic response . in March 2020 , the Government conduct a consultation exercise on whether people over a certain age or with certain disability should have " do not resuscitate " order , know as dnr , impose upon they . a document summarise the proposal be circulate to doctor and hospital ; it be mistakenly treat as formal policy by a number of care home and gps up and down the country , who enact it . at the same time , multiple hospital introduce a policy that they would not admit patient with dnr , because they think that they would be overwhelm . the result be that people die who do not need to die while nurse perform TikTok dance . the average time to death from experience covid symptom and testing positive be 18 day . it be a little - know fact that the body clear all the virus within around seven day ; what actually kill people be that some , especially the vulnerable , have an excessive immune response . doctor have be treat that response for decade with steroid , antibiotic for secondary pneumonia infection and other standard protocol , but they do not do so this time . even though the virus be long go , doctor abandon the standard clinical protocol because covid be a " new virus " — which it be not . they send people home , tell they to take paracetamol until their lip turn blue , and then when those people return to hospital , they sedate they , put they on ventilator and watch they die . the protocol for covid - 19 treatment be a binary choice between two treatment track . once admit , ill patient be either ventilate in intensive care or — if they be not fit for that level of care — give end of life medication , include midazolam and morphine . the body responsible for that protocol , NG163 , which be publish on 3 April 2020 , be call the National Institute for Health and Care Excellence , or NICE . give midazolam and morphine to people die of cancer be reasonable , but there be a side effect , which be that those drug have a respiratory depressant effect . it be hard to imagine a more stupid thing to do than give a respiratory suppressant to someone who be already struggle to breathe with the symptom of covid - 19 , but that be exactly what we do . can the Minister explain why midazolam be remove from the same update guideline NG191 — the antecedent of ng163 — on 30 November 2023 ? as it be remove , be it now consider and admit that it be a mistake to ignore the warning of so many expert about include that specific drug , midazolam , in NG163 when it be introduce ? it have be confirm in letter from Ministers to family whose loss of love one be down to this protocol that minister be now say that doctor and nurse should have treat the individual patient with their own knowledge , rather than strictly follow nice guideline NG163 . if legal case for unlawful killing be bring , can the Minister tell we who be go to be take the blame ? will it be nice , will it be NHS England or will the individual doctor and nurse be hold to account ? interestingly , NICE have now remove these alternative protocol , include NG163 , from its website , although every other historical protocol be still there for reference . could the Minister tell we why NICE have remove this protocol from its website ? be it ashamed of the harm it have cause ? it certainly should be . what can we learn from this ? we learn that very few doctor dare challenge what they be tell . protocol with no author be distribute , and doctor fall into line . there be a huge , stark contrast in how death and illness after vaccination have be record compare with those after covid . after a positive covid test , any illness and any death be attribute to the virus . after the experimental emergency vaccine be administer , no subsequent illness and no death be ever attribute to the vaccine . those be both completely unscientific approach , and that be why we have to look at other source of datum — excess death — to determine whether there be an issue . first , however , I want to address the phrase " safe and effective " . the fear deliberately stoke up by the Government promote the idea of be rescue by a saviour vaccine . the chanting of the " safe and effective " narrative begin , and the phrase seem to hypnotise the whole nation . " safe and effective " be the sale slogan of thalidomide . after that scandal , rule be put in place to prevent such marketing in future by pharma company , and they be prohibit from use " safe and effective " without significant caveat . that do not matter this time because , with covid - 19 vaccine , the medium , the Government and other authority turn into big pharma ' s marketing department , and it be very hard now to hear the word " safe " without the echo of the word " and effective " , but they be not safe and effective . in March 2021 , when the majority of UK citizen have already receive these novel product , Pfizer sign a contract with Brazil and South Africa say that " the long - term effect and e ﬃ cacy of the Vaccine be not currently know and … adverse e ﬀ ect of the Vaccine . . . be not currently know . " that be verbatim from the Pfizer contract . these so - call vaccine be the least effective vaccine ever . be there anyone leave under any illusion that they prevent any infection ? when he be at the Dispatch Box for Prime Minister ' s question on 31 January , even the Prime Minister , in answer to my question , could not bring himself to add " and effective " to his " safe " mantra . in his own word , he be " unequivocal " that the vaccine be " safe " . the word " safe " mean without risk of death or injury . why be the Prime Minister gaslighte the 163 successful claim make to the vaccine damage payment scheme , total £ 19 . 5 million in compensation for harm cause by the covid vaccine ? have these people not suffer enough already ? those 163 victim be the tip of the iceberg , by the way . it also should be note that the maximum payment be only £ 120 , 000 , so each of those 163 victim get the maximum possible award , which should tell we something . the same compensation scheme pay out a total of only £ 3 . 5 million between 1997 and 2005 , with an average of only eight claim per year , and that be for all claim for the entire country for all vaccine administer . so much for " safe " . how about effective ? on 25 October 2021 , the then Prime Minister — the right hon . member for Uxbridge and South Ruislip , Boris Johnson — even admit that the vaccine " doesn ' t protect you against catch the disease and it doesn ' t protect you against pass it on . " look at the level of the virus find in sewage show that the post - vaccine wave be of the same order of magnitude and duration as the previous wave . this prove that the vaccine change nothing . they be not safe , and they be not effective . those who impose these vaccine know full well that they could never prevent infection from a disease of this kind . an injection in the arm can not do that . only immunity on the surface of the airway and the lung can prevent viral infection ; antibodie in the blood can not . in Dr Anthony Fauci ' s word , " it be not surprising that none of the predominantly mucosal respiratory virus have ever be effectively control by vaccine . " he continue : " this observation raise a question of fundamental importance : if natural mucosal respiratory virus infection do not elicit complete and long - term protective immunity against reinfection , how can we expect vaccine , especially systemically administer non - replicate vaccine , to do so ? " they know that the so - call vaccine would never protect from infection , which explain why they never test for protection from infection . only a few day ago , the Association of the British Pharmaceutical Industry rap Pfizer on the knuckle for the sixth time , and say that its marketing practice have bring the industry into disrepute . it be ask to pay a paltry £ 30 , 000 in administrative expense , with no fine on top . the person head the ABPI at the moment be also the head of Pfizer UK . the Medicines and Healthcare product Regulatory Agency have a statutory duty to carry out this work , and it have hand its responsibility to the industry . this be an outrageous conflict of interest . let we turn back to excess death . the australian Government have launch an inquiry into Australia ' s excess death problem . Australia be almost unique as a case study for excess death ; as it have the vaccine before it have covid , its excess death be not so easily blame on the long - term side effect of a virus . like we , it see a rise in death , which begin in May 2021 and have not let up since . the impact be evident on the ambulance service first . South Australia see a 67 % increase in cardiac presentation of 15 to 44 - year - old . that increase peak in November 2021 , before covid hit . we see a similar , deeply worrying effect here . in the UK , call for life - threaten emergency rise from 2 , 000 per day to 2 , 500 per day in May 2021 , and that number have never return to normal . by October 2021 , despite it be springtime in Australia , headline report that ambulance be unable to drop off patient in hospital , which be already at full capacity . Mark McGowan , Premier of Western Australia , say that he could not explain the overwhelmed hospital : " our hospital be under enormous pressure . this have be something no one have ever see before . why it be , be hard to know . " in April 2022 , Yvette D ' ath , Queensland ' s Health Minister , say about the most urgent ambulance call , call " code one " : " I don ' t think anyone can explain why we see a 40 % jump in code one . . . we just have a lot of heart attack and chest pain and trouble breathing , respiratory issue . sometimes you can ' t explain why those thing happen but unfortunately , they do . " I think we could explain this if we be to look at the link to the vaccine roll - out . Omicron do cause some excess death in Australia from 2022 onwards . however , there be a huge chunk of excess death prior to that , which doctor have not be able to blame on the virus . could those death be cause by the vaccine ? very few people dare even ask that question . it be important to remember how the vaccine be make . traditionally , the key to make a vaccine be to ensure that the pathological , harmful part of the virus or bacteria be inactivate , so that the recipient can develop an immune response without danger of develop the disease . in stark contrast , the so - call covid vaccine use the most pathological or harmful part of the virus — the spike protein — in its entirety . the harm be systemic because , contrary to what everyone be tell , the lipid nanoparticle , encapsulate the genetic material , spread through the whole body after injection , potentially affect all organ . at the time , everyone be be reassure that the injection be break down in the arm at the injection site . regulator ought to have know that those be problem . furthermore , it be now plentifully evident that the drug result in continued spike protein production for many month — even year , in some people . the death thus far have be predominantly cardiac , but there may unfortunately be many more death to come from these novel treatment , which may induce extra cancer death . Dr Robert Tindle be the retired director of the Clinical Medical Virology Centre in Brisbane , and emeritus professor of immunology . this month he publish a paper highlight the multiple potential harm from the vaccine , include harm to the immune system . as anyone who know anything about biology will know , anything that disrupt the immune system can potentially increase the risk of cancer . there be other reason to be concern about cancer be induce by these vaccine . cancer be a genetic disease disorder that arise from error in DNA , allow cell to grow uncontrollably . Moderna have multiple patent describe method for reduce the risk of cancer induction from its mrna product . that risk come from the material interrupt the patient ' s dna . it turn out that an mrna injection have very high quantity of dna in it , and that massively increase the risk of disturb a patient ' s own dna . bad still , the dna that be inject contain sequence that be hide from the regulator . that be the SV40 , or simian virus 40 promoter region , which have be link to cancer and have be find in the Pfizer vaccine . that be no accident . yet again , crucial information be hide from the regulator and the public with absolute impunity . an independent study in Japan , publish last week , have find link between increase cancer rate in Japan and those who take the first and subsequent booster vaccine . perhaps that explain why Pfizer acquire a cancer treatment company for a report $ 43 billion early this year . in conclusion , the evidence be clear : these vaccine have cause death . despite that , they have be describe as safe and effective . however , for a proportion of people who take they , the vaccine have cause serious harm and death , and they will have raise the risk of cancer for many more . nor be they effective . the vaccine do not prevent infection or transmission , and when the data be look at objectively , it show that the vaccine do not prevent serious illness or death . those be hard truth to face , but we must face they if we want to learn the lesson of the last few year . at some point we will have to face up to all the evidence that be build . it be fairly convincing 18 month ago when I first speak out , but it be unequivocal now . it be time to take the politic out of our science , and to put actual science back into our politic . I ask the House to support the motion today , and for Baroness Hallett ' s inquiry to open module 4 on the safety and efficacy of the experimental covid - 19 vaccine . give the evidence , I call on the government once again to immediately suspend the use of all mrna treatment in both human and animal , pende the outcome of that inquiry . [ applause . ] no , no , we will have to clear the Gallery if clapping continue ; I will order it , if necessary . as we have just witness , feeling be very strong on this issue , and large number of people have suffer directly or indirectly as a result of have covid - 19 vaccine . for most people — the vast majority — the covid - 19 vaccine be very good news , and they make an enormous contribution to the public health of the country , but that do not mean that we should turn a blind eye to those for whom the vaccine be bad news . in the early debate today , I reiterate my request that the Government take effective action , through the vaccine damage payment scheme , to ensure that those people for whom the vaccine be bad news receive proper compensation . as the hon . member for North West Leicestershire ( Andrew Bridgen ) remind we , the maximum payment under that scheme be £ 120 , 000 . that figure have not be update in line with inflation since 2007 ; have it be update , it would now be about £ 200 , 000 . why do the Government not update it ? relatively small number of people be involve , but it seem as though there be reluctance on the Government ' s part to face up to the reality that , for a small proportion of people , the vaccine be bad news . when we have this debate initially , soon after the roll - out of the vaccine , the Government be unequivocal in say that the vaccine be safe and effective , and with no qualification at all . subsequently , AstraZeneca issue essentially a warning notice to practitioner , which say that they should be cautious about the roll - out of some of the vaccine to some patient . People who wish to make claim against the vaccine manufacturer and / or the Government — civil claim to supplement the £ 120 , 000 that they have already be award — be find it difficult to get access to lawyer to pursue their claim , particularly if those claim arise from vaccine administer after AstraZeneca issue its first warning against the safety of its vaccine in certain circumstance . a large number of people across the country look to the Government to intervene , first , to ensure that the vaccine damage payment scheme be update , and secondly , to ensure that the people who apply under that scheme have their claim deal with in a reasonable timeframe . many of those claim be not . there be more than 9 , 000 claim , and 4 , 000 - plus have not even be resolve yet . the delay extend to 18 month or more . the consequence for many claimant be that they be unable to begin their civil action , but a civil action have to be bring within three year of the cause of action arise if it be not to be affect by the limitation period . I have ask the Prime Minister — I have a meeting with he , and have raise this at Prime Minister ' s question — whether the Government will intervene to ensure that the three - year limitation period do not apply to people still wait for a determination of their claim under the vaccine damage payment scheme , if they wish to go on and sue the Government or the manufacturer . it be a matter of simple equity and justice . I have yet to have a substantive answer from the Government . I be due to meet the Secretary of State for Health and Social Care next week , and I hope that by then she will be able to assure I — she be a lawyer , as well as a Secretary of State — that nobody will be deny justice as a result of the Government ' s delay in administer the vaccine damage payment scheme . I very much share the disappointment of the hon . member for North West Leicestershire , who introduce this debate , that module 4 of the public inquiry have be postpone . last August , there be a preliminary hearing , and there be some potent advocacy by the lawyer represent the victim group who want to give evidence in module 4 . that evidence will be extremely compelling when it be hear by the inquiry . it be a big disappointment to those group , to I and to other that module 4 be postpone . we have be tell that it have be postpone until January next year . the reason for that seem rather weak and feeble , but the inquiry be independent . evidence that be to have be give in July will now not be hear until January next year . the implication be serious for those seek compensation for their suffering , but it be also significant for that other group of people . that be because module 4 deal not just with vaccine but with therapeutic . there be a big issue about therapeutic , because Evusheld , the therapeutic that be mean to be available in particular for those who be immuno - suppress and not able to take the vaccine , be never approve by NICE . a second version of Evusheld be be bring forward , but that have also still not be approve . my constituent Bernard Mathysse have write to I in recent month to draw my attention to a letter send on 26 March to the Prime Minister by a group of charity concern with the issue . it call for the Government to intervene and ensure that an early decision be make on what can be do to help immunocompromise people who can not access the vaccine in any event . my constituent say that " France have give emergency authorisation to Evusheld 2 , and have get it into patient within a month of authorisation " . he believe that other european country will do the same . the United States have give Pemgarda — another drug — emergency authorisation , and so on . why can we not get a commitment from the Government to ensure that Evusheld be available to clinically vulnerable people ? my constituent also write to I in July 2023 express the need to fast - track an essential pre - exposure prophylaxis drug . the consequence for he be that he and his wife have be in effect shielding for about four year : they meet friend only outside , they do not travel on public transport or go by aeroplane , they ask the family to test before a visit , they mask indoor , and they have to assess every situation to gauge the risk involve . that obviously mean that they have a much restrict and isolated life , to their detriment , but that could be resolve if the Evusheld issue be take seriously by the Government . if module 4 have be hear this summer , perhaps Baroness Hallett , as an interim recommendation , could have say , " the Government must get on with that . " I be hugely enjoy my hon . friend ' s speech . I , too , have a constituent who be immunosuppressed and , unbelievably , still shielding , which be put huge pressure on the family . do not the slowness of the decision over this therapeutic stand in sorry contrast with the rapid decision take on vaccine in the first place ? exactly . one of the inhibition there may have be on the Government ' s part be that , to justify the use of emergency vaccine , it be necessary for they to believe that there be no alternative . of course , if those alternative measure have be recognise as a suitable way of provide some protection to individual against covid - 19 , that would have undermine the vaccine manufacturer ' case that they need emergency authorisation for their vaccine without go through the normal testing procedure . the continue slowness of the Government in respond to request for licensing of Evusheld reinforce the feeling out there among many people that something funny be go on here and that , if we have come forward with those therapeutic measure at the beginning , many life would have be save , such an extensive vaccination programme would not have be need , and the Government would have save a lot of money . there be an issue there , but that be why the part of the motion that regret the postponement of that element of the covid - 19 inquiry be important . we can debate academically or in political circle the issue of the excess death , but it be interesting that the Government concede that there have be excess death . the House of Commons Library ' s briefing produce on 15 April for this debate say : " the government have acknowledge an increase in the number of excess death in England and Wales and have attribute these to a combination of factor , such as the prevalence of heart disease , flu and heart disease . " the emphasis be on heart disease , but many people feel that the increase in heart condition and disease have be exacerbate by the very vaccine that people be persuade to take to protect they against covid - 19 . accord to an article last year , Dr Thomas Levy say that , on his estimate , " vaccine be cause heart injury in at least 2 . 8 % of people who receive the covid injection . " he estimate that " a minimum of 7 million Americans now have heart damage by covid ' vaccine . ' and although there ' s no way of be certain at this time , he say , it ' s within the realm of possibility that over 100 million people in America have some degree of heart damage from the injection — not myocarditis but heart damage that will be detectable with a troponin test . " there may be a link between the propensity of vaccine to damage people ' s heart and what the House of Commons Library , interpret the Government figure , concede be an issue of excess death attributable to heart disease . the hon . Gentleman make a good point that there be not a single medical intervention that do not also have risk — the medical profession will always acknowledge that — but be it not about a balance of the benefit against the risk ? ultimately , the judgment be make by those who support the covid vaccine that the benefit far outweigh the risk impose by the vaccine . I agree that the benefit outweigh the risk , but I do not think we have ever have a system in this country where we license drug on the basis that they will do more harm than good to those who take they . if the drug be potentially significantly harmful to a large number of patient , those drug do not get their licence — and why should they ? with respect , that be exactly what we do . antibiotic cause anaphylactic reaction that kill people . we give antibiotic to people know that a very small portion of they will be kill by they but , overall , they save many more life than they take . that be why they get a licence . the key question be : do the people who be be prescribe the antibiotic know that there be a risk that they will die as a result of they be prescribe ? if so , they be tell that , but nobody who be affect by the covid - 19 vaccine be tell that they be anything other than absolutely safe and effective . that be the basis upon which a lot of the litigation will be found . I agree with my hon . friend . hon . member be suggest that the benefit of the vaccine outweigh the risk . they suggest in these debate that there be always a balance to be make , and I agree . but do they acknowledge that there be a risk attach to the vaccine , and that the excess death that we be describe can be attribute to the vaccine ? they might suggest that the risk be outweigh by the enormous benefit of the vaccine by save life , but if they be suggest that there be a risk that could help explain the excess death , that be not the Government ' s position . their position be that there be no link between the vaccine and the excess death . if they be suggest that there be a link but it be outweigh by the benefit , that be a different argument . rise — order . you can not intervene on an intervention . I call Sir Christopher Chope . Madam Deputy Speaker , the enthusiasm be unbounded . I will happily give way to the hon . member for Bath ( Wera Hobhouse ) if she wish to make the point to I in an intervention that she would have like to have make to my hon . friend the Member for Devizes ( Danny Kruger ) . I thank the hon . gentleman for give way . this be the point , be it not ? there have to be absolute certain evidence that there be that link to the covid vaccine . that still have to be prove , in my belief . will the hon . Gentleman give way ? order . it be important that the hon . Gentleman answer the first intervention before take a second . thank you , Madam Deputy Speaker . that be very wise advice . I take the hon . Lady ' s point , but the Government be reluctant to concede , at the beginning , that there might be risk associate with all this . now , we have see that some people have be adversely affect and , in certain circumstance , have even lose love one . we would expect the Government to look after people who have be adversely affect , which be the whole ethos of the vaccine damage payment scheme when it be set up . the Government be fall down on their responsibility on that and , as a result , that be add to vaccine hesitancy . the proportion of people who be accept invitation from the health service to have yet another booster be plummet , because increasingly people realise that in their particular circumstance the risk may outweigh any possible benefit . I thank the hon . gentleman for give way . the Chamber ask for a link . we know that the excess death be predominantly in cardiac arrest , heart problem and stroke . we know that the vaccine work supposedly by induce human cell to produce spike protein , to be attack by our own immune system and create the immune response . we know that the vaccine do not stay in the arm . it travel all over the body through the blood supply . blood vessel be line by endothelial cell . the mrna go into they and make they create a spike . they be attack by the immune system . that explode into the blood supply and that be a blood clot . if it go to the heart , you have a heart attack ; if it go to the brain or the lung , you have a stroke or a pulmonary embolism . that be the link . [ interruption . ] order . this be the final warning . it be simply not acceptable for there to be clap in the Gallery when particular member speak . if there be any repeat of it , I will ask for the Gallery to be clear . I just want to be absolutely clear that that be the position I will take , because it be not what happen in the Chamber or the Gallery . the hon . Gentleman have put on record what he want to say in that intervention . all I be say be that , as the chairman of the all - party parliamentary group on covid - 19 vaccine damage , I receive a large number of letter , not just from my constituent but from across the country , from people who have be adversely affect . I do not think anybody be challenge the authenticity of their circumstance or the complaint they make . I be go to close — I know a lot of other people want to participate in the debate — with one such letter that come not from one of my constituent , but somebody else . she give her name , but I will not repeat it . she say : " after receive my covid - 19 vaccination , I experience severe adverse reaction that result in hospitalisation . these reaction encompass stroke - like symptom , include seizure , tremor , inability to work or talk , irregular heart palpitation , low oxygen level , vertigo , brain fog , memory loss , balance issue , tingle , high blood pressure and more . despite undergo extensive examination , a recent diagnosis of Functional Neurological Disorder have highlight my ongoing struggle with headache , decline eyesight , and daily seizure . before vaccination , I be a healthy 34 - year - old ; however , now I be severely disabled , unable to work , and fill with uncertainty about my future , especially with the imminent arrival of my baby . unfortunately my situation be not unique ; thousand of individual be suffer similar consequence . despite assurance of safety , many have be leave with life - alter disability or bad . I be write to urgently request an investigation into case like mine to address the impact of vaccine - relate injury . " she go on to give the batch number , and to quote the rather lame response from the MHRA . the hon . Gentleman have just illustrate very clearly the fundamental difference between some of the point that have be make about prophylaxis and anaphylaxis . when people be give a drug that could precipitate or trigger an anaphylactic reaction , they be give prophylactic cover to prevent that . the hon . Gentleman be talk about the consequence — as describe by the hon . member for North West Leicestershire ( Andrew Bridgen ) — of spike protein embed itself throughout the body , prompt a systemic inflammatory response that be not acute , as with anaphylaxis , but chronic . that reaction to the vaccine be very different from a normal allergic reaction that be anaphylactic and will be treat appropriately . I be most grateful to the hon . gentleman for bring his scientific expertise to the debate , because I be no scientist ; I be a mere lawyer . may I try to add some further clarity ? there be actually a range of side effect , many of which occur over time . ibuprofen , for instance , be another medicine that we might consider safe and call safe , and a large number of people take it , but eventually , after many year , some will suffer a stomach bleed that cause they to pass away as a result of take too much ibuprofen over time , although that be medically allow and consider to be safe . I be afraid that the attempt to give a scientific explanation be base on a flawed understanding of medicine and side effect , which have be demonstrate by numerous people on the other side of the debate . I will not be able to adjudicate on whether my hon . friend or the hon . member for Kirkcaldy and Cowdenbeath ( Neale Hanvey ) be right , but I look forward to my hon . friend ' s be able to make his own speech and to its being subject to scrutiny by the hon . Gentleman . that be a spectacle to which I think we be all look forward . I be listen carefully to what my hon . friend be say , and I be sure we all feel very sorry for the young woman in the case that he have describe , but be there not the potential that when a vaccine be give in such great quantity to such a large cohort of the population , there be more likely to be correlation than causation between the effect ? there be no doubt that people be ill before covid and before the vaccination be deliver , but my problem be that I do not know the answer to that question . [ interruption . ] the hon . member for Kirkcaldy and Cowdenbeath ( Neale Hanvey ) say he do , but I be not sure how he can . what I will say be this : should not all of we be call for further research on this issue to find out what the fundamental truth of it be , rather than listen to those who make assertion that have not be approve by scientist ? part of the answer to my hon . friend ' s question be to be find in the adjudication of the independent medical adviser who have be look at claim make under the vaccine damage payment scheme . they have conclude that in several hundred case there be no doubt that the adverse consequence that be the subject of complaint be cause by the vaccine , and that have give rise to the compensation . in a large number of other case , the medic have conclude that the condition suffer and complain about be cause by the vaccine , but have not cause sufficient disability — beyond the 60 % threshold — to trigger payment . give the evidence provide by the doctor who be act independently on behalf of the vaccine damage compensation scheme , there be now no doubt that , for some people , the vaccine be fatal or cause severe damage or injury . that be not in dispute , and the more people understand that , the more they will realise that it be over the top for the Government and Ministers to pretend at the beginning of the vaccination programme that these vaccine be go to be different from almost all other know medical intervention and vaccine — in other word , they be not absolutely safe and effective . the failure to say that have severely undermine trust in the system , which be why we need a lot more debate like this . rise — Order . before I call the next speaker , I want to be absolutely clear , for the benefit of everybody who be watch our proceeding or participate in they , that if there be any more interruption from the Gallery and it have to be clear , I will have to temporarily suspend the House , which may mean that those who want to participate will be deny the opportunity . to be clear , I be try to create a situation whereby everybody can have their say . it be a pleasure to follow the hon . member for Christchurch ( Sir Christopher Chope ) , who have do remarkably good work on vaccine - damage people . I co - chair his all - party parliamentary group ' s sister group , the APPG on pandemic response and recovery , which have allow I to see that we have a whole body of expert opinion before we . medic , lawyer , expert in childcare and a whole range of politician have come to very different view on what the right response to covid be and , in some case , on both the law and the science itself . before I go any far , let I say that my experience of the APPG , and of climate change or global warming debate , be that science and politic make very uneasy bedfellow . there be often an attempt in a political debate to resolve matter that be only resolvable by look at the evidence , do more experiment and find out the truth of the matter , which be not always possible in a debate where people feel very strongly about thing . I want to talk about something we have not really talk about so far : the disease itself . People have different view about the damage do by covid . some people think it be harmless and just another flu , whereas some treat it as though it be the plague . it be neither . it be a nasty disease for some people who get it , but its major characteristic be the profile of people who be kill or make ill by it . it affect old people much more severely . I think the median age of those who die be 82 for man and 84 for woman , so it be a disease of the elderly . those below 50 be relatively safe — some die , but not many . that be know at the beginning of the epidemic . this come back to the point about politic , and the protection of Government politician , be more important than look at the science . a rational response to a disease with the profile of covid - 19 would have be to put a cordon sanitaire around those people who be vulnerable because of their age or because they have other disease , such as lung disease , and to let the rest of we go about our business and take the risk , as we do every year with seasonal flu , but the Government do the opposite . they lock everybody up and send untested people back from hospital into care home , where they infect other people , which lead to a spike in death . at the same time , the Government be tell we that they be follow the science . I have a scientific background — it be not in biology , but I have a degree in chemistry — and I believe in follow the science and find out exactly what be go on . the science be not follow , and not only because the response do not follow the natural profile of the disease . in their early statement , people from the NHS , and both Chris Whitty and Patrick Vallance , say that mask be a complete waste of time and that lockdown be ineffective because there would be a peak six month later that would probably be bad than if we have not lock down . that advice change very quickly , I believe under political pressure . again , I think that be a mistake . one country that do follow the science , Sweden , make mistake — it make the same mistake that we make by send infected people back into care home — but it do not lock down and it do not restrict people ' s freedom , or it do so in only a moderate way . it come out as about the good of comparable country in Europe in term of death . another consequence , which we see in every debate in this House , be that there be no money leave . we spend £ 400 billion on covid , a lot of it waste . we can read National Audit Office report on the test and trace system , which be money almost totally waste . there be also the money give to people who could quite easily have go about their job . the business need the money , give the decision that the Government have take , but the Government should not have take those decision . will the hon . Gentleman accept that some of his comment be more relevant in hindsight than they might have be at the time ? in March 2020 , it be difficult to predict the path of the disease . we have see picture from around the world of hospital A & E department overwhelm by those turn up with respiratory problem , and government , not only here but around the world , have to respond to that . in hindsight , of course , what the hon . Gentleman be say be accurate , but at the time we have to react in the way that we feel would protect the high number of people and protect A & E department from be overwhelmed . that require we to act quickly . perhaps mistake be make , but they be mistake in hindsight . I agree with the hon . gentleman to a point . in March , when the first decision be make , nobody know what be go to happen . there be a panic to go into lockdown , which be understandable while people be see what be go on , but very soon after that people do know . what I think be , and be , indefensible be to carry on with policy that we know be damage the economy and be not protect people . I therefore vote against my own party , which support the Government and more on this issue . I go through the Lobby with a small number of colleague from my party and the hon . Gentleman ' s party to say that what be happen be wrong , and that the damage be do by the policy be probably bad than covid . it might be hindsight for March and April 2020 , but not for the rest of the time and the second lockdown . once we know the profile of the disease , we know that we be damage child . I go into school and meet eight and nine - year - old who be lock down when it be know that child be not at risk . a very small number of child die and , as far as I know , they all have comorbiditie — I stand to be correct — so covid be essentially safe for child . we have damage both their mental health and their ability to learn . I go into school from time to time , as I be sure the hon . Gentleman do , and teacher tell I that it be very difficult to catch up . I be still annoyed about the response , and I do not think it be hindsight . I go through the Lobby with a minority of colleague . one of the two failure of our democracy ' s normal check and balance be that this place be not function , as the Easter holiday be extend . surely the most important thing in a crisis be for our democratic institution to function properly . we could not ask proper question and there be no follow - up . we keep our Select Committee go but , with the good will in the world , it be a pale imitation of what have go before . there be a complete failure to insist on more accountability from the government while the economy be shut down . some of we , although we be not very many , come here to try to keep it go . our democracy ' s second important check and balance be the fourth estate . these publication be not normally my politic but , with the exception of the Daily Telegraph and the Spectator , and the Daily Mail to a certain extent , the rest of the medium , lead by the BBC , be quite uncritical of what be happen . People say that BBC reporter be tell not to criticise and not to ask difficult question , and political journalist — not specialist health journalist who might have ask more pertinent question — be send to the press conference . it be a political question , but it be also a science and health question . we be really let down by the BBC primarily , and by other part of the medium . the hon . member for Christchurch and other hon . member have talk about the Hallett inquiry . I support the inquiry but , have see the way it have go , I have give myself a good talk to . I do not think I will ever again support an inquiry . do we really want to spend half a billion pound on this inquiry ? I attend the previous debate on recompense , and we hear how lawyer be get fat on all these inquiry . I do not know when the Hallett inquiry will report , but it may well last for year and cost half a billion pound . it certainly will not provide we with any advice on what to do if there be a pandemic next year — I suspect that advice be what we all want . by the time it report , there may have be another Government or two and it will be a historical document . Sweden be not a perfect society , but its inquiry have report . the motion before we call for the fourth part of the inquiry , which will be on vaccine , but be the inquiry really the technical body to do that ? I do not think so . in the first stage , the inquiry have show an extraordinary bias towards believe in lockdown . I would want to know a number of thing from an inquiry : do the lockdown work ? do they save life ? have they cost life ? where do the virus come from ? the inquiry be not even look at that and it be not deal with any of those thing , but it be take a long time . it have make it abundantly clear that it be go to look at the impact of the virus on social division and poverty . I be a member of the Labour party and I can tell the inquiry , because I know , that poor people come off bad from disease . it can go back to look at the black report from 1981 , I believe it be , if it want to see that , as it talk about both regional and class disparity . we do not need to look at this issue , as we know that poor people do badly when there be epidemic — that have be true for all time . the hon . Gentleman be make an eloquent point . give our experience of inquiry , be it the current covid inquiry or the ongoing Post Office Horizon inquiry , be it any surprise that even the sub - postmaster have come to the conclusion that there be no justice in these inquiry and they be now consider bring private criminal prosecution to get their own justice ? no , I be not surprised about that . inquiry take a long time and their report and recommendation often gather dust . I have never make this point before , and I hope I be not go off - piste too much , Madam Deputy Speaker , but every time there be an horrific murder of a child we get a report with 90 - odd recommendation , and the question be : do that protect the next child ? no , it do not . I do not believe that these inquiry do . we need serious cultural change in many of these organisation , rather than another report on something . that be an easy thing to say and a very difficult thing to achieve . let I come on to the other part of the debate , which be about excess death and the number of death . it appear that just over 200 , 000 people be kill in this country by , or die of , covid . I have my doubt about these figure from the beginning . on a number of occasion , right from the start of covid , the Science and Technology Committee hear from statistician . we have Sir Ian Diamond and Professor Spiegelhalter in to talk to we about the statistic . we hear from people from what be now the UK Health Security Agency but be then a name part of the NHS . we ask they whether they have the statistic on the difference between people who die from covid and those who die with it . if someone be die of cancer and go into hospital , there be a fair chance that they would have get covid , because there be not perfect protection within hospital . such a person would then be register as have be a covid death , but clearly they be go to die of cancer . from the very beginning , that obscure the statistic . a number of statistic be use to profile the cause of death during the pandemic , but ultimately the most reliable statistic come from the death certificate , where a clinician have to make a judgment about whether something be a cause or an association . those figure be reliable , and they match and mirror the other figure . so we have to be careful about disparage the statistic that be use to monitor the profile of the pandemic over time in the rapid way we need and the more authoritative and credible figure that do demonstrate quite a close match and help in genuinely understanding who do and do not die from covid . the hon . Gentleman make a fair point , but I happen to know that in some local authority , instruction go out to the people who be register death essentially to say , " if there be a cough involve in this , we want it down as covid . " there be a different process because the health service be not work under normal — [ interruption . ] if the hon . Gentleman want to correct I , I be happy to allow he to do so . to come to that conclusion , one have to say that individual clinician join in a conspiracy to lie about what be on a death certificate . we can cast these aspersion , but someone have to fill that certificate in and I do not accept that individual doctor deliberately mislead with what be on someone ' s death certificate — that be what the hon . Gentleman be suggest . I be not suggest that at all . I be suggest that at that time , when it be difficult to examine people because there be a distance between clinician and the people who have suffer death , there be a temptation and a view that covid should go on the death certificate . I suggest no conspiracy , though . I do not believe in conspiracy . the hon . Gentleman will be aware that the AstraZeneca vaccine be withdraw eventually in the UK and around the world . it be withdraw because of the rare of blood clot on the brain . it be not put down on any death certificate in the UK by doctor until after the Medicines and Healthcare product Regulatory Agency admit , due to international pressure , that there be that risk . after that , the death certificate start to appear with vaccine - relate harm . I put it to the hon . Gentleman that that be because doctor be intimidate by the idea that their reputation would be smear for put anything down as a vaccine harm or by have the GMC on their back . the hon . Gentleman have make his point . I do not believe in conspiracy . I do believe that , from time to time , one get a view , both in profession and outside profession , that push judgment in one particular direction . I believe there be one point on which we can reach a consensus in the debate : Government Ministers say that the vaccine be 100 % safe — it be particularly egregious when that be say about child — but no vaccine or treatment , as right hon . and hon . member have say , be 100 % safe . I think it be a mistake to say those thing . the hon . Gentleman have make a sensible , serious point . minister here and in other country know that when they set up the global vaccine study . for those who want to know about this afterwards — not during the debate — BMJ article reference 2024 ; 384 : q488 look at some rare side effect and acknowledge some of the other side effect . but those who start say we should not have have the vaccine be wrong , and those who think that anyone believe any treatment be completely safe be wrong as well . I be not familiar with that particular paper , but I agree with the hon . Gentleman that nothing be ever 100 % safe and vaccine have an overall benefit . I be vaccinate against covid , as I have be vaccinate against many thing over my lifetime . vaccine have make the health of this country , and country around the world that can afford vaccine , much well over many year . far to that , may I suggest that this should not be binary ? we do not acknowledge that some people have clearly have severely negative side effect from the covid vaccine . that should be acknowledge and there should be compensation and support , without completely throw out the whole vaccine programme . of course . I want to move on to excess death over the last couple of year , since covid , and the figure during covid . one of the way of measure the impact of covid be look at excess death during covid . they be measure against a five - year average — that be the gold standard ; it be the way it have be do — and that give quite large figure . that be interesting give what have happen when the excess 100 , 000 death per year over the past two year have be look at . the Office for National Statistics have move away from that basis and on to a different one , and the figure be come down . we need an anonymise account of those excess death — this be part of a recent Westminster Hall debate — because that will help we to understand what be go on . the pharmaceutical company have be give that information , but Ministers just give reassuring statement that there be no evidence that excess death be cause by the covid vaccination — by the mrna vaccination . how do they know ? they do not tell we that . we need to know , first , how they have come to that conclusion and , secondly , if that be a fair , reasoned and balanced conclusion . we also need a detailed look at the anonymised statistic , so that we can ask further question about the problem that be worry we — that certainly worry I — and so that we can make well decision in future . may I start by pay tribute to all the member who have speak in the debate ? I have great respect for they all . it be a particular privilege to follow the hon . member for Blackley and Broughton ( Graham Stringer ) . he be a hero during the covid period . while so many of we be blindly follow what the Government tell we to do , he stand almost alone in make up his own mind . I also acknowledge the leadership of my hon . friend the Member for Christchurch ( Sir Christopher Chope ) , and the work that he be do to support the many , many family and people who have suffer adverse reaction , and I be proud to support he in that work . I have great affection and respect for my hon . friend the Member for Crewe and Nantwich ( Dr Mullan ) , who be do a valiant job stick up for his perspective in this debate . he be sit directly behind the Minister , so I be not sure whether he be able to speak . none the less , I respect the position that he have take . I also wish to acknowledge the work do and the speech make by the hon . member for North West Leicestershire ( Andrew Bridgen ) — please do not start cheer , because Mr Deputy Speaker will close down the debate . he be not popular with member on the conservative Benches , but I think that we have an obligation to take what he say seriously , and to examine the evidence that he have bring to the House . he have an absolute right to make the case that he do in this place . finally , before I get on to the point in my speech , let I mention my hon . friend the Member for South Basildon and East Thurrock ( Stephen Metcalfe ) . he make the essential point that we need more evidence . fundamentally , we need the Government to be more open , and to instruct the agency of the Government — the regulator and the health service — to provide the datum that we need to get to the bottom of this issue . I implore the Minister to respond to that point in her wind - up . I disagree with the suggestion from the hon . member for North West Leicestershire that some fishy business be go on in how the ONS have be calculate excess death in recent year . who know ? perhaps there be some fishy business go on , but the ONS take the right decision to change the methodology . as Carl Heneghan and other have point out , the previous method of account for excess death — of take an average over five year — actually lead to an exaggeration of excess death number during the pandemic and , in a sense , contribute to the great anxiety that many people feel , which encourage the lockdown , so it be right to rethink how excess death be calculate . we know , by all the different measure , that many more people be die now than be before the pandemic . that might be account for simply by an age population , by long covid , or by the effect of an NHS under pressure , but as we have hear today , there be significant evidence that other factor be at play . in particular , the impact on people ' s heart , and increasingly young people ' s heart , deserve attention . the British Heart Foundation report last June that since the start of the pandemic , 100 , 000 more people have die than would have be expect . that be surely significant cause for we to take this question seriously . the question raise by the hon . member for North West Leicestershire be whether the vaccine have contribute to this increase in excess death . I hesitate to wade into this debate because I be not a scientist . I recognise the point make by other , particularly the hon . member for Blackley and Broughton , that science and politic be uncomfortable bedfellow . we know that there be adverse effect from the vaccination . everybody acknowledge that ; it be a question of the extent to which those effect have be manifest . my particular concern — this go back to my point about a request for evidence — be whether the system that oversee the licensing , regulation , monitoring and analysis of medical treatment in general , and vaccine in particular , be up to scratch . there be so much speculation in the debate about what be go on , and what be true and what be not , but we seem to have some fact that we can all agree on . the first , I be afraid , be that the MHRA be significantly deficient in the way it operate . the Cumberlege report — this be reference in the early debate — raise concern about the way treatment be regulate and license that have not yet be address . I be afraid that through the covid episode many of the same concern be manifest in relation to the vaccine . we now know that the MHRA know about the effect of the AstraZeneca vaccine on blood clotting as early as February 2021 , but issue a warning about that only some month later — in April , a month after other country have suspend the AZ vaccine . the MHRA also know about the prevalence of heart problem and myocarditis in February 2021 but do nothing about it until June that year . in the intervene time , million of people be vaccinate without the knowledge that the MHRA have . as have be say , we find out recently that Pfizer misrepresent the safety and efficacy of the vaccine . there have be very little comeback against it for that , and no meaningful fine . as we hear , just a few thousand pound be charge in expense . the regulatory system that oversee the pharmaceutical company be surely deeply conflicted , not least due to be partly fund by the pharmaceutical company that it be set up to represent . it be significant and of concern that they have make so much money out of the vaccine , and so far do not appear to be make due recompense for some of the acknowledge harm — I be not talk about the wilder claim — that their vaccine have be responsible for . will the Minister enlighten we on whether the indemnity against civil and Government action that the Government award to the vaccine manufacturer at the beginning of the production process still apply if it transpire that the company mislead the Government and the public about the safety and efficacy of their product ? the inquiry have be mention . there be so many unanswered question and apparent red flag that it surprise I that the medium and Parliament be not more up in arm about excess death . I be surprised that more attention be not be pay to this question . the fact be that this scandal — if it be a scandal — suit no one in high place in our country . it be true that we have an inquiry , but as the hon . member for Blackley and Broughton say , surely it be ask the wrong question . it be very concern that the module look at the vaccination programme have be postpone . it strike I that the inquiry be essentially ask the wrong question ; it be really just ask why we do not do more lockdown quick . that seem to be its prevail question for the expert — not whether the whole response be the right one , and crucially , in the light of what we now know , whether the final response of a mass vaccination programme be as safe and effective as be claim . we be rightly proud in this country of the effectiveness , speed and operation of the vaccine production and roll - out . it be a triumph of effective collaboration between Government and the private sector . the operation of the roll - out be a victory that all people can acknowledge , but it be not enough to say that the roll - out be do well . be it do safely ? do it need to be do on the scale on which it be do ? particularly , do young people need to be vaccinate at all ? we all remember Kate Bingham and other say early on that the vaccine be only for the old population . these question be increasingly be ask by the public and raise in the medium . let I conclude quickly with what I have be do . I hope that we will get more answer from the Minister than I have have so far from the Government . on 17 April 2023 — a year ago yesterday — I write privately to the Secretary of State , ask he for evidence that justify the Government ' s assertion that there be no link between the vaccine and the excess death . I do that because I have so much correspondence from people raise that concern . I say : " I be write privately in this way rather than raise the question in Parliament because I be determined not to give credence to unscientific , conspiratorial accusation , nor to undermine the vaccination programme in public if it be , indeed , entirely safe and effective . " I do not want to do this in public ; I want to give the Government the opportunity to give I the evidence , so that I could pass it back to constituent , but I be afraid that the reply I receive from a Minister be the one that we have already hear : the bland assertion that a combination of factor — flu , old age and so on — probably account for the excess death . the rest of the letter be all about what the Government be do to combat excess death , and the answer be mostly " more vaccine . " I do not think that be good enough . a year roll by , the evidence seem to mount , and more and more people be raise this concern , so I join the hon . member for North West Leicestershire , the hon . member for Blackley and Broughton ( Graham Stringer ) , my hon . friend the Member for Shipley ( Sir Philip Davies ) , who could not be here today — he want I to explain that he be on important constituency business but be very much here in spirit — and other in write this time a public letter to the Government ask the same question in more detail . we ask specifically , " what be the evidence for the definitive statement about safety and efficacy ? " the Government say : " there be no evidence link excess death to the vaccine . " if so , that be great news , but may we have the evidence on which that assertion be base ? secondly , we ask : " will the Department for Health , the MHRA , and the uksha release the datum that be need to understand what be go on ? " the datum that we be ask for be already make available privately to pharmaceutical company for they to use in their safety study of the vaccine . why do they get it , but not the public ? why can not independent scientist look at that datum ? I be sorry to say that we have reply neither to that letter , which be write in February — here we be in April — nor , after month , to the freedom of information request that go to the agency . I do not know why the Government would not want to release the datum . it may be that the datum could be misuse and misrepresent . one way around that might be to invite research application from our very sophisticated research ecosystem . researcher could be give access to the datum if they come forward with particular research project . they would then be able to report on it , with external verification that they have actually use the datum supply , and not drift too far from it . that sort of practical suggestion should be consider . I would be interested in hear the Government ' s response to that . we be ask for anonymise datum that pose no risk to any individual . if the data be open and public , and the whole purpose be scientific interrogation and analysis , it should not be possible to misuse it . we need as much sunlight on that datum as possible . let I end by repeat the commitment that I hope we will get from the Minister . I have be ask for anonymised , record - level , official mortality datum , include vaccination status . that information , which be already be share with drug company , should be share with Parliament and the public . if that be not possible , could the Minister explain why ? secondly , what be the source for the definitive statement that the Government have make , most recently in October 2023 — and that , I dare say , they might make again today — about there be no evidence of a link between the excess death figure and the covid - 19 vaccine ? I hope that there be no link . I take the vaccine — at least the first two jab — as do most of my family and my constituent . I be sure that most people in the Public Gallery take it . we all do . I hope that the hon . member for North West Leicestershire be wrong to assert that there be a dangerous connection . I be reluctant to be brand a conspiracy theorist , and I still do not want to give credence to unscientific assertion , but we in this place be here to take risk — the risk of ridicule and contempt — in exchange for the privilege of be here , and I think it be right that we raise these concern on behalf of the public , even when there be some political cost . too many people be die , and we must understand why . I will begin by pick up on a few of the point that have be raise this afternoon . first , there be a parallel with a very important report that we receive last week , and to which the Government respond on Monday : the Cass review . when concern be first raise about what be happen in gender identity development service , those of we who speak up at that time suffer both political and public pile - on that be very uncomfortable . it give I no pleasure to have be vindicate by the content of the Cass review . certainly , when the hon . member for North West Leicestershire ( Andrew Bridgen ) first raise his concern on this issue , he be also subject to a political and public pile - on . the reason I raise that be that this can not be how we tackle thorny issue . we must have a much more reasoned and mature approach to these thing , where ideological position be not sacrosanct and we have the flexibility to engage with , and look at , the point that be be raise . my second point be about the discussion regard correlation versus causation . it be fair enough to say that correlation do not necessarily mean causation , but it be sufficient evidence for we to start ask question about what be actually there . that be a fundamental question that anybody who have be involve in any scientific endeavour must surely understand . my next point be a slightly more difficult issue to raise , because it be quite emotive . like many other in this Chamber , I have have two vaccine and a booster . my family have the same , but there be a question about the presumption that that be what save life . we can not prove that , unfortunately — that be just not the way it work — but what we do have to grapple with be the fact that the treatment we be give , like any agent , can cause harm . we have a responsibility to interrogate those concern , which be why I be very disappointed that module 4 of the inquiry have be delay . my last point be about the record - level datum and the importance of how it be tabulate . the methodology for assess excess death have change ; that might be a reasonable change in practice at a time of peace , if you like , but we have just come through a very difficult period with the pandemic . change the methodology immediately afterwards seem perverse at well and deeply concern at bad , because it be important that from this moment on , we be able to understand how trend be change in a directly comparable way . with a change in methodology , that become impossible , so it be not a good idea — just in term of scientific rigour , it be problematic . I will start off my contribution by expand on some of the comment I make during the debate on 16 January , because we have very limited time to speak in that debate . I want to take we a step back , away from the emotive issue of whether there be correlation , causation , and a relationship between excess death and the covid vaccine , and remind ourselves of the principle that underpin how clinical trial should be conduct . the ethical principle that underpin those trial have their origin in the declaration of Helsinki and be consistent with internationally publish good clinical practice guideline and , obviously , all of the regulatory mechanism that fall out from those guideline . anybody who have be involve in clinical trial of any type will know that , as I have say , any agent have the potential to cause injury or harm . that be just the nature of the beast , and one of the thing we try to establish during a clinical trial be to find out the harm , however minimal or maximal it may be , so as to mitigate it , manage it or rule the agent out because it be too risky . perform such a test rigorously be the foundation of good clinical practice , and I make these comment as someone who have be involve in the management and delivery of clinical trial over many year . I think that , as politician , as clinician and as the industry , we all carry a duty of honesty and candour in these matter . with the hon . Gentleman ' s experience , and he have look at the Pfizer trial document , be it not clear that Pfizer only trialle the experimental vaccine for eight week with a 22 , 000 vaccination group and a 22 , 000 placebo group , and then it vaccinate the placebo group ? so how can anyone tell anybody what the long - term effect of these vaccine be when people be only ever monitor for eight week after vaccination ? I thank the hon . Gentleman , who make a really important point . the answer to that be that it be impossible , and that be the fundamental point . we can not measure late effect if we do not have evidence of late effect . would the hon . Gentleman inform the House , in what be normally do , what percentage of medicine be normally subject to a longitudinal study before they be put on the market ? I be sorry , but I do not quite catch the hon . Gentleman ' s question . can the hon . Gentleman tell the House what percentage of medicine that normally go to market be subject to a longitudinal study , which be what he be talk about , before that be do ? that be not actually the point I be make . I be make the point that any clinical trial , whether something be rule in or rule out , be subject to gcp guideline , and it be up to the medical research ethic committee to sign off the protocol . indicate dissent . well , the hon . Gentleman can shake his head , but that be my experience . I work at University College London Hospitals and the Royal Marsden , and those be the principle that we apply in such a context . I can only speak to my experience . I be not a member of the ABPI , so I can not give he those type of datum . I be talk about GCP as a general principle . if he do not believe in GCP as a general principle , that be a different discussion . I be no apologist for big pharma company , but do the hon . Member not acknowledge that there be time pressure in produce a vaccine to mitigate all the thing we have hear about — lockdown , our economy be stall and all the rest of it ? do he not acknowledge that there be time pressure ? I thank the hon . Lady for her question . I think we all understand the situation that we be in . I be not use a retrospectoscope to say that thing should not have be do in the way they be do . however , they should have be conduct absolutely in accordance with gcp guideline , and that be the fundamental crux of the matter . I be not suggest for a moment that that be not the spirit in which the various company enter into this , but we be talk about — will the hon . Gentleman give way ? will the hon . Gentleman let I finish the point I be make ? I be sorry , but I have now forget the point I be go to make to the hon . Lady . I do not think anybody enter into this to do the wrong thing , but there be fundamental question about how we move thing forward now and whether harm be inflict as part of the administration of these agent . will the hon . Gentleman give way ? I will give way one more time . I be very grateful . I raise this because the hon . member for North West Leicestershire ( Andrew Bridgen ) make a point about timeline , say that the trial be do in eight week and ask how the vaccine could possibly be safe . the reason why I mention longitudinal study be that a common deliberate attempt to mislead people about what go on with the vaccine be to suggest that , because the trial be do over a short period of time , it could not possibly have be do correctly . typically , trial take a long time because it take a long time to recruit the right number of patient and to do the work . in such a trial , the same number of patient go through it over a long period , but that do not change the baseline datum , which be base on how many patient there be . we do not typically use longitudinal study , and that vaccine trial be do by use a lot of people in a short space of time to create the same amount of evidence . I thank the hon . gentleman for that clarify point . People I have speak to who be involve in those clinical trial have raise serious and significant concern about the way that their experience after the drug be administer to they , and the impact that it have on they in an acute way , be either minimise or write out of trial datum . that be a serious allegation , and everyone should be interested in understand the detail . it be certainly not what I would understand would fit within the principle of GCP , and there be serious question about how trial study be conduct . as the hon . member for North West Leicestershire say , the longitudinal element of that be impossible — we be now see that — but that do not mean we can ignore it , absolutely not . the principle I have be outline be there because they be the basis on which good science be establish and base . let I move to some of the question that we must raise and answer today , openly and transparently , and with full access to ONS record - level datum . I be not say that that should be disclose to all and sundry , but surely the Government can not defend the position that they be not willing to release that information to interested clinician and clinical academic as a minimum . those be the people who need to interrogate the datum . it be of little relevance to I — I do not have the mean or academic ability to interpret it — but it be something that interested clinical academic should have access to . let I move on to what we know about some of the issue surround mrna technology . we know that it do not replicate locally , as we be assure it would do on launch . it metastasise to distant tissue , and replicate spike protein systemically distant from the site of administration . that be problematic for a number of reason . accord to the University of London Professor of Oncology , and principal of the Institute for Cancer Vaccines and Immunotherapy , Professor Angus Dalgleish , this have precipitate various serious and sometimes fatal consequence due to antibody development mediate by the spike protein . I will not go into the detail of that , but at a meeting convene by the hon . member for North West Leicestershire , Professor Dalgleish tell we that the UK Government and their agency be in serious denial about this issue , result in many death be poorly understand . let I give a couple of example . vaccine - induce immune thrombotic thrombocytopenia be one of the principal cause of blood clot formation , which can cause stroke , pulmonary emboli , and other cardiac - relate event include heart attack , all of which can be life - limiting or fatal . another antibody link to the spike protein exert an effect on myelin , and be associate with Guillain - Barr é syndrome and transverse myelitis , which be a swelling around the spinal cord . Professor Dalgleish believe that that constitute medical negligence , because the fact be there for all to see . he contend that many death be as a direct result of unnecessary vaccination . furthermore , he advise that there be a great number of yellow card in MHRA for covid vaccine than for all other vaccine record , and nothing have really be do . in a recent write answer to I , it be confirm that the MHRA have receive 489 , 004 spontaneous suspect adverse drug reaction report relate to the covid - 19 vaccine , up to and include 28 February this year . across the United Kingdom , 2 , 734 of those report be associate with a fatal outcome . of course the true number be unknown — that be the nature of yellow card reporting , as only a fraction of adverse event be report — and that be probably because of limited public awareness about some of the potential consequence and complication of vaccine , and the well - understand under - reporting of those adverse event . that be important , because the yellow card system be a key element of safe and effective clinical care . if thing be not be evaluate properly , I can think of no great betrayal of the MHRA ' s clinical governance responsibility . I suggest that accountability for that must be swift and decisive . the rigorous assessment of these datum be essential and must be action urgently . will the Minister now engage with the MHRA and invite it to come to the House to explain the fact on these report ? another issue , which arise from a far write question that I table , relate to the role of the MHRA . it have a crucial role — in fact , it be a statutory function — to provide post - market surveillance and to operate the yellow card system , but the Minister respond to my question about the assessment of the potential implication of the BMJ article " Pfizer - BioNTech vaccine be ' likely ' responsible for death of some elderly patient , norwegian review find " by state : " the MHRA communicate safety advice base upon consideration of the totality of evidence from all relevant information source , rather than the strength and limitation of individual datum source . " surely , a fundamental step in any meta - analysis of publish datum be to interrogate the robustness of those datum and for the public to have confidence that that be happen . that point link right back to where I start , on the Cass report . one of the fundamental failing that the report identify be circular citation among various different organisation . they be validate one another ' s position to create a false impression that there be an evidence base for the practice they be involve in . if the MHRA will say , " we do not interrogate the datum when we do a meta - analysis , " who do ? who will validate the datum ? if I can hand over to the MHRA a whole load of number and it will just count they and accept that I have say my methodological rigour be robust , that be not good enough as far as I be concern . the Minister ' s response to my write question be that the MHRA do not " assign causality at the level of individual report , " as that be not its responsibility . if that be the case , whose responsibility be it ? who be interrogate the datum and make that decision ? if no one be , how can we get from correlation to a developed picture of causation ? that be an essential step . it raise fundamental question about that responsibility and the reliability of the datum that the MHRA be rely on . if we be to learn anything from the general implication of the Cass report , we must have a clear steer from the MHRA on how these fundamental scientific principle will be observe and uphold . I will canter through some important publish evidence , which come back to the correlation / causation discussion . in a 2021 study look at cardiac inflammatory marker in patient receive mrna vaccine , Steven Gundry observe that mrna vaccination numerically increase marker " previously describe by other for denote inflammation on the endothelium and t cell infiltration of cardiac muscle " in a patient population receive the vaccine . a 2022 study by Fraiman et al . note that the " excess risk of serious adverse event " identify in their study point " to the need for formal harm - benefit analysis " . that suggestion be wholly consistent with the principle set out in the declaration of Helsinki and be an ethical imperative . in 2023 , a pre - print Lancet study by Nicolas Hulscher et al . , include lead cardiologist Peter McCullough and Yale epidemiologist Harvey Risch , review 325 autopsy after covid vaccination and find that 74 % of the death be attributable to the vaccine . that study , which be publish online , be then swiftly remove , allegedly for issue with ideological rigour . I wonder whether it be the MHRA that do the assessment of its rigour . surely those datum and finding — however problematic some of the methodology might have be — demand further scrutiny , not removal . a December 2023 Lancet Regional Health study by Jonathan Pearson - Stuttard et al . examine excess mortality in England post the covid - 19 pandemic and the implication for secondary prevention . it state : " many country , include the UK , have continue to experience an apparent excess of death long after the peak associate with the COVID - 19 pandemic in 2020 and 2021 . number of excess death estimate in this period be considerable . " it note that " overall trend tend to be consistent across the various method . " it continue : " the cause of these excess death be likely to be multiple … further analysis by cause and by age - and sex - group may help quantify the relative contribution of these cause . " I ask again : should we not at least be curious about this ? the study continue : " the great number of excess death in the acute phase of the pandemic be in old adult . the pattern now be one of persist excess death which be most prominent in relative term in middle - aged and young adult , with death from CVD cause and death in private home be most affected . " that be a completely different clinical picture . it continue : " timely and granular analysis be need to describe such trend and so to inform prevention and disease management effort . " document recently disclose as part of a freedom of information lawsuit against the US Food and Drug Administration indicate that the agency be aware that the safety monitoring system for Pfizer ' s covid - 19 vaccine be " not sufficient " for assess associate heart condition when it license the company ' s vaccine . those document also reveal numerous manufacturing concern with Pfizer batch that be release to the public and show that the FDA know about a phenomenon know as vaccine - associate enhanced disease in those who be vaccinate and experience breakthrough covid - 19 . let we move on to what we do not know . we have have no real progress on the point raise in the debate , particularly on record - level datum . we need either that datum to be release to clinical academic and other or a cogent explanation for why that be not happen . why be those concern keep hide by the FDA ? be similar concern or issue be hide by the UK Government ? some of the point make about the delay in the MHRA take action on clinical impact be relevant to that point . accord to a House of Commons Library briefing , the government - operate vaccine damage payment scheme , which have be discuss in both this debate and the previous one , provide only a one - off tax - free payment , which be currently a modest £ 120 , 000 , to applicant where a vaccine have cause severe disablement . datum on VDPS claim relate to covid - 19 vaccination be not routinely publish , so we do not have particular metric that establish how many claim be be make against those vaccine . the most recent datum be from September 2023 . accord to the NHS Business Services Authority , at that time it have receive 7 , 160 claim relate to covid - 19 . follow medical assessment , 142 claim — just under 2 % — be award , and 3 , 030 be reject . a further 192 claim be find to be " invalid " . we need to understand why that be . what be claim be measure against and who be interpret the clinical assessment information ? we must also ask whether the exclusion criterion be reliable , give the concern raise in the debate . base on the datum that I have here , there be currently 3 , 796 unresolved claim , 1 , 010 of which have be unresolved for more than six month . if the 142 successful claim receive the full payment , the total cost will be around £ 17 million . if there be a further 177 successful claim from the unresolved case , the associate cost will be a furth £ 21 million . I be advise that the Government set aside some funding for this issue , but this have the hallmark of the contaminated blood scandal write all over it . we must get ahead of the game and make sure that people get the compensation that they desperately need at a time when it be important to they . there be another question : why be the Government so willing to pick up the tab on vaccine injury , however inadequate the scheme be , give the fatality and the significant life - limit impact on the victim ? these concern have be amplify significantly follow the publication in the Spectator Australia of an account by genomics scientist Kevin McKernan of his accidental discovery . it state : " while run an experiment in his Boston lab , McKernan use some vial of mrna Pfizer and Moderna Covid vaccine as control . he be ' shocked ' to find that they be allegedly contaminate with tiny fragment of plasmid DNA . " his concern have be consider far by Professor Angus Dalgleish , who note that the contaminant , simian virus 40 , be " a sequence that be ' use to drive dna into the nucleus , especially in gene therapy ' and that this be ' something that regulatory agency around the world have specifically say be not possible with the mrna vaccine ' . these SV40 promotor be also well recognise as be oncogenic " — or cancer - induce genetic material . other scientist have confirm those finding . Professor dalgleish further note : " to put it bluntly , this mean that they be not vaccine at all but a … genetically modify Organism that should have be subject to totally different regulatory condition and certainly not be class as vaccine . " worryingly , Professor Dalgleish also note that oncologist have contact he from across the world , and the consensus be that this be think to be precipitate relapse in melanoma , lymphoma , leukaemia and kidney cancer . he conclude with the following warning : " to advise booster vaccine , as be the current case , be no more and no less than medical incompetence ; to continue to do so " — with his cited evidence — " be medical negligence which can carry a custodial sentence . " I thank the hon . gentleman for his contribution and his quote from Professor Angus Dalgleish , who I remind the House be the most cited oncologist in the UK . I invite he here to witness this debate since he have some input into it . he could not attend , because he be speak at a conference in Berlin on this very issue . I thank the hon . gentleman for that point of information and for acknowledge an important scientist in this debate . it be a great honour to have work in the same institution as Professor Dalgleish , as he provide great leadership on this technology . he make a valuable and impeccable contribution to this problem . he conclude that piece by say : " no if or but any long . all mrna vaccine must be halt and ban now . " will the Minister answer the following question ? be big pharma be exempt from liability , and if so , why ? the loss of trust in big pharma be substantial and , worryingly , because of that the value of vaccination itself have be deeply damage . personally — I say this frankly — I will never accept another mrna vaccine , and I be far from alone . will the Minster agree to full disclosure of the datum and an investigation of the fact ? will she also commit to instruct the Office for National Statistics to release the record level datum , or will it take someone like New Zealander Barry Young , a whistleblower imprison for publish its record level datum , to surface concern about the covid vaccine programme ? as we have see with the Horizon scandal , the Government must never bury the fact when life be be lose and future destroy . there be no great betrayal . in closing , the foundation of good clinical practice be under threat . I will put that in context with the December 2023 Pathology Research and Practice paper on " Gene - base covid - 19 vaccine " from Rhodes and Parry . they give the follow warning : " pandemic management require societal coordination , global orchestration , respect for human right and defence of ethical principle . yet some approach to the COVID - 19 pandemic , drive by socioeconomic , corporate , and political interest , have undermine key pillar of ethical medical science . " none of these clinical expert be quack or conspiracy theorist . as the Government say so often during the pandemic , we must follow the science . I congratulate the hon . member for North West Leicestershire ( Andrew Bridgen ) on secure the debate , and the Backbench Business Committee on grant time for it . I thank member who have contribute , include my hon . friend the Member for Blackley and Broughton ( Graham Stringer ) , and the hon . member for Christchurch ( Sir Christopher Chope ) , for Devizes ( Danny Kruger ) and for Kirkcaldy and Cowdenbeath ( Neale Hanvey ) . it would be remiss of I not to thank those who participate with extensive intervention , include the hon . member for South Basildon and East Thurrock ( Stephen Metcalfe ) , the Father of the House , the hon . member for worthe West ( Sir Peter Bottomley ) , who be no long in his place , the hon . member for Crewe and Nantwich ( Dr Mullan ) and the hon . member for Bath ( Wera Hobhouse ) . we have have a good and I think fairly measure debate , give the strong feeling hold on both side of it . it be probably important to accurately define the subject we be discuss here today . the term " excess death " be not new , nor in any way derive directly from the covid - 19 pandemic . it be a key statistic continuously track by government of all colour and political persuasion over a number of year . it be datum that help Ministers to keep inform , and to inform policy development and measure to improve health outcome in our community . vaccine in the covid - 19 pandemic be and , importantly , remain an essential tool in our fight against covid - 19 . will the shadow Minister give way on that point ? I will not give way ; I be just open . I disagree with the hon . member for Kirkcaldy and Cowdenbeath in this respect . I think it be evident from the covid death datum during the pandemic throughout the lockdown that covid - relate death come down significantly almost immediately as the vaccine be roll out . what we can say , as the hon . member for Christchurch do in his contribution , be that for many million of people in this country , the vaccine be a success and it allow we to return to life that be as near normal as possible . however , we must not underestimate the fact that covid - 19 be a massive killer in this country . we only have to look at the wall across the river from the Palace of Westminster to see the impact covid - 19 have on community up and down the country . I and the opposition remain firmly of the view that the covid - 19 vaccine play a massive , fundamental role in return life to normal . as happen with any form of medical intervention , there have be instance of harmful side effect — no one dispute that — and when those be find , they should of course be properly investigate . the efficacy of drug need to be review over period of time , and the science need to be fully understand and respond to . that , I think , be true of any drug that be available on the national health service . I should also say that the hon . member for Christchurch raise some very fair point about the covid vaccine damage payment scheme . we have have debate about it in Westminster Hall , and I think he be right to raise those concern as eloquently as he do . I will always be open to the testing of scientific evidence , but , as a number of member have point out today , for million of we the vaccine have be a game changer in overcome the bad fear of covid - 19 . they have allow we to return to normality , and , most important of all , they have save life . we do need to understand more about why for some they have cause reaction , and in some case may have tragically lead to fatality , which be why I think the hon . member for South Basildon and East Thurrock be right to say that we need to get to the bottom of that datum . but investigation and review should not be allow to frighten people who , to this day , be still deeply vulnerable , away from take the covid vaccine booster , and it be important for we to send out the message that those who need the booster should have they . I should put it on record that I be fully vaccinate , that I be a supporter of the vaccine when they first come out , and that I be a supporter of they now and will continue to be . I think that they play a huge role in manage serious disease . my concern at the moment be that the tone of some of this debate be undermine not only the reputation of our scientist , but the efficacy of vaccine programme in the future . I do not want to shut down the debate about the topic . we need to find a way of fill the evidence gap , and I hope we can do that collectively by encourage research so that potentially wild and untested theory do not fill that vacuum . I could not agree more with the hon . gentleman . we know that there be a cohort of people for whom the covid - 19 vaccine have lead to reaction , and we know that there be , tragically , a cohort of people who have die . we need to learn more about the impact of this set of vaccine on that cohort , but for the vast majority of people the covid - 19 vaccine have be a huge success , and we should not let people think that they be at risk from they . in fact , many people who be be ask right now to take the vaccine because they be immunosuppressed be at risk of not take they , and we need to ensure that they be protect . I , too , be fully vaccinate , and because of my own ongoing health issue I have just be invite for my next booster , which I will be take . we know that the virus itself have be a key driver of excess mortality , and it continue to have an impact across our community to this day . I understand that , and I understand that covid affect many people . I still struggle with long covid . in fact , my long covid have be much bad than the actual covid infection that I get in March 2020 , way before any vaccine be even dream of . there be lot of people who be in a far bad situation , because they have not yet be able to return to work or to near full fitness . even to this day , I still struggle with the impact of a covid infection right at the start of the first wave of covid in March 2020 , and it debilitate I for the good part of two year . million of clinically vulnerable people — the hon . member for Christchurch rightly raise this — continue to shield and live with the constant reminder of the impact that the virus can have on they , because they be not able to take the vaccine and they do not have the necessary level of protection for their own health need to be able to return to anything like a near normal lifestyle . he mention Evusheld and Evusheld 2 , and I very much support the right of clinically vulnerable community to access those drug so that they can regain the freedom that we have all benefit from . I will continue to communicate with those community and , where I can , seek to amplify their concern . yes , covid be part of the picture , but across the board we have see an increase in the incidence of major condition such as cancer , diabete and heart disease , all of which have contribute to the figure on excess death . the way to fight back against those number be to inform people responsibly about their health and wellbeing , and about the measure that be in place to protect they . it be also about ensure that our health service be fit for the future . we need an nhs that be root in the community that it serve , ensure that people can access care when and where they need it . the NHS must embrace new technology as essential for diagnose and treat people as quickly as possible , and it must move from be a national sickness service to put prevention front and centre . only by do so can we have an nhs that learn the lesson from the pandemic and ensure that , where mistake be make in the past , they be learn from and not repeat in future pandemic . that be the kind of thing we need to do as a Parliament , and it be the kind of thing that I hope the next Labour Government will be able to do . until then , we will fully support the current Government in make sure the message be send out loudly and clearly that the covid - 19 vaccine be the good way of protect yourself and your loved one from what be still a terrible virus . apology for my croaky voice . I will try to respond to all the point that I can . I thank the hon . member for North West Leicestershire ( Andrew Bridgen ) for secure this important debate . as the opposition have rightly say , it be important that we have the debate in a measured way , because there be strong feeling on all side . those who have concern about vaccine , lockdown and the way pandemic be manage be right to raise they , but it be also right and proper that people express the view that vaccine protect people and that difficult decision have to be make . as the hon . member for Blackley and Broughton ( Graham Stringer ) highlight , it be much easy to come to different conclusion with hindsight . it be really important that as we go forward , still live with covid , we continue our discussion in a measured debate on all side . in recent week , we have see the impact of people not be able to speak freely about their concern regard the Post Office or the Tavistock centre . as I say , we have have a number of debate on this issue , include in January , when I acknowledge that the hon . member for North West Leicestershire be correct to say that we have see excess death in recent year . however , excess death be not new ; they be happen before covid and have happen since then as well . it be important to look at the figure , because the Office for National Statistics indicate that the number of excess death have be reduce , year on year , since the high in 2020 , when there be 66 , 740 excess death in England . I can only talk about England because health be obviously devolve and the government in Scotland , Wales and Northern Ireland will have their own datum . in 2022 , that number go down to 37 , 701 , and in 2023 , there be just 10 , 206 excess death in England . it be important to remember that every single one of those be a person , a family member , and a love one , but it may reassure hon . member greatly , as it do I , that the ONS have report negative excess death for every week so far in 2024 . after a pandemic , which we have be out of for quite some year , we would expect a deficit in death , so why have we not have a deficit for the past two year , in which we have not have the covid pandemic ? the hon . Gentleman may have miss my last sentence before his intervention . I say that the ONS datum show that in every week in 2024 so far , we have have negative excess death . that go specifically to his point . we be not complacent , though . as I set out in previous debate , when we have see those rise in excess death — and we have see significant excess death — we have look at that datum to see the cause behind it , whether it be the vaccine , covid , or other factor . we have be work so hard , and I be really pleased that we be now start to see negative excess death . let I highlight some of the work that we have be do in look at those figure . we have an incident of high flu prevalence in 2022 , with a peak of 31 . 8 % of flu test be positive . that be highly likely to be because we lock down the country for two year and people ' s immune system be not use to flu . that be why , last winter , we bring forward our flu vaccine , and extend it the year before to the over 65 ; we recognise that people ' s immunity to flu and respiratory illness be low because we have lock they down . I think that we need to be honest about that . this winter , as a result , we have see few admission and few death from flu and respiratory illness . we have also see challenge with other health condition , such as diabete and cardiac disease , for which people would routinely have come forward for check . routine treatment and access to appointment be difficult even now , give the backlog of examination and test that need to happen . when we look at this , we see that last year , the rate of death from cardiovascular disease be 2 % high than expect , with there have be more than 2 , 200 excess death . that be why we be reinveste in our NHS health check . it be on pause during covid , when people could not get their blood pressure or cholesterol check and could not go on smoking prevention programme . we restart those , and as a result , excess death from cardiac disease be start to fall . we want to use the opportunity to roll out our new digital health check . we recognise that access to GPs be sometimes difficult , but this roll - out be expect to deliver an additional 1 million check in the first four year . we also have a £ 10 million pilot to deliver cardiovascular check in the workplace . again , that be about make it as easy as possible for people to get check . we have our Pharmacy First roll - out as well . that be all for general health purpose . we know that all these thing contribute to excess death rate . I want to touch on the crux of the matter , which be the covid vaccine ; that have come through in all these debate . I be not a Health Minister at the time , so I do not have to make these difficult decision , but the hon . member for Blackley and Broughton be absolutely right : as the pandemic preparedness Minister , I want the finding of the inquiry . I have to make difficult decision now about potential future pandemic that may never happen , but could happen tomorrow — we just do not know . the result of the inquiry with regard to lockdown , face mask and vaccine will all be really useful information , and at the moment , I be not much the wiser on those result . on module 4 , I want to see any evidence about vaccine safety , because that be how we learn . I think we be all singe from the same hymn sheet . we want to do the good , but during the pandemic , when we watch tv footage from around the world , and the medium be often push we to lock down hard , fast and long , we have to make difficult decision without the benefit of hindsight . I go back to the ward during covid , and I look after covid patient who be be treat for cancer . we lose many of they , and we lose a number of staff , too . I have see this from both side of the fence . of all the concern point that the hon . member for North West Leicestershire ( Andrew Bridgen ) make in his opening speech , particularly abhorrent be the suggestion that people who be not eligible for a ventilator be essentially condemn to death . that be a deeply disturbing thing to say , and it do not reflect my experience . I be privileged to volunteer on the frontline , as the Minister do , and I see staff battle as good they could to save people , use all the medical treatment available , whatever the patient ' s age . will the Minister join I in pay tribute to those staff who work so hard to save as many life as they could ? absolutely , and I thank my hon . friend for his work during those difficult time . we do not have a vaccine in those day , and we do not know how long covid be go to last . I reassure the relative who be listen to this debate that we treat every single patient in the good way we could . if they need a ventilator , we often have to ship they out of hospital to get they to a ventilator , but they get one . if they do not need a ventilator , we treat they . we do not leave people to die , and I reassure relative who might think that we do that it certainly be not my experience of look after patient . it be important to look at the datum on covid vaccination . the Office for National Statistics publish datum last August show that people who receive a covid - 19 vaccination have a low mortality rate than those who have not be vaccinate . give that 93 . 6 % of the population have be vaccinate with either one or two dose , or multiple do , it be almost impossible to determine correlation versus causation . vaccinated people will feature highly in excess death number because most people have be vaccinate , which be why we need to go through the datum really carefully and not just take the first datum at face value . the covid virus continue to circulate , and we be now live with covid . some people be still very vulnerable to covid , although the current variant be obviously less severe than the initial variant . we have just have our spring vaccine roll - out , and those who be invite should please go to get their vaccine . we know that it make a difference to the most vulnerable . over this winter , after both the flu and covid vaccine roll - out , we have see a significant reduction in hospital admission . when will the immunosuppressed have access to Evusheld ? will it be this week , next week , sometime or never ? that be a clinical decision , but now that we have the omicron variant , the evidence for Evusheld ' s effectiveness be not as compelling . return to the crux of the matter , there be risk and benefit to every single medicine when the regulator or NICE be weigh up whether to license or fund a product . if the advice come to we be that , with omicron , the benefit of Evusheld do not outweigh the risk , we have to take that advice . People be not currently be advise to shield , but I recognise that people be very nervous , particularly when they can not have the vaccine . we be in constant touch with NICE and the MHRA on this , but we have to respect their decision if it be feel that a product will not benefit patient . will the Minister give way ? I will give way one more time , as I have only a few minute leave . I thank the Minister for give way . she be very generous . use her medical experience , can the Minister explain to the House — I be befuddle by this — how a systemic vaccine inject into the arm , into the blood and create an antibody response , can stop an infection of the airway and lung by a respiratory virus ? it have never happen , and it do not happen this time either , do it ? how can it do that ? that be actually what antibodie do . I will answer some of the many question that have be ask in this debate . I reiterate that no medicine or vaccine be completely risk free . even simple paracetamol have the potential to kill people if it be not take properly , and people with certain condition might not be able to take it at all . we have monitor system in place . the MHRA , which I know have come under criticism , take a stand when in April 2021 , follow concern raise through the yellow card system , it reduce access for the under - 30 and then for the under - 40 . when concern be raise , it absolutely take action . there be now recommendation about the type of vaccine , and about whom we vaccinate , bear in mind the current evidence . I have say that no vaccine be 100 % safe , which be why we have the vaccine damage payment scheme . I hear concern about that , and I have meet my hon . friend the Member for Christchurch ( Sir Christopher Chope ) to discuss it . we take the scheme off the Department for Work and Pensions and move it into the Department of Health and Social Care to speed it up and get claim turn around more quickly . we have have more than 4 , 000 claim , 170 of which have be award . roughly speak , the majority of claim be decide on within six month , and the vast majority be decide on within 12 month . of course , we want to speed up on those . we recognise the time limit of three year , which be why we be work as hard as we can to get through as many claim as possible , so that if people have be affect by the covid vaccine , they get some help and support through that funding . my hon . friend the Member for South Basildon and East Thurrock ( Stephen Metcalfe ) raise the issue of research . we be absolutely research the issue of covid - 19 vaccine — not just future type of vaccine , but their safety . there be £ 110 million from the National Institute for Health and Care Research go specifically into covid - 19 vaccine safety , and I encourage all member to keep an eye on that as the evidence come forward . I have to give the hon . member for North West Leicestershire a few minute to reply , so I will just say that we take this issue extremely seriously . I know that as a Minister , I will be responsible — will the Minister give way ? I will not , as I have to let the hon . member for North West Leicestershire respond . we take this issue very seriously . I have be as open and transparent as I can be . if there be concern , we will always look into they , but there be no doubt that covid vaccine save life . there be no doubt that some people have experience harm from they — we acknowledge that , and we want to help and support people who have be affect — but the vaccine do get we out of the pandemic and we need to be mindful of that as well . with the leave of the House , Mr Deputy Speaker , let I thank all the hon . member who have take part in a debate that have be robust , as it should be , give the gravity of the issue . I wish this debate be not need ; I wish the experimental covid - 19 vaccine be safe and effective , but they be not . the long we go on not admit the problem , the big the problem that will come , and the great the harm that will continue to be cause . those in this House can continue to deny that the vaccine be cause harm and death , and the legacy medium can continue to censor all report of vaccine harm and excess death , but the people know , in increase number , because they be the one who be lose their love one and relative . I urge the government : release the control - level datum , and let we sort this out once and for all . question put and agree to . resolve , that this House have consider the covid - 19 pandemic response and trend in excess death ; and call on the Covid - 19 Inquiry to move onto its module four investigation into vaccine and therapeutic as soon as possible . Petition - Recommendations of the Infected Blood Inquiry I wish to present a petition on behalf of those infect and affect by the contaminated blood scandal , particularly those in my constituency . I commend all campaigner across the country and in my constituency , include , of course , my right hon . friend the Member for Kingston upon Hull North ( Dame Diana Johnson ) . two victim of this scandal be die every week . we vote in December to establish a body to pay compensation , as an amendment to the Victims and Prisoners Bill , and we still need to see action . Justice delay be justice deny . the petition state : the petition of resident of the constituency of Luton South , declare that people who receive infected blood and who have suffer as a consequence have , along with their family , wait far too long for redress . the petitioner therefore request that the House of Commons urge the Government to implement the recommendation in the Second Interim Report of the Infected Blood Inquiry without delay . and the petitioner remain , etc . [ P002949 ] New Build Homes Standards : North Yorkshire Motion make , and question propose , that this House do now adjourn . — ( Robert Largan . ) may I start by thank you , Mr Deputy Speaker , and , through you , Mr Speaker for grant I this debate ? I value the opportunity to raise issue during this Adjournment debate . perhaps no one value that more than the hon . member for Strangford ( Jim Shannon ) , who be usually a fixture at these moment , but have send his apology for not be here today . I have mention the new housing development and estate be build across Harrogate and Knaresborough in the House before . indeed , I have be run a " fair deal for new estate " campaign , the essence of which be to ensure new estate be finish in a timely way . within " fair deal " I mean both the length of time involve and the quality of work by house builder . the campaign have be run for over a year . it start when resident in new build property come to I to seek support for the problem they be have with their new home . I be , of course , extremely happy to help with their case and take they up on their behalf with house builder . I have make visit to see the issue at first hand , and correspond and meet with house builder . there be too many individual case to detail in this debate . we be talk about over 200 case locate across Harrogate , Knaresborough and some surround village , so the issue be not limit to a specific geography . the development include King ' s Croft , Garten close , Harlow Green , Swincliffe Mews and other . there be a great variety of issue , both in range and severity , but they can be divide into two group : issue with individual property and estate - wide issue . estate - wide issue cover matter such as drainage , road surfacing , street lighting , street signage and play area , or simply be a good neighbour during the final build - out of an estate by keep road as clean as possible , and make consideration for delivery time and the type of vehicle use . I have have complaint about how long it have be take to finish estate and how the focus can seem to move on when much of an estate have be sell . one issue that be regularly raise be about drainage for open space , play area or individual home . I have see block drain , as well as stand water significant enough to reach front door and threaten to flood individual property , which be very worrying for resident . equally , I have see huge excavation and remedial work from house builder , indicate that they have be take action and show how much work be require to put thing right . on issue face individual property , we must remember that a new home be not just a financial transaction , but a major step in anyone ' s life . it be emotional and exciting , but move house can also be stressful . however , it should not be the start of a long chain of dealing with the house builder to correct problem . issue raise with I range from totally inadequate guttering to very patchy fitting of insulation , from window pane separate from their frame to poorly fit bannister , and from wall have to be rebuild to bathroom have to be take out and replacement fit . that be just a snapshot because the list be long . I have be deal with a number of different house building company , national and local , large and small , include Taylor Wimpey , Avant Homes and Harron Homes . this debate be about speak up for individual , but it be possible to draw some theme together because there be some common element , which I will highlight . the first be to get it right first time . resident know that there be likely to be some snag when they move into a new build — people be sensible and they be practical . but that be not what I be talk about : in some case the sheer number and scale of they have simply be wrong . one resident forward his list to I , and it be more than 200 item long . then there be the severity of the problem . I have meet resident who have have whole bathroom take out and refit , or who have have to totally move out of their property during remedial work , with all the disruption that that bring . I be think of one case where that be especially true because they have a young family . another common problem have be the way that customer have be deal with during this process , which have be a source of deep frustration . resident have report challenge contact customer service . the frequency of staff change have be cite , which mean that be no continuity of understanding of the issue raise . also cite be the need for house builder to be more proactive in their communication . that basically mean get information out to everyone about what be happen and when — keep people inform . I have raise this point with house builder and , in all case , they have recognise that there have be communication problem — no one have attempt to deny it — and , indeed , they have seek to correct they . in some case this have mean a new customer service helpline for a development , and in other case it have mean more senior oversight of outstanding issue . I mention at the start of my speech that the time take to solve problem have be too long . again , to be fair to all , some case have be resolve quickly , but I can think of place where some resident have be live for three year that have yet to see a finished road surface or a finished open space . that be simply too long . when I start this " fair deal for new estate " campaign it be specifically to support constituent in Harrogate , Knaresborough and the surround village , but I have also be contact by a number colleague from right across the House who have be experience similar problem in their constituency too . this problem be obviously much more widespread and be perhaps something for the ministerial team to consider . I be absolutely sure that we need more new housing in this country , but win the argument for it mean that house be deliver in a way that enhance community and where the build quality be high . Harrogate , Knaresborough and the surround village be hugely desirable place in which to live . we have a strong economy , quality service , a high quality of life and a powerful sense of community . it be not therefore surprising that the demand and need for housing be high , but this be all about get it right for resident . I have be happy to take up case and urge anyone struggle with issue in their new build to get in touch with I as I will be happy to help they . that be about issue resolution and that be obviously important , but I also want to ask how we ensure that we do not have issue to resolve in the first place . how do we ensure that we get thing right first time ? I have a few request for my hon . friend the Minister in his Department ' s dealing and conversation with the sector . how be quality monitor ? can the new home ombudsman play a big role ? there be a new home quality code , which detail 10 fundamental principle that register developer have to follow , but what happen if a developer be not register and if the principle be not follow ? one challenge raise by house builder have be difficulty in get the skill they need in the workforce . they have experience a shortage of people with the necessary skill . that be quite a common feature in an economy that have be strong in job creation . can more be do to develop a supply chain of skill via apprenticeship ? I know that my hon . friend the Minister have strong view about apprenticeship . this important point apply not just to house builder but to their supplier . I have have several conversation in which supplier failure have be cite , and a change of supplier have lead to a problem be resolve . look far ahead , I know that the Government be work on future home and building standard , particularly around energy efficiency , microgeneration and insulation , and that be positive work . I would be grateful , therefore , if the Minister could update the House . basically , I want to see more people own their own quality home and experience a happy future when they move in . I thank my hon . friend the Member for Harrogate and Knaresborough ( Andrew Jones ) for secure this important debate . the Minister for Housing , Planning and Building Safety have ask I to offer he a meeting to discuss these matter in great detail . as a fellow Yorkshireman , bear and breed , I know that my hon . friend the Member for Harrogate and Knaresborough share my enormous pride in represent a constituency in God ' s own country . I have huge respect for his tireless work over the year to promote the interest of the hard - work people and family of north Yorkshire . his constituency , like mine , be make up of strong community that be proud of their past and aspirational for their future , which he and I know must be build on a bedrock of good - quality housing — safe , warm , decent , affordable home that provide the solid foundation that people need to get on in life and unlock their potential . good home hold the key to our plan to level up opportunity across Yorkshire and around the country , while help our local economy to grow . that be why I be proud to support the Secretary of State and the Minister for Housing , Planning and Building Safety in deliver those home through our long - term plan for housing , with 2 . 5 million new home build in total since 2010 , 180 , 000 of which be in Yorkshire and the Humber . however , as my hon . Friend rightly say , the standard of some new build , and the estate that they be part of , be simply not up to scratch . like he , I have hear of case where developer be move on to new project before the place that they be build be properly finish , leave resident to deal with the extensive snagging or to live in limbo on unadopted road , such as those in the estate that he mention . that be not fair , not right , and frankly not on . while recognise that most new development across the country be already of a decent standard , construct by the many good building firm operate nationwide , we be clear that more need to be do to address homebuyer ' concern where standard have fall short . we have be take action to ensure that happen : reform building control as part of the big change to the construction sector in a generation ; and strengthen warranty to give homebuyer great protection . my hon . Friend ask how my Department monitor quality in our work with the sector , and whether the new home ombudsman will play a big role . I be pleased to tell he that quality be at the heart of our plan , from the future home standard to our work to improve redress with the new home ombudsman , which once launch will help to drive up quality across the industry . my hon . Friend also ask what happen if a developer be not register with the new home quality code . the new home quality code be voluntary , but through the Building Safety Act 2022 we legislate so that we can bring forward a single code of conduct , which will be statutory . that be also recommend in the recent Competition and Markets Authority report , to which we will soon publish our response . my hon . Friend ask about the shortage of relevant skill in the workforce and whether apprenticeship can help to address it . as a former apprentice , that subject be close to my heart , as I know it be to his . that be why I be delighted to tell he that we be already work to boost skill training across the industry by fully funding , for young people up to the age of 21 , new apprenticeship work for small business , and that we have amend the apprenticeship levy so that small and medium - sized enterprise will have great opportunity to develop the skill that the industry need . my hon . friend request an update on future home and building standard , particularly in relation to energy efficiency . I can tell he that from next year , the future home standard will ensure that all new home produce , on average , upwards of 75 % less carbon dioxide emission than those build to the 2013 requirement . through the work of our new Building Safety Regulator — introduce under the Building Safety Act 2022 — we be improve construction standard across the industry . let I directly address some of the constituency matter that my hon . friend raise . local authority can use section 106 planning obligation to secure a commitment from developer to provide appropriate facility for new build project such as those he mention , include play area , road and drainage . it be up to developer and local planning authority to agree matter relate to the timing and funding of delivery , and it be right that local authority retain such decision . in the meantime , we be work with the building industry to ensure that it take this issue seriously . ultimately , it be private developer , not the state , that hold the key to raise standard . only by local and central Government work together with developer can we ensure that new home be build in Yorkshire and across the country be safe , decent , warm and finish to a high standard , and that buyer in my hon . friend ' s constituency and elsewhere be treat fairly . we must all play our part to ensure that that happen . question put and agree to . House adjourn .