I be pleased to speak in a debate with so many strong female representative , include the hon . member for West Worcestershire ( Dame Harriett Baldwin ) , and I be really honour to speak in a debate lead by the first female Chancellor of the Exchequer , who have show today what a force for change she be . I have find it incredibly move to hear mps across the House talk with such love and dedication about the place they represent . it have give this Parliament a deep grounding in the story of people from every part of the UK . I feel deeply the trust put in I by the people of queen ' s Park and Maida Vale . in speak here , I stand on the shoulder of some extraordinary woman who have represent the different part of queen ' s Park and Maida Vale . my hon . friend the Member for Brent East ( Dawn Butler ) be someone who break through glass ceiling and lift other up behind she . nothing ever dim her spirit and her passion for tackle injustice . you need only walk down Harlesden High Street with she to see how she inspire people by her example — and sometimes her music . my hon . friend the Member for Hampstead and Highgate ( Tulip Siddiq ) be a formidable campaigner who be in the Chamber the day she be due to give birth because she need to give her constituent a voice . she do not stop campaign until her constituent Nazanin Zaghari - Ratcliffe be safely home with her family . those who know she will quickly learn that she never , ever give up . she be always a voice for the people she care about . Karen Buck give an extraordinary 27 year of service to the resident of Westminster North . I be at a school in my constituency last week where the head say that Karen be the fourth emergency service , always at the end of a phone ready to help . I remember go to an elderly people ' s lunch where the resident say , " you can be our MP — you be very nice . just make sure that Karen come to our resident ' meeting in July . " the wonderful team at the House Library send I Karen ' s maiden speech . it be no surprise to I that it be a passionate call to action on the housing condition of her constituent . that passion have not dim for a second ; it could be hear in every line of her 37 intervention on the Renters ( Reform ) Bill over 25 year later . she have show that somebody with community run through their vein can move mountain . I will work every day to live up to the woman who come before I — that include you , Madam Deputy Speaker , and your sister Baroness McDonagh , who have both show such amazing , dedicated service and never give up fighting for constituent and the people of this country . queen ' s Park and Maida Vale be a place that mean a huge amount to I . my great - grandfather come over to the UK when he be a teenager , flee the poverty and pogrom of Lithuania , and work his way up to open a shop on Kilburn High Road . my family have live and work in the area ever since . grow up in the heart of London , I attend Horfield primary school and see how many child be cut out of the opportunity on their doorstep ; that have drive I ever since . the need that we see now be great than ever . my inbox and my surgery be full of people face the homelessness crisis and skip meal to feed their family — all in walk distance of the Chamber . queen ' s Park and Maida Vale be a place with huge need , but also with huge heart . it have welcome not just my family but family from so many different background . we be home to the Bangladesh Caterers Association ; the Lauderdale Road synagogue ; the UK Albanian Muslim Community and Cultural Centre ; Harlesden , which be the unofficial capital of reggae and the starting point for so many iconic artist and producer ; Kilburn , a centre of creativity with a claim to be the birthplace of cinema ; and the amazing , diverse community of Church Street . we be a community that be rich in spirit and dynamism . in 1879 , Queen ' s Park be choose to host the royal agricultural show , the victorian equivalent of the Olympics . it be a very british affair — it rain most of the time — but ordinary people campaign to preserve the open space , and it be still a thriving park today . down the road , Walterton and Elgin Community Homes be a shine example of community leadership . we also have the country ' s only urban parish council . queen ' s Park be the birthplace of the pride of west London , Queens Park Rangers football club . I can tell the House that be a QPR fan be almost as good as this Chamber for get to know the community of the UK ; it mean spend rainy day in Cardiff , Preston , Southend and Tranmere , embrace again and again the triumph of hope over experience . I have always be an optimist . despite 14 tough year in local government , include seven as Camden council leader , I have never lose hope , because every day I can see the power of community . I be elect as a councillor in 2010 , and at event , when people use to say to I , " what do you do ? " , I would proudly say to they , " I be a councillor . " they would say , " that be so wonderful ; you do such wonderful work as a therapist . " I would have to say , " no , not that kind of counsellor . I be a Labour party councillor . " they would either swiftly go and get a drink or talk to I about dog mess . street cleaning and rubbish collection be essential service that council deliver — my hon . friend the Member for Birmingham Erdington ( Mrs Hamilton ) once introduce I as the person who make sure that Keir Starmer ' s bin be collect — but we often forget how much more local government be . I see that every day , watch the work of Brent and Westminster , two brilliant labour council in my constituency . council be lifeline for community . they provide care for the child and adult who most need support . they be leader of place , bring service and people together to make change . I have see local government staff go above and beyond time and again , fuel by love and dedication , because there be no one else there , whether they be work with community to deliver food during covid or support afghan evacuee . when thing have be hard , they have hold together our community , find unity in difference . the Gracious Speech set out bold new proposal in the english devolution Bill to unlock the energy and creativity of community . it set out Bills to fulfil Karen Buck ' s long - hold campaign to end no - fault eviction and reform the leasehold system . the proposal will support the people of queen ' s Park and Maida Vale who come out every day to build their community — the youth worker , the community gardener and those run the North Paddington food bank , who wish it do not have to exist . these be people put hope into action because they believe that thing can change . I know that as I sit in the Chamber , I will have their voice and story with I , but I will also have the story that I have hear from hon . member from across the UK . we all have that in common : the privilege and the responsibility of bring the voice of our community to this place . we may debate and disagree , but I hope to always listen and learn , and remember that we be be entrust to weave those story , hope and ambition together for a national vision for this country — one that govern for all and leave no one behind . thank you , Madam Deputy Speaker . it be a pleasure to follow the right hon . and learn Member for Fareham and Waterlooville ( Suella Braverman ) . like other member , I be somewhat surprised by her rewrite of recent economic history . she have 14 year to fix the problem of child poverty , and do precious little to do that . I listen today to the Chancellor of the Exchequer lie out this Government ' s plan to restore economic stability and growth to this country — that be what will lift million of child out of poverty in the long term . it be a privilege to stand here today represent the place where I be bear and raise , Finchley and Golders Green . I would like to start by pay tribute to my predecessor , Mike Freer . although we disagree on many thing , Mike be dedicate to our area , both as a Member of Parliament and as leader of Barnet council . I admire his commitment to public service and , in particular , his role in secure equal marriage legislation for same sex couple — a legacy that he can take enormous pride in . but the circumstance under which Mike decide not to stand for re - election be appal . we should have be able to face each other on the basis of our idea , but Mike ' s life and office be threaten by those who believe in the bullet , not the ballot box . it be a stark reminder of the fragility of our democracy both at home and abroad . I want to use my time in this place to stand up for the democratic value and process that I believe in . witness the dignified and smooth transition of power last week in all part of this House be something we can take pride in . we must ensure that we work together to defend the safety of public servant . I wish Mike and his husband Angelo all the good in their future . I also pay tribute to the much miss Dr Rudi Vis , who hold a special place in the heart of my local community , not least as the first Labour Member to represent this special patch of north London . in over a century , I be only the second person from my party to be send to this place by the people of Finchley and Golders Green . I be also only the second woman . some member may remember the first . when Mrs Thatcher enter this place , she be make to wait two whole year to make her maiden speech , but in our era of breakneck news cycle , and with so much work that I want to do , have to wait just two week have feel like a very long time . have delay long enough , Mrs Thatcher do not waste a second when she rise to her foot , break convention by make her maiden speech on a private Member ' s Bill that she introduce . " this be a maiden speech " , she say , her sonorous tone echo through this hallowed place — " but I know that the constituency of Finchley … would not wish I to do other than come straight to the point " . — [ Official Report , 5 February 1960 ; Vol . 616 , c . 1350 . ] the people of Finchley and Golders Green rightly remain as demand of their elect official today , so I , too , will come straight to the point . like Mrs Thatcher , I be a patriot and I want our community and our country to prosper and be an influence on the global stage . but unlike she , I fundamentally believe that there be such a thing as society . society be not an abstract idea to be bury in sociological essay . we can see it in the rich tapestry of community that come together across Finchley and Golders Green . I may be the first female , jewish , Gibraltarian MP from this constituency , but I would not be here without the support of my neighbour and my community : the cypriot community , the Somali Bravanese , the Kosovan , the Japanese , the irish and Hindu community , the lawyer and the Uber driver , the charity worker and the campaigner , the Spurs fan and the fan of some other north London team . whereas in recent time some politician have choose to use " north Londoner " as an insult , my constituent and I wear it as a badge of pride . it symbolise a place that celebrate diversity , hard work and look out for your neighbour . our diversity come as no surprise to anyone familiar with the history of our area . where else can boast the parish where Archbishop Desmond Tutu hone his ministry in the terrible year of exile during apartheid in South Africa , and the childhood home of the late and great Rabbi Jonathan Sacks , a man who teach we that a good society be one that offer all its member equal access to hope ? it be in East Finchley that George Michael first tinkle on the ivory and Amy Winehouse first take the stage . Finchley and Golders Green have a quiet radicalism bake into its history . take Hampstead Garden Suburb , where I grow up , a project drive by the extraordinary Henrietta Barnett in the early 20th century . one of the first garden city , it be a groundbreake development . she also set up Toynbee Hall in London ' s east end , where I begin my legal career as a volunteer at the Free Legal Advice Centre . I see there just how important the law could be for tenant face eviction and woman suffer unequal pay . now I want to take those value of access to justice and a commitment to the rule of law into my new role as Solicitor General . when , in 1907 , we witness the opening of Golders Green underground station , advert at the time dub our area a " place of delightful prospect " . I can vouch that never a truer word have be speak , but this place of delightful prospect have suffer in recent year . my community have witness rise level of antisemitism and Islamophobia . these be a scourge on our society and as long as I be in office I will tirelessly call they out and work to eradicate they . our community today be increasingly become a place of busy food bank and empty mansion . inequality be writ large , stunt people ' s health and potential . many across Finchley and Golders Green be struggle with the spiral cost of living . this have to change not just in my constituency , but across the whole country . our NHS be break , the prison be full , the police can not respond when they be call out and our teacher be not support to deliver . we need to get Britain back on track , and the Bills set out in the King ' s Speech be exactly what we need to take the brake off the economy and restore and rebuild our public service . my constituent be rare to go . whether it be the Brent Cross Town development , one of the large regeneration development in Europe , or our brilliant high street business and local entrepreneur , all we need to get grow be a Government who be on our side . well , we have that Government now . so , to quote my famous predecessor , let ' s get straight to the point and let ' s get on with the change that Britain truly need . thank you , Madam Deputy Speaker , for allow I to make my maiden speech in this debate . it be a privilege to follow the first female Chancellor in history , and to follow two inspire maiden speech from the Labour Benches by my hon . friend the Members for queen ' s Park and Maida Vale ( Georgia Gould ) and for Finchley and Golders Green ( Sarah Sackman ) . it be an honour to sit alongside they on the Government Benches , and their community be both very lucky to have they . as hon . member can imagine , I have give careful thought to my remark today , but it be safe to say that this be not the most anticipated maiden speech ever associate with Welwyn Hatfield . the reason for that be that , on 20 November 1558 , Elizabeth I give her inaugural address as Queen from Hatfield House in my constituency . irrespective of how the next few minute go , I think her place in history be safe . I be especially grateful to be call in this debate on the economy . my constituency be anchor by two new town that flourish under a previous Labour Government . Hatfield and Welwyn Garden City be incorporate as new town together under a single development corporation on 20 May 1948 . the growth of Hatfield and Welwyn Garden City play an important role in the rebuilding and reimagining of life in our part of the country after the horror of the second world war . I believe that if we be to succeed in grow our economy , we have to rediscover the ambition and the vision that be embody by those who design and carefully plan our two great town . my predecessor as the MP for Welwyn Hatfield be the right hon . Grant Shapps , who serve our community for 19 year and will be well known to all member of this House . in fact , he will probably be familiar to anyone who be watch a morning television news programme at any point over the last five year . before I talk about Grant ' s legacy , however , I want to start with a message of reassurance to the Labour Whips and my colleague : I have no desire to hold quite so many Cabinet position as he do , and certainly not in such a short period of time . I want to reflect solemnly on the personal and professional commitment that Grant Shapps make to the people of Ukraine . after the russian invasion in 2022 , he open his family home to provide sanctuary to three generation of a ukrainian family , innocent people whose life be turn upside down by Putin ' s unprovoked act of aggression . in the last Parliament , more than 200 , 000 Ukrainians be welcome to our country under the Ukraine family scheme and the Ukraine sponsorship scheme , an initiative that I believe show our country at its good , open and welcome in an hour of grave need . we serve in this House of Commons at a time when our wide political discourse can often be angry and divisive . of course we will disagree in the House , and passionately so — our constituent rightly expect we always to stand up for our community and our value , and I will certainly try to do just that — but I think we can too easily forget what unite we . where we agree , let we have the confidence to say so . my predecessor be right to champion the people of Ukraine , and the cause of freedom and democracy . I commend he for it , and wish he well in whatever come next . Welwyn Hatfield be a constituency rich in history . Welwyn Village and Woolmer Green be both roman settlement , and Welwyn be one of the few place in the country believe to have be occupy continuously for 2 , 000 year . nearly 400 year after Hatfield be home to Queen Elizabeth I , local people make an important contribution to the defeat of Nazi tyranny . the Royal Air Force ' s Mosquito fighter - bomber be develop at the de Havilland airfield and aircraft factory in Hatfield . Welwyn Garden City also have a unique place in history as the creation of Ebenezer Howard , the father of the garden city movement . his immaculately planned and tree - line street , such as Parkway in Welwyn Garden City , be still true to his vision from nearly 100 year ago . despite our wonderful history , what have strike I when I have walk around our town and village be the impression of too many project on hold , and potential go unfulfilled . take the iconic Shredded Wheat silos , design by Louis de Soissons in 1926 and a define feature of Welwyn Garden City for decade . the site have lain virtually dormant since the factory close in 2008 . in central Hatfield , it be a similar story . Queensway House consist of 66 unit that be once all social housing . in November 2019 , after a ballot of resident , a majority decide that it be time to demolish and rebuild , but nearly five year later Queensway House be still stand , and it loom over the centre of Hatfield as a symbol of the inertia that have capture our politic for too long . I be determined that that must change . the centre of Hatfield be one part of our community that most urgently need investment in good - quality housing and social infrastructure , and I will be a champion for it in this House . Welwyn Hatfield be a grow and increasingly diverse community . in just the last few month I have attend the world street food festival in Welwyn Garden City , the first ever diwali celebration in White Lion Square in Hatfield , and the ever popular Welwyn festival on Singlers Marsh . we be home to prominent national business , include Tesco and Ocado in Hatfield , and to the thriving University of Hertfordshire . the university will soon be open its state - of - the - art Spectra building for the study of physics , engineering and computer science — and yes , Mr Vice - Chancellor , as this will appear in Hansard , please consider that to be my formal bid for an invitation to its opening ! I believe that a new Parliament be a time for ambition and optimism . Welwyn Hatfield blossom when Attlee ' s Labour Government put housing and carefully plan community at the centre of its agenda for change . nearly 80 year later , we have another majority Labour Government with a mandate for national renewal . this be a moment of opportunity , and each of we on these Benches have a responsibility to play our part in realise it . for as long as I serve in this House of Commons , I will always do my utmost to champion Welwyn Hatfield , to respect our history , and to be an agent for change . I congratulate the hon . member for West Suffolk ( Nick Timothy ) on his maiden speech , and all those who have speak for the first time in the House today . it be an honour for I to make my maiden speech as the first Member of Parliament for the Newton Aycliffe and Spennymoor constituency . I pay tribute to those who come before I . the former Sedgefield constituency make up the majority of the new seat . in addition , we have take Spennymoor and Tudhoe ward from Bishop Aukland , and Coxhoe ward from City of Durham . I wish to put on record my thank and pay tribute to Paul Howell and Dehenna Davison for their public service , and to my hon . friend the Member for City of Durham ( Mary Kelly Foy ) for her continue dedication to her constituent . unlike some former member of this House , I be not fluent in Latin , but I be assure that the motto of my hometown translate as " not the Least , but the great we seek . " this have not only serve as a powerful statement of intent for the new town of Aycliffe since 1947 , but capture the share spirit of the town and village across this new constituency — varied in history , but unite in a desire to get on , to do well , to strive for a well future . my own family ' s story be testament to this spirit of aspiration that have long define the work people of our country . several generation ago , both side of my family be draw from mining village across England to the Durham coalfield because of their reputation for good wage and reliable work . in turn , my grandparent move from pit village to Aycliffe new town , home for two year to the late Lord Beveridge , in search of modern housing and well job for their child . my parent ' generation then work hard to give we the opportunity that they never have , include high education , the chance to work across the country and across the world and personal freedom to flourish . this ethos — that each generation raise the next , that background be no barrier , and that opportunity be distribute as widely as talent — be the drive force in family in my constituency and a lodestar for this Government . but make that a reality require strong economic growth across our country . we must back the industry of the future , such as Hitachi Rail in my constituency , which manufacture world - class , green train , and employ 700 highly skilled worker and another 1 , 500 in the supply chain . I thank a former Member of this House , Phil Wilson , for his tireless campaign , alongside the Northern Echo , which lead to the plant be locate in the area some year ago . I be also grateful for the public commitment make by my right hon . friend the Prime Minister , the Chancellor and the Transport Secretary to support Hitachi ' s future . I look forward to work with they to secure those job and expand high - tech manufacturing more widely . that include the innovative work at Sedgefield ' s NETPark . this Durham University spin - off hub develop innovative product in satellite technology , drug development and biological weapon detection , which be then export around the globe . the creation of job in the industry of the future be particularly important in a constituency with former mining community , where ongoing economic development be badly need . I do not want the House to think that my constituency be all work and no play . we be famous for the Sedgefield ball game — a historic Shrove Tuesday tradition not for the faint - hearted . we be home to excellent football club , include Newton Aycliffe , where my parent serve on the committee , and Spennymoor Town . Spennymoor itself typify our rich cultural history , with a heritage trail dedicate to Norman Cornish , one of the pitman painter , who learn his craft alongside his mining in the Spennymoor settlement . some of the good brass band in the country can also be find in the constituency . they not only keep alive the cultural tradition of our past , but provide excellent , high - quality music education for new generation of young people today . we be also home to incredible local produce , include artisan chocolate make in Coxhoe , and award - win real ale brew at the Surtees Arms in Ferryhill — I have personally quality - assure the latter on several occasion . on the topic of ale , my predecessor Tony Blair be note for host world leader in pub across the constituency . I have yet to find a pub without a photo of the former Prime Minister and his close NATO ally , but my diligent search continue . finally , I be proud of our thriving community organisation . the Ladder Centre do invaluable work to support resident , and the Cornforth Partnership be a lifeline for those look to get back into work . just as Durham coal power our economy in the past , so constituency such as mine can power our modern economy , with high - tech , green manufacturing and research . let I return to where I begin — " not the Least , but the great we seek . " Mr Deputy Speaker , in this House , let we commit ourselves to seek the great — the very good — for our constituent , for our community and for our great nation . I look forward to see the economic measure in the King ' s Speech start to spread wealth , growth and opportunity to every corner of this United Kingdom , include the people of Newton Aycliffe and Spennymoor . thank you , Mr Deputy Speaker , for call I to speak . I congratulate the hon . member for Newton Aycliffe and Spennymoor ( Alan Strickland ) on his maiden speech . I do not think that we cross over at university , but mutual friend tell I that he be an excellent president of the Oxford Student Union . we can tell that his debating skill be hone there , and we see that in evidence this evening . I want to express my gratitude to the people of the new Farnham and Bordon constituency for place their trust in I and for allow I the honour to represent they here in Parliament . I feel that give a maiden speech be a bit like give a good man ' s speech at a wedding , as you be surround by disapprove elderly relative who be go to hang on every word , but I can assure you , Mr Deputy Speaker , that none of the joke that I have make before in any good man ' s speech will be give in this House , especially as I know that my mother - in - law be watch on the Parliament channel . I also wish to thank my family — especially my wife , Caroline , and my daughter , Susannah and Lucy , who have put up with I a lot over the past year — for their patience and support , as well as my parent , James and Theresa . other hon . member have note that they be not the first people in their family to be member of Parliament . I be not even the first sibling to be a Member of Parliament . I pay tribute to my brother , Alexander , who serve the people of the Rother Valley constituency so diligently in the previous Parliament . apparently , it be also customary to express gratitude to our predecessor in the seat — a small political obituary , as it be . fortunately , both my immediate predecessor , my right hon . friend the Members for Godalming and Ash ( Jeremy Hunt ) and for East Hampshire ( Damian Hinds ) , be still , as member can see , very much in their political prime . none the less , I want to thank they for their generous support and advice since I be select . they have both achieve amazing thing for the constituent whom I have inherit . campaigning be a sobering affair . on the doorstep I be tell : " oh , we do like Jeremy " , or " Damian do such wonderful stuff for we " , or " you have very big shoe to fill " . to rub salt into the wound , the week before the election , the local paper run a story on how much the people of Haslemere would miss the shadow Chancellor — believe I , I know my place . speak of predecessor , the predecessor of my right hon . friend the Member for East Hampshire , Lord Arbuthnot , should be praise for his sterling work on the Horizonscandal and for bring justice to the sub - postmaster so cruelly affect . I still hope that those who be responsible — by act or omission — be bring to justice . the newly create Farnham and Bordon be a county constituency cross Surrey and Hampshire , make the life of a new Member of Parliament even more complex than it already be . More than that , the name , while reference the two large town in each county , ignore the other town of Haslemere and Liphook and the many village that range between the large population centre . many argue for , and I support , a less specific but more all - encompass name for the constituency , such as the Wey Valley , take its name from the beautiful River Wey that run through it . clearly they be not romantic in the Boundary Commission , so Farnham and Bordon stick . the only save grace be that its initial spell FAB , which sum up the area that I represent . this " FAB " constituency range from Farnham in the north to Haslemere and Liphook in the south , Whitehill and Bordon in the west , and the western village of Surrey , such as Tilford , in the east . bookende by the north and south down , it be an area of outstanding beauty , with thrive market town , pleasant village , and a thrive sport and art scene , include the prestigious University for the Creative Arts . it also have a significant military connection , most obviously in Bordon , which be home to the Royal Electrical and Mechanical Engineers until 2015 and be home to the Longmoor range , where ukrainian troop be be train . military history be everywhere , from Amesbury school in Haslemere and Hindhead , where Montgomery live during the war , to the canadian war grave and memorial in Liphook , and the site of the first - ever two - minute silence in this country on Castle Street in Farnham . the resident of this new constituency be ever thankful for the role that our armed force have play in keep we safe . from Arthur Conan Doyle to Jonny Wilkinson , King John to Flora Thompson , and Graham Thorpe to the hon . member for Boston and Skegness ( Richard Tice ) , hero and villain have be bear , live , work and play in this fabulous constituency , but it be not the beautiful scenery , the historic gem , or the famous people who make this constituency the good in the country . it be not even the fact that my grandparent run Stafford ' s sweet shop in Haslemere for many year — what little boy would not want grandparent who run a sweet shop ? it be the current resident , business and community spirit that make FAB special , and a joy to represent . every day there be local event , charitable occasion and community festivity to get involve with . indeed , I doubt that anywhere else in this country can rival the number of duck race in the area . follow that Cook ' s tour of the constituency , one might be forgive for think that there be no issue to solve — a home county garden of Eden . it of course can not be deny that there be many area of significant affluence , but it should not be conceal that there be area of high deprivation , and I will champion their improvement . the constituency ' s location be both a benefit and a curse . within easy commuting distance of London , it provide a rural haven for those who wish to live outside but work in the city . that also make it rich picking for housing developer who look for any open space , green or otherwise , to build on . I be not against housing development — we need home for our child and grandchild — but we need the right home in the right place , with the right tenure mix and with the support infrastructure . conservative - run East Hampshire district council have do everything that it can to persuade the new Government to modify their housing target to make they more appropriate for our area , include write to the Deputy Prime Minister . I hope that she will respond positively . indeed , if there be one issue that unite the whole of the new Farnham and Bordon constituency , it be that infrastructure have not keep pace with development . that be particularly acute in Bordon , where thousand of house be go up without the support infrastructure . the GP surgery , the NHS dentist , the school , the road and the leisure centre all need upgrade and expand rapidly to meet that housing growth . we must not build more house until infrastructure catch up . otherwise we will be leave with housing estate devoid of service , security and society . I be deeply concerned about the new Government ' s plan on house building . labour ' s change to planning , impose top - down target and remove the right of local people to have their say on development , be a retrograde step that have be meet with anger from my constituent and resolute opposition from I . I mention the need for health service in our area . have spend most of my career in healthcare , latterly work for seven year in the NHS , improve clinical service and patient outcome , I know that both locally and nationally thing need to change in the NHS . we need to have a grow - up and honest discussion with the public about how we be go to deliver , provide and fund the NHS and social care go forwards . for an age population with increase healthcare need and diminish birth rate — that is , the people who be go to pay for the NHS — we need a cross - party discussion that bring all party together to make long - term decision on how we proceed with health and social care in this country . if I achieve nothing else in my time here , start that conversation , and hopefully progress it fruitfully , will be something to hope for . as a traditional , common - sense Conservative , I believe that we can not pay for health and social care unless we have a strong economy . despite a global pandemic , a war in the east of Europe and instability in the middle east , and regardless of the picture that the Government be try to paint in their press release , the most recent statistic show that the economy be turn around and be on an upward trajectory . I will oppose any measure by this government , include the misguided nationalisation of industry and the socialist labour rule , that I believe will hamper or reverse that trend . equally important be to safeguard ourselves from external threat . the rise of a resurgent Russia , China and North Korea be something that we should all be concern about . I do not believe that it be hyperbole to say that we be in a pre - war era , and we need to ensure that our border , sky and infrastructure , both physical and digital , be safe from threat . that be why I absolutely believe that we should move to 2 . 5 % of GDP spend on defence immediately , and increase that to 3 % when practical . in short , we must protect our economy , healthcare and national security to ensure the prosperity and safety of our country , but mindful that maiden speech be not mean to be controversial , I shall leave it there and return briefly to the subject of my FAB constituency . in 1668 , Samuel Pepys record that the people of Liphook be " good , honest people " . give his own moral and motivation , I be not sure whether he mean that as a compliment , but I assure the House that it be as true now as it be then for the resident of Farnham , Bordon , Haslemere , Liphook and our surround village , and I pledge to be a good , honest servant of they in this place . thank you , Mr Deputy Speaker , and I thank the hon . member for Farnham and Bordon ( Gregory Stafford ) for describe his constituency so passionately . while we may strongly disagree on the need for growth and new development in this country , we may agree more on the future of our NHS , and I look forward to work together on that ambition . I be a proud Londoner , and like many londoner I be not actually bear here ; I be delighted to share with you that I be bear in Manchester and my family come from Lancashire . in fact , for most of my childhood I be aware of only one football team — the Bolton Wanderers — but for the last 42 year London have be my home , and the chance to represent my home city be truly a special honour . I put on record my thank to the resident of the Cities of London and Westminster for place their trust in I as their representative . I start by thank Nickie Aiken for her service . she be a pioneer , as the first woman to represent the Cities of London and Westminster , and be remember fondly by many resident . she have show I kindness and offer her advice , for which I be grateful . I know that here and across the constituency she will be remember for her tireless work campaign to regulate pedicab , and her work to end the Vagrancy Act 1824 and deliver the Leasehold and Freehold Reform Act 2024 . I also pay tribute to my good friend Karen Buck , who represent the St John ' s Wood neighbourhood ward of Abbey Road and Regent ' s Park , which join the two Cities constituency in the recent boundary review . when walk through Westminster with Karen , it be hard to find anyone in her constituency who do not know she and have not be help by she . through her tireless casework for ten of thousand of constituent , and her home ( Fitness for Human Habitation ) Act 2018 , Karen have make an outstanding contribution to life in Westminster and beyond . she be a fearless representative and campaigner and a kind and wise friend . I be so grateful for her advice , and will do my very good to live up to her high standard . from 1977 to 2001 , the two Cities be represent by Peter Brooke , who be remember for his work as the Secretary of State for Northern Ireland , and later as the Secretary of State for National Heritage . finally , I also remember J . s . Mill , who represent the City of Westminster from 1865 to 1868 , and who in 1866 become the first person in the history of Parliament to call for woman to be give the right to vote . I hope that he would be happy to see Nickie , Karen and I deliver on his pioneer work for equality here in the two Cities . truly , when a woman be tired of London she be tired of life . the Cities of London and Westminster be home to great cultural institution : the national gallery , the royal opera house , the commercial centre of Oxford Street and Edgware Road , innovative start - up alongside major international corporation , the Government here in Westminster and Whitehall , the international financial centre of the City of London , the beautiful Hyde Park , Regent ' s Park and St James ' s Park alongside the residential square of Belgravia and Marylebone , and yes , Buckingham Palace . many member will know the neighbourhood of Soho , Fitzrovia and Covent Garden as place to spend a night out . in fact , ten of thousand of people live here . we have St Bartholomew ' s , one of London ' s old church , Bevis Marks , the old practise synagogue in the UK , and London Central Mosque . just minute away from Parliament we have the Peabody estate of Westminster , the pioneering and beautifully design Churchill Gardens and Lillington and Longmore estate , the architectural delight of the barbican , Golden Lane and the historic community of Petticoat Square and the Guinness estate in Portsoken ward . all those place be home to diverse community live side by side , but also to inequality and injustice , and the struggle to find a stable , affordable and decent home be hold people in my constituency back from meet their potential . that struggle be hold our city and our country back from meet our potential . tackle the housing crisis have bring I into politic , and this debate on the King ' s Speech proposal for economic growth be an important time to highlight the situation that many of my constituent face . nearly 20 year ago , I work at the Treasury on the Barker review of planning . it be with sadness that I note that we be still not deliver the home we need . I be determined that this Government will deliver on our promise to build more affordable home . end no - fault eviction will bring certainty and security for the approximately 40 % of household in the Cities of London and Westminster who be rent privately . our cross - government strategy will put Britain back on track to end homelessness , rough sleeping and temporary accommodation , which have be rise here for year and be harm so many . I be grateful to organisation such as the Passage and the connection here in the two Cities for do so much to support vulnerable people . the Cities of London and Westminster have one of the high proportion of leasehold home in the country . residential leasehold be trap tenant with unaccountable landlord , and I be pleased the Government have pledge a leasehold and commonhold reform Bill . it be characteristic of such an international place that global pattern affect our local community . the rise of short - term letting and the risk of dirty money in property be contribute to a loss of home for Londoners , and as their representative here I be determined to tackle that . I will be stand up for our local hospital and St Mary ' s in Paddington , and continue our campaign to secure funding for the redevelopment of London ' s major trauma centre . the story of the two Cities be one that be optimistic , outward - look , hard - work and drive . I hope to continue to represent this place in that fashion . I be the first Labour and Co - operative Member of Parliament to ever represent this historic constituency , and I join colleague in close with a pledge to approach this new Parliament with a renew commitment to respectful debate and disagreement . election be a time to make a choice . now that a decision have be make , it be time to move forward with a relentless focus on public service and delivery . Mr Deputy Speaker , I be grateful to you for call I to make my maiden speech during this King ' s Speech debate on the economy , welfare and public service . I congratulate the hon . member for Halifax ( Kate Dearden ) on her maiden speech . as a former officer in the Duke of Wellington ' s Regiment , her constituency have deep link with my former regiment , and indeed its antecedent regiment , the 33rd and 76th of Foot . it be fantastic to hear new member on both side of the House speak so passionately and eloquently about their constituency . I speak as the first new Member of Parliament for Huntingdon since 2001 , but I be only the third member in my lifetime , and the fourth Member since the second world war . it be therefore an enormous privilege to have be elect to represent the constituency , and I be honour to have be vote for by my constituent to follow such a long - serve Member of Parliament . my predecessor Jonathan Djanogly serve the House and his constituent for some 23 year . in Parliament he serve on the Trade and Industry Committee , as Solicitor General and as a shadow Business Minister . in government , he be the parliamentary under - Secretary of State at the Ministry of Justice . my predecessor ' s proud achievement come from the work that he deliver locally . his work on tackle flooding from the River Great Ouse see significant flood alleviation project deliver in St Ives and the Hemingfords , and far upstream in Godmanchester . that work have save thousand from the crippling impact of flood damage on home and business . I intend to build on that , deliver further flooding solution across the constituency for village such as Alconbury , Abbots Ripton , Wistow , Kimbolton , Broughton and Earith . my predecessor be also rightly proud of his work in facilitate the delivery of both the A14 and the a428 — road infrastructure project that have transform travel across Cambridgeshire , and stand to greatly enhance the region in its position at the tip of the UK innovation corridor . the development have set the condition for Huntingdon ' s future growth , offer the opportunity for well job and take advantage of the Cambridge cluster and expansion across the region , mean that Huntingdon can be a business hub in its own right , not just a dormitory town for London and Cambridge . despite the growth that Huntingdon have see over the past 60 year , first via the post - war London overspill and now via expansive development , the constituency be still characterise by its thrive town and vibrant village . from the market town of Huntingdon and St Ives to our rural village , from Sawtry to Somersham , Houghton to Hamerton , Covington to Colne and Pidley to Perry — and three dozen other that will not stretch to my tortured alliteration — each have their own character and identity . Huntingdonshire be a region with a rich history , and one that it will be a privilege to steward . that history extend to some of my other predecessor . many member will be aware that Huntingdon be the seat of a former Prime Minister , Sir John Major , who be still hold in the high regard across the constituency . it be an honour to receive his endorsement during the recent election campaign . famously , it be also the former seat of the Lord Protector , Oliver Cromwell . Cromwell be the Member of Parliament for Huntingdon in 1628 for just over a year until Charles I dissolve Parliament . Records show that he make just one speech in that time — so far , so equal . it be clear that Huntingdon expect a certain level of stature from its member of Parliament . notable as Sir John Major and Oliver Cromwell surely be , arguably they be not Huntingdon ' s most famous product . it be not even the celebrated diarist Samuel Pepys , who attend Huntingdon Grammar School . in fact , that accolade should be award to a lunch - time staple that everyone be familiar with ; one that everyone have a favourite version of ; and one that some member may well have have for lunch this very day . John Montagu , three time First Lord of the Admiralty , Postmaster General and Secretary of State , be not notable for his political career or his colourful social life . John Montagu , whose family home be Hinchingbrooke House in Huntingdon , be well know today — somewhat arcanely — by his title and the moniker bestow upon his favourite snack to consume during long session at the card table . such be the popularity of say snack that other card player also wish to order it . they would cry , " I ' ll have the same as Sandwich . " it obvious where this be go . John Montagu , the 4th Earl of Sandwich , be not prepared to break from the card table to eat , so would ask his servant to bring he slice of salt beef between two piece of toast bread . yes , among its formidable political alumnus , Huntingdon can also lay claim to a genuine global culinary revolution , describe by the Wall Street Journal no less as Britain ' s " big contribution to gastronomy " . Huntingdon be the birthplace of the modern sandwich — every day be a school day . I digress . Huntingdon ' s rich history be also characterise by an inextricable link to service via its long relationship with military aviation , initially through the Royal Flying Corps and subsequently during the second world war through RAF Bomber Command ' s Pathfinder force and the United States army air force ' s 303rd bombardment group . on 4 July 1942 , the US eighth air force fly the first american mission over Nazi - occupy Europe from RAF Molesworth . Latterly , during the cold war , RAF Alconbury see the US air force provide covert high - altitude reconnaissance along the east german border in a new variant of its famed U - 2 spy plane , in addition to provide battlefield damage assessment in the event of a nuclear strike . Most of that base be now Huntingdon ' s new housing estate , Alconbury Weald — surely the only housing development in the country with fully functional nuclear decontamination and washdown facility . RAF Warboys , RAF Upwood and RAF Brampton have all since disappear , but the constituency still retain those link . RAF Alconbury and RAF Molesworth be still operate by the United States air force , and RAF Wyton be on the cutting edge of our defence intelligence capability . those link carry through into the constituency itself and it be strike just how many veteran have make their home within its boundary . one in nine household within Huntingdon be home to a veteran , a staggering number when compare with other constituency and a community that , as a British Army veteran myself , I be proud to represent as their Member of Parliament — even if to many of those RAF veteran I be just a Pongo . I know well how important it be to support our veteran ' community and to commit to improve veteran ' welfare . have undergo the process myself , the transition from service to civilian life have its challenge , and there be many story of both success and failure . I serve on a veteran advisory and pension committee and know well how important it be to ensure that veteran be able to access the service they need . veteran ' identity card have help to open those pathway for many who would otherwise struggle to evidence their service , but I hope the Government will look closely at how support itself be provide . restructure Veterans UK and create a more comprehensive holistic offering , ease access via an overhauled veteran gateway , could streamline access to the welfare service that our veteran need . while the cohort of veteran in this House be small than in the previous Parliament , it be now young and sport member on both side who have more recent operational experience and , crucially , more recent experience of the often difficult post - military transition to a civilian life . Parliament be well - place to champion veteran ’ welfare and , give the debt our democracy owe to those who have serve so proudly , I hope we can collectively ensure that the fine armed force in the world be treat here as the fine veteran in the world . I know Huntingdon ' s veteran will expect I to challenge the Government to meet that standard . I be hugely proud of have be give this opportunity to serve Huntingdon , to be its champion both in Parliament and in the constituency . I look forward to meet the challenge ahead . thank you , Mr Deputy Speaker . I have be precede by many wonderful first speech , particularly from the hon . member for Huntingdon ( Ben Obese - Jecty ) and my fellow cumbrian representative , my hon . friend the Member for Whitehaven and Workington ( Josh MacAlister ) , to whom I say , " Areet , marra ? " I would like to start my first speech by pay tribute to my predecessor , David Morris . I know he knock on a lot of Ministers ' door to get funding for Eden Project Morecambe , and I thank he for it . I make a solemn promise to he that I would deliver Eden Project Morecambe and make it work for local people . thank to boundary change , I have two other predecessor . Morecambe and Lunesdale have gain a tract of beautiful Westmorland that be formerly represent by the hon . member for Westmorland and Lonsdale ( Tim Farron ) . I know from speak to his former constituent that the hon . Member be highly regard and leave some big boot to fill . I also gain Lower Lune Valley ward from my good friend and mentor , my hon . friend the Member for Lancaster and Wyre ( Cat Smith ) . when I join the Labour party in 2014 after the birth of my first child , my hon . friend invite I for a brew . I think this be a very kind gesture . little do I know what she have in store for I . I hope she now feel that the aching arm she get from my particularly enormous newborn be well worth it . I would also like to pay tribute to the Labour Women ' s Network and the 50 : 50 Parliament campaign for their tireless work and collective effort to see more woman member elect . I would be remiss if I do not mention my predecessor , Geraldine Smith , who be extremely well regard in the constituency . and what a constituency it be . Morecambe and Lunesdale be definitely the most beautiful constituency in the country . from the golden sand of Middleton , through the beautiful art deco building and stunning sunset of Morecambe , up the lush Lune Valley , across the Arnside and Silverdale national landscape , and into the wild beauty of Westmorland , you would be hard push to find a well place to live or work . my constituency have a diverse set of town and village , all with their own need and fantastically strong community . their difference should be respect and celebrate . where their need overlap , often the solution need to be tailor to their specific circumstance . in constituency such as Morecambe and Lunesdale , one size do not fit all , so as our new Government deliver their ambitious programme of national renewal , I will ensure that the voice of all my community be hear . my aim be to be a good constituency MP . for I , there be no more honourable ambition , and I be extremely grateful to all the people who support I and enable I to have that honour . in his Majesty ' s most Gracious Speech , we hear about the Government ' s plan to reform our bus system , and as a proud member of the Lancaster District Bus Users Group , I welcome that warmly . I also warmly welcome the new Government ' s dedication to farming and rural community . in his contribution in this place last week , the Secretary of State set out a new deal for farmer , action on water pollution and plan to tackle the nature emergency . speak of nature , in Morecambe the shrimp be not only part of the local fauna , and a local delicacy that come highly recommend , but the local football team , and I look forward to deliver on my promise to they of a new independent football regulator . before join this Chamber , I serve as a Lancashire county councillor for eight year , and in that time I have specialise in health and social care and serve on our health scrutiny committee . I be sure that member across the Chamber will agree that we expect the high standard of care for our constituent , so I pay tribute to the many patient and health campaigner who have work so hard to ensure safe , equitable care for all . many a health and care leader in Lancashire and South Cumbria have meet I across a committee table . I hope that they find I a fair , if sometimes firm , scrutineer . I be a humanist . humanist be people who shape our life in the here and now , because we believe it be the only life we have , and what be politic if not shape life in the here and now ? humanist try to treat everyone we come across with warmth , understanding and respect . we believe that we human have everything we need : logic , reason , evidence , and empathy to make good , ethical decision . it be these value that I hope to bring to my role in decision making in this place , so I welcome our Government ' s focus on service , integrity and honesty . if we be to rebuild trust in politic , we must adhere to those principle rigorously , and I be sure that member across the Chamber will do so . finally , I dedicate this speech to my family : my mum and dad , who bring I and my sister Hannah up with good moral and lot of love ; my husband Miles for always have my back and take on an unfair share of the family duty , alongside a full - time role with the NHS ; my kid for put up with mummy be away so often ; and my grandma and grandad , who we lose in 2022 . Grandma , remember her parent ' hard upbringing — they experience sometimes abject poverty — always vote Labour , much to the annoyance of my working - class Tory grandad . when I be first elect to the county council , grandad tell I , " Ey Liz , I ' m reyt proud of you . it ' s a pity you ' re on the wrong side ! " my grandad might not have be a labour supporter , but he do believe in service , and I look forward to work with member across the House to serve our country and my people in Morecambe and Lunesdale . thank you , Mr Deputy Speaker . I want to say well do to the hon . member for Morecambe and Lunesdale ( Lizzi Collinge ) for her maiden speech . congratulation ! I rise today to express my heartfelt gratitude to the electorate of North down for the tremendous privilege of elect I to represent they in the House of Commons . I be so humble and privileged , and I pledge before God to serve they to the good of my ability . I will always put you first . I would like to express my sincere appreciation for the work of my predecessor , Dr Stephen Farry . I wish he every success in his future endeavour . I be a proud Ulsterman , and anyone who know Ulstermen and Ulsterwomen will know that we be very generous and love to meet new people , so I would like to take this opportunity to invite everyone to visit North down . it be the good part of the United Kingdom to live , work and invest in . our stunning coastline feature the beautiful city of Bangor and Crawfordsburn country park , alongside historical site such as Bangor abbey and Grey Point fort . north Down be also home to exceptional golf course , include the Holywood golf club , where the brilliant Rory McIlroy hone his skill from the age of seven . with excellent road and rail access to Belfast , North Down offer a perfect blend of natural beauty and modern amenity . please come and visit ; you will be welcome . maybe not all at once , though . I would like to extend a warm welcome to the distinguished right hon . member for Leeds South ( Hilary Benn ) in his new role as Secretary of State for Northern Ireland . I wish he every success . I fully support the plan lay out in the King ' s Speech that aim to deliver economic prosperity and kick - start growth . the partnership approach with the Northern Ireland Assembly be particularly welcome , and I be encourage by the figure from his Majesty ' s Revenue and Customs show that Northern Ireland have record the fast year - on - year job growth for the second consecutive month , significantly outperform other part of the United Kingdom . furthermore , I be encourage to note that median monthly wage growth in Northern Ireland be outpace that in other part of the United Kingdom , position we fifth among the 12 UK region . it be imperative that we build on this economic success and translate it into improved quality of life and regeneration in North Down . we must also be mindful of the fact that most of Northern Ireland ' s trade be across the vital east - west axis with Great Britain , alongside the important , albeit less , north - south corridor with the Republic of Ireland . accord to the Northern Ireland Statistics and Research Agency , sale and export along the east - west corridor between Great Britain and Northern Ireland be value at £ 12 . 8 billion in 2021 . in comparison , sale and export between Northern Ireland and the Republic of Ireland total just £ 5 . 2 billion . this highlight why the Union of Great Britain and Northern Ireland be invaluable and should be cherish , as it enhance economic quality of life for all our people and community across Northern Ireland . we can look to our Ulster Scots heritage in Donaghadee and Millisle as prime example of outstanding development , spearhead in the early 17th century by two distinguished figure : Sir James Hamilton , first Viscount Claneboye , and Sir Hugh Montgomery , first Viscount Montgomery . their legacy should serve as inspiration for the ongoing economic development of Donaghadee and North Down , particularly in area of industry and infrastructure . however , not all be well in my constituency . the Queen ' s Parade project in Bangor have see Queen ' s parade lie derelict for decade . our minor injury unit have be close , and we have no open police station inquiry office — I bet no one else in this Chamber have no open police station inquiry office in their constituency . People in my constituency can not see their gp , the road be full of pothole and there be a lack of social housing and new starter home for young family who want to start on the housing ladder . I really hope that this Government will help to improve my constituent ' live . it be essential to note that the Northern Ireland protocol be fundamentally flawed . it create a de facto border in the Irish sea , undermine the integrity of the UK by separate Northern Ireland from the rest of the UK . this arrangement have lead to increase bureaucracy , hurdle and trade barrier , disrupt economic stability and supply chain . furthermore , it have cause political and social tension in Northern Ireland , raise legitimate concern among Unionists about their place in the United Kingdom . I contend that by prioritise the EU ' s regulatory framework over the wish of the people of Northern Ireland to be a full part of the UK , the protocol disregard democratic principle and subject we to foreign law . it need to be change . it need to go . finally , I want to mention my parent . my mum and dad be kill in a fire at their home in Bangor last year , and it cause a lot of heartache for I . I want to say that my dad believe in I . after four attempt to get to Westminster , I finally succeed . Dad , I hope I make you proud . when you have everything take away from you like that , it make you realise just how important your family be . it make you see everything that you have take for grant throughout your life , such as the health service , which have always be there for we . I appreciate the people in the health service and the Police Service of Northern Ireland who try to help my mum and dad — I so much appreciate you . I also pay tribute to the Northern Ireland Fire Service , who do everything in their power to help my mum and dad . I just want to let you know that I appreciate everything you have do for my family . I mean that from the bottom of my heart . thank you , Mr Deputy Speaker , for give I the opportunity to make my maiden speech today . I thank the hon . member for Blackpool South ( Chris Webb ) for his passionate speech and join he in his comment about the hon . member for North Down ( Alex Easton ) , to whom I pass on my massive congratulation and say that I be sure that his father would be extremely proud of his position here and of the public service that he will give . I stand here exactly 50 year since my mum come to the UK from Malaysia . she come here for an education and stay to build a business and raise a family . as I help in my mum ' s shop , my parent instill in I value of community , tolerance and perseverance — something that I hope will guide I during my time as an MP . one of my predecessor , Bim Afolami , also proudly share his story as a child of immigrant in search of a good education . he bring the value that he learn to his role as MP for Hitchin and Harpenden . it be a real honour to be the first MP for the brand new seat of Harpenden and berkhamste . More than just two town , the constituency be a rich tapestry that fill the north - west corner of Hertfordshire with history , natural beauty , culture and innovation . we be a collection of proud and vibrant community with four beautiful chalk stream and the Grand Union canal tie we together like silver thread . the River Bulbourne run through Berkhamsted , where the Crown of England be surrender to William the Conqueror in 1066 , and its river course would go on to fill the three moat of berkhamsted Castle . the River Gade start near Little Gaddesden , which neighbour the Ashridge estate — somewhere member may have see in film and drama such as " Robin Hood " , " the Crown " and , of course , " Bridget Jones ' s Diary " . member of the House be most welcome to join I locally at the Rex cinema or peruse one of the large film collection in the world at the British Film Institute ' s national archive . as we swoop across the constituency , the River Ver exit above ground near the village of Markyate , traverse by the Roman Watling Street , and continue through Flamstead and Redbourn . our final chalk stream , the River Lea , flow through Harpenden and Wheathampstead , a Domesday village that have be home to two Prime Ministers . not only have these precious chalk stream witness historic event and the life , hope and dream of countless local people , but , with only around 200 of they in the world , they be of rare ecological importance ; they be know as England ' s rainforest . sadly , however , we have see their decline , as sewage have be pump into the waterway , with the River Ver , have finally recover its flow , see more than 2 , 500 hour of sewage discharge this year alone . the same fate go for the Grand Union canal , where people can jump out at Tring . although they may not be able to see zebra or cassowary in Tring Park any more , they can visit they in our natural history museum . People in our part of Hertfordshire be proud of their natural landscape , and I join they in campaign to protect our environment and tackle the climate crisis . the other side of our local community blossom from the industrial revolution , which bring another type of silver track — the train line . Rumour have it that some of the original commuter be still wait for that rail replacement bus service . Britain initially lead the world in railway , but the decline of our public transport feel as if it gather pace year on year . bus service that be vital to our town and rural community have be cut by more than half in Hertfordshire in recent year , and that be not to mention the cut to local authority that have impact other vital service . we be not immune to the health and social care crisis , either , as local people struggle to get the care they need , wait week to see a gp or can not find an NHS dentist . indeed , one of my other predecessor , Mike Penning , who serve Hemel Hempstead for 19 year , campaign tirelessly on healthcare for the area . I aim to continue as a champion of ensure that local people get the healthcare they need , and close to home . local people have continue the enterprise spirit of the area , which still thrive today , from build e - bike to distil gin , create start - up and innovate in agriculture at Rothamsted Research , with its thrive agritech hub . indeed , our great asset be our local people — open - minded , tolerant , hard - work and compassionate . it be for they , and thank to they , that I be here , and I will always put they first . give the picture often paint of our corner of Hertfordshire , member might think that we be solely an affluent commuter area , but that be far from the reality for everyone . so many family , individual and local business be struggle to make end meet as bill continue to rise . I remember the struggle that my family face when the economy turn and business get tough . that be why I be passionate about support local family , tackle inequality , and not just the vital local business that we value today but the entrepreneur and enterprise of tomorrow . stand here , in the most diverse Parliament that we have ever see , we see that we have a real opportunity for change . we must act now to rebuild the trust in politician and politic that have sadly be erode in recent year . for I , that mean put local people first — the people of Harpenden , berkhamste , Tring and our village , from Long Marston to Jersey Farm , and from Ringshall to Sandridge . think back to where my story begin , it be a privilege to be in this place , represent a story that so many other in our country have some share in . my mother come to this country in search of opportunity , and through her own hard work she find it . through everything that I do here , I want to ensure that the same opportunity be available for all who seek it out , and I will continue to be guide by those value of community , tolerance and perseverance .