Post Office Horizon Scandal I wish to make it clear that I be once again waive the provision of the sub judice resolution in relation to this matter to allow member to be able to discuss fully these issue of national importance . ( Urgent Question ) : I congratulate you on your re - election , Mr Speaker , and thank you for grant this urgent question , which be to ask the Secretary of State for Business and Trade if he will make a statement on financial redress for sub - postmaster and outstanding issue relate to the Post Office Horizon scandal . I congratulate the shadow Secretary of State on his new position and on secure the first urgent question of this Parliament . member will know that the Government make a key manifesto commitment to ensure that justice and compensation be deliver as swiftly as possible for every postmaster catch up in the Horizon scandal . the Secretary of State have already meet Sir Alan Bates , Kevan Jones and the chair of the Post Office , Nigel Railton , to discuss the progress be make and what more can be do . the Government intend to make a significant announcement on the new redress scheme before the summer recess . this scheme will apply to postmaster whose conviction have be overturn by the Post Office ( Horizon System ) Offences Act 2024 pass in the last Parliament . I welcome the Minister to his role . I say in all sincerity that I wish he the very good of luck . we on the Opposition Benches , in the national interest , wish the Government to succeed . it be vital that his Department succeed in its brief . when british business do well , we all do well . I hope this urgent question , on a matter on which the House have be in agreement , will set we off on the right foot in work together in the national interest . that matter be of course compensation for sub - postmaster affect by the Horizon scandal . I be the previous Post Office Minister , and the House will know of my commitment and my party ' s commitment to the individual whose life have be tear apart by this scandal . it be right that the Post Office ( Horizon System ) Offences Act receive Royal Assent during wash - up to quash the conviction of hundred of affected postmaster , but the Minister will know that the Act itself do not provide compensation , which be why , alongside that legislation , we announce plan for a new Horizon conviction redress scheme . this scheme will make compensation payment to those who have have conviction quash by the Act . in government , we ensure that Royal Assent be achieve as soon as possible so that there be no gap in the availability of compensation . it be only right that postmaster have access to swift and fair compensation . that be why we overturn those conviction . those with overturn conviction have the option of immediately take a fixed and final offer of £ 600 , 000 . it be also why , in government , we change the rule for those in the Horizon shortfall scheme so that they be entitle to a £ 75 , 000 fix - sum award , bypass the assessment process ; so that all full and final settlement below that figure would be automatically top up ; and so that an appeal process for those in the HSS be also consider . although I be pleased that , as of 31 May , approximately £ 222 million have be pay to over 2 , 800 claimant across the scheme , I must push the Government for more detail on when the redress payment set out by the Horizon conviction redress scheme can be expect — we be tell that it would be by July . I also note that the Department for Business and Trade have say that it " continue to work " on the new Horizon conviction redress scheme . I ask the Minister — [ interruption ] — when will the scheme be up and run ? when do he expect the £ 75 , 000 top - up and the HSS appeal process to be implement , and the victim to be contact to that effect ? when will he open the scheme ? will he announce a date for full compensation under the Horizon conviction redress scheme ? order . I gently say to the Chamber that it be a new beginning , and we want to start on the right foot , not the wrong foot . it be difficult to go from Government to Opposition , but there be a two - minute limit for the Opposition and a one - minute limit for the third large party . please let ' s stick to the rule and start as we mean to go on . thank you , Mr Speaker . the shadow Secretary of State set out the intent he have in government , which we intend to carry on . we also believe there be absolutely no reason why we should not continue to work on a cross - party basis , as we agree with he on the importance of deliver fast and fair compensation , which be at the heart of all we be try to achieve . we will be make a statement by the end of July , before the summer recess . as the shadow Secretary of State have already note , we have commit to do that . we be work at pace with official , victim and those who have be affect by the scandal to work up the detail , and an announcement will be make in due course . it be good to see you back in your place , Mr Speaker . the new Minister will recall the old saying that a new broom sweep clean , and I be sure he will make progress very quickly indeed . it seem to I that the Post Office scandal reveal a wide problem in british society . whether it be orgreave , Grenfell , contaminate blood or the problem at Hillsborough , the british establishment seem incapable of listen to the voice of ordinary people . will he raise that matter with other Ministers and see whether there be a way for this government to ensure that be not repeat ? my hon . friend raise an interesting point . in recent year , we , as Members , have reflect on the question of political accountability for decision that have be take and action that have take place over many year . we will be reflect on how good to ensure there be genuine political accountability in the system . I call the liberal Democrat spokesperson . I also welcome you back to your place , Mr Speaker . it be a genuine pleasure for I , as the Liberal Democrat spokesperson , to be address the House on behalf of the third large political grouping . my party will use the privilege of that position to hold the Government and Ministers to account . we will not be use it simply to stoke division and manufacture grievance . that be what the people of the United Kingdom , and Scotland in particular , vote for . at the heart of the Horizon scandal be the culture at the centre of the organisation that fail to respect the work that be be do by sub - postmaster at the frontline . the Minister and the Secretary of State will meet with the chief executive of the Post Office . what evidence have they see that that culture have actually change ? I do not know if the right hon . Gentleman be aware that the current chief executive officer have step aside for a brief period to concentrate on the inquiry . over the come month , we will be reflect on the important question that the right hon . Gentleman raise , particularly when the outcome of the inquiry be know . refer to the point raise by my hon . friend the Member for Normanton and Hemsworth ( Jon Trickett ) , what role do the Minister think this Government can find for third party organisation , such as whistleblowersuk or those organisation that work with people to highlight such scandal ? as my hon . Friend point out , this be a systematic failure across government and society , and we simply can not allow it to happen again . my understanding be that the last Government undertake a consultation on whistleblowing . we be reflect on the outcome of that and on the important point my hon . friend raise . across a whole range of body in this country , whistleblower have not be hear . we need to consider whether the current legislation give they sufficient confidence to speak out , and whether their action and concern be be address . many congratulation on your re - election , Mr Speaker . I congratulate the Minister on his appointment . I know he be genuinely committed to promote british business at home and abroad , but be he aware of a serious issue flow from the Horizon scandal that be now affect current postmaster ? in order to express their disgust at what have happen in relation to Horizon , some member of the public be not use the Post Office in the way they do previously . will he and the Government commit to promote the view that the Post Office be safe to use , because the scandal have be resolve and because use post office be good for the community ? I be concerned to hear about such incident . it should go without say that the postmaster be not the one who should take the opprobrium of the public on this matter . they be do a fantastic job . they hold community together and provide a public service . we should celebrate that and encourage people to use their facility as much as possible . if the right hon . Gentleman have specific example of postmaster receive abuse or people be discourage to use their service because of the scandal , I would be interested to hear about they . it be a delight to see you back in the Chair , Mr Speaker . there be many sub - postmaster and mistress who be not convict , but who be seriously out of pocket due to the shortfall that they themselves make up and deeply traumatise by the experience that they go through . can the Minister provide reassurance that the Department will seek to ensure that they be support , and that the compensation scheme be swift , effective but also very straightforward for they ? I thank the right hon . member for her question . those be the principle that we want to address and carry on with from the previous government : the system should be fair , swift and simple . we know that postmaster have already go through an incredibly difficult time . we do not want to make it even hard by have a convoluted system . we absolutely agree that justice should be fair , quick , complete and straightforward for people . beyond compensation , one of the most important thing that campaigner be look for be consequence for those people who play a part in the creation of this scandal . the Prime Minister have make much about the integrity and accountability of his government . presumably that be retrospective . what consequence do the Minister envisage for those current serve Government Ministers who be deem by the inquiry to have be negligent in their conduct in ministerial office in the past ? that be a very important question . it would be premature of we to draw conclusion before the inquiry have be complete but , absolutely , we should be look very carefully at all those individual whose behaviour unfortunately lead to the scandal happen and to it take far too long to address . that be a matter for the inquiry to make recommendation on and , certainly , we will be look to follow those up . I welcome the Minister to his place . I know that he be vociferous on this issue when he be on the Opposition back Benches , so I have absolutely no doubt that he will deliver on it . some 26 postmaster implicate in the scandal in Northern Ireland be worried and concerned . it be imperative that all postmaster feel that they can have an open and frank discussion with no fear of repercussion in the upcoming investigation , and there can be no far unwarranted delay . can the Minister confirm that , as a priority , he will make sure that postmaster have access at every level to ensure that their concern be address and that he will make every effort to take step in the right direction ? thank you so much , Mr Speaker . I do not see why that point should have come last . [ laughter . ] what a surprise to see the hon . member in his place today . I be sure that this will not be last time that we have an exchange across the Dispatch Box , but he do raise an important point . we absolutely agree that we need to make it as easy as possible for postmaster to raise their concern and to get the justice that they have so long wait for . I congratulate you , Mr Speaker , on your return to your place , and the Minister on take up his appointment . compensation be one part of this , but what victim of this scandal , such as Betty whom I meet , want to see be truth and accountability . I be refer not just to Ministers , to whom my right hon . friend the Member for North West Hampshire ( Kit Malthouse ) refer , but to those involve in the scandal . what can the Minister say to people in the Post Office and to Betty , who want to see those responsible in the Post Office properly hold to account , as well as the compensation for their suffering ? I thank the hon . member for his question . he make an important point . justice be one side of the coin , but there be also accountability for what have happen . a lot of people want to see that : not just those directly affect , but everyone who have be outrage by the year of inertia and obfuscation that we have see in this scandal . the purpose of the inquiry be to get to the heart of who know what , who do what and who do not do what they should have do , and whether individual should take some responsibility for their action . I have no doubt that , when those recommendation be release , we will want to see some very swift action on the back of that . I be privileged to be one of those mp who , a decade ago , be campaign on this issue in Parliament with the now Lord Arbuthnot and campaign on case in my constituency — people have be treat appallingly . those people have not yet receive compensation . if there be go to be any kind of delay in compensation to those who have suffer , be there any way that early , interim payment can be make to those who need the support now and certainly before too long ? I thank the hon . member for his question , and join he in praise Lord Arbuthnot ' s work in this area . as of 31 May , £ 222 million have already be pay out in compensation . there have actually be significant interim payment as well . we understand that , while this be a very large scheme , it be important that we get early payment , so I assure the hon . member that interim payment be a very large part of this programme . the legislation that we pass be a blanket measure . it might be clear to we who be or be not include , but for the individual affect it will not necessarily have be clear . will the Minister update the House on the progress that have be make in identify they and write to they to confirm that their conviction have be quash ? I thank the hon . member for his important question . we have be work closely with colleague in the Ministry of Justice to identify those people who be affect by the legislation , and they will be contact in due course if they have not be already . business of the House will the Leader of the House update we on forthcoming business ? the business for the remainder of the week will include : Friday 19 July — subject to the House agree the motion on today ' s Order Paper , continuation of the debate on the King ' s Speech on planning , greenbelt and rural affair . the business for the week commence 22 July will include : Monday 22 July — Continuation of the debate on the King ' s Speech on the economy , welfare and public service . Tuesday 23 July — Conclusion of the debate on the King ' s Speech on immigration and home affair . Wednesday 24 July — Motion to approve the Global Combat Air Programme International Government Organisation ( Immunities and Privileges ) Order 2024 , follow by a general debate on education and opportunity , follow by , at 7 pm , the House will be ask to agree estimate . Thursday 25 July — proceeding on the Supply and Appropriation ( Main Estimates ) Bill , follow by a motion to approve the Criminal Justice Act 2003 ( Requisite and Minimum Custodial Periods ) Order 2024 , follow by a debate on motion on second job for member of Parliament and to establish a House of Commons modernisation committee . Friday 26 July — general debate on make Britain a clean energy superpower . the provisional business for the week commence 29 July include : Monday 29 July — Second reading of the Passenger Railway Services ( Public Ownership ) Bill . Tuesday 30 July — Second reading of the Budget Responsibility Bill . the House will rise for the summer recess at the conclusion of business on Tuesday 30 July and return on Monday 2 September . subject to the progress of business , the House will then rise for the conference recess on Thursday 12 September and return on Monday 7 October . first , I congratulate you , Mr Speaker , on your unanimous re - election to the Chair and your triumphant victory in Chorley with 75 % of the vote . clearly we can all learn a great deal from you about how to win election . I look forward to work with you and , I hope , learn from your very long experience of this House . congratulation to all colleague elect on 4 July , include those Opposition Members who have to work so hard to survive what be an electoral tsunami of biblical proportion . I especially congratulate those on both side of the House who be elect for the first time . it be a huge honour to serve in this House . my particular congratulation go to the right hon . member for Manchester Central ( Lucy Powell ) on her appointment as Leader of the House . I hope that she have have the opportunity to practise wield a sword for several hour and wear an embroider cape with panache ; her predecessor , Penny Mordaunt , be an expert at do both thing . when look at the Hansard of previous exchange , I notice that in the final business question of the last Parliament , the shadow Leader of the House , as she be then , pay tribute to Penny ' s renowned , formidable blow - dry haircut . I can only apologise to the House for my own short back and side be nothing in comparison . I know colleague on both side of the House will miss Penny , wish she well and hope she return here before too long . I thank the House staff and Clerks for their work welcome new member , and the Leader of the House for the collegiate approach she have take in our private discussion so far . however , of course these exchange be an opportunity to raise question about House business and the associated conduct of Government . although the new Government be less than two week old , there be already some question I would like to raise . first , the Government have announce , with no reference at all to Parliament , that the Rwanda scheme — enable by Bills that this House pass — have be scrap . the scheme have be due to start next week , and would have provide a deterrent to illegal immigration across the channel . we have see deterrent of that kind work elsewhere . since this government come into office , more than 1 , 000 people have illegally and dangerously cross the channel , with four tragically die . these crossing be unnecessary , France be safe . when will the Government come to the House to explain the change of policy , and will there be any vote on it ? move on , accord to press report the Energy Secretary decide last week to cancel all new application for oil and gas licence in the North sea . if true , that will increase energy price and make we more dependent on potentially unreliable foreign gas import . why do the Government not first come to the House to explain the new policy , and will there be a vote on it ? the Chancellor give a speech last week on housing and planning , during which the Housing Secretary and Deputy Prime Minister simply sit and listen in rather uncharacteristic silence . the Chancellor announce that green - belt protection will be scrap — or , as she euphemistically put it , the green belt will be rebrande as the grey belt . rename whole swathe of green belt as grey belt be a piece of shameless spin that would make even Peter Mandelson blush . when will the Government come to the House to explain their plan for the removal of green - belt protection ? the Chancellor also make some outlandish claim about the economy and public finance . the economy be in fact in fantastic condition . inflation — [ interruption . ] yes , it be — member should listen ! inflation be down to 2 % , low than in the eurozone and the United States . wage growth , in contrast , be much high at 6 % . unemployment be low , at half the level leave behind by the previous Labour Government , and the UK ' s economic growth so far this year be the high in the G7 . I understand that the Chancellor might make a statement at some point to the House on these topic . will the Leader of the House confirm that any claim about public finance make in this House will be accompany by a full Office for Budget Responsibility forecast , so we can be sure that any such claim be not simply be concoct by the Chancellor as a pretext for tax rise ? Mr Speaker , I have list several major policy announcement make in the past 10 day with no reference to Parliament at all . you quite rightly say to the previous Government on many occasion that major policy announcement should be make when Parliament be sit and first to the House . I would welcome your assistance in ensure that the new Government adhere to those principle . finally , then , I ask the Leader of the House to make a commitment now that all major policy announcement will be make only when the House be sit , as the Speaker previously request , and first to this House of Commons , where elect member from all party can ask question , include the 250 or so newly elect Labour Members , who I be sure want to ask question as well . I would be very grateful if she would confirm that . order . I think the problem be that people ' s comment ought to reflect their previous job as well . maybe that comment be from knowledge about make statement outside the House . I do not know ; I do not make any judgment . the right hon . Gentleman be absolutely correct that when the House be not sit , of course statement will be make by the Government , but when the House be sit , I expect they to be make in the House . that have be a very clear message and the Leader of the House and I be both work to ensure that statement be hear here first . I certainly take the point on board , but I do not want to be draw into what we should or should not be do in the future . I welcome the ability to clarify the position . thank you very much , Mr Speaker . I start by thank his Majesty the King for yesterday ' s Speech and join colleague in wish her Majesty the Queen a happy birthday for yesterday . I also thank the staff and security service who have work so hard both to get Parliament ready for the King ' s Speech and on the huge task of transition from the last Parliament to this one , with so many new member and so many leave . the election see worrying incident , include harassment and the sharing of misinformation and disinformation — it be unacceptable that some feel unable to go out campaign , and our democracy depend on our come together to say so — but we also see the good of our democracy : the rapid changeover of power when people choose change . may I thank you , Mr Speaker , for your leadership on MPs ' security ? I know that that be your top and most urgent priority . may I also congratulate you on your re - election ? you be always fair and consider , and always put member ' interest first . today might be the first big test of whether you know the name of all the new member . no test , please . we both share a strong commitment to uphold the role of Parliament and , as we have just discuss , to restore respect . that include Ministers first make major announcement in the House , when it be sit . rest assure , I will be robust on that , and I expect to see Ministers and Secretaries of State at the Dispatch Box over the come day as we play catch - up on the period in which the House be not sit . thank you for your forbearance on that , Mr Speaker . I welcome all new and return member to this 59th Parliament . it be a Parliament to be proud of and one that reflect our country well than ever before . there be more woman than ever , more member from ethnic minority background and more member from the LGBT community . it have be a real pleasure to see the excitement and possibility of new member — over half the House be new — as they find their way around this often baffle maze of a place . I see that one have describe it as be like fresher ' week meet Hogwarts and Buckingham Palace . let we hope that they do not all drop down with fresher ' flu . we lose some good colleague from all side at the election . I pay tribute to my predecessor , Penny Mordaunt , who be always a worthy opponent across the Dispatch Box . she bring a fresh approach not only to this role but as the first female Defence Secretary . I always think that she be an underused asset for the Conservative party , and she will be miss — especially by the parliamentary hairdresser . I welcome the shadow Leader of the House , the right hon . member for Croydon South ( Chris Philp ) , to his new role . I know that he have always be keen . after hold very many ministerial role , I congratulate he on finally make it as a full member of the Cabinet — albeit with the word " shadow " before his title . I hope that the role live up to his ambition . debate about leak roof , broken toilet and the price of a bacon butty in the Members ' Dining Room all await his close attention . I be keen to work with he and we have already have constructive discussion . I be clear that I want to take the whole House with we on the change that we need to make . however , we need to turn the page . recent year have be plague by scandal , bad behaviour , disrespect , poor standard and poor legislation . that be what next week ' s motion on a modernisation committee and on second job be about : for the House to work together to drive up standard , improve work practice and find reform to make Parliament more effective . let we be clear : it be not about change the tradition and custom of this place — I know that you will be pleased to hear that , Mr Speaker — but the country vote for change . we will be a Government of service and begin that journey of restore trust in politic and Parliament — action , not word . that be why we have hit the ground run by establish the national wealth fund , resetting relation with junior doctor and dentist , launch the border security command , end the ban on new onshore wind , take immediate action on the prison crisis , restore house building target and start to tackle the water crisis — the list go on . the shadow Leader of the House ask about the economic record , house building and the Rwanda plan . I gently say to he that , after such a resounding conservative defeat at the ballot box , I do not think that his good advice be to start say that their record be actually great all along or that their policy be the good one for we to follow . on the economic record , the truth be that living standard fall over the last Parliament for the first time on record . he be Chief Secretary to the Treasury when former Prime Minister Liz Truss crash the economy , send mortgage rate soar . since we have come into government , we have discover that thing be even bad than we think . [ interruption . ] the Conservatives do not like it but I be afraid it be true . the country — [ interruption . ] order . leader of the House . the country vote resoundingly for change because it be bad off , so the conservative party would be well advise to look deeply at why it lose , rather than claim that people never have it so good . the right hon . Gentleman ask about the Rwanda plan . the record speak for itself : four volunteer be all that scheme achieve , and far from stop the boat or act as a deterrent , the Government preside over the high number of small boat crossing on record . it be an expensive gimmick that will not work , and the Home Secretary will update the House on that matter in the usual way very soon . the Energy Secretary will update the House today on his plan for a clean energy superpower . the right hon . Gentleman also ask about house building and planning . we make no apology : we be unashamedly pro - house building . we have already restore the target that his Government take away , and will be bring in planning reform to make sure that the country get the 1 . 5 million new home it need . the King ' s Speech show that the Government be get on with the job , with one of the most ambitious programme ever of an incoming government : follow through on commitment on thing like the Hillsborough law and Martyn ' s law , which the last Government fail to do , and put rocket booster under growth . the guide light will be deliver on our mission . yesterday be an historic moment : the first legislative programme from a Labour Government in 15 year . we have a mandate for change ; the journey towards that change have begin , and I look forward to work with member across the House to get on with that job . how wonderful it be to see you back in your rightful place , Mr Speaker . last weekend , rhian Thomas from Catwg primary school in Cadoxton , in my new constituency of Neath and Swansea East , win the primary school teacher of the year award . Rhian win the award for all she have do to create engage learning experience at Catwg primary school for pupil and the wide community . will the Leader of the House join I in congratulate Rhian , the school , and all teacher everywhere on everything they do for our child and young people ? I thank my hon . friend for that fantastic question , and welcome she back to her seat . she be one of the most redoubtable champion in this place , and I know that she will be really push that cause and many other , as she do in the last Parliament . I join she in congratulate Rhian on win the primary school teacher of the year award , and thank all teacher across the country for the work that they do . one of the first thing the Education Secretary have do since take office be look to reset the relationship with teacher , so that we can really tackle the recruitment and retention crisis face our school . as we come to the end of term , we join together in thank every single teacher for the great work that they do . we now come to the Lib Dem spokesperson . may I also say what a pleasure it be to see you back in your place , Mr Speaker ? I welcome the Leader of the House to her position , and congratulate she on the election result : secure such a large majority be no easy task , and her party at all level deserve credit . the same can be say for our party , the Liberal Democrats : we be now the large third party in over a century , with our most mps ever . I thank all of the Liberal Democrats ’ campaigner across the country who have fight tirelessly for a fair deal . our no . 1 priority be fix the health and care crisis , so that no matter where in the country a person be , they can see a doctor or a dentist when they need to do so . also central to our campaign be a fair deal for social care staff . the Government have promise to introduce a fair pay agreement for adult social care staff ; while we Liberal Democrats welcome that announcement , there have be no detail of how it will be fund . the liberal Democrats would fund a fair pay deal for social care staff by reverse the tax cut hand by the conservative party to the big bank . how will the Government fund that commitment ? another issue that must be urgently address be our commitment to reach net zero . the report publish today by the Climate Change Committee make clear that the day of u - turn on climate commitment and dilute environmental target must come to an end . only a third of the emission reduction require to achieve our 2030 target be currently cover by credible plan . the Liberal Democrats be commit to the bold , urgent action need to tackle climate change , cut energy bill and create hundred of thousand of secure , well - pay job . the Conservatives ' lack of ambition relinquish our place as a global environmental leader . with COP29 nearing , the UK have a golden opportunity to turbocharge global climate change policy . of course , the bad scandal of the past few year have be the sewage scandal . can we have a debate in Government time on how we can fix this scandal , which have blight our community up and down the country ? I thank the hon . Lady for her comment , and I welcome she to her place . I congratulate the Liberal Democrats on their success and their result in the election . they have an historic number of new Members of Parliament , although I be surprised that she do not bungee jump her way in this morning or rollerblade her way along from Members Lobby . she and I have work together in the past , and I look forward to our work together in the future . I know that part of the liberal Democrat mandate at the election be about clean up our politic and turn the page , and this election certainly demand action on that , so I hope we can realise some of that together . I work closely with the hon . Lady ' s colleague the hon . member for North East Fife ( Wendy Chamberlain ) on risk - base exclusion in the last Parliament , and I look forward to have a constructive relationship with she on those issue as well . the hon . Lady raise a few issue . we absolutely share the Liberal Democrats ’ concern about the social care crisis in this country , and we be determined to get a grip on that . we know that care be not always available or of the quality that people deserve , and we be determined that everybody should have access to dignified , independent support in life . in the King ' s Speech , we announce action in the employment Bill on establish a fair pay agreement in the adult social care sector , and we look forward to work together on some of those issue . on net zero , there will be the opportunity to question the Energy Secretary later . we have a really ambitious plan to get to net zero and be a clean energy superpower by 2030 , and we have already start that programme . we have lift the moratorium on onshore wind , we have agree to planning application for more solar in the past week than — take together — have ever happen in our country ' s history before and we have begin the process to establish great British Energy . I share the hon . Lady ' s frustration about the quality of water in this country , and it fall to this Government — how can I put it ? — to clean up some of the mess of the previous Government in this area . [ interruption . ] I know conservative Members do not like to hear about all their mess float around in the river , but I be afraid it do float around . we have announce a number of measure on that already , and we will continue to work together as we see our water special measure Bill that be announce in the King ' s Speech yesterday progress through Parliament . rise — order . we be go to finish business question at 10 . 50 am . to help each other , a speedy question and a quick response will allow we to get in as many member as possible . I welcome the Leader of the House to her new position . worryingly , last week there be an attack at the Gurdwara Nanak Darbar in my constituency of Gravesham . thankfully , nobody be seriously hurt , but I would like to place on record my thank to the gurdwara first responder and all the emergency service for that . although the fact of the case be still unclear , the attack cause understandable anxiety in the local Sikh community . would the Leader of the House consider schedule a debate on the importance of protect worshipper in their sacred space so that they may practise their faith without fear ? my hon . friend raise a very important matter in her first question in this House , and I very much welcome her election and her attendance here this morning . these be very serious matter , and I be concerned to hear about they . she may be pleased to know that the first Home Office oral question will take place on 29 July . if she do not get the response that she want then , I shall certainly raise this matter for she with the Home Secretary . congratulation on your re - election , Mr Speaker . will the Leader of the House find time for a statement on flood defence ? the last Parliament be on track to spend £ 5 . 2 billion on flood defence , include in community like Severn Stoke and Tenbury Wells in my constituency . there be concern that the incoming Government may cancel that spending , so will she timetable a statement and reassure we that that be not the case ? I welcome the hon . Lady she to her place and congratulate she on survive the tsunami that , I be afraid , take out some of her colleague . she raise a very important matter . department for Environment , Food and Rural Affairs oral have not yet be timetable , so the subject would make a good candidate for an Adjournment debate application , should she want to do that . in the meantime , I will get she a response on the Government ' s plan for flood defence . Mr Speaker , on behalf of the people of Stockport , can I congratulate you on your re - election ? I also congratulate my fellow Greater Manchester Labour MP on her appointment as Leader of the House . I be certain that she will do a fantastic job . public library be a vital hub for community across the nation , provide important space for drop - in session , internet connectivity , read book and so much more , yet in my local authority of Stockport borough the local Liberal Democrat council be reduce staff hour in our library — a move that threaten to leave many adult and child isolate and without access to critical service . as such , will the Leader of the House allow a debate in Government time on our treasured public library ? I thank my hon . friend for his good wish and for that important question . library and access to they play a vital role in our community , support local people and child with their education . I be afraid that the previous Government hollow out local government funding over their 14 year in office . they promise level up , but in fact we get year and year of cut . I will make sure that the Culture Secretary have hear my hon . friend ' s question and supply he with a reply . Mr Speaker , congratulation on your re - election . I welcome the Leader of the House most sincerely to her position ; I always think business question be the most illuminating and refreshing part of the week ' s business . one of the most pressing piece of business that we consider prior to the general election be , of course , the compensation scheme for those infect and impact by the infected blood scandal . can we have an urgent statement to detail the Government ' s progress in ensure that the compensation scheme be put in place and their progress towards the creation of the Infected Blood Compensation Authority ? victim be still die weekly , and I be certain that the Leader of the House will want to do everything possible to ensure that these matter be address as quickly as possible . I thank the hon . member for that question ; he and I both know , after sit through these session in the last Parliament , that the infected blood scandal be probably the single big issue raise in business question . it be absolutely important that we take action and follow through on the commitment that have be give . I assure he that there will be an update to the House at the early possible opportunity on the Government ' s progress in deal with the compensation scheme . I welcome the Leader of the House to her place . will she join I in congratulate the business - lead 2025 Group , which be celebrate the many positive of work in Grimsby and Cleethorpes ? could we have time to debate the importance of our town centre and the ongoing need for high street regeneration , and to recognise the dire impact on local economy of delay repair to infrastructure such as Corporation bridge in my constituency ? I thank my hon . friend for her question and welcome she back to her rightful place in this House as the new Member for Grimsby . I know that she will do a fantastic job for the town . as she know , one of our big area of focus during the election campaign be town centre regeneration , and our planning and infrastructure Bill and other measure announce yesterday will focus on just that . I look forward to work with she on the issue over the come month . the last Conservative Government provide £ 213 million of funding for the Western Link road to complete the orbital route around Norwich , but during the election campaign I be concerned to hear rumour that Labour might axe it . can the Leader of the House provide a statement quickly to give reassurance to the people of Broadland and Fakenham , and Norfolk more widely , that this much - need infrastructure will continue ? I be sure this be an important matter for the hon . member ' s constituent . I do not have the answer today , but I note that Transport oral will be come at some point soon . I will therefore get he a response from the Transport Secretary , and if that be not forthcoming , I be sure he will apply for a debate in the usual way . congratulation on your re - election , Mr Speaker . some 47 % of child in my Liverpool Riverside constituency be live in poverty — nearly one in two — and I be sure that the Leader of the House agree that that be unacceptable . while I welcome the Prime Minister ' s announcement yesterday of the taskforce , it do not mention the removal of the two - child cap . will the Leader of the House grant parliamentary time to discuss the removal of the two - child cap and deal with child poverty ? I know the issue be close to my hon . friend ' s heart . as an incoming Labour Government , we be absolutely committed to tackle child poverty and all the root cause of child poverty . that be why the Prime Minister announce the Government taskforce look at these matter yesterday . we be clear in our manifesto that the economic circumstance do not currently allow for we to abolish the cap . economic stability be the single big thing we can do to ensure that child do not fall into poverty , because when the economy crash it be the poor in society who pay the heavy price . I think my hon . friend have table some amendment to the Loyal Address , and I sure she will have ample opportunity to debate they over the come day of the King ' s Speech debate . my local council in South Staffordshire and Dudley work hard on local plan to provide the new housing that my constituent will need over the come decade . in the light of the alarming Government briefing on their planning reform , can we have a debate in Government time on how we can make sure that democratically draw - up local plan be respect and that the green belt safeguard by those local plan remain protect ? I think the hon . Member may misunderstand the policy in this area . this Government have make it clear that we be unashamedly pro - house building . we have to tackle the housing crisis in this country and meet the target of 1 . 5 million new home over the course of this Parliament , and I think that his party also pledge to deliver that target in the election campaign . as he know , the Conservatives in government withdraw the house building target , which then reduce figure . what we be not propose here be a developer free - for - all . this be about good , sensible , clear local plan be draw together and then expedite with thing move more quickly . I can reassure he on that , but frankly we will take no lecture from the opposition on deal with the housing crisis . when it come to child with special educational need , child who have experience trauma in their childhood or child with anxiety , local authority carry all the risk , but do not have the resource . our academy system be out of control and our health service be insufficient . can we have a debate on child who experience such challenge in their early year to ensure that we address this issue early on in this government ? may I welcome my hon . friend back to her place ? she be always vocal and commit in the last Parliament , and I have no doubt she will be so again in this Parliament . as she rightly point out , our education and care system be not meet the need of child with special educational need , often leave they without the support they need to thrive . that be one of the issue be tackle in our child ' s wellbee Bill , announce by his Majesty the King yesterday . as she will have hear this morning , there will be a debate on education in the business next week . immediately prior to Dissolution , the excellent Backbench Business Committee have grant a debate in the Chamber to discuss the performance of Southern Water . I know that the right hon . Lady will want to respond about sewage , but in fact the debate be to be about its failure to deliver clean water to significant part of my constituency in addition to its failure on sewage . will she please reassure I that in the absence of the Backbench Business Committee and the Petitions Committee , the Government will find time for Back Benchers to bring forward important issue that we wish to debate in the Chamber ? the right hon . Lady be a fantastic , strong voice in the Chamber . I welcome she and the naughty corner back to their place , albeit on the other side of the House . she make an important point about an important debate , which I shall certainly pass on . in the absence of Backbench Business debate , we have and will continue to table general debate , and there will be availability for Westminster Hall debate in the usual way as well . this week , the new Minister of State for Education visit my constituency to look at the excellent work be do by the London Ambulance Service in its education centre , and in particular the apprenticeship that it offer , which have open up opportunity to people who would not normally have access to that route , include military veteran . will the Leader of the House look to find time to debate apprenticeship , particularly with an eye to scheme like this and how might broaden opportunity ? I welcome my hon . friend to his place with his election as the Member for West Ham and Beckton . I be sure that he will be a strong MP for that new constituency . he raise an important point . deal with apprenticeship and apprenticeship reform , I hope that the announcement yesterday in the King ' s Speech of the new Skills England body send a signal of how important this issue be for the Government in deliver on our mission for growth and deliver opportunity for all . he will have notice that we have an education debate timetable for next week , where he can raise the matter . throughout my time in the House , I have campaign for improved transport connection to serve my constituency , which at that time be Cleethorpes . one such campaign be the restoration of the train service from Cleethorpes through Grimsby and Lincoln to Kings Cross . the previous Transport Secretary have approve that service , and I understand that it be now with Network Rail and LNER to complete the necessary arrangement . may we have a statement from the new Transport Secretary confirm that that service will indeed begin in the winter timetable ? the hon . member raise a good point . he and I have discuss transport issue , and I support his call for great transport infrastructure investment across our region , and especially in the north , which I be afraid be distinctly lack under the previous Government . I will raise that matter with the Transport Secretary , and I have no doubt that she will come before the House in due course . as I say in the business statement , she will bring forward a Bill the week after next , and he could raise those issue then if he have not hear from she before . may I congratulate you , Mr Speaker , on your re - election ? my constituency have a large number of village and a rural contingent . while I welcome the announcement yesterday in the King ' s Speech , I wonder whether there be further information about how we will deal with flooding and , in particular , the flood resilience taskforce . although we be in the summer , we will fast approach the winter . I thank my hon . friend for that question and welcome she back to her place . she be not here long before she have to face the electorate again , and it be great to see that she have be return so convincingly . she raise important matter about flood defence , as other have . I note that the King ' s Speech debate tomorrow will cover rural affair , so she might want to raise those issue with the Secretary of State for Environment , Food and Rural Affairs , who I believe will respond to that debate . double child rapist and murderer Colin Pitchfork be due to have his parole hear last week in public , follow my successful application to the chair of the Parole Board , who agree to have it in public . the parole hearing have be reschedule to an unknown date , and only last week the chair of the Parole Board say in public , without write to I , that she have cancel her decision to have a public parole hear for Mr Pitchfork . I welcome the Leader of the House to her place . could we have an urgent statement on this matter or , well still , an urgent meeting with the Minister to discuss why the Parole Board be act in this way ? as ever , the hon . Gentleman raise an incredibly important issue . for new member who do not know , he have a strong track record in this place of raise such matter . I will ask the Minister to meet he urgently to discuss this important issue . congratulation on your re - election , Mr Speaker . I warmly welcome my right hon . friend the Leader of the House ; I know she will do an amazing job . in February 2022 , mp and peer pass an amendment to the Police , Crime , Sentencing and Courts Bill to repeal the Vagrancy Act 1824 . however , the last Government fail to set out a commencement date for repeal , while try to criminalise rough sleeper through the Criminal Justice Bill , which do not pass . I be aware that many homelessness organisation have write to my right hon . friend , so can she give the House clarity on when the Labour Government will commence the section to repeal that Act , since it be already law ? surely , 200 year on , it be time to consign the Vagrancy Act to the dustbin , where it belong . I thank my hon . friend for her question and welcome she back to her place . I look forward to continue to work closely with she , as I have do in recent year . she always raise incredibly pertinent matter in this House . I do not have the answer to her question , but the Home Secretary will come to the House for a number of reason in the come week , when my hon . friend might want to raise this matter . on Tuesday we have the immigration and home affair debate on the King ' s Speech , and Home Office oral question be on Monday 29 July . if she do not get a reply at either of those , I will raise the matter directly for she . as one proud Lancastrian MP to another , congratulation on your unanimous re - election to the Chair , Mr Speaker . planning on the green belt be a huge concern in my constituency of Fylde — housing be part of it , but there be also the Morgan and Morecambe wind farm proposal . Most resident back the new renewable energy be build off the Fylde coast , but there be concern about the cabling and substation route , which appear to take the route of least resistance . it will see mile of farmland and countryside dig up , and substation build in inappropriate location . we seem to be unable to get answer from the company on why that have be choose as the preferred route , when other far more appropriate route for cabling and substation exist . will the Leader of the House assure I that the Government will work with we to get answer from the company and clarity about the other route that could be use for the cabling , and to ensure that it work with I , local campaigner and the council to get the most appropriate route ? order . this issue be so important that I think the hon . Gentleman ought to think about have an Adjournment debate on it — although he nearly have one just then . I warmly welcome the new Member to his place . he be a rarity as a Conservative Member in north - west England and Lancashire . he raise an incredibly important question : connect the national grid appropriately to our new clean energy programme be a critical issue for the Government . the Energy Secretary be here today to make an oral statement , so the hon . Gentleman may want to raise the issue with he then . there will be other opportunity in upcoming day if he be not able to get an answer later today . on Tuesday , I be fortunate to visit Team Wales Business Club at the Principality stadium , where I meet some fantastic , resilient young sportspeople : Alys Thomas , Poppy Ellis , and my constituent Harrison Walsh , the paralympian discus thrower . will the Leader of the House join I in wish Team GB the good of luck in the Olympic and Paralympic game to be hold in Paris this summer ? it will be a really exciting time for our young people , who can aspire to participate in these sport in the future . I welcome my hon . friend back to her place . New Members who do not know she will not be aware that she raise matter relate to sport very thoroughly — indeed , superbly — during the last Parliament . I certainly join she in wish Team GB all the very good for the upcoming Paris Olympics . it be a pleasure to see you in the Chair , Mr Speaker , and I congratulate the Leader of the House on her appointment . the recent closure of two Boots pharmacy in Hampton in my constituency come amid hundred of other community pharmacy closure across England , drive largely by the financial pressure on community pharmacy from an outdated pharmacy contract , couple with impenetrable bureaucratic NHS England process that do not engage with local community when it come to closure and new licence application . will the Leader of the House urgently grant a debate in Government time to consider this issue , give the health crisis face by our country ? the hon . Lady have raise an extremely important issue . ensure that community pharmacy be available in every community , offer a full range of service that can help to prevent people from need access to primary care or A & E , be key to our delivery of an NHS fit for the 21st century . I be sure that the Secretary of State for Health and Social Care , who I know have already be progress some of these matter , would welcome a question about this particular matter during Health question next Tuesday , and hopefully the hon . Lady ' s name will be draw in the ballot . will the Leader of the House join I in wish Shankhill Church of England Primary School a very happy 150th birthday ? like the hundred of other rural school across Britain , include a number in my own constituency of Carlisle , Shankhill not only provide an outstanding education for its very small number of pupil , but make an important contribution to what be an isolated community in north Cumbria . will the Leader of the House make time for a debate on the important contribution that rural school make to our country ? I congratulate my hon . friend on her election , on be here and on ask her first question in this place . that be always a daunting process , but I hope she now feel that she have the confidence to go on . she have raise an important matter which I know have be raise by other in the past — namely the challenge face by rural school with , in many instance , diminish pupil roll — and I think she should raise it again during next week ' s education debate . I be pleased to hear the Leader of the House say early that town centre regeneration remain a priority for the Government . may we please have an urgent statement from a Minister about the status of levelling - up fund grant ? as the Leader of the House may know , towards the end of last year , Andover in my constituency be award £ 18 . 3 million to kick - start the regeneration of its town centre . since then , a memorandum of understanding have be sign and some money have change hand , and on that basis Test Valley borough council have make significant contractual and budgetary commitment , but there now appear to be an inexplicable delay in progress with the grant . we have to ensure that the money be spend by the early part of 2026 . I should be grateful if the Leader of the House could provide some clarity , not just for Andover and for I , but for other member who be similarly affect . I will certainly seek to obtain some clarity for the right hon . gentleman on that issue . as he will know , this Government be prioritise town centre redevelopment and " brownfield first " , and our planning and infrastructure Bill that be announce yesterday will include reform of compulsory purchase order and land value issue , which will enable local authority to acquire , for instance , derelict or empty property that they need for town centre regeneration at a more appropriate value . that will unlock significant investment , which I hope will benefit the project to which the right hon . Gentleman have refer . in 2025 , Darlington , our region and the world will celebrate the bicentenary of the railway . in my constituency , the celebration have already start . will the Leader of the House grant we a debate to discuss and celebrate the contribution of our industrial heritage in Darlington and how this Labour Government will create a new generation of green industrial job for the future in Darlington , in the Tees Valley and across our country ? I congratulate my hon . friend on her election as the new MP for Darlington ; I know she be go to provide a very strong voice for the people of Darlington on these important matter . she will know that the green industrial revolution be absolutely at the core of the delivery of this Government ' s mission — not only on growth , but on job opportunity and make the UK a clean energy superpower by 2030 . Transport and the railway be a core part of that , which be why we see the announcement yesterday of our railway Bill and our rail franchising Bill , which will be debate at the end of the month . she may want to raise these issue in that debate as well . in one of her first act , our new Deputy Prime Minister cut " level up " from her Department ' s title . the Leader of the House will know that there be dozen of town board up and down the country that be populate by community leader , business leader and charity leader . whether it be intend or otherwise , the change have genuinely cause anxiety among many of they about whether their funding might also be cut in future . can we have an urgent statement in the House so that the new Deputy Prime Minister can reassure they that the levelling - up funding they be due to receive will still be deliver ? I thank the hon . gentleman for his question . as a former MP for a northern constituency — I think he have travel some way south since then — he will know that while the previous Government have strong rhetoric on level up , the reality be very different . there be small pot of money that be not transform community , and one of the big issue at the election be that large part of the country , especially in the midland and the north , feel that the previous Government have fail on level up . this government will get growth in every part of the country , and we be commit to do that . thank you , Mr Speaker , for the warm welcome you have give to I and all the other newbie . it be wonderful to see the Leader of the House in her place on the Government Front Bench . Walleys Quarry landfill in Newcastle - under - Lyme have blight the life of my constituent for far too long . in the early day of this new Government , can we have a debate on the adequacy of the enforcement power of the Environment Agency and on how we can tackle the bad effect , health - wise and environmental , of landfill site in Newcastle - under - Lyme and across our country ? I welcome my hon . friend to his place . he raise an issue that I know be of great importance to his constituent , and there be serious question to be answer as to why such breach have be allow to continue without be properly address . I understand that criminal investigation be ongoing . we be monitor the situation closely so that we can put an end to this awful situation . a Labour Government be not go to sit back as the previous one do and let the toxic stench continue to hang over Newcastle - under - Lyme . I warmly commend the right hon . Lady on her appointment . will she bring forward a debate in Government time on the future of Royal Mail ? there be obviously issue with the overall ownership of Royal Mail , but there be also serious service issue in constituency like mine , where Royal Mail be find want in the delivery of election material ; indeed , there be delay to postal vote . it have now change the uplift time for many post box , so many of my constituent will be unable to post a first - class letter on the basis that it will be deliver the follow day . the right hon . Gentleman raise issue that I know be raise by many other during the election campaign . if he be not able to raise they with the Secretary of State in the upcoming King ' s Speech debate — possibly on Monday , when we be debate the economy and public service — I be sure that such issue would make an extremely good candidate for an Adjournment or Westminster Hall debate , and I hope he manage to secure one . congratulation on your re - election , Mr Speaker . I welcome the Leader of the House to her place ; I also welcome and look forward to debate the child ' s wellbee Bill announce yesterday . in St Helens North , there be many child in mainstream education with special educational need such as dyslexia and autism who be wait for assessment or struggle for support , despite the good effort of their fantastic school and hard - work teacher . I hope that that issue will be cover in the debate on the Bill , but if not , can parliamentary time be find to debate special educational need so we can ensure that no child be leave behind ? I congratulate my hon . friend on ask his first question . as a former teacher , he be lay down a clear marker that special educational need and child ' s wellbeing will be at the forefront of his agenda as the new MP for St Helens North . he will have see that there will be an education debate next week ; I hope he can raise these important issue then . I very much welcome the Leader of the House to her position . I look forward to a weekly relationship of question and answer and wish she well . I be very concerned about the Special Envoy for Freedom of Religion or Belief Bill , a private Member ' s Bill that Fiona Bruce , the then Member for Congleton , introduce under the last government and that the then Prime Minister be go to bring in . unfortunately , such be his haste for an election that the Bill be not include in the wash - up before the last Friday ; in another week , it would have be law . what can we do to make sure that that private Member ' s Bill can be proceed with ? when the Prime Minister be in opposition , I have discussion with he about ensure that the special envoy be in place . will the Leader of the House discuss that in Cabinet , or should we bring forward a debate ? I thank the hon . gentleman for his question ; I be not quite sure why he be at the back of the queue already , when the House have be sit for so little time , but maybe he will get himself high up the queue in future debate . the hon . Gentleman raise an important matter . a number of significant piece of legislation fail to get through wash - up after the then Prime Minister take such an illogical decision to call an early election — one that I be sure Opposition Members be live to regret — but there will be a private member ' Bills ballot in due course , which may be an opportunity to pursue the matter . may I congratulate you on your re - election , Mr Speaker , and welcome the new Leader of the House to the Dispatch Box ? my Hastings and Rye constituent have suffer hugely because of the crumble infrastructure of Southern Water . People have be leave without water for over five day on not just one but two occasion . resident and business have yet to be properly compensate . the town centre of Hastings have be flood twice , and we have see record level of sewage dump in our sea and even appear in people ' s home . will the Leader of the House look into when I can raise the matter in upcoming debate in the House ? what an excellently put question from the new Member for Hastings and Rye , which have a special place in my heart as the location of all my childhood holiday . I be disturb to learn of the failure of Southern Water in deal with these issue . as my hon . friend will know , the Secretary of State for Environment , Food and Rural Affairs have get straight to work , bring in the water boss and take a series of step to clean up our river and sea and hold water company to account . we will soon be introduce the water special measure Bill ; I hope my hon . friend will take a keen interest in that legislation and will contribute fully as a new member . I apologise for stand up for too long early , Mr Speaker . may I thank you and your office for the support that you have give to new Members , which have be really great ? I congratulate the Leader of the House on her position . I would like to call for a debate on an issue that be affect taxi driver and their passenger , not just in Harlow but in other part of the country . as a repercussion of the Deregulation Act 2015 , taxi driver be no long require to get licence from authority in whose area they operate . different authority have different standard , mean that some taxi be check less regularly , and some authority do not require the same signage that we require in Harlow . that have a huge impact on the taxi trade and , particularly in the case of signage , on the safety of passenger . can we have a debate on this important issue ? I congratulate my hon . friend on raise such a big issue on his first outing . as the Member of Parliament for Manchester Central , I know what a big issue this be for taxi driver and other who be worried about safety and other issue . I will ensure that he get a full response from the Department for Transport . this would make an excellent topic for an Adjournment debate , which I think would attract attention from across the House . I thank all House staff for the fantastic induction that new member have receive . it have be first class . talk about the good start , can we have a debate in Government time on give all child the good start in life ? will the Leader of the House join I in congratulate Telford and Wrekin council on retain its outstanding Ofsted rating for child ' s service ? I congratulate my hon . friend , who be a real champion and vocal supporter of local government in his previous capacity . we often sit opposite each other in the shadow Cabinet . I be delighted to congratulate Telford and Wrekin ' s child ' s service , which go from a " require improvement " judgment in 2016 to be outstanding today . that be incredibly hard for child ' s service to achieve , and I be sure he will raise these issue many time in the House over the come month . finally , I call Jim MacAlister . Josh MacAlister , Mr Speaker . it ' s Jim for today ! as a new member , I be go to start my very first question by congratulate you and say that you be the good Speaker I have see in the Chair . I welcome my right hon . friend the Member for Manchester Central ( Lucy Powell ) to her place as Leader of the House . a number of my constituent have be directly affect by the infected blood scandal . between the publication of the independent inquiry ' s final report and the Dissolution of the last Parliament , there be not sufficient time to have a full debate on the report ' s finding . will the Government give time in the come month for a full debate on that topic ? you be do so well , Mr Speaker — you get to the final question before get a name slightly wrong . I welcome my hon . friend the Member for Whitehaven and Workington ( Josh MacAlister ) to his place . I know he will contribute greatly to the House over the come Parliament . he ask an important question , which be raise early , about the infected blood compensation scheme , which this government be absolutely committed to introduce . I be confident that there will be a statement or some kind of parliamentary moment on that before the recess . rise — Order . I fully understand that some member will be disappoint not to get in . we will keep a list and try to make sure that we get you in next time . business question last for about an hour , and you can help I and each other by ask short , punchy question . Prison Capacity with permission , Mr Speaker , I will make a statement about prison capacity in England and Wales . as you know , Mr Speaker , I want to make this announcement first in this House . however , give the scale of the emergency face our prison , I be force to set out these measure before Parliament return . since this Government take office two week ago , it have become clear that our prison be in crisis and be at the point of collapse . the male prison estate have be run at over 99 % capacity for the last 18 month . we now know that my predecessor warn no . 10 Downing Street but , rather than address this crisis , the former Prime Minister call an election , leave a tick time bomb . if that bomb be to go off — if our prison be to run out of space — the court would grind to a halt , suspect could not be hold in custody and police officer would be unable to make arrest , leave criminal free to act without consequence . in short , if we fail to act now , we face the prospect of a total breakdown of law and order . rather than act , the last Prime Minister allow we to edge ever close to catastrophe . last week , there be around 700 space remain in the male prison estate . with 300 place leave , we reach critical capacity . at that point , the small change could trigger the chain of event I just set out . with the prison population rise , it be now clear that by September this year , our prison will overflow . that mean there be now only one way to avert disaster . as the House know , most of those serve standard determinate sentence leave prison at the halfway point , serve the rest of their sentence in the community . the Government now have no option but to introduce a temporary change in the law . yesterday , we lay a statutory instrument in draft . subject to the agreement of both Houses , those serve eligible standard determinate sentence will leave prison after serve 40 % , rather than 50 % , of their sentence in custody , and will serve the rest on licence . our impact assessment estimate that around 5 , 500 offender will be release in September and October . from that time until we be able to reverse this emergency measure , 40 % will be the new point of automatic release for eligible standard determinate sentence . the Government do not take this decision lightly , but to disguise reality and delay any far , as the last Government do , be unconscionable . we be clear that this be the safe way forward . in the word of the Metropolitan Police Commissioner , Sir Mark Rowley , these step be " the least bad option " . he go on to say that " the bad possible thing would be for the system to block " , and that any alternative to these measure would be " dangerous for the public " . I understand that some may feel worried by this decision , but I can assure the House that we be take every precaution available to we . there will be important exclusion . sentence for the most dangerous crime — for sexual and serious violent offence — will not change . that will also be the case for a series of offence link to domestic violence , include stalk , control or coercive behaviour and non - fatal strangulation , as well as those relate to national security . we will also implement stringent protection . first , this change will not take effect until early September , give the probation service time to prepare . secondly , all offender release will be subject to strict licence condition , to ensure they can be manage safely in the community . thirdly , offender can be order to wear electronic tag , and curfew will be impose where appropriate . finally , if offender breach the condition of their licence , they can be return to prison immediately . let I be clear : this be an emergency measure , not a permanent change . this Government be clear that criminal must be punish . we do not intend to allow the 40 % release point to stand in perpetuity . that be why I will review these measure again , in 18 month ' time , when the situation in our prison will have stabilise . throughout , this Government will be transparent . we will publish datum on the number of offender release on a quarterly basis , and we will publish an annual prison capacity statement , legislate to make this a statutory requirement . when we implement this change , we will stop the end of custody supervise licence scheme introduce by the last government , which operate under a veil of secrecy . from the Opposition Benches , I be force to demand more information about who be be release and what crime they have commit . this government have now release that datum , show that over 10 , 000 offender be release early , often with very little warning to probation officer , place they under enormous strain . this be only ever a short - term fix . it be one of a series of decision this Government believe must be examine more fully , which be why we be announce a review into how this capacity crisis be allow to happen and why the necessary decision be not take at critical moment . the measure I have set out today be not a silver bullet . the capacity crisis will not disappear immediately , and these measure will take time to take effect . but when they do , they will give we the time to address the prison crisis , not just today but for year to come . this include accelerate the prison building programme to ensure we have the cell we need . later this year , we will publish a ten - year capacity strategy . that strategy will outline the step that the Government will take to acquire land for new prison site , and will classify prison as be of national importance , place decision making in Ministers ' hand . the Government be also committed to long - term reform and cut reoffende . too often , our prison create well criminal , not well citizen , and nearly 80 % of offending be reoffende , all at immense cost to community and the taxpayer . as Lord Chancellor , my priority be to drive down that number . to do that , the Government will strengthen probation , start with the recruitment of at least 1 , 000 new trainee probation officer by the end of March 2025 . we will work with prison to improve offender ' access to learning and other training , as well as bring together prison governor , local employer and the voluntary sector to get ex - offender into work . we know that if an offender have a job within a year of release , they be less likely to reoffend . it be only by drive down reoffende that we will find a sustainable solution to the prison crisis . in a speech last week , I call the previous occupant of Downing Street " the guilty man " . I do not use that analogy flippantly . I believe that they place the country in grave danger . their legacy be a prison system in crisis , moment from catastrophic disaster . it be only by pure luck , and the heroic effort of prison and probation staff , that disaster do not strike while they be in office . the legacy of this Government will be different . we will see a prison system bring under control ; a probation service that keep the public safe ; enough prison place to meet our need ; and prison , probation and other service work together to break the cycle of reoffende and so cut crime . I never think that I would have to announce the measure that I have set out today , but the scale of this emergency have force this Government to act now , rather than delay any long . this government will always put the country and its safety first . I commend this statement to the House . I call the shadow Minister . I be grateful to the Lord Chancellor for very timely advance sight of her statement . may I take this opportunity to congratulate she on her appointment , as well as the Under - Secretary of State for Justice , the hon . member for Pontypridd ( Alex Davies - Jones ) ? I congratulate the Minister of State , Ministry of Justice , the hon . member for Swindon South ( Heidi Alexander ) on her return to this place . notwithstanding the occasional tussle across the Dispatch Box , I look forward to work constructively with Lord Chancellor , and to hold she and the Government to account . she be of course a decent , courteous , and incredibly able person , and I wish she well in her role . we recognise the challenge and pressure face the prison and criminal justice system , and the need to ensure that our prison function effectively . of course , the Government be well aware of those thing when they be in opposition , as I know from challenge oral question session . in Government , we take the right decision to significantly toughen up sentence for those who commit the bad crime , in order to ensure that society be protect . to reflect that , we set in train the big prison building programme since the victorian era . More than 13 , 000 additional prison place be deliver while we be in government . two new prison open ; one prison be under construction ; there be two prison with planning permission ; and one prison be on the cusp of a decision . labour ' s planning permission proposal for prison would not impact any of those development . in that respect , it be simply a gimmick . crucially , in the covid pandemic , support by the then Opposition , we make the tough but correct decision not to mass - release prisoner as other country do , and we maintain that bedrock of our justice system , trial by jury . those correct decision mean less space , and the number of people on remand wait for trial or sentencing dramatically increase from around 9 , 000 to 16 , 500 , with result additional pressure . in decide to reduce capacity pressure , the paramount consideration for the Lord Chancellor must always be public protection . with that in mind , although we will of course have to scrutinise the detail of her propose sentence reduction scheme , I must say that we have significant public protection concern about what she have announce so far , and I hope that she will be able to address those concern today . the Lord Chancellor set out plan for limited exclusion relate to domestic abuse , but can she confirm that if a domestic abuser be convict of , say , common assault , as be often the case , they would not be exempt from this policy ? what exclusion do she plan to put in place to ensure that the bad , persistent , repeat offender can not benefit from this scheme ? she set out that this be a temporary measure that will be review after 18 month . what criterion will she set for its ending ? well still , will she commit to sunsette the measure in the delegate legislation , and to return to the House on this afresh in 18 month , if need ? what additional resource be be make available to probation ? we hear what the Lord Chancellor say about get 1 , 000 more trainee probation staff by March 2025 , but how many of those will actually be new ? how many will be additional to those whom we already plan to have in place through the exist trajectory for new trainee ? can she guarantee that no prisoner will benefit from her early release scheme without GPS tag and strict condition ? indeed , will she mandate the imposition of gps track ? can she confirm to the House progress on bring HMP Dartmoor ' s place back into use , and her long - term plan for HMP Dartmoor ' s place ? the previous Government commit £ 30 million to acquire land for build new prison , and have already begin draw up a site longlist . be she expand that fund , or merely re - announce the same thing ? more widely , the Lord Chancellor state that this be a temporary measure to ease pressure , so what be her long - term plan for meet demand ? be she plan to scrap the tough sentence for serious crime that the Conservatives put in place to protect the public , and so to reverse our change , or be she plan to build more prison over and above the six that we commit to funding , to meet future demand ? if it be the latter , have the Chancellor agree the significant extra funding need ? those be the long - term question to which she and the Government owe this House and the public answer , give the change that she be make today . I hope that she will be able to give clear answer . I welcome the shadow Lord Chancellor to his place ; we have always work constructively together wherever appropriate , and I look forward to continue to do so while he be in post . he make a heroic attempt to gloss over many year of failure in planning by the previous Government . I be surprised that he manage to say it all with a straight face . he know full well that for many year the previous Government struggle to get such measure past many of their back - Benchers , not all of whom have return post the general election , but some of whom remain here , and remain implacable opponent of any kind of planning development in their constituency . they think that national infrastructure be a good thing as long as it be elsewhere . I look forward to see whether there be a change of heart among those on the Opposition Benches . it would be welcome , because this government will not allow the planning system to prevent our country from have either the prison place or the national infrastructure that we so desperately need . he also know full well that of the 20 , 000 place that be suppose to have be provide by the previous Government by 2025 , only 6 , 000 have be deliver . I be concern about the position relate to prisoner on remand . the shadow Lord Chancellor rightly note that the number of those on remand in our prison estate be around 16 , 000 . of course , judge need to be able to remand people to prison for public protection reason . that will not change . he will know , give his former role in the Department , that there be no immediate solution , because many of those individual will in the end be sentence to custody . I be consider all option available to I for drive that number down as much as possible . in the end , we will need our 10 - year capacity plan to take account of what we expect the sentence population to look like . on the sentence that be cover by this measure , the shadow Lord Chancellor will know that in order to make a change by mean of a statutory instrument , it have to relate to specific offence . that be why we have take every precaution and every option available to we to exclude sentence connect to domestic abuse . he know that those will include — I be sure that he have see the draft statutory instrument — offence relate to the breaching of a non - molestation order ; stalk , which I mention in my statement , include stalk involve the fear of violence , serious alarm or distress ; strangulation or suffocation ; control or coercive behaviour in an intimate or family relationship ; the breach of a restraining order ; and a breach of a domestic abuse protection order . the common offence that we know be connect to domestic abuse be catch in the statutory instrument . on multiple and repeat offence , he will know that the decision rely on the combination that be review when the sentencing calculation be do . as I say in my statement , I will return in 18 month to update the House . we want to remove this temporary measure as quickly as possible , and we will be transparent throughout . the shadow Lord Chancellor will not need to chase I around this building try to find out what be happen , as I have to when I be in his position and we be consider the previous Government ' s early release scheme . we will be transparent in a way that the previous Government simply be not . we will do a quarterly release of all the datum , and we will update the House regularly . I be sure that the right hon . Gentleman follow the announcement on Friday closely , so he will know that the announcement on probation do not involve new money . it be a re - prioritisation of resource , because strengthen probation to make sure that it be in the strong possible position to deal with the early release scheme be incredibly important to we . on Dartmoor , the right hon . Gentleman know the history very well . safety be our no . 1 priority , and after close monitoring of the situation at HMP Dartmoor , it have be decide that prison will be temporarily close . I will update the House as the situation develop . I say to he gently that we have commit to a 10 - year capacity strategy . we recognise that we need to make sure that this country have the prison place that it need . we will deliver where the previous Government fail , and we will never allow the planning process to get in the way of have the prison that we need in this country . long term , however , we will also look at drive down reoffende , because the entrenched cycle of reoffende create more victim and more crime , and it have big impact on our ability to have the capacity that we need in our prison estate . that be why this Government will make it a key priority to drive down reoffende . that be a strategy for create well citizen , not well criminal . it be a strategy for cut crime , and in the long term , it will deal with our capacity problem for year to come . I welcome my right hon . friend to her place on the Government Front Bench . the imprisonment for public protection prison population be more than 2 , 700 ; 99 % of those people be over tariff , and more than 700 prisoner be now 10 year over their original tariff . can she accelerate the Ministry of Justice ' s refresh IPP action plan to help to reduce the prison population and right that wrong ? I thank my hon . friend for that question . the situation with IPP prisoner be of great concern , and I know that huge number of member on both side of this House care about it deeply . I share that concern . ipp prisoner be not catch in the change that we be put forward ; those be indeterminate sentence , not standard determinate sentence . we support the previous Government in what we think be sensible change to the licence period and the action plan , and we will continue that work . however , any change make have to account for public protection risk , first and foremost . we want to make progress with that cohort of prisoner , but not in a way that impact public protection . I call the Lib Dem spokesperson . I also welcome the Lord Chancellor to her new position , and thank she for advance sight of her statement . it have be apparent for month that measure of this sort would be necessary . these be describe as temporary measure , but 18 month be a very long time for temporary measure . there would be a real danger of damage public confidence in our criminal system if the measure be to be extend beyond that point . the answer surely have to be more than just build more prison capacity . the problem be not that our prison estate be too small ; it be that we send too many people to prison , and that the time they spend there do nothing to tackle the problem of drug and alcohol dependency , poor literacy and numeracy skill , and poor mental health , which lead to their incarceration . can we hope to hear in the very near future the Government ' s comprehensive plan to tackle the issue of the time that people spend in prison ? finally , may I bring to the Lord Chancellor ' s attention the report publish this morning by his Majesty ' s inspectorate of probation on the failing of the Cambridgeshire and Peterborough probation delivery unit ? that report outline that our duty of care to those whom we lock up should not end the day they leave custody . when will we have a response to that report ? I welcome the right hon . gentleman to his place . on the 18 - month period , we have inherit a criminal justice system in complete crisis and at risk of total breakdown and collapse . it will take some time , by necessity , for we to be able to put that right . I do not want to mislead the public that somehow these change will have a quick effect . the system be in dire strait and it will take time to repair it . it be right that we be up front and honest about that time , and I will update the House regularly . as I say , this Government ' s approach will be very different from that of the last Government . we will have a regular release of datum , and I anticipate that I will regularly appear before member to talk about that datum , but I welcome that opportunity because it be important that the public be keep update , and that their representative in this place be able to scrutinise what be happen and hold we to account . we will need time for the measure to take effect to enable we to move the system to a position of great health . in term of who go to prison , why and for how long , when we have overcrowded prison , there be no capacity to do much other than hold people in their cell . the activity that we know be important to help people in the prison system to turn their life around , come out as well citizen and make well choice , have make amend to society , can not happen in deeply overcrowded prison . that be why deal with the capacity crisis be so necessary not just to prevent the collapse of the criminal justice system but to cut reoffende in the long term . create some space will allow we to introduce proposal to bring down reoffende rate in the country . on probation , I pay tribute to all probation staff for their tremendous work . my first visit in my new role be to meet probation staff in Bedfordshire . I recognise that they have be work in a system and a service under extreme strain and face real difficulty . that be why we will onboard 1 , 000 new trainee probation officer before March 2025 to add extra capacity , and why return the probation system to health will be a key priority for this Government . I declare a non - pecuniary interest : I be an honorary life member of the Prison Officers ' Association . in seek to be fair , as she always be , my right hon . friend be be too kind on the last government . they bring about a staffing crisis in our prison that have bring rehabilitation to an end and level of violence that we have never see before . will she bring forward as soon as possible a workforce strategy for our prison and probation ? as a matter of urgency , will she look in particular at Feltham young offender institution , which have become a violent emergency for staff and for prisoner themselves ? my right hon . friend be right . I take this opportunity to pay tribute to all the staff in our prison , who do an excellent job under very difficult circumstance . he be right to acknowledge that the level of violence in our prison have be increase , place those staff at ever great risk . this be similar to the question that I just answer on probation . when prison be so badly overcrowded , it be incredibly difficult to run any kind of regime that can do good work on rehabilitation , or provide a safe atmosphere for the staff who work in they . I will , of course , have conversation in the usual way when it come to discussion about the spending review and other measure that the Chancellor will bring forward . I hope that I need not tell my right hon . friend that I will bat hard for our Department and the people I represent . that will all happen in the usual way . we be committed to publish our 10 - year capacity strategy as quickly as possible so that we can begin the process of return our system to some sort of health . I thank he for raise Feltham ; I will look at that and write to he . I listen very carefully to the Lord Chancellor ' s comment about Members present and past who have legitimate concern about new - build prison proposal in their constituency . she will no doubt be aware of the proposal for a new mega - prison in Buckinghamshire on farmland adjacent to HMP Spring Hill and HMP Grendon . those proposal be deeply unpopular in my constituency , first , on fairness ground — they be affect community just one mile from the construction of HS2 , which be already under siege from big construction — and , secondly , because the prison in Buckinghamshire can not recruit to the vacancy that they already have . fully staff a brand new prison be just not go to happen , so I ask the new Lord Chancellor to do my constituent the courtesy of sit down with I so that she can hear why this particular proposal just will not work . I thank the hon . member for his question . may I gently say that this be part of the problem ? I be not go to get into the specific of his particular constituency or those particular planning proposal — those proposal be already within the planning system , as the shadow Lord Chancellor , the right hon . member for Melton and Syston ( Edward Argar ) , allude to in his remark — but prison have to be build in this country . we have to do more building , we have to do it more quickly , and we have rightly say that we will always treat prison as of national importance . that be actually a change bring in by the previous Government to unlock the delay that they have face for many year , particularly when concern be raise by their own Members of Parliament . we take too long to build any kind of infrastructure in this country . that will not be the approach of this government , so while I be very happy to consider any proposal that any member of this House have about specific in their constituency , the reality be that prison will always be deem by this Government to be of national importance , and they will be build . first , I congratulate my right hon . friend on her new post , and thank she for reassure we that this scheme will not apply to sexual violence , domestic abuse and stalking — that will really reassure survivor in my constituency . will she review how the scheme will affect those with learn disability who be in prison without support , and ensure that there be good communication with local council on the housing of ex - offender , with early notification that be not on a Friday afternoon ? I welcome my hon . friend to her place . this change be design in part to allow probation to do the job that it would normally do when it come to prisoner release on licence . we will have an eight - week implementation period ; that be one of the big difference between this scheme and the previous Government ' s end - of - custody supervise licensing scheme , which be pretty chaotic and opaque . thing move very quickly , not allow probation the time to do its job . I be not go to pretend that the eight week be ideal , but it be well than where we might have be : it allow the sentencing calculation to be redone and some planning to then happen in the normal way , so that we can make sure that , when those people be release into the community , they have a proper release plan in place . once we be into the prospective element of the change , I believe that the process will be much smooth , and probation will be able to do a much more effective job of manage those prisoner as they be release into the community . Diolch yn fawr iawn , Llywydd . the Secretary of State be entirely correct to say that prison be in crisis : they have be in crisis for year , and reform be urgently necessary . it be evident that there be many people in prison who should not be there , but that be the only place that they can be — people for whom community - base prevention and rehabilitation would be way well . the last Government promise we a woman ' s residential centre base in Swansea , but accord to an answer to my write parliamentary question early this year , delay and uncertainty over planning see that proposal sideline . will the new Labour Government commit to succeed where the last government so obviously and appallingly fail and facilitate the establishment of a woman ' s residential centre in Wales , where we have no woman ' s prison ? I thank the right hon . member — that be a very compelling bit of lobby from she . may I offer to meet with she , so that we can discuss this issue in person ? I welcome the Secretary of State and her team to their place . can the Secretary of State comment on what be report in the Guardian early this week ? apparently , the former director general for propriety and ethic write to the previous Prime Minister tell he that a failure to act on the prison crisis would bring the criminal justice system to a point of " critical failure " . do she agree that , if this be true , that be an enormous dereliction of duty by the Conservatives ? I thank my hon . friend . I do read those report in the Guardian . of course , none of we have have sight of any of those paper . if those report be true , it be very worrying indeed . as I say in my opening remark , I do not use the phrase " the guilty man " lightly when I speak about the crisis we have inherit and the change we be be force to make . I believe it be a serious dereliction of duty by the previous Government . I could hardly believe the state of the prison system that I inherit , and I think we have be force to make the change that we have because of that failure . I welcome the Lord Chancellor to her post . I just want to push she slightly on the description of this scheme as a temporary scheme . whatever she may say , the legislative impact of what the Government be do will be a permanent change . if she want to be subject to scrutiny and to have a temporary scheme , there be absolutely no reason why she can not sunset the legislation to be a genuinely temporary change , and come back later if she think she need to reintroduce it . that be a way to welcome scrutiny and be true to what she say about its be a temporary scheme . it be a temporary scheme . we will revert to the usual 50 % level as quickly as possible . I think 18 month be the right period for I to return to this House . the hon . Member will have many opportunity to scrutinise these change because this government will be different from the previous Government , because we will be transparent all the way through . I anticipate many moment in this House when I will be challenge . it be a temporary change . it will always be a temporary change . I have have many constituent place in prison because of fail mental health service , when the crisis team do not turn up and there be no capacity in secure accommodation . will the Secretary of State have urgent discussion with the Secretary of State for Health to make an assessment of those people who should be in mental health service rather than in the criminal justice system ? my hon . friend be right that we have broad failure across many of our public service , include within the health service . as my right hon . friend the Secretary of State for Health have say , we have inherit an nhs that be " break " . I will have conversation with he on the matter that she raise , but it be important , as we try to return the prison system to health , that we do so in conjunction with the other public service that we know be crucial to the proper functioning of the criminal justice service . can I welcome the Lord Chancellor to her place and wish she well in the very important role she now have ? it be imperative that , when a judge sentence a criminal , consideration of fulfil justice prevail more than consideration of space in prison . how will the Lord Chancellor address the difficulty to ensure that justice and serve an appropriate sentence will remain the focus ? the logistic of that can then be deal with . the hon . member be right . in the end , individual sentencing decision be for judge . they have discretion to apply the law as they see fit in the circumstance of the case in front of they , and nothing that we have decide change that picture . more broadly , we will have a sentencing review — it be something we commit to in our manifesto , and I will say more about that later in the year — to make sure that all our sentencing be consistent and coherent , and that our sentence do actually work , which be what they be mean to do . I welcome the Lord Chancellor to her place . she have certainly hit the ground run in a very difficult backdrop from the previous Government . we know only too well that , often , prisoner be release on Friday afternoon , with little or no access to statutory service , and they become homeless . what assurance can she give the House that this have be think through , and the unintended consequence of this decision will not be extend the homelessness crisis ? the implementation period that we have put forward in our proposal will allow the probation service time to prepare . as I have say before , that be different from the early release scheme bring forward by the previous Government ; it will allow the probation service to do its job and ensure that there be a proper plan for all release into the community so that they be successful release . I be sure that my hon . friend will know about the community accommodation service , which provide transitional accommodation for up to 84 night for those who be at risk of leave prison homeless . that will continue . the previous Government scheme release prisoner with little or no warning . this scheme be different . it give probation time to prepare and should hopefully iron out some of the previous problem . I congratulate the Lord Chancellor on her appointment . as have be mention , reoffende have be a major problem . drug and alcohol rehabilitation service be at a premium and need look at , but another key factor be ensure that when prisoner leave prison , they get a job . what work be be do to ensure that there be more employment opportunity for those who be leave prison ? my hon . friend be absolutely right . as I say early , employment be crucial , because we know that if those who leave prison be in work within a year of leave prison , they be much less likely to reoffend . that be why one of our manifesto commitment be set up employment council in our prison — bring together prison governor and local employer to make sure we be do everything we can to drive down rate of reoffende . we will have more to say on that in the come week and month . I associate myself with the comment of the right hon . member for Dwyfor Meirionnydd ( Liz Saville Roberts ) , because the woman ' s residential centre she speak of happen to be in my constituency . the Lord Chancellor will be very aware of the current issue in Parc prison , Bridgend . I pay tribute to the very hard work of my hon . friend the Member for Bridgend ( Chris Elmore ) and to the previous Welsh Affairs Committee . the previous Government blame the local culture of the community for the issue that be arise in Bridgend ; I certainly find that insulting . there be also an issue regard staff there , and the intimidation that they and their family have face . will the Lord Chancellor reinforce and support those in the Prison and Probation Service who work in Parc prison , Bridgend , and work — particularly with my hon . friend the Member for Bridgend — to ensure that the culture in the prison change and people be safe ? I would be happy to meet both my hon . friend and the right hon . member for Dwyfor Meirionnydd ( Liz Saville Roberts ) — individually or together — to talk about the woman ' s prison , and to write to they on that point . in relation to Parc , I also pay tribute to my hon . friend the Member for Bridgend ( Chris Elmore ) . I would be happy to work with he and other hon . member with an interest . I be deeply concerned about the situation at Parc prison , and pay tribute to the staff who work there . as I have say many time , I be in absolute awe of the effort make by staff across the Prison and Probation Service , who keep our system — a system which have be in dire strait — go under extreme pressure . I will happily meet hon . member to discuss Parc , but it be a situation that I be already monitor closely . I congratulate the Lord Chancellor on her new position ; I be sure she be go to do an amazing job . the law on joint enterprise need urgent review . thousand of young black man be incarcerate for long prison term for crime they have not commit . will my right hon . friend state how and when she be look to undertake a review of that law ? of course , joint enterprise be not relate to the change we be make today , but I know that it be an issue of real concern and interest for my hon . friend and other member across the House . as I understand it , the Crown Prosecution Service be already review the evidence . it be right for that to conclude before the new Government set out any measure , but I will be engage closely with the CPS on its review . I congratulate my right hon . friend and those on the Front Bench on their appointment . we in Norfolk be lucky to have , in Sarah Taylor , a police and crime commissioner who be stand up with integrity and honesty , just like our new Government , and be open . what work will the Secretary of State be undertake to ensure that police and crime commissioner in Norfolk and around the country be be support in the work they need to do ? Police and crime commissioner be crucial to help we to manage the current crisis and as we move the system to some health , hopefully soon rather than later . I have meeting with many police and crime commissioner while in opposition . I have already meet the lead representative for the pcc on the Criminal Justice Board , and that have already meet to talk about how we make these change in the safe possible way . I will continue engage in that way . I welcome the Lord Chancellor and her team to their place on the Front Bench . far to the question from my hon . friend the Member for Southgate and Wood Green ( Bambos Charalambous ) , be expand this scheme to include unfair indeterminate sentence not worth further consideration ? that would provide an additional 2 , 700 potential early release . I welcome my hon . friend back to her place . I be well aware of the issue around indeterminate sentence for public protection . I know that matter be of great interest to member , as it be to I as a constituency Member of Parliament . I know this territory well . it would not be appropriate to make change in relation to IPP prisoner , because there be a different order of public protection risk . I be determined to make more progress on IPP prisoner . as I say , we will build on the work do by the previous Government . we work constructively with the previous Administration on sensible change that could be make in the safe possible way for the public . those change be on the licence period and the action plan , which we will crack on with as a new government . any change that we make to the regime for that type of sentence , which have be rightly abolish , must be do while balance the public protection risk , which we would never take lightly . Clean Energy Superpower Mission before I call the Secretary of State , I note that there be disappointment from the opposition that the statement be not provide in time . the statement be not provide to my office in time either . I know we want to set off in the right way . I be sure that the official will make note when they arrive that we need to make sure that statement be provide on time . that be mean to be four minute past the hour . I be sure that the Secretary of State will want to ensure that it never happen again . with permission , I would like to make a statement about the Government ' s mission to make Britain a clean energy superpower . this Government be elect two week ago . since then , we have lift the onshore wind ban in England , which have be in place since 2015 ; consent more than 1 . 3 GW of solar project , power the equivalent of almost 400 , 000 home ; establish the 2030 mission control centre in my Department under Chris Stark to plan and deliver our mission ; and establish under the Chancellor a national wealth fund to create good clean energy job across our country . we be just get start . we be move at this pace for one overriding reason : the urgency of the challenge we face . we have the challenge of our energy insecurity , lay bare by Putin ' s invasion of Ukraine and pay for by the british people in the bad cost of live crisis in generation . we have the challenge of an economy that do not work for work people , with too few good job at decent wage . we have the challenge of the climate crisis — not a future threat , but a present reality . this Government have a drive philosophy : homegrown clean energy can help we tackle all those challenge , include crucially energy security . today the Climate Change Committee publish its progress report to Parliament . I thank the interim chair Piers Forster and the interim chief executive James Richardson for their excellent work . the Committee say in its report : " British - base renewable energy be the cheap and fast way to reduce vulnerability to volatile global fossil fuel market . the fast we get off fossil fuel , the more secure we become . " it be right . that be why make Britain a clean energy superpower be one of the five mission of this Government , deliver clean power by 2030 and accelerate to net zero across the economy . today , the committee ' s report also lay bare the truth about the last government . despite achievement , which I be happy to acknowledge , the report be coruscate about the lurch of recent year . it say that " last year … the previous Government signal a slowing of pace and reverse or delay key policy . " it go on : " the … announcement be give with the justification that they will make the transition more affordable for people , but with no evidence back this claim . " it conclude that " the country be not on track " to hit our 2030 international target of 68 % emission reduction . indeed , it say : " our assessment be that only a third of the emission reduction require . . . be currently cover by credible plan . " that be our inheritance for a target to be achieve in just five year . I will respond formally to the committee in the autumn and , as part of that , I have ask my Department to provide I with a thorough analysis of its finding , but I can tell the House today that we will hold fast to our 2030 clean power mission and our nationally determine contribution , because it be the right thing to do for our country . today , I set out our next step . first , onshore wind be one of the cheap source of power that we have . to those in the House who claim they be protect community with the onshore wind ban , let we be clear : they have undermine our energy security and set back the fight against the climate crisis . that be why in the first 72 hour of this government we lift the ban , which today I confirm formally to the House . under the onshore wind ban , the pipeline of project in England shrink by 90 % . over a year ago , the last Government ' s net zero tsar Chris Skidmore , whom I pay tribute to , make a recommendation of an onshore wind taskforce to drive forward project . the last Government ignore it ; we will implement it . the taskforce will work with developer to rebuild the pipeline of project . secondly , solar power be among the cheap form of power that we have . my right hon . friend the Deputy Prime Minister and I be determined that we have a rooftop revolution . we must use the rooftop of our country for solar far well than we do at the moment . that be why the Deputy Prime Minister and I be clear that rooftop solar should play an important role , where appropriate , as part of the future standard for home and building . the solar road map — we have be wait for it for 18 month — will be publish soon , with great ambition . I have reconvene the solar taskforce to deliver that objective . as we face up to the challenge of the energy transition , we must also plan for how we use land in this country to ensure a proper balance between food security , nature preservation and clean energy . after dither and delay under the previous Government , the Environment , Food and Rural Affairs Secretary will publish a land use framework work in tandem with our spatial energy plan . I also assure the House that community will continue to have a say on any proposal in their area . it be important for this Government that where community host clean energy infrastructure , they should directly benefit from it . but we will not carry on with a position where the clean energy we need do not get build and the british people pay the price . credible external estimate suggest that ground - mount solar use just 0 . 1 % of our land in 2022 . the big threat to nature and food security and to our rural community be not solar panel or onshore wind ; it be the climate crisis , which threaten our good farmland , food production and the livelihood of farmer . the Government will proceed not on the basis of myth and false information , but on evidence . every time , the previous Government duck , delay and deny the difficult decision need for clean energy , that make we less secure , raise bill and undermined climate action . no more . thirdly , offshore wind will be the backbone of our clean energy mission . allocation round 5 , oversee by the last government , be a catastrophe for the industry , with no offshore wind contract award . the upcoming round be a critical test . we will get this crucial industry back on its foot . by the beginning of August , I will report back on the budget for ar6 to ensure that as much clean , home - grow energy as possible get build while ensure value for money . our fourth step be the great british Energy Bill announce in the Gracious Speech . I be extremely proud that this be the first Bill for decade that will enable we to establish a UK - wide publicly own energy generation company . the truth be that there be already widespread public ownership of energy in Britain , but by foreign government . we have offshore wind farm in the UK own by the government of Denmark , France , Norway and Sweden through state - own company . those government know that a publicly own national champion be part of a modern industrial strategy and generate a return for taxpayer , crowd in , not crowd out , private investment . for too long , Britain have opt out and lose out . today , we say : no more . great British Energy , headquarter in Scotland , will invest in home - grow clean energy to increase our energy independence , create good job with strong trade union and tackle the climate crisis . it will invest in technology such as nuclear , offshore wind , tidal , hydrogen and carbon capture , and ensure a just transition for our oil and gas community . GB Energy will also oversee the big expansion of community energy in british history through our local power plan . the Government believe in the ownership of british asset by the british people , for the benefit of the british people . follow the people ' s verdict at the general election , I hope that this be a patriotic mission that the whole House can get behind . I have see 19 year of debate on climate and energy in this House . the clean energy transition represent the big transformation of our economy for 200 year , and it be massively challenging . we have be at our good as a country , and as a House , when we have work together for the sake of the national interest . I pay tribute to people of all party who have be champion of this agenda over the past 14 year : Baroness May , who legislate for net zero ; the right hon . member for Kingston and Surbiton ( Ed Davey ) , who oversee the growth of offshore wind ; Caroline Lucas ; and on the Labour Benches , my friend Alan Whitehead . one of my early decision be to re - establish the role of the Secretary of State as the lead climate negotiator in my Department , because we can only protect future generation with strong action at home and leadership abroad . next week in London I will host the President of this year ' s COP29 in Azerbaijan . he will be join by the president of COP28 and COP30 . I have invite the President of COP 26 , Lord Sharma , who preside with such distinction , to join our discussion . this be a sign of how I intend to go on — work with people of all party and none in this national endeavour . that be what the british people have a right to expect of we . as the Prime Minister rightly say , " Country first , party second . " that be more true on this issue than any other . this Government will act at pace and work with anyone who share our mission . I commend this statement to the House . I call the shadow Secretary of State . I would like to put on the record my disappointment not to get the statement in good time . I know that the right hon . Gentleman will want to provide we with the same courtesy that we try to provide he when we be in government . that be say , I congratulate he on his return to government . I be sad not to see more of he during the election campaign , particularly because our ability to secure enough cheap energy will be crucial to this nation ' s success in the decade ahead . I would also like to put on record my thank to the official he will now work with . I wish the right hon . Gentleman well in his endeavour , but energy will be this Government ' s big test . they talk a good game on growth , but the Secretary of State ' s energy policy be their great liability . in government , we build more offshore wind than any other country bar China . we set out the large expansion of nuclear power in 70 year . we say that , yes , we will need oil and gas in the decade ahead , as the Climate Change Committee have say , and we should use british oil and gas where need . we be in a global race for energy , and demand will be high in the year ahead because of datum and artificial intelligence . if the right hon . Gentleman ' s plan to decarbonise the grid by 2030 be in place , we need to know what they will do to people ' s energy bill , our energy security and our reliance on the current dominant player for cable , battery and critical mineral — China . he be happy to quote the Climate Change Committee , but it also acknowledge that we will need oil and gas well into 2050 . he must answer : where would he like that to come from ? when it come to quote , he should consider some from the business world who have comment on his policy , such as the chief executive of Mitsubishi Power , who say that his plan would require a " huge sacrifice " by the country , cite the cost of the Secretary of State ' s approach . the chief executive of Ineos say that his approach to energy be " absurd " , leave we dependent on import of foreign fuel with high emission and do nothing for the climate . even the GMB say that his plan be " unviable " and would lead to power cut , blackout and enormous cost . Unite have say that the Government ' s plan for the North sea would turn oil and gas worker into the coalminer of their generation . the right hon . Gentleman must answer why he would like to import gas with much high emission . how many job will be lose from his plan ? how much investment into the new technology of the future , such as hydrogen , carbon capture and offshore wind , will be lose ? will he meet those worker and explain to they what will happen to their livelihood ? during the election , the right hon . Gentleman claim that he would lower bill and save family £ 300 . however , those number be already in the saving , and no one on his side can set out the cost of his plan to decarbonise the grid by 2030 . who will pay for those network cost ? what will they do to people ' s standing charge , which be already too high ? the right hon . Gentleman also , I think , comment on have a say in term of community . the energy infrastructure he will need , and the fact that he want to go far and fast , will have a huge impact on rural community . their concern must be address . as I set out , the plan for our energy can not come at the expense of our food or national security . in his statement , the right hon . Gentleman accuse I of dither , but as he will know from his official , in at least one of the case he have sign off I have already instruct some time ago that I be minded to reject it , and that paperwork be be prepare . he must set out urgently what his criterion will be . in one case , he overturn an expert examine authority . in another case , he sign off a solar farm which will be 40 % on our good and most versatile agricultural land . do he know that be the case ? if so , what be his basis for find that acceptable ? will he continue our effort to build more solar on rooftop ? I think he mention that he would reconvene the solar taskforce . I hate to tell he , but it have never be disband and we be due to publish that work . so , I would like to know what date he will be able to publish that work . in conclusion , the Secretary of State ' s party win the election and promise change , but he be not on show during that campaign to answer these critical question of how he be go to provide that change and what it will mean for the country . what will his plan mean for the price of electricity ? what will they mean for our ability to keep the light on ? what will they mean for struggle family ’ bill , for our economy , and for the livelihood of oil and gas worker ? what will they mean for our reliance on China ? for all that the Labour Government talk about growth , they will not be able to deliver on that with the Secretary of State ' s plan for energy . I hope that in the month ahead he will set out some of that detail to be examine . may I start by congratulate the right hon . Lady on her recent engagement ? I wish she and her fianc é all the good for the future . we may disagree on some issue , but I believe this Government and the right hon . Lady can at least share a belief in long honeymoon . [ laughter . ] on the right hon . Lady ' s response , I have to say that I be disappoint . the line be very , very familiar . that be because they be the line she have use for the last year . and here she come today to the House and repeat the line as if the intervene meteorite have not hit the conservative party : the bad election result in 200 year for her party . the truth , as sensible conservative know , be that the lurch she work on a year ago with the former Prime Minister , the Leader of the Opposition , the right hon . member for Richmond and Northallerton ( Rishi Sunak ) , be an electoral disaster for the conservative party — the lurch away from climate action . what we see in her statement be the classic dilemma for the Conservative party , which we will see play out , I hope , for many long year of Opposition . the dilemma be do they go the Reform route to be climate denier , or do they actually re - embrace climate — [ interruption . ] order . can I just say that I do not need any advice ? I will decide whether it be a question . it be an answer , actually . on the point the right hon . Lady make , there be a fundamental issue , which be that unless we drive for clean energy — this be what the Climate Change Committee say ; I strongly recommend that right hon . and hon . member read it — we will end up energy insecure . we have the bad cost of live crisis in generation because of our exposure to fossil fuel , both domestically and internationally , set and sell on the world market . unless we drive for clean energy , we will end up pay more for energy . the House would not know that from what she say about our 2030 target . she have a target when she be in government of 95 % clean power by 2030 . of course , target do not matter for the previous Government , because they be always mile away from reach they . as for the North sea , we set out our manifesto position , which be not to issue licence to explore new field but to keep exist field for their lifetime . here be the truth of the conversation that we must have . the fate of North sea oil and gas community be define by these question . do we drive forward the clean energy of the future ? have we a plan for carbon capture and storage ? have we a plan for hydrogen ? have we a plan for offshore wind ? the Conservatives have no such plan , so we will take no lecture on just transition from they . the right hon . Lady have other line that be a rehearsal of the election . let I say this to she , on the solar question . she refer to one particular planning decision , and I do think she have a degree of brass neck . she criticise I for overturn the planning authority . I be in a quasi - judicial role , so I will be careful about what I say , but she have this in her Department for a year . she could have agree with the planning authority and reject the application , but she choose not to do so . that be the reality . in my experience , when you lose a general election a period of reflection be in order , and I say to Conservative Members that they need to reflect long and hard on the signal that they send in this election . their climate lurch be a disaster — a disaster for they electorally , but , much more important to I , a disaster for the country . under this government , Britain be back , open for business and climate leadership . it be great to see you back in the Chair , Mr Speaker . it be also great to see the Secretary of State at the Dispatch Box on this side of the House again . I welcome what he say about the job , low bill , energy security and climate action that lie at the heart of this Government ' s plan . that be very true in respect of the Liverpool city region , where offshore wind — as he say — will play an important and increase role in our energy future , along with onshore wind , solar power , hydrogen , carbon capture and nuclear energy . however , we also have exciting plan for tidal energy in the region , and I hope he can confirm that it will form a part of what he want to achieve through the plan that he have announce . my hon . friend have long be an eloquent advocate for the role that business can play in generate the clean energy of our future and generate prosperity . I can absolutely confirm that we want to embrace the wide range of technology . obviously we must ensure that that give value for money , but what I always say on these occasion be that the climate crisis and the energy security challenge be so big for we as a country that we must embrace every form of technology at our disposal , because that be the only way in which we will succeed . rise — order . may I just gently say that these exchange must finish at 1 pm ? I hope we can help each other along the way , but first I call the liberal Democrat spokesperson . I welcome the new Secretary of State to his place . I share his passion for climate action . let I add , however , that next time he make a statement we will need our copy in well time than be the case today . there be no doubt that the good route to affordable energy be renewable , but under the former Government renewable project face long delay and cost have skyrocket . indeed , that Government ' s record on renewable be absolutely miserable . our electricity demand be expect to double by 2050 , and we must make upgrade our grid infrastructure a major priority . the Government will know that one of the big challenge will be to bring community behind host the big infrastructure change need for the grid expansion , and to cope with the huge landscape transformation . how will they secure public consent ? as the Secretary of State say , to achieve our legally bind target we also need a " rooftop solar revolution " , which will include introduce strong incentive for household to install solar panel and ensure a fair price for energy that they sell back to the grid . will the Government work on those incentive with the Liberal Democrats ? we Liberal Democrats acknowledge the new approach take by this new Government , and I look forward to work constructively with the Secretary of State to achieve our very ambitious target . may I welcome you to the Chair , Madam Deputy Speaker ? I welcome the hon . Lady ' s question ; we work together on these issue when we be in opposition . let I deal with her two substantive point . on the question of public consent , this be absolutely something that we need to do , and I see it in three way . first , community need a say . secondly , community need benefit . community be provide a service to the country when they host clean energy infrastructure , so there need to be benefit for those community . thirdly , this be a debate that we will have to have , and I be afraid the last Government do not grasp the nettle on this issue . we be go through a massive change in our economy . if we do not build the grid or roll out solar , we will be poor as a country and we will absolutely expose ourselves to future cost of live crisis . I look forward to receive as much support as possible from the Liberal Democrats , and indeed from all member of this House , in make the case to people . we have to go out and make the case , as I think happen in the 1950 when we will build the grid . if we do not make the case , we will leave ourselves expose as a country , and it be the british people who will pay the price . I completely concur with the hon . Lady on rooftop solar . I welcome my right hon . friend back to his position on the Front Bench , and I particularly welcome his reference to hydrogen . I know he have be to visit ITM Power in my constituency . when will an announcement be make about the choose two technology to pursue with small modular reactor ? will he give an assurance that whichever firm be pick , they will have to ensure that a very high percentage of the smr be build in this country by UK firm , such as Sheffield Forgemasters in my constituency ? that will create well - pay job as well as clean energy . I definitely concur with what my hon . Friend say about ITM Power — an incredibly impressive company that I have visit . I also concur with he on the SMR programme . our manifesto make it clear that we support new nuclear , include at Sizewell , and we also support the SMR programme . part of our challenge be to examine the legacy leave to we by the last government , but he should be in no doubt about my absolute support for the SMR programme . it be important , and we will strive to keep to the timetable set out . I welcome the Secretary of State to his role , but he have be quite political in his reply . I gently point out that in West Worcestershire , few people vote Labour in this election than in the last election or the one before . I wonder whether he have ever visit the beautiful landscape of West Worcestershire . the Malvern hill and Bredon hill be some of the most treasured landscape in our land . what parameter be he go to put around the building of pylon , wind farm and solar farm across that beautiful landscape ? I thank the hon . Lady for her question . as with any planning decision , there be clear parameter in the legislation on the consultation that need to take place with local community . I gently point out to she that , nine year ago , the last Government ban onshore wind in England for some of the reason that she set out . I think that be a mistake at the time , and it turn out to be even more of a mistake than I think , because it expose we to energy insecurity . we have to make judgment as member of this House . give the scale of the climate crisis , the energy insecurity and the energy security threat that we face , do we believe that we need to build infrastructure ? I happen to believe that we do — yes , with community consent ; yes , with community benefit ; and yes , with the planning rule that I have set out . I congratulate the Secretary of State on his new position . he be lucky enough to visit my constituency during the election campaign and to visit the port of Greenock , where he see the great potential that exist for Inverclyde and Renfrewshire West to contribute to the Government ' s clean energy mission . what plan do he have to ensure that every part of the country , include in Scotland , can make a contribution ? what message do he have for my constituent who be look to the Government to make an investment in our port and our marine asset ? my hon . friend be an incredibly eloquent advocate for his port , which I be delighted to visit during the election campaign . he make such an important point : for an island nation look to take advantage — in term of job as well as generation — of the opportunity of offshore wind , include float offshore wind , our port be a massively undervalued and under - invest asset . that be why in our manifesto we set out the large public investment in port since privatisation . my hon . friend be absolutely right to say that it must involve the whole of our United Kingdom . Scotland have a special place in that , as it will become the new headquarters of GB Energy . in the last Parliament , I be lucky enough to be the co - chair of the all - party parliamentary group on deep geothermal . I feel that we make good progress in convince the Government of its merit in help the climate change transition . will the new Secretary of State commit to a meeting with the REA — the Association for Renewable Energy and Clean Technology , which act as the secretariat for the APPG — and I to see what more we can do to convince the new Government of the role that deep geothermal can play ? in the spirit that I speak about in my statement , may I congratulate the hon . gentleman on his work on deep geothermal ? it be an outstanding example of how Members of Parliament can advance the role that particular technology can play . he be a most eloquent advocate for this technology . among the many place I go during the election campaign , I have the chance to see deep geothermal in Cornwall , which also have the potential for lithium mining : it be a source of critical mineral . between I and the new Minister for energy — the Under - Secretary of State for Energy Security and Net Zero , my hon . friend the Member for Rutherglen ( Michael Shanks ) , who be go to be a very busy man — we will make sure that we meet the hon . Gentleman and his colleague to take forward this agenda . in line with the Cornwall thread , I call Jayne Kirkham . cornish port such as Falmouth , which the Secretary of State visit during the campaign , have well - advanced plan to reconfigure to service float offshore wind in the Celtic sea . cornish further education provider be keen to gear up to provide specialised course to support the speedy growth of that industry so that young people in Cornwall have the opportunity to train for those high - skilled job of the future , but in the past they have struggle because of a lack of government support . will the Secretary of State please confirm that support will be available to port , business and educational establishment in Cornwall , to enable they to plug into the vast opportunity open up by float offshore wind in the Celtic sea ? I congratulate my hon . friend on her election . may I say that she be a great person to go out on a boat with and that I very much enjoy our tour ? my hon . friend make such an important point about the Celtic sea and about the opportunity that we have . one of the decision on my desk will be how we make sure that we advance float wind technology and that we manufacture it in the UK . as Tim Pick , the offshore wind champion , often remind I , the large float wind prototype be off the coast of Scotland , but it be not manufacture in the UK . we need to change that . I call Llinos Medi . Diolch , Dirprwy Lefarydd — thank you , Madam Deputy Speaker . the labour manifesto state that build new nuclear power and small modular reactor will be important in develop new clean power , yet in the King ' s Speech yesterday there be not a single mention of nuclear power . can the Secretary of State assure I that develop new nuclear power be still a priority of this Government ? what be the specific plan for the Wylfa and Trawsfynydd site in Wales ? I welcome the hon . Lady to her place . great British Energy will of course have a strong interest in nuclear power , work with great british Nuclear . it be very important for the future . this Government be very clear in our manifesto about the role that nuclear power — both large - scale nuclear and smr — can play . I know that the last Government purchase the site for Wylfa , and it be something that we will certainly be look at . I welcome my right hon . friend to his place and congratulate he on his ambition . BioYorkshire be a project — a green new deal — to create 4 , 000 green - collar job and upskill 25 , 000 worker . it will also create hundred of spin - off and new start - up company focus on chemical , agriculture and a new generation of fuel . will he ensure that his Department have early engagement with this green new deal for York and North Yorkshire ? will he ensure that that be part of his energy superpower for the future ? I be grateful to my hon . friend for draw this project to my attention . in a way , the question from both side of the House demonstrate the huge potential we have in this area , not just to tackle the climate crisis and energy insecurity but to create the good job of the future . I undertake that the Department will want to look closely at her project . what assessment have the new Secretary of State make of the proposal to build an interconnector between Morocco and the UK to bring clean solar and wind energy that could potentially provide 8 % of the UK ' s grid requirement ? I thank the right hon . gentleman for his question . I certainly take an interest in the project when I be in opposition . I have meet Xlinks , the company involve . I need to be careful about what I say on these matter , as he will appreciate , but it be certainly a project that my Department will want to consider . I thank the Secretary of State for his statement . he have already show more ambition and leadership on transition away from dirty energy in his 14 day in government than the Tories show in 14 year . do he agree that by make the UK a clean energy superpower , we will be able to tackle air pollution , which kill more than 100 people a year in Manchester alone ? that be the kind of question I like . my hon . friend make a serious and important point about air pollution , which be another reason why we need to move away from fossil fuel . in a sense , the tragedy of air pollution be that it be a silent killer . ten of thousand of people a year die prematurely in our country as a result of air pollution . People would be out on the street if it be any other issue but , because it be a silent killer , it be too little noticed . he be absolutely right that this be yet another reason why it be important that we act with speed and transition as fast as possible . I be conscious that we do not have a register of interest at the moment so , for the Secretary of State ' s own protection , it might be helpful if he could tell the House whether he accept any donation or otherwise during the election campaign that might be declarable . I want to press the Secretary of State far on protect the landscape . eighty per cent of my constituency be in an area of outstanding natural beauty , now rebrande as a national landscape . can he reassure I that , in their planning decision , he and the Secretary of State for Housing , Communities and Local Government will respect the notion of protect landscape ? there be a series of solar farm application in my constituency , some of which be either in or impinge on the area of outstanding natural beauty . the landscape be protect for a reason , and it be important that the Government respect those protection in planning law . I hope he can confirm that that will be the case . on the right hon . Gentleman ' s first question , I be proud to have be support by the GMB and the Union of Shop , Distributive and Allied Workers during the election campaign . I think the sum be below the declarable limit , but I be very happy to put that on the record . as a constituency MP , I understand local people ' s concern about planning issue , and we have to take those concern seriously . we know that not all planning application be good , and that be the Government ' s position . at the same time , particularly in the light of what the National Infrastructure Commission have say , it be widely recognise that how the planning process work have delay the clean energy we need and have make we poor as a country . this Government be determined to change that . I thank the Secretary of State for the constructive manner in which he and the Government have approach the vital issue of the Grangemouth refinery , which be crucial to life in my constituency . can he confirm that the UK Government will be tenacious and resolute in seek an industrial future for the Grangemouth site ? will he agree to meet I to discuss potential option for its future ? I pay tribute to my hon . friend for be such an eloquent advocate for Grangemouth so early in his time as a Member of Parliament . his counsel , advice and work on this subject have be very important . I have have three conversation with my counterpart in the Scottish Government over the last two week , which be a sign of how we intend to continue . we will work across party and across Government to do all we can . the future of Grangemouth really matter to this Government , and we will leave no stone unturned in work with the union , the company and the Scottish Government to do everything we can to secure a viable future for activity on the site and for the community of Grangemouth . after the King ' s Speech and this statement , we still do not have a clue about what GB Energy will look like . the Government can not even tell we where it will be place , other than within the 30 , 000 square mile of Scotland . Greg Jackson , the boss of Octopus Energy , have say that if we reform this absurd energy market through some form of regional pricing structure , everybody in the UK would have cheap bill and Scotland would have the cheap energy in Europe . will the Secretary of State look at that and ensure that he deliver that prospect for everyone in these isle ? I be slightly disappointed but not surprised by the hon . Gentleman ' s tone . I would have think that the Scottish National party would welcome a publicly own energy generation company locate in Scotland — my counterpart in the Scottish Government certainly welcome it . let we be absolutely clear that it will be a generator of energy . that be what company such as Ø rste and Statkraft do . they own power in this country , and we will do the same . these be complex question , and we definitely need fairness across the United Kingdom when it come to energy price . that be what this Government endeavour to deliver . I congratulate my right hon . friend on his appointment and welcome he back to government . my constituent , and indeed all our constituent , have suffer the bad cost of live crisis in generation , thank to the conservative party be in thrall to fossil fuel interest and fail to invest in renewable . do the Secretary of State agree that we need a publicly own domestic energy champion that can speed up our transition to green energy , reduce our reliance on volatile international gas market and cut household bill at the same time ? my hon . friend have be an incredibly eloquent advocate on these issue , include in the last Parliament . this be an important point for all party in the House to reckon with . the energy insecurity case for action on clean energy be totally transform from when I be Energy Secretary 15 year ago . why ? partly because Russia ' s invasion of Ukraine remind we of what exposure can look like , but it be also because we have see a 90 % fall in the cost of solar and a 70 % fall in the cost of offshore wind over the last decade . the old argument that this energy will save we money in the long term but might cost more in the short term have change . this be the cheap , clean form of energy we can access . there be 1 , 360 submission from interested party against the Sunnica application in West Suffolk , and the technical report recommend against the application be 339 page long . have the Secretary of State visit the Sunnica site ? how many hour do it take he to read all the submission and evidence to make his own detailed technical and legal judgment to overrule they . anyone who know I know that I be a super - nerd . I take all of my responsibility , particularly my quasi - judicial responsibility , incredibly seriously , and I do in all the judgment I make . my hon . friend will find it nice refer to my right hon . friend as the Secretary of State , and I thank he for his statement . his action over the last few week underline the damaging inaction of the past 14 year . the CCC report out today confirm the true extent of the Tories ' climate denialism and the way in which it have undermine our ability to deliver on so many important aspect of this agenda . do the Secretary of State agree that no less damaging than climate denialism be the climate delivery denialism to which member in certain part of this House be now start to fall back ? can he confirm that this Government will not shy away from some of the tough choice that will have to be make to deliver not only the climate agenda that voter have support but the energy security we desperately need ? I thank my hon . friend for his important question . he draw attention to a fact in the Climate Change Committee report that be worth underline : we have an internationally set , nationally determined contribution of 68 % reduction by 2030 compare to 1990 level . however , the Climate Change Committee say this morning that only a third of the emission reduction require be cover by credible plan — that be the legacy we have be leave . I be determined that we meet those target , which be why we have to speed up and act in a way that the last Government do not . my hon . friend be right about clean energy . as I say early , this be a debate that this country will have to have . we can say no to clean energy and to building grid , but that will leave we poor and more exposed , and mean that we be not do what be require to tackle the climate crisis . this Government have make their choice ; other will have to do so too . I welcome the Secretary of State to his post . I welcome the tone of his statement and I share its ambition . will he join I in commend the ambitious work of Lib Dem - lead Oxfordshire county council , which want to reach net zero by 2030 , and the work of all council everywhere ? they be on the frontline of the climate crisis in our community . he talk about local people have a say . do he agree that often the good way for local community to feel they have that say be through their local council ? characteristically , the hon . Lady make an important point . to deliver this agenda , we have to get the central - local relationship right , because if we try to deliver it all from the centre we will not succeed . to take the example of improve the appalling state of energy efficiency in our home , much of that work will have to be deliver by local authority . that be the right way to do it , and I pay tribute to all the local authority across the country that be show ambition in that area . I congratulate the Secretary of State on his appointment . the Cities of London and Westminster have a huge contribution to make for the UK to be a clean energy superpower , not just through investment drive from the City of London and innovation drive by business across the constituency , but through our residential community energy scheme , such as Aldgate Solar Power , which be a fantastic local co - operative . however , after year of dither and delay by the Conservative Government and the former conservative council , the Pimlico district heating undertaking be in desperate need of investment . will the Secretary of State meet I to discuss how we can make it an exemplar scheme and mitigate the cost for local resident and leaseholder , who may be face significant cost because of the nature and construction of the heating equipment ? I congratulate my hon . friend on her election . I have work with she in the past and I know she will be an outstanding Member of Parliament . the Under - Secretary of State for Energy Security and Net Zero , my hon . friend the Member for Rutherglen , be go to be very busy , but I be sure he will happily meet she to discuss her question . she raise community energy scheme . I want to emphasise that one thing great British Energy will deliver be our local power plan , which will work with local community and local authority to deliver community energy . one of the answer to the question of how we build public consent for this be community ownership of energy . we want to drive that forward , and that be what the local power plan will be about . I congratulate the right hon . gentleman on his appointment . the decision that the Government have make will see a much more rapid decommissioning of oil and gas in the North sea . how much additional money have he secure from the Treasury to cover the Government ' s legal cost for that decommissioning , and how much do he think it will cost in total ? the most important thing be to secure a just transition for those community , as set out in our manifesto , through £ 8 . 3 billion from great British Energy and over £ 7 billion from our national wealth fund . the truth be that there be massive debate in the House about licensing . the right hon . Gentleman will not have be at the debate when we discuss these issue , but the difference it make to how much of our gas demand be produce domestically be that under the old government — [ interruption . ] let I explain . under the old Government policy , there would have be a 95 % reduction in our demand meet domestically , but under this Government ' s policy , it will be 97 % . for all the hue and cry from the opposition , that be the reality . I welcome the Secretary of State to his position . Cornwall be one of the most deprived area of northern Europe . however , we be bless with vast renewable energy resource , as mention early : onshore wind , offshore wind , geothermal , tidal , solar and ground source heat technology , as well as critical mineral , not from China but from Camborne and Redruth . will the Secretary of State meet I and cornish colleague to discuss how GB Energy will be use to realise our renewable energy potential and to transform local cornish economy ? my hon . friend be also a great guy to go on a boat with . as he say , Cornwall and our coastal community have an incredibly important part to play . some of the big economic challenge we face as a country be in our coastal community . it be not easy , but if we get this right it will be a massive opportunity , not just for Cornwall but for all our coastal community , and that be what this Government intend to do . I call Jim Shannon . oh , thank you — you catch I off guard there , Madam Deputy Speaker , because I be so used to be the last one in the House to be call . I welcome the Secretary of State to his place . I know it have always be his ambition to have the opportunity to have this role . now he have it , I hope it go well for he , and we will support he in what he be try to achieve . with the new Government come a new way of achieve goal and aim . I represent Strangford , which be a mostly rural constituency . farming be a way of life and a key part of the economy . it create thousand of job and opportunity , and be key to our future . green energy and net zero be important for that as well . will the Secretary of State confirm that the farming community and agrifood need will be paramount in any effort to achieve a well world for all of we to live in ? I thank the hon . gentleman for his kind word . in the last few day , I have sometimes sai3d to people that I feel that I be go back to the job I do 15 year ago , but get to try and do it well . I be sure member on the Opposition Benches would agree with that . it be an amazing opportunity and a big responsibility . the hon . Gentleman make an important point about the role of rural of community , particularly farming community . we be determined to get the balance right between food security , nature preservation and clean energy . the truth be that we , as a country , have not think about the role of our land enough in recent year . we hope that will be drive by the land use framework that will be produce by my right hon . friend the Secretary of State for Environment , Food and Rural Affairs . I welcome the Secretary of State and his team to their place . he will know that my constituency have benefit hugely from offshore wind , particularly in operation and maintenance , but the critical part of the supply chain have fail to be produce . what do he suggest that member across the House can do to ensure we get the supply chain right so that my constituent can benefit from that investment ? I welcome my hon . friend back to the House . it be fantastic to see she back in her place — I congratulate she . she know much about this subject through work for renewableuk when she be outside the House , and she make an important point . the shadow Secretary of State draw attention to our generation of offshore wind , which we have do well , but it be commonly accept that we have not do nearly so well in generate the job that should come with that . part of what I will be do with my right hon . friend the Secretary of State for Business and Trade be develop a proper green industrial strategy , include in the supply chain . that will provide clarity about the plan to ensure that we have not just energy generation , but job generation too . I welcome the Secretary of State to his role , and welcome the Government ' s recognition that public investment must play a substantial role in decarbonise power . I have see that from my previous career in offshore wind . however , this public investment must not be only about de - risk private sector investment , though some of his colleague have imply that that would be the principal role of great British Energy . will the Secretary of State confirm that great British Energy will invest in fully publicly own , or at least majority publicly own , renewable generation project , and will not confine itself to take minority stake in private sector - lead project that would give it very little control ? I welcome the hon . Lady to her place . I can confirm that GB Energy will play a role in all kind of way , and that we be certainly not restrict it in the way that she suggest . furthermore , in the constructive spirit of these exchange , I would ask that the Green party think about its commitment to tackle the climate crisis , which we all share , and then think about this question of infrastructure . if it want to tackle the climate crisis , it should know that that simply will not happen if its lead member say no to new energy infrastructure . I , too , welcome the Secretary of State to his place . it be very appropriate that he be bring this level of energy to the debate , and we all hope to see much more of that in the year ahead . it be a big contrast to the previous 10 year of inaction , which have cost we , not just in term of our energy security , but in waste opportunity . I wish to touch on one of those opportunity , which be the huge tidal power potential that Britain have in Swansea , and not just in Sefton . do he agree that it be time to seize that opportunity , rather than waste it ? I welcome my hon . friend to his place . he be head of policy when I be Leader of the Opposition , and I tend to do what he tell I , rather than the other way round , so it be a particular pleasure to see he in his place . he make such an important point . tidal be an area where Britain be in the lead , but we want to go far and fast , as it have huge potential for our country . I welcome the Secretary of State to his place , but I have to say that the Government ' s disastrous decision to industrialise our highly productive , good agricultural land by approve three huge solar farm clearly demonstrate their unwillingness to listen to the concern of local rural community ; it run roughshod over they and their ability to have their say . it be also hugely detrimental to food security . can he explain to the House how he will look the farming community in the eye and explain his decision , as well as the Government ' s lukewarm word on food security be national security ? I be afraid that we have to conduct these debate on the basis of fact , not myth . some 0 . 1 % of our land , and around that amount of agricultural land , be be use for solar panel . we can not proceed on the basis of myth . the hon . Gentleman talk about the farming community . farmer want this . the National Farmers Union have support this decision . of course we will work with local community , but every time an Opposition Member get up and oppose clean energy , they be say to the british people , " we be go to make you poor . we be go to make Britain more energy insecure , and we be not go to tackle the climate crisis . " I thank the Secretary of State for set out his very clear strategy . will he confirm whether project such as the new hydrogen hub in Bradford will be at the forefront of that strategy ? will he guarantee proper investment in place such as Bradford , so that we can grow and become a global leader in this sector , as well as generate well - pay and sustainable job ? I really welcome my hon . friend ' s advocacy on this issue . the hydrogen economy be a really important part of our future . it be yet another example of where we can succeed as a country and generate good job and good wage . I look forward to engage with he on these issue . may I take the Secretary of State back to the question of tidal power generation ? if he speak to the developer in the sector , they will tell he that they need two thing to keep grow the sector . they need an expand pot for the ringfenced allocation in the next allocation round , and they need an ambitious deployment target for the sector . can we have an early announcement on that ? if he really want to understand the potential of marine renewable , he need to get himself up to the European Marine Energy Centre in Orkney . he be very welcome there at any time , but he might want to come in the summer , while the day be still long . I thank the right hon . member for that invitation , and I will very much consider it , because I care a lot about this area . obviously , I have to make decision , in a certain capacity , about allocation round 6 , but I have hear what he have say . I welcome the Secretary of State and his excellent team to their new role . can I look forward to welcome they back to Whitelee wind farm , which he have be to many time before , to see how the large onshore wind farm in the UK be contribute not only energy , but to the community and its life ? I declare an interest as the outgoing chair of the Uyghur Campaign in the UK . the Secretary of State will be aware that much of the polysilicon use in solar manufacturing be source from the Uyghur region , where Uyghurs and other Turkic Muslims be routinely use as slave labourer . the expansion of solar that the Secretary of State be envision give we enormous economic leverage in the UK , and I wonder how he intend to use that leverage to get the industry to clean up its supply chain and seek alternative source of polysilicon . let I welcome my hon . friend to his place . he raise a very important issue . there be some standard put in place by the previous Government , but I think that we should take this issue incredibly seriously . I look forward to discussion with he on these issue . the Secretary of State speak very passionately about GB Energy . I remind he that just a few year ago , the Labour - control Nottingham city council have its own energy company call Robin Hood Energy , but this be Robin Hood with a modern twist : it rob from the poor and give to the rich , and cost the taxpayer about £ 50 million . can the Secretary of State tell the House from that Dispatch Box how much GB Energy will cost the taxpayer ? first of all , let I explain to the hon . gentleman that Robin Hood Energy be a supply company ; this be a generation company . Robin Hood be a retailer , so it be different , but I have to say that I be surprised at the position that he take . I think his party be in favour of publicly own energy . I think it produce lot of video on social medium to that effect . the Secretary of State know from his recent visit to my constituency just how important energy security be for the people of Newcastle - under - Lyme . I be just sorry that there be no boat . over 14 year of the Tories , family ' bill have be push up , and we be leave at the mercy of Putin after his invasion of Ukraine . may I urge the Secretary of State to get to work quickly , follow his excellent return to the job — he be the comeback kid — so that we can cut bill and give my constituent the energy security that they deserve ? I think to be call a kid at my time of life be stretch thing a bit , but I be nevertheless grateful to my hon . friend for his contribution . he make the important point that huge opportunity exist right across our country . the United States have use the Inflation Reduction Act to seize those opportunity . our economy be small , but we intend to seize those opportunity with a proper , modern industrial policy . I welcome the Secretary of State to his place . somerset be home to many ground - mount solar farm development . although I fully support the significantly increase amount of electricity that we generate from renewable , I believe that the community that host the infrastructure should receive compensation . the Government ' s recent policy statement on onshore wind agree with that , so will community benefit fund be mandate for new solar farm development ? the hon . Lady raise an important issue . the previous Government have a whole series of consultation out on community benefit . we will respond to those , but I want to be very clear that I believe that when a community take on the responsibility of host clean energy infrastructure , it should benefit from it . I welcome my right hon . friend to his role , and I welcome his ambition . during the general election campaign , so many resident in Knowsley tell I that they be struggle with the cost of live crisis and rise energy bill . can the Secretary of State confirm that great British Energy will allow we to take back control of our system , give we energy security , and crucially low bill for family ? let I welcome my hon . friend to her place , and congratulate she on her election ; she will be a great Member of Parliament . she raise such an important issue . More than 3 million people be in fuel poverty in our country . one thing that this government will do that the last Government do not be demand that landlord raise the standard of their accommodation to a proper energy performance certificate standard C by 2030 . that will make a dent in this issue , but the House should be in no doubt about our ambition to cut that number of 3 . 2 million as much as possible in the five year of this Parliament . plan for 90 mile of pylon from Lincolnshire to my North West Norfolk constituency and new substation be strongly oppose by local community . will the Secretary of State commit to a review of network technology , and consider a presumption in favour of underground or offshore proposal ? I will look at all proposal , but I think the hon . Gentleman know that underground cable cost six to 10 time more ; that be why the last Government do not agree to they . [ Official Report , 2 September 2024 ; Vol . 753 , c . 1wc . ] ( Correction ) if part of our challenge be to cut bill for people , that be not a sustainable solution for the future . I be sympathetic to all mp who raise issue on behalf of their constituent , but I gently say again to he that if we want to avoid a repeat of the cost of living crisis , if we want to tackle the climate crisis , and if we want energy security , we will have to build the grid in our country . I welcome the comment of the Secretary of State , which be incredibly encouraging for community such as mine in west Wales . throughout the campaign , I hear again and again the demand from local people , from Pembroke Dock to Milford Haven , for well pay , secure job in the industry of the future . in the port of Milford Haven we have a huge opportunity , particularly in the area of float offshore wind . will the Secretary of State meet I to discuss the opportunity for my constituency , and how we can overcome the barrier to investment in local job ? I be delighted to visit the port of Milford Haven during the election campaign . there be an interesting issue here : the £ 1 . 8 billion investment that this Government be make in our port will hopefully allow we to invest in float offshore wind at more port than the last Government be able to . I can not make promise about particular port from the Dispatch Box , but this be so important , because if we be to get the job here , we must invest in our port infrastructure . the Secretary of State refer multiple time to community consent , yet the 6 , 000 acre of solar installation in the constituency of my hon . friend the Member for West Suffolk ( Nick Timothy ) have no community consent . that send shiver down the spine of my constituent in and around the village know as the Claydons , who be look down the barrel of a 2 , 100 - acre solar installation call Rosefield . that be on top of a propose battery storage plant next door , and on top of the National Grid want to build a brand - new substation to take the thing in ; it be the tail wag the dog . what will change to make community consent a reality ? what the hon . Gentleman want for nationally significant project be community veto . indicate assent . the hon . Gentleman nod his head . I will be honest with he : we be not go to give community veto . the last Government do not give it either . there be nationally significant project that the Government have to make decision on . obviously , we have to take into account the view of local community , but the whole point of decision making on the nationally significant infrastructure programme be that we look at the need of the nation as well . that be why community benefit be important . if we ask local community to host clean energy infrastructure , sometimes they will not want it , or sometimes a minority will not want it — I be not make presumption in this case — and then we should ensure that those community benefit from it . I welcome the Secretary of State and his team to the Chamber . it be a privilege to make my first contribution in this House on such an ambitious plan . it be ambitious not just on net zero , the climate crisis and energy security , but on job and opportunity for young people in place such as mine . in my constituency , Peterborough college be already build a green technology centre to develop new green apprenticeship , and we have plan for a clean energy transition centre . will the Secretary of State put on record his commitment to work with trade union , community , college and other , so that we can move from blue - collar to green - collar apprenticeship , and give young people an opportunity to succeed in life as we meet our climate and energy need ? I welcome my hon . friend to his place . he raise the important question of how we ensure — this issue will be familiar to member across the House — that we not only have the capacity to generate job in clean energy but can meet the skill need of the country in order to fill they . this be frankly something on which we need to do a lot well as a country . my department — I will talk about this in the next few week — will take on more of a function around look at the skill need of the clean energy economy , work with the Department for Education on how we meet they . he raise a crucial point in that context . I congratulate the Secretary of State and his team on their recent appointment and thank they for their recent visit to Cheyne Court wind farm in my constituency , which be open by the Secretary of State in 2009 . Dungeness A and Dungeness B in my constituency be former nuclear power station that be in the process of be decommission . dungeness have the land , infrastructure , grid connection and local expertise that make it well place for new nuclear . will the Secretary of State be willing to meet I to discuss how we can harness Dungeness ' s potential for the local area and the regional community ? I be delighted to visit the Cheyne Court wind farm with my hon . friend — a wind farm that I open 15 year ago on my first visit as the Secretary of State . picture of how much I have age between then and now be available on request . he raise a really important issue . he be an important advocate for clean energy , whether in relation to wind power or the potential nuclear programme . both be important to we . I congratulate the Secretary of State on his position , and on the vigorous start that he have make on this most important of issue face humanity and the world . I be particularly encourage to see he put climate diplomacy high on the agenda , and at the heart of the new Cabinet . that be so important , after 14 year of the previous Government ' s denigration of Britain ' s role in the world on this most important issue of tackle climate change . will he far outline to the House the work that he plan to ensure that , unlike in the past 15 year , Britain will be the main player that it need to be in global co - operation on tackle the threat of climate change ? I be pleased that my hon . friend have ask I that question . the world want to see british leadership , but british leadership start at home with the power of example . if we do not show that we be act at home then people say , " you ' re tell we one thing abroad , but do something different when it come to your own domestic situation . " the truth be that COP29 in Azerbaijan and crucially COP30 in Brazil will be very important moment . COP30 be when the world have to come to term with how far off track we be from 1 . 5 ° C , and put in our nationally determined contribution for 2035 . I look forward to Britain play as much of a constructive role in those negotiation as we can . I welcome the Secretary of State to his place . teesside be perfectly position for the green job of the future — job in hydrogen , clean power and port — as my right hon . friend know from his recent visit to Teesport . will he meet I and colleague to ensure that we can bring job and investment to Teesside ? my hon . friend , who I welcome to his place , make such an important point about the role teesside can play . I see on a recent visit how much potential there be and we look forward to work with he on these issue . I welcome my right hon . friend and his team to their place . he have the privilege of visit Basingstoke college of technology during the election campaign to meet some of the fantastic apprentice and student there . far to his answer to my hon . friend the Member for Peterborough ( Andrew Pakes ) , will he commit to work with college such as bcot as he develop the plan for skill and training for the hundred of thousand of job we need to deliver on our ambition of a clean energy superpower ? I thank my hon . friend and welcome he to the House . he bring a wealth of knowledge and experience on these issue . I enjoy my visit to Basingstoke . what really come home to I on that visit be young people ' s enthusiasm for this agenda — not simply because they care about the climate crisis , but because they see this as a potential future for themselves , their friend and their family . I look forward to work with college such as his to make that a reality . it be great to see my right hon . friend in his place after over a decade of leadership on this issue , talk about climate change and really make that difference . if we be to be a clean energy superpower , we need to learn from good example and well practice wherever it be . in Calder Valley , Together Housing be a good example of a housing association that be do well in put solar on roof and take advantage of microgeneration . however , I be sure he will agree that one problem for those kind of project be that the national grid be not up to scratch . key to be a clean energy superpower be get a modern national grid . will he also agree to visit some of Together Housing ' s project , which keep bill down and put solar panel on roof ? I welcome my hon . friend to his place and congratulate he on his election , and I commend his housing association for what it be do . he raise one of the big issue that the previous Government face and that this Government face . the flipside of all the Conservative Members say that they do not want the grid build be what my hon . friend just say — maybe they should have a conversation . what he be say be that if we do not build the grid , we can not get the clean energy and we can not cut bill for our constituent . I do not say that this be easy , and I do not want to pretend that it be . certainly the last Government do not find it easy , but we have to decide . to govern be to choose , and our choice be that we believe this clean energy infrastructure need to be build . last week Bracknell Forest council hold a climate change summit , bring together local business , school and community organisation in my constituency to engage in discussion about how good to face the challenge of climate change . do the Secretary of State agree that community be cry out to take part and to be engage in the clean energy transition ? again , I congratulate my hon . friend . he raise an important point that we have not touch on : the role of citizen in this change . my sense be that , while of course there be specific planning issue that people raise about their own community , the view of many citizen in our country be , " what can I do ? what difference can I make ? " I think the Government need to do a well job of answer that . that be not nanny - statism , to reassure the Conservatives , but public information about the difference people can make in this incredibly important cause . last but not least , I call Laurence Turner . as a recent official of the GMB trade union , which have be mention in this statement , I welcome the Secretary of State and his team and official to their place . how welcome it be to have a change of Government from the record of the last 14 year , with the ducking and delaying of difficult decision on issue from nuclear to gas storage , and the exclusion for too long of worker ’ voice from the decision that affect the energy system . in opposition , my right hon . friend establish an energy transition working group to bring together trade union and worker ' voice at the heart of energy plan . can he confirm today that continue that group in government will be an early priority for this new Administration ? I welcome my hon . friend to this House and thank he for the work we do together in opposition on all these issue . as this be the final question , he end on a really important point : this Government have a completely different attitude to the role that trade union can play in the future of our energy system , and we be proud of it . if we be to make the energy transition , include in the North sea , and build a proper industrial policy for the future , we should do what every other self - respect nation do and have trade union at the heart of our policymaking and decision making . that be what this Government will do . congratulation everybody on get through that ; I be delighted that everybody get to ask their question and I thank the Secretary of State for his response . point of order on a point of order , Madam Deputy Speaker . may I first welcome you to your place ? secondly , I have have the benefit of two ministerial visit by Government Members , both of whom I respect , without the courtesy of let I know . I have speak independently to both of they — the right hon . member for Rawmarsh and Conisbrough ( John Healey ) and the hon . member for Plymouth Sutton and Devonport ( Luke Pollard ) — and they have both assure I that it be an error in process that will be correct . I just want to make sure the whole of the Treasury Bench and the new Government follow the normal protocol and ensure that all member of the House be duly inform of visit . far to that point of order , Madam Deputy Speaker . the Defence Secretary and I have speak to the hon . Gentleman and apologise for the administrative oversight . I assure he and other member that it will not happen again . on a point of order , Madam Deputy Speaker . in the statement on prison capacity , the issue of the Friday release of prisoner be raise . I recognise it be raise by hon . member sincerely and with good intention . however , private Members ' bill be an incredibly important part of the work of this House , something we all recognise and value , and during the previous Parliament the former Member for Barrow and Furness steer through , with cross - party support , the Offenders ( Day of Release from Detention ) Bill , to stop the routine release of prisoner on a Friday . I seek your advice , Madam Deputy Speaker , on how we can ensure that the record accurately reflect the incredibly important work on that private Member ' s Bill , which contribute to that issue and be not mention in the statement early . I thank the hon . member for his point of order and for give notice of it . although it be not a matter for the Chair , he have clearly make his point and it be on the record . on a point of order , Madam Deputy Speaker . the Secretary of State for Energy Security and Net Zero , who have now leave the Chamber , misrepresent the position of my hon . friend the Member for Waveney Valley ( Adrian Ramsay ) . my colleague have call for all option on the necessary energy infrastructure to be properly explore , but he have not object to it . will the Secretary of State please correct that ? similarly to my last response , although I thank the hon . member for her point of order , it be not a matter for the Chair . however , it be clearly record and be a matter of record . bill present Budget Responsibility Bill Presentation and First Reading ( Standing Order no . 57 ) the Chancellor of the Exchequer , support by the Prime Minister , Darren Jones , James Murray and Tulip Siddiq , present a Bill to impose duty on the Treasury and the Office for Budget Responsibility in respect of the announcement of fiscally significant measure . Bill read the first time ; to be read a second time tomorrow , and to be print ( Bill 1 ) with explanatory note ( Bill 1 - en ) . Holocaust Memorial Bill Presentation and resumption of proceeding ( Standing Orders Nos . 57 and 80a ) Secretary Angela Rayner , support by the Prime Minister , the Chancellor of the Exchequer , Secretary David Lammy , Secretary Yvette Cooper , Secretary Bridget Phillipson and Secretary Lisa Nandy , present a Bill to make provision for expenditure by the Secretary of State and the removal of restriction in respect of certain land for or in connection with the construction of a Holocaust Memorial and Learning Centre . Bill deem to have be read the first , second and third time , pursuant to the order of 22 May 2024 , and to be print ( Bill 2 ) . passenger Railway Services ( Public Ownership ) Bill Presentation and First Reading ( Standing Order no . 57 ) Secretary Louise Haigh , support by the Prime Minister , Secretary Angela Rayner , the Chancellor of the Exchequer , Secretary Ed Miliband , Secretary Jonathan Reynolds , Secretary Ian Murray , Secretary Jo Stevens and Darren Jones , present a Bill to make provision for passenger railway service to be provide by public sector company instead of by mean of franchise . Bill read the first time ; to be read a second time tomorrow , and to be print ( Bill 3 ) with explanatory note ( Bill 3 - en ) . debate on the Address [ 2nd day ] Debate resume ( Order , 17 July ) . question again propose , that an humble Address be present to his Majesty , as follow : Most gracious Sovereign , we , your Majesty ' s most dutiful and loyal subject , the Commons of the United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland , in Parliament assemble , beg leave to offer our humble thank to your Majesty for the Gracious Speech which your Majesty have address to both Houses of Parliament . Foreign Affairs and Defence I call the Secretary of State for Defence . rise — the question be — [ interruption . ] sorry , go ahead . you be confuse I , Madam Deputy Speaker . I have confuse myself ! but may I say how great it be to see you in the Chair for this debate , albeit in a temporary role ? and may I say , through you , that the Foreign Secretary want to be here for the debate , but he and the Prime Minister be host the leader of over 40 european country at the European Political Community meeting at Blenheim palace today — it be an important day for our country . he will look forward to follow the debate as soon as he return . I congratulate all 315 re - elect and return member of this House , and welcome in particular all member who be elect for the first time . savour that special feeling when you first walk into this Chamber and sit on these green Benches . remember it ; respect it . our constituent have give each of we their confidence ; they have give we the mandate to serve they and the country . two week ago , I stand at my local constituency election count in a sport hall in Rotherham . it be the honour of my life to stand at this Dispatch Box today as the Defence Secretary — as part of the new Government at the start of this new era for Britain . the last time that I speak at this Dispatch Box be a week before the election in 2010 , as a housing Minister deal with planning reform . even then , I warn that " there be fundamental flaw in the Conservatives ' propose planning regime " . however , my main argument on that day focus on accountability . I say : " accountability be a central tenet " — [ Official Report , 29 March 2010 ; Vol . 503 , c . 611 . ] of public life , serious decision and good government . have re - enter Government , I feel that just as fiercely as I do 14 year ago . what we do , what we say and how we conduct ourselves in Government matter . we must always be accountable in this House , to the public and to Parliament . by do that , we will help to regain trust in Government and return politic to public service . I pay tribute to my predecessor , Grant Shapps and Ben Wallace , whom I shadow for over four year from the Opposition Benches . the House will now miss they both in differ way . they serve as Defence Secretaries during what the Chief of the Defence Staff have describe as the most extraordinary time for defence in his career . that responsibility now pass to I . I be grateful to have the support of such a stand - out ministerial team : the Minister for Defence Procurement and Industry , my right hon . friend the Member for Liverpool Garston ( Maria Eagle ) ; the Minister for the Armed Forces , my hon . friend the Member for Plymouth Sutton and Devonport ( Luke Pollard ) ; the Minister for Veterans and People , my hon . friend the Member for Birmingham Selly Oak ( Al Carns ) ; and Lord Coaker in the other place . the first duty of any Government be to defend the country and keep our citizen safe . that be why I pay tribute , on behalf of the House , to the man and woman who serve in Britain ' s armed force , many of whom be overseas on deployment right now . they be rightly respect worldwide for their bravery and their professionalism . we thank they for what they do to keep we all safe , as we thank those out of uniform in UK defence . they will have this new Government ' s full support to do their job in defend this country that be why at the NATO summit in Washington last week , the Prime Minister confirm the Government ' s unshakeable commitment to NATO , and our total commitment to spend 2 . 5 % of gdp on defence . it be why the Prime Minister launch this week a first - of - its - kind strategic defence review . and it be why we announce in the King ' s Speech legislation to create a new armed force commissioner to improve service life . I wish the right hon . Gentleman , who be a committed parliamentarian in his shadow role , all the good in his new role , to which he bring great depth and seriousness . he have just describe the strategic review and outline the ambition to get to 2 . 5 % of gdp . if that strategic review recommend more than 2 . 5 % , will the Government still enact it in full ? we have launch the strategic defence review , which be a manifesto commitment . it will be conduct within the framework set out in our manifesto , with the determination to complete it within the first year and to raise defence spending to 2 . 5 % of gdp as soon as we can . the country have not spend at that level since I last stand at the Dispatch Box back in 2010 under the then Labour Government . I welcome to their role the new shadow Defence Secretary , the hon . member for South Suffolk ( James Cartlidge ) , and the liberal Democrat spokesperson on defence , the hon . member for Honiton and Sidmouth ( Richard Foord ) , who can not be here for the debate — the hon . member for Caithness , Sutherland and Easter Ross ( Jamie Stone ) be ably stand in for he , and we look forward to hear what he have to say . I also welcome the SNP spokesperson on defence , the hon . member for Angus and Perthshire Glens ( Dave Doogan ) . as Defence Secretary , I want to take the politic out of national security . I say to the House : I will always look to work with you — put country first , party second . I have offer the shadow Defence Secretary access to intelligence briefing , and will do so for other relevant member . the new strategic defence review will brief and welcome submission from other party across this House . I want we to forge a british defence strategy for the future , not just a defence strategy for the new Labour Government . no party have a monopoly on defence or on pride in our military . we in the Labour party have deep root in defend this country . throughout the last century , it be work man and woman who serve , and sometimes die , on the frontline fight for Britain . it be Labour that establish NATO and the nuclear deterrent . as his Majesty the King say yesterday , our commitment to both be " unshakeable . " we be a party with deep pride in forge international law and security : the Geneva convention , the universal declaration of human right , the nuclear non - proliferation treaty and the comprehensive nuclear - test - ban treaty be all sign by Labour Prime Ministers . we be a party with deep respect for the serve man and woman of our armed force . Theirs be the ultimate public service : they defend the country and be essential to our resilience at home . I know they will inspire I in the week , month and year ahead in this job . as the former Prime Minister , the right hon . member for Richmond and Northallerton ( Rishi Sunak ) , say yesterday in the debate on the Address : " every month in my previous job , I become more concerned about the threat to our country ' s security . " — [ Official Report , 17 July 2024 ; Vol . 752 , c . 51 . ] we know that these be serious time , with war in Europe , conflict in the middle east , grow russian aggression and increase global threat . we know , too , that there be serious problem . it be Ben Wallace who say to I in this Chamber last year that our armed force have be " hollow out and underfunde " over the past 14 year . Morale be at record low , alongside dreadful military housing and a defence procurement system that the Public Accounts Committee have describe as " broken " and waste taxpayer ' money . Less than two week into this Government , we now see that those problem be much bad than we think . just today , new official figure that we have be able to release as schedule show that force family ' satisfaction have fall to the low level ever report . we can not solve those problem all at once , but we be determined to fix they . my right hon . friend be right to say that NATO be the cornerstone of our defence policy . we must also strengthen our role in the NATO Parliamentary Assembly , but would he elaborate on how we will be extend our support and solidarity to Ukraine as it face russian aggression ? my hon . friend have serve with distinction in the NATO Parliamentary Assembly , a body that draw together well - inform , commit member from all party in this House . it be an important civilian bulwark in the NATO military alliance , and I thank he for that service . he intervene on I just as I be about to move to the topic of Ukraine , so I ask he to bear with I for two or three minute ; if I have not answer his question by then , I would welcome another intervention . on Ukraine , I have be proud of UK leadership — proud that the UK and this House be unite on Ukraine , because the defence of the UK start in Ukraine . Ukraine be my first priority , and on my second day in this job , I be in Odessa . I spend the afternoon with President Zelensky and his team . we hold our bilateral talk , we celebrate Ukraine ' s navy day , and we also tour a military hospital , talk with injured ukrainian servicemen . the Ukrainians , military and civilian alike , be fight with huge courage . they have regain vast territory that be take by Putin at first , and as a country without a navy , they have drive Russia ' s fleet out of the western Black sea . they have open up grain corridor and be now able to export almost as much as they do before Putin ' s full - scale invasion in February 2022 . however , Russia be far from a spend force , and if Putin win , he will not stop at Ukraine . in opposition , we give the Government our full support for all the military aid this country give to Ukraine , and I trust this opposition will do the same . the UK be unite for Ukraine , and I want to work together to ensure we remain united for Ukraine . the Government be now step up support : with President Zelensky , I be able to say that we will speed up the delivery of the military aid already pledge . we will step up support through a new package of more ammunition , more anti - armour missile , more de - mining vehicle and more artillery gun . at the NATO summit in Washington last week , the Prime Minister go far , confirm £ 3 billion a year to help Ukraine for as long as it take . this King ' s Speech show the Government get on with the job , just as we have in the first fortnight , with urgency and purpose . the Prime Minister , the Foreign Secretary and I have all speak with our counterpart from across the world . at the NATO 75 summit , we meet leader of all 32 NATO nation — it be a NATO summit big , strong and more united than ever . at that summit , the Prime Minister and Chancellor Scholz of Germany announce an new " firm commitment to strike a deep UK - Germany defence agreement … without delay " , a first step towards reset Britain ' s relationship with european ally . last weekend , I host the Deputy Prime Minister and Defence Minister of Australia at Sheffield Forgemasters , then at Wentworth Woodhouse in Rotherham , where I reaffirm our commitment to AUKUS and to our Indo - pacific partner . I have also have the privilege of meet outstanding personnel in these first less than two week , include personnel at the permanent joint headquarters , RAF Northolt and NATO maritime command , alongside top - class civilian official in the Ministry of Defence and other Government Departments . this week , the Foreign Secretary go to the middle east , pursue our push for peace and an immediate ceasefire , and the Prime Minister launch the strategic defence review head by Lord Robertson , General Barrons and Dr Fiona Hill . that review will be carry out at pace , ensure that we have a NATO - first defence strategy , and put people at the heart of Britain ' s defence plan . I thank the reviewer for the work they will do in the week and month ahead . to end where I start , Britain be today host the European Political Community — a 47 - strong grouping of european leader — at Blenheim palace , discuss russian aggression , european security and counter - migration action . will my right hon . friend give way on that point ? I obviously do not answer my hon . friend ' s question on Ukraine early on . I give way again . I thank my right hon . friend for allow I to intervene once again — he be be very generous with his time . he slightly touch on this point , but do he agree that the level of death and destruction and the loss of innocent life in Gaza be intolerable , and that we must work to have an immediate ceasefire , an immediate release of hostage and urgent humanitarian aid into Gaza ? will my right hon . friend outline what his Majesty ' s Government be do to bring that into effect ? my hon . friend be right : the scale of the conflict and , in particular , the death that we see in Gaza be not just intolerable , but agonising . when we think back , the terrorist attack launch on Israel in October be deeply shocking as well . I be proud that it be the Labour party that lead the debate in Parliament in February , when this House agree to push for an immediate ceasefire . I be proud of the way that we have lead argument for that ceasefire , but also of the way we work in private in opposition — work that we be now pick up in government . my hon . friend may not have hear I say this , but the Foreign Secretary have already be to the middle east to pursue what the Prime Minister , when he be Leader of the Opposition , declare at the end of October in a speech at Chatham House : that if we get into government , we would help lead a new push for peace . in the first fortnight , that be exactly what we have be do . I congratulate the Secretary of State on the appointment he have receive ; I know it be a position he have seek , and I wish he well . the conflict that be go on and the bombing in Gaza have already result in 40 , 000 death . be the Government serious in push Israel to take part in an immediate ceasefire ? be they also prepare to suspend or stop all arm sale to Israel in order to save further life ? the Secretary of State also make a point in his speech about the need to adhere to international law . there be international court judgment at the International Court of Justice and the International Criminal Court ; be the Government go to support those judgment and ensure that they be carry out , whatever the political consequence ? they require action to be take internationally to bring a halt to this appalling conflict . forty thousand be already dead , and the occupation continue . surely there must be a way forward that stop the loss of life . the right hon . member be no long a member of the Labour party , but I know that he watch what we do and say very closely . he will know that from the outset , we have argue that international humanitarian law must apply in this conflict , and must apply equally to both side . the answer to his first question be yes : this Government be serious about pursue an immediate ceasefire , which be why the Foreign Secretary have already be out to Israel to press that case . on the question of arm sale to Israel , on the Foreign Secretary ' s first day in post , through the establish system that we use , he commission the british Government ' s most up - to - date assessment of the degree to which any of our UK arm export licence may be facilitate a serious risk of a breach of international law . he have say clearly that he want that process to be as swift and transparent as possible , and he be look hard at exactly that issue . I hope that underline the simple answer to the right hon . member ' s first question : yes , this Government be serious about a ceasefire , and about the application of international humanitarian law without fear or favour . first , I commend the Secretary of State for the role he play in opposition and the role he now play in government . I think that each of we , on hear the word of the Secretary of State , will be inspire and feel more confident about road forward . when it come to the middle east , we be all aware of the influence of the Islamic Revolutionary Guard Corps in Iran , and we be aware of the axis of evil of Iran , North Korea , Russia and China . we be also aware that the IRGC supply ammunition , finance and personnel to the Houthis in Yemen , Hamas in Gaza , Hezbollah in Lebanon and terrorist group right across Syria . when it come to address that group and what it do across the world , can the Secretary of State today give the House an assurance that it be a priority for this Government to proscribe the irgc and put it out of action ? I can tell the hon . Gentleman that we be look really hard , as he and this House would expect , at the grow threat that Iran pose not just as a state , but through its proxy and its grow alliance with other hostile nation . in many way , he help I supply an answer to a question that I have sometimes be ask over the last two day , which be : why have another strategic defence review now ? the simple answer be exactly that : the threat be increase and change , the nature of warfare be change and the grow importance of our alliance be become clear . it be for that reason , a year after the last government ' s defence review , that this be imperative . we will pursue this properly and do it at pace , because that be what we need to do both to respond to the grow and change threat we face and to take the decision we must take on the capability we need to defend the country . I will wind up now so that other member from all side can speak . we be elect on a manifesto promise change . after less than two week , I hope that the House and the public see that the work of that change have begin to strengthen the foundation of this new mission - drive Government in make Britain well defend and make Britain democracy ' s most reliable ally . the Prime Minister say in his speech in this House yesterday : " this Government have be elect to deliver nothing less than national renewal … and start the work of rebuild our country — a determined rebuilding , a patient rebuilding , a calm rebuilding . " — [ Official Report , 17 July 2024 ; Vol . 752 , c . 54 - 55 . ] that be the task he have set I to lead with my defence team , but there be so much more to do . I want defence to be central not just to the future security of Britain , but to the country ' s success in this new era , bring great economic growth and wealth across the UK , reconnecte Britain in the world and forge a new partnership for Britain between Government , business and worker with their trade union . together we will make Britain more secure at home and strong abroad . I call the shadow Foreign Secretary . thank you , Madam Deputy Speaker , and welcome to the Chair . may I warmly congratulate the Defence Secretary on his new role , and strongly endorse the comment he make about Britain ' s armed force ? my own regiment have recently be on the frontline in Estonia , and I want to strongly endorse the word he use . I also endorse the advice he give to new member sit on these green Benches . I first sit on these green Benches — on the Government side — 37 year ago , and I strongly agree with what he say . I feel that sense of honour and privilege every day in this House . I have hope to start by welcome the Foreign Secretary to his place . I want to wish he well in discharge the immense responsibility of the office he now hold . I have to say that I be dismay to hear the Foreign Secretary answer question on the " Today " programme this morning that should more properly have be answer in this House — a view that I believe Mr Speaker share . nevertheless , I have no doubt that the Foreign Secretary will be very well serve by the outstanding civil servant at the Foreign Office . I want to express my gratitude to our ambassador and high commissioner around the world . on overseas visit throughout my tenure , I be superbly serve and look after . I also want to thank the outstanding young official who work in my private office . I should like to pay a special tribute to my noble Friend Lord Cameron of Chipping Norton . he demonstrate clear strategic thinking about how british foreign policy need to adapt to the world as it be today and inject real energy into british diplomacy . I hope the whole House will acknowledge that to persuade a former Prime Minister to serve as Foreign Secretary be a real benefit to our country . it be also a pleasure to serve alongside the former Members for Berwick - upon - Tweed and Macclesfield , who I be very sorry be no long sit alongside I on the Front Bench . they be both superb Ministers , who work diligently at the Foreign Office . I can not recall a more perilous period in international affair . I enter the House of Commons just two year before the momentous fall of the Berlin wall , which precipitate the demise of the Soviet Union and the consequent end of the cold war . it be difficult to overstate , have live with the terrifying spectre of nuclear confrontation , the collective relief we all feel . yet the world be once again in the grip of a gallop escalation of tension and danger , where the international institution create on the heel of the second world war to defend our value and protect mankind be be undermine , the narrow nationalism that so disfigure our continent be once again rear its destructive head , and despot and dictator increasingly ride roughshod over democratic freedom and the rule - base order . Putin ' s brutal and illegal invasion of Ukraine have bring war once again to the european continent . the Israel - Gaza conflict be devastating and risk regional conflagration . poverty and debt stalk the global south . yet covid teach we that no one be safe until we be all safe , while climate change be the great existential threat of our time . never have we face danger so grave when our fate be so closely entwined . so at the very time when we need an international rule - base order to tackle these common threat — climate change , migration , terror and pandemic — we be more fragmented than ever . division be harden and debate be coarsen . I be very grateful to the right hon . member , my constituency neighbour , for give way and I be delighted to see he in his place — on the Opposition side of the Chamber . can I take it from his remark that he subscribe to the view that we need not only a rule - base order , but a right - base order ? here in our country , and indeed in Europe , the framework for those right be the european convention on human right . be we to take it from his remark that it be the policy of his Majesty ' s loyal opposition that we should remain a member of the ECHR ? that be certainly the policy of the Opposition , and I hope it be common across the House that we should remain part of the european convention . I be talk about division harden and debate coarsening . public discourse be increasingly vitriolic , be it in pursuit of single issue cause or broad agenda , from the left or the right , or drive by motive that may or may not be religious and may or may not be well - intentione . the challenge this present to british foreign policy be immense , but Britain have punch above its weight precisely because of our leadership role in the international system . as his Majesty ' s Opposition , our role be to hold the Government to account , but also to give the strong possible support where we can . I hope that we can work constructively , as our two party have do hitherto . in opposition , we will continue to make the case that Britain must be a force for good , that it be outward - look and global in perspective , that we stand up for internationalism and co - operation , that we stand against populism and isolationism , and that we stand with the world ' s poor and most vulnerable . I be very proud of the conservative party ' s record in government on all those front . we stand firmly behind Ukraine , and we work day and night with international partner to maximise the flow of humanitarian aid into Gaza , while support negotiation to secure the release of the israeli hostage . we produce a groundbreaking White Paper on international development , which draw in the support of all political party in tackle global poverty in a complex geopolitical environment . I be grateful to the shadow Foreign Secretary for his comment . one duty of the opposition be to point out blind spot . we be talk about security , but one thing that be not mention in the King ' s Speech be food security . for a rural community like mine , which have an 85 % agricultural base , food security be really important . we have see the attack on Ukraine and the grain come out of it . what can my right hon . friend do in opposition to hold the Government to account to ensure we have food security on these isle ? my hon . friend be quite right about the importance of food security . he will remember that the then Prime Minister launch the global food security summit last November in Britain . food security be an issue not just for we but , as my hon . friend rightly say , all around the world , and we will continue to press the Government to take it as seriously as we do . I would like to expand on some theme that I anticipate will remain dominant over the course of this Parliament . first , I turn to Ukraine . Britain ' s work in support Ukraine be a shine example of cross - party co - operation . I pay tribute to the Labour party for the constructive approach it demonstrate while in opposition . the Government can rely on we to continue in that spirit , because the struggle in Ukraine be an existential issue . let no one believe that Putin will stop at Ukraine if he be victorious in this struggle . our support for Ukraine in the face of Putin ' s brutality remain unwavering , and I know that the Government ' s position be the same . we welcome the Government keep in place the commitment we make to spend at least £ 3 billion a year on military support for Ukraine for as long as be necessary . in government , we be also a lead advocate for sanctioned russian asset be use to support Ukraine and for ensure that Russia pay for the destruction it have cause . I urge the new Government to push the international community to coalesce around the most ambitious solution possible to achieve those important aim . we on the opposition Benches welcome the declaration agree at the NATO summit in Washington last week — to which the Defence Secretary refer — which commit to support Ukraine " on its irreversible path to full Euro - atlantic integration , include NATO membership . " it be right that the Government also commit to this in the Gracious Speech . in relation to the middle east . we want to see the conflict in Gaza come to a sustainable end as quickly as possible . our view remain that a negotiate pause in the fighting be the good way to secure the release of the hostage , enable a significant scaling up of much - need humanitarian aid , and help bring about the condition that will allow for a permanent end to hostility . that be the plan that Britain champion in New York , and which secure the consent of the international community at the UN . there be a deal on the table to achieve those goal , back by Israel , the United States and the United Nations Security Council . the onus be now on Hamas to accept it and bring to an end the suffering of the palestinian people and the hostage , who remain in such awful jeopardy . the Government must build on our hard work to see aid reach those in Gaza who desperately need it . the Conservative Government treble their aid commitment in the last financial year and do everything possible to get more aid into Gaza by land , sea and air . Israel have commit to increase the amount of aid reach Gaza , and the Government of Israel must be hold to account for deliver on their promise . I want to signal a note of caution , which link to my comment early about composure . I be acutely aware of the very strong feeling that the conflict in Gaza have elicit . it be probably the most polarise foreign policy issue of our time , which have play out on the street of our country , on our university campus and in our politic , even form the entire basis for some candidate in the general election , who be now with we in the House of Commons . we must remember that this remain an incredibly complex issue . the question and challenge around resolve the current conflict and achieve the two - state solution that we all want to see be profoundly difficult . we have a responsibility to set a sensible and respectful tone in the many debate we will continue to have , and to make clear that there be no room in our democracy for threat of violence and intimidation . we require serious solution and long - term measured policy , not performative politic or short - term symbolic proclamation . we should certainly recognise the state of Palestine , but it must be at the right time , as part of an overall solution . to do so prematurely could send a signal that terror pay . I urge the Government to resist the siren call of those who wish to demonise the state of Israel , and who draw a moral equivalence between the Hamas leadership and the democratically elect Government of Israel in a bid to isolate and delegitimise it . while we be all appal at the dreadful loss of life in Gaza , we must never forget the horror unleash by Hamas on Israel on 7 October — the deadly terrorist attack in Israel ' s history , to which the Defence Secretary rightly refer . the conservative party stand four - square behind Israel ' s right to defend itself — but it must be in accordance with international humanitarian law . we must not lose sight of the fact that this be , at its heart , a tale of two just cause , of two people ' legitimate aspiration for national sovereignty , security and dignity . there be other crisis around the world that must also preoccupy the Government . I refer particularly to the crisis that have engulf Sudan — now the bad displacement of people anywhere in the world . we be see clear evidence of ethnic cleansing once again in Darfur . we urge the Government to continue our effort to pressure the war party in Sudan to cease hostility , and to push hard for humanitarian support to reach those desperate people , include those I see on the border with Chad early this year . the Government must also continue to hold to account the regime around the world commit appalling act , whether that be Iran , Myanmar , North Korea or Russia , where we must push for the immediate release of Vladimir Kara - Murza . finally , I know that the Foreign Secretary will want to work closely with the government of Gibraltar and Spain , and take a hand - on approach to secure a good deal for the Rock ' s future prosperity . we will also be follow closely the very important negotiation over the future of Diego Garcia . I turn briefly and directly to the Gracious Speech . in spite of their legitimate desire for yet another defence review , I think the Government have make a mistake in not honour immediately our commitment to increase defence spending to 2 . 5 % of gdp by 2030 . my hon . friend the Member for South Suffolk ( James Cartlidge ) , the shadow Defence Secretary , will say more about the matter later , but I would say now that this give the wrong signal to our ally and adversary about our determination to confront the multitude of danger the world face . in 2014 , the Conservative Government make the commitment to spend 2 % of gdp on defence . the UK lead the way and many NATO ally have follow , and we have now lead the way with our commitment to move to 2 . 5 % of gdp by 2030 . the Government should be in no doubt , either , that we will place under the microscope any decision that they may make on our nuclear deterrent . on the subject of Europe , we welcome the close possible partnership with our friend and neighbour , subject to respect the result of the referendum and the will of our constituent over Brexit . today ' s most important summit at Blenheim , serve up oven - ready by my right hon . friend the former Prime Minister , be a chance to underline the effective way in which the UK have work with our european partner in response to the invasion of Ukraine and show that , although we be outside the EU , we can indeed work together effectively . the upcoming Commonwealth Heads of Government meeting , which I be delighted be reference in the Gracious Speech , will be an opportunity to show real ambition for the Commonwealth . in government , we offer strong support for Samoa ' s hosting of CHOGM and its desire to use this platform to enhance Commonwealth country ' resilience to global challenge . I urge the new Government to continue work closely with Samoa to make the most of this CHOGM and to mobilise action across the Commonwealth , include to boost trade and investment and enhance access to climate finance . I wish to conclude by address an issue that be very close to my heart and the heart of many other across the House , but which in many way link all these theme together . I be privileged to return to government as the Minister for international development , a brief I hold previously in 2010 as Secretary of State . for many in their dark moment after flood , earthquake and disaster , Britain have be a beacon of hope and light . now , 70 million people be fall back into poverty , million of girl be out of school , famine stalk the land of east Africa and child be starve to death . the anger and frustration of the global south be palpable . I make no secret of my dismay that the overseas aid budget be cut and that the Department for International Development be merge into the Foreign Office . my job as Deputy Foreign Secretary be to look forward , to try to make the merger work after a tumultuous start and to set out a pathway to return to 0 . 7 % . however , development be about much more than money . our recent White Paper craft new approach that reflect the change world around we . we formulate creative way of mobilise new and additional fund to ensure that the sustainable development goal can get back on track . I be proud of the leadership that our former Prime Minister have show on the green climate fund and the Global Fund , where Britain be right at the forefront of ensure that those fund improve and be fully replenish . I hope that the new Government will do the same with the International Development Association World Bank replenishment and with Gavi . we make the case that international development must be own by the british people . I submit that that be not a Conservative , labour or liberal policy but a british policy , and we must all unite behind the goal of bring the british people behind the agenda set out so clearly in the White Paper . all british development money be spend in our national interest , because it help heal the grotesque discrepancy of opportunity and wealth that disfigure our world . we will continue to stand up for the world ' s poor and most vulnerable , call for the continue reform of the international financial system to free up funding for climate finance , debt relief and achieve the sdg . we will continue to stand up for woman and girl with the same vigour that we exhibit in government , whether in relation to female genital mutilation , woman ' s right or lgbtq right , and we will press for a bolstering of the cope mechanism of country on the frontline of climate shock . finally , we will be keep a close eye on whether the " d " in FCDO fall silent once more . development be only as effective as the structure and expertise behind it . I try hard in office to strengthen the development silo in the Foreign Office , with some , but frankly not enough success . I stress in the strong term that development can not be a sideshow , as people ' s life depend upon it , but the Foreign Office system be build around diplomacy , with a panoply of resource focus on the Foreign Secretary ' s priority . I hope that the Government keep that in mind . development deserve the attention and energy afford to diplomacy . with the right strategic adjustment , development and diplomacy could make for a mighty partnership , but it will require proactive leadership . if , despite good effort , that can not be achieve under the merger — that will become clear soon rather than later during this Parliament — I will urge the Government to move swiftly and decisively to plan b . it be easy to despair at the state of the world , so I hope to end on a more sanguine note . I be long enough in the tooth to have live through the ebb and flow of different era , conflict and crisis . I have witness the bad in humanity , but also the good . I have learn that the bleakest moment offer the great opportunity . however , history teach we that most thing do not come to an end , but be bring to an end . we have the power to change thing for the well and to build a safe and more prosperous world , but we can not do it alone . only international co - operation can deliver the progress we seek . I sincerely hope that the new Government will succeed . the future of we all depend on that success . I call Deirdre Costigan to make her maiden speech . thank you , Madam Deputy Speaker , for allow I to make my maiden remark on this historic king ' s Speech , which put into concrete action the first step of this Labour Government of national renewal . I thank the right hon . member for Sutton Coldfield ( Mr Mitchell ) for their wide - range remark . as the new Member for Ealing Southall , I stand in the shadow of Virendra Sharma , who be our MP for 17 year . with more than 50 year of public service in total , include as a local councillor and mayor of Ealing , Virendra be a tower figure in west London politic . always dress impeccably in a suit , and sometimes sport sunglass , he often have the air of a mafia don , until he give you that wonderful Sharma smile . Virendra be well known for his work on global maternal health . he have be a tireless defender of human right and of the underdog all his political life . I thank he personally for his support and wisdom , and I pay tribute to his wife Nirmala and all the family for their year of service to Ealing Southall . the House can probably tell from my still - intact Dublin accent that I be not bear here . I come to this country in the 1990 to finish my education , but like so many irish people before I , I fall in love with the diversity of this country , and I never go back . that be the story of my constituency , Ealing Southall , where 53 % of people be , like I , bear abroad . whether from India , Pakistan , Somalia , Sri Lanka , Afghanistan , Ireland or so many other place , we all come here for a well life , but we do not always find it easy to achieve that well life . many of my constituent have face barrier in the workplace and on the street , but they have always stand up to they . eale Southall have a strong tradition of anti - racism , and of trade unionism . in the 1960 , low - pay exploit punjabi worker at the Woolf rubber factory join the Transport and General Workers ' Union and famously take seven week ' successful strike action , despite attempt by management to create sectarian division . in the 1970 , resident take to the street of southall to defend it from the far right in the aftermath of the racist murder of Gurdip Singh Chaggar . until my election , I work for the country ' s big and of course good trade union , Unison . start as a shop steward , I go on to become national officer for disability equality . I intend to continue eale southall ' s proud tradition of trade unionism and fight for worker ’ right , so I welcome labour ' s new deal for work people , and the much - need law that we will bring forward to ensure that black , asian and disabled worker have the right to equal pay . I be enormously thankful to the people of Ealing Southall for place their trust in I . since the creation of the seat , Labour have win 23 time in a row , but this be the first time in 23 election that eale southall will be represent by a woman . I intend to support this Labour Government ' s plan to create flexible workplace that fit with woman ' s life . eale Southall be home to a dizzying array of place of worship , and I be delighted to visit Shree Ram mandir , Shri Guru Ravidass gurdwara , Baitul Mukarram mosque and Christ the Redeemer church during my campaign . I know that for many of we come to this country from abroad , it be the mandir , the gurdwara , the mosque and the church that provide the help and support that we need to settle into a new country . I will always support all the diverse community in Ealing Southall . I be lucky to have not one but three town centre in Ealing Southall . West Ealing , Hanwell , and Southall be all fill with shop , bar and caf é s . southall be a busy shopping hub for wedding finery , famous the world over , but local business be not as busy as they once be , which be why they strongly back Labour ' s plan to review business rate and stamp out late payment to help revitalise our high street . fly - tipping be a blight on town centre across London . I commend the work of the amazing lager can litter pick volunteer who do so much to keep eale clean . as the former deputy leader of Ealing council , I hope to work with our new Labour Government to find way of give council more power to levy and enforce fine that will act as a real deterrent against that criminal behaviour . eale hospital sit in the centre of my constituency , but it be badly in need of love . ten year ago , I have a stroke while I be — of all place — at the Labour party conference . I recover , but I be sad to say that I do miss the leader ' s speech of my right hon . friend the Member for Doncaster North ( Edward Miliband ) that year as a result . I be afraid to say that I miss his statement this morning as well , have unexpectedly be encourage , shall we say , to make my maiden speech . when I have my stroke , the care that I receive from an irish neurologist work for NHS North West London be fantastic , so I applaud the investment that Labour be make in reduce NHS waiting list and double scanner for quick diagnosis . I be not sure that I would be here today if it be not for our NHS . we must again ensure that it be the good health service in the world . finally , until recently , I be eale ' s cabinet member for climate action . I know that many people in my constituency worry about air pollution , nature breakdown and flood risk . I be excited about Labour ' s plan to set up great British Energy , a clean new energy company that should cut carbon emission , create job and help reduce household bill . eale Southall have always be a place that have welcome new arrival . I thank this House for channel the spirit of Ealing Southall today by similarly welcome my arrival . I look forward to serve all my constituent , and I will start by back the much - need change that they vote for that be set out in the King ' s Speech . may I start by warmly congratulate the new the hon . member for Ealing Southall ( Deirdre Costigan ) ? for a time I live in Acton , close to her constituency , and when she speak about the diversity and warmth of the area , I certainly recognise that . I have no doubt that she will be an enormous asset to this place . many congratulation , and welcome . I also welcome the Secretary of State for Defence and his team to their place , and the Foreign Secretary and his team to theirs . they include my fellow Oxford MP , the Minister of State , Foreign , Commonwealth and Development Office , the right hon . member for Oxford East ( anneliese Dodds ) ; it be wonderful to see she there . I also welcome the shadow Defence Secretary , the hon . member for South Suffolk ( James Cartlidge ) , and , in particular , the shadow Foreign Secretary , the right hon . member for Sutton Coldfield ( Mr Mitchell ) , whose promotion I hope we can all agree be long overdue . under boundary change , Oxford West and Abingdon have take in Dalton barrack and Shippon , so I be now also the MP for a number of armed force family . I pay tribute to they , and to all our armed force and their family who so willingly give their life over to service to this country . I be very pleased that foreign affair and defence have be choose as the theme for the second day of the debate . we be live in a world that feel so much less stable and less secure than it have ever feel , certainly in my lifetime . only a few day ago , we see the horrific attempt assassination of an american presidential candidate ; Putin continue to wage war in Ukraine ; Xi Jinping continue his muscular foreign policy aim , threaten Taiwan and continue to oppress people in Hong Kong and Xinjiang ; and as have be mention , a rise tide of populism be sweep across Europe . the Liberal Democrats support many of the priority set out in the King ' s Speech . support for NATO , support for Ukraine and reset our relationship with the European Union be all vital to achieve security and stability . we aim to work constructively with anyone in government who seek to return Britain to its position as a lead light on the international stage , in particular in the area of development , on which I associate my remark with those of the shadow Foreign Secretary . we agree that there be a huge opportunity . we want a return to spending 0 . 7 % on development , and we think that a new Department be the way to ensure the muscle that be need to give that oomph . nevertheless , we wish all the Ministers well in their endeavour to find a place for development in the Foreign Office . I be especially pleased to hear mention of the middle east and the two - state solution . for reason that I be sure be obvious , that be what I will focus my remark on . it have be nearly 300 day since the horrific Hamas attack on 7 October . since then , hostage have still not return home . the death toll in Gaza have reach 38 , 000 . the vast majority of the dead be woman and child . there be , of course , thousand more under the rubble who be leave out of the statistic . scientist fear that the death toll will soar . a letter in the medical journal the Lancet predict that if we take into account indirect casualty of war — people who die of malnutrition , a lack of medication and unsanitary living condition — the total number of death could climb as high as 186 , 000 . the child of Gaza have suffer the unimaginable . Alexandra Saieh , the head of humanitarian policy and advocacy at Save the Children International , say : " they be be dismember . they have be burn alive in tent . they have be kill due to crash apartment building block . they have be also kill by preventable disease and illness and deny medical assistance . child in Gaza be just suffer horrifically . " in the first three month of this conflict alone , 1 , 000 child have one or both leg amputate ; that mean more than 10 child lose one or both leg every single day . we need that immediate ceasefire . we need it six month ago . there be only one way to end the killing , to get those hostage safely home and to get that humanitarian aid in . none of that can happen until the ceasefire be achieve , but we must also understand that a ceasefire be not enough for peace . peace be not just the absence of war . it be hope that be share — hope for a future in which Palestinians and Israelis live in security and dignity . that be what we mean by a two - state solution . that be the real prize . I have be relieve to be a liberal Democrat during the last few month . in all seriousness , when my family be under siege in that church in Gaza , the professional and the personal collide completely . I get the devastating news in November that I have lose a family member ; my cousin texte I to tell I , and all they ask for be that ceasefire . that be what the Liberal Democrats have consistently argue for , because when it come to foreign policy , we ground our approach in liberal principle of human right and the international rule - base order . I congratulate the hon . member on a powerful speech . I agree with her call for an immediate ceasefire . do she believe that we should also halt arm supply to Israel , which be be use to bomb Gaza and make we and the United States complicit in the killing of so many people in Gaza ? I thank the right hon . member for his intervention . I will come to exactly those point and will expand on they . an approach base on the international rule - base order and humanitarian law lead to our be on the right side of the argument on apartheid in South Africa , on Hong Kong , and indeed on the war in Iraq . it guide our approach now . I be pleased — delighted , even — that the Government have include reference to the all - important two - state solution in the King ' s Speech , and I be very much hearten by the their change in tone . but word be meaningless without concrete action . it be vital that we start to think about what we need to do the day after that ceasefire be secure , because at some point it will be — we all know that . Hamas be extreme in this debate , but so be Netanyahu . neither want peace . it be in neither of their interest . it be the framing of one versus the other that have prove to be so insidious in this debate . there be plenty of voice in Israel , Palestine and beyond who be partner in peace and be actively call for it . protest in Israel be grow , with demonstration hold in Jerusalem and Tel Aviv , clamour for a deal to be do to bring those hostage home . they often link that to a ceasefire , and the release of palestinian political prisoner such as Marwan Barghouti . that wide movement for peace be grow . I want to tell the House about two friend of mine , Maoz and Magen Inon . they lose their parent on 7 October when Hamas target their house with a close - range missile . I have be twice to Netiv HaAsara — once before and once since — and I see their house and their burn out car . it be heartbreaking . but rather than turn to hatred , they choose instead to spend their whole life talk about peace , because they do not want this to happen to anyone else ' s family . there be only one way to guarantee that : peace and a share future . in they and in all those israeli peace activist — a grow movement — I see that share future . this Chamber and this Government need to understand that people like Maoz and Magen be ember in a nascent fire . they need the oxygen of political support to survive and grow . the same be true for palestinian peace activist Hamze and Ahmed , who I recently share a panel with — all of we child of the Nakba , but all of we willing to devote our future to stop the endless taking of life to avenge a past we no long want to keep resurrect over and over again . these be the voice that deserve to be amplify , and this be the kind of rhetoric that I hope we can all follow — bring people together , not seek to divide . I say that with some disappointment , because in the remark of the Leader of the Opposition in response to the King ' s Speech yesterday , he do not mention Palestine at all , only Israel . we can not do that . we must understand that we can not have security and freedom for Israel without security and freedom for Palestine . that be why the mention of the two - state solution be so vital . let we start with the basic : a two - state solution need two state . that be why we must recognise the state of Palestine , along 1967 border , immediately without precondition . I have lay a Bill in every parliamentary session since I be elect , and I will do so again . some 140 country have already take this step , include Ireland , Spain and Norway just this May . if the UK be to join they , it would send a powerful message to the israeli Government that we be serious about two state — something that Netanyahu have reject . it would also send a message to the palestinian people , who be desperate for hope that the international community — in particular the UK with our long - stand historical obligation to the region — will help they achieve that future . many will say — and they be right — that recognition be not enough . one of the big barrier to peace be the illegal israeli settlement in the west bank . in 2024 , Israel illegally seize 23 . 7 sq km of palestinian land in the occupy west bank . that be more than all the land it have take over the past 20 year combine . these settlement be illegal under international law . they exacerbate tension and they undermine the viability of that previous two - state solution . we have call for individual violent settler who breach international law to be sanction . I be pleased that the then Conservative Government take some small step and sanction individual settler , but I urge the Government to go far . the Liberal Democrats have call for sanction to include Ministers Ben - Gvir and Smotrich , and the connected entity that provide support or enable those extremist individual . since 2021 , we have also call for the UK to ban trade with illegal settlement , because if they be illegal under international law , we should put a firm marker in the sand . to come to the point make by the right hon . member for Islington North ( Jeremy Corbyn ) , the trade of british weapon need to be handle with great care . our policy be not to single out Israel — that be important . our policy be build on ensure that no British - make arm be sell to any country that be in potential breach of human right law . that be why we believe that we should look at our arm export trade with Israel . despite repeat call , the Government never release their own legal advice on potential breach of international law in this conflict , but give that there be a case to answer at the ICJ and the ICC , the british public deserve to know whether the Government be breach their own arm export regime . the Foreign Secretary , when he be shadow Foreign Secretary , ask for that legal advice to be release ; I be curious to see whether he will make good on that promise . while we be on the subject of court , it be vital that the UK Government give their full - throate support to the ICC and the ICJ in their investigation and judgment . the UK Government must support they and their process and outcome without fear or favour . that go beyond this conflict , as there be international ramification if we undermine those court that be the bedrock of our international rule - base order . when in government , the Conservatives undermine those process , but I have hope for well from Labour , and I still do . in January , the now Foreign Secretary say that his party believe that if an arrest warrant be issue for Netanyahu , they would honour it . since then , Karim Khan at the ICC have issue one for Hamas leader and Netanyahu , but we understand from the medium that the block by the UK , which should be remove , may have remain in place . it would helpful for the Foreign Secretary to come to the House and explain the position . as ever , the hon . Lady be a powerful advocate on injustice all over the world . the particular point she raise on the international rule - base order be very powerful . it and the international legal system must provide equal protection to all people , and they must be free from double standard . the minute those two thing do not apply , the very nature of the rule - base order be under threat . I could not agree more . it have really concern I how people perceive a double standard between what be happen in this conflict and what be happen between Ukraine and Russa . they be very different conflict . as politician , we have to bolster that international rule - base order so that people have faith that injustice anywhere in the world will be put through a proper process and determine . I be afraid to say that we be at risk — not just this country but the US — of undermine that system . I urge the Government to take a different approach . I will simply end by say that I urge the Government to go far and fast on a two - state solution . I would love to see a plan for what they mean by lead . I would offer my service with pleasure , because we need that two - state solution , with Israelis and Palestinians live side by side in dignity and security . it be go to take much more than a change in tone to get there . it be vital to what we need to achieve peace , not just in Israel - Palestine but in the middle east and the region as a whole . I call Lee Pitcher to make his maiden speech . I thank the hon . member for Oxford West and Abingdon ( Layla Moran ) . like many of we , I find myself stand on the Terrace here in Parliament on my first day , with my back to the stunning Palace of Westminster and the splendour of Big Ben , and the London Eye majestically circle with the buzz , excitement and energy of the visitor here in this great capital city . there I be , look out across the very still River Thames towards the east end of London , home to the world ' s great football team , West Ham United , who , I remind everyone , do bring home some european silverware quite recently . but in truth , I be not think about the London Stadium at the time ; I be look towards the place where I be bear and spend my early year . I recall the 14 - year - old in his first year of his gcse who sleep on a double mattress on the floor , alone with just his mum and his sister ; a little lad who have nothing leave to his name and who be regularly bully at school for the length of his trouser . I can tell the House that there be nothing more stark , more devastating and more heartbreaking than see your mum ' s face — a very proud lady whose primary focus in life be to look after her baby — as she find herself work tirelessly but still lose the home that we live in . those time be rough , but I be so fortunate to have the very good and most inspiring woman role model around I : my mum and my sister . they show I that strength of character , resilience , and the importance of kindness regardless of the situation be what will carry you through . at that time , what we have be many friend and family in the community who rally round to give we support and a roof over our head . that tell I that there be people out there who care — people who would give you hope , and hope be what we need . that experience absolutely change my life and set a direction of travel for I to work hard , to do well and to never ever want to see anyone in that position again . and here I be today on 18 July , my 47th birthday — [ hon . member : " hear , hear . " ] thank you ! I stand here in the shadow of the great in this country that I love with my every being , have be give the chance to make sure I deliver that promise to myself and to my constituent that my situation will never happen to another child . today be a super special day , as be 5 July , when I become first ever Member of Parliament for Doncaster East and the Isle of Axholme . let I take this opportunity to acknowledge the hard work of Andrew Percy , who resident speak of so fondly on the doorstep as a great constituency MP , and of Nick Fletcher in Don Valley , whose work promote mental health in man be very dear to my heart , have lose a cousin a few year ago . Nick also campaign for Doncaster airport , which be a key priority of mine too . I will not stop work closely with the Mayor of Doncaster , the South Yorkshire Mayor , officer and other to see plane fly over the sky of Doncaster again . it really isn ' t hard to see why we all care so much for my beautiful constituency , and I will tell you a little bit about why I adore it . thirty year ago I meet my good friend , my wife , who be from the constituency . she introduce I to Yorkshire , and I fall in love with the place in the same way that I fall in love with she at 18 year of age . she have be by my side ever since . Doncaster East and the Isle of Axholme be my home . my family have grow up in the constituency , my child have go to school there and , alongside work , I have volunteer with wonderful organisation . there be many unsung hero in the area who , over many , many year , have give back to our community . I have see the work of great place such as the Doncaster Lions , whose motto could not align any more to our own value : " we serve " . they tirelessly walk the street at Christmas every single year with Santa and his sleigh to bring smile to child who otherwise would not be able to afford to go and see he in his grotto . I also have first - hand experience of the impact of Thorne ' s local community radio station , TMCR , which bring a ray of sunshine through music to resident across the airwave , ease loneliness and create a sense of family . as a school governor at Travis St Lawrence school for several year , I have see how the monumental effort of staff and teacher give child the very good start in life . community spirit can be find in every single pocket of the new constituency , from the urban , proud former mining area and charming town of Doncaster East , to the fertile , agricultural farming area , quaint town and village of the Isle of Axholme in north Lincolnshire , through to the thriving local independent business and attraction , such as Yorkshire wildlife park — I give a big shout out to Rocco the baby rhino who I meet last weekend . like Rocco , I see what I have in Doncaster East and the Isle of Axholme as something rare and special that must be look after , because mine be an area where heritage and tradition have shape the town and village . I be keen to ensure that the unique identity of the different area be respect , embrace and enjoy for generation to come . the Isle of Axholme be once an inland island , surround by stream , river and mere until it be drain in the 1600 . it have amazing historic architecture — you really need to come and see it — such as Normanby Hall and the Old Rectory in Epworth , which be home to John Wesley , the founder of Methodism . it be also home to the Haxey hood . have anyone hear of that ? it be a tradition that date back to the 14th century . Lady de Mowbray be ride towards westwoodside , when her silk hat fly off her head in the wind and 13 local farmworker run after it . eventually , one of they catch it but be too shy to give it back . he hand it to another gentleman who pass it back to she . the whole thing cause such amusement that she dedicate 13 acre of land so that it could be re - enact every single year . so I say why don ' t we , after Prime Minister ' s question , get together in a rugby scrum , as they do every year , and see if we can push the hood back to where it need to be ! we also have Keadby , home to the power station ; the Stainforth and Keadby canal ; Crowle , with its quaint square and Gothic revival market hall ; and lovely rural village such as Luddington , Ealand , West Butterwick , Garthorpe and Fockerby . in Eastoft , I recently meet a couple of farmer who tell I that we have the good grow land in the world . Doncaster East comprise wonderful market town such as Bawtry , a 12th century port , and Thorne , mention in the Domesday Book ; mining settlement such as Dunscroft , Moorends and Rossington ; Hatfield , the place where Northumbrian King Edwin be kill in the battle of Hatfield Chase ; Woodhouse , the birthplace of Corporal William J Harper , a local hero who win a Victoria Cross in world war two ; and Dunsville , Lindholme , Bessacarr , Branton , Finningley , Austerfield and Auckley , which all have their own enticing charm . for all the greatness in my home constituency , my team and I have real challenge ahead . the King ' s Speech pave the way for policy and legislation to facilitate change in a lot of area . for the mum who come to the constituency pregnant five year ago and still have not get her child an NHS dental appointment , I say that there be 700 , 000 new appointment to come . for the dad I speak to while he be get his child ready to visit their grandma — his wife be upstairs in bed ; she have have a delay in her chemotherapy treatment and want to not see that happen to other because of the anxiety it cause — I say that there will be 40 , 000 new appointment per week and a huge reduction in NHS waiting time . for the grandad who endure young adult try to break into his home repeatedly — pretty much every day — and threaten he with knife , I say that there will be 13 , 000 more police officer . for the child I speak to at the New College husting , who want new industry and new job to excite they , I say that there will be a clean energy company , with science , technology , engineering and math job for a future generation . for the parent with the child with special educational need who get no mental health support or diagnosis for several year , I say that there be a commitment to massively increase mental health provision . for the school leaver who can never envisage have a home for the future or the ability to buy one , I say that there be a commitment to job and a commitment to build 1 . 5 million home . for my mum , wait for a bus that be delay or never turn up , I say that power will be devolve to regional mayor to take bus back into public control . for the child who go to school hungry and do not have clothe on their back — there be plenty in my constituency , where the relative poverty rate be 19 . 7 % , accord to the House of Commons Library — I say that there be breakfast club for all . energy cost will be reduce by GB Energy , there will be economic stability and growth as a result of project such as a national wealth fund , and planning reform will create role and job . what I do from now on will require personal , role - model , visionary leadership , but it will also require a team effort . when I start my career as a sewer baiter , lift manhole and put down bait to kill rat , I be give some advice by the CEO of a company , who say , " Lee , to be successful you need to build the good team around you , and to do that you need to focus on brain . do not focus on race , religion , age or sexual preference ; focus on get the good brain around you , and you will be successful . " over the year , I have learn about the need to supplement that with passion in the heart , for those with the right passion and the right brain be bind to be successful . I will work tirelessly across the private , public and voluntary sector , with my wonderful volunteering team and with resident , to bring a well today and an even well tomorrow for Doncaster East and the Isle of Axholme . no family should do go to bed at night and have nightmare about what tomorrow might bring ; they should sleep well , dream big , and wake up to opportunity galore . I do not underestimate the challenge that lie ahead , but I can tell the House that that 14 - year - old without a home never do so either , and let I bear witness to that as I stand here today . I say to every single resident of Doncaster East and the Isle of Axholme , " thank you for put your trust in I . I be your voice here in Westminster , I be your voice in the constituency , and together we will make a difference . " it be a real pleasure to follow the maiden speech of the hon . member for Doncaster East and the Isle of Axholme ( Lee Pitcher ) . it be also a great pleasure to have another Yorkshire Hammer in the House , but let I give he some friendly advice : he might not want to have my neighbour , the hon . member for Leeds East ( Richard Burgon ) , sit behind he next time . if the hon . Gentleman do give he any trouble , he should just ask to compare their team ' european cabinet . as the current leader of the UK delegation to the NATO Parliamentary Assembly , I want to say something about defence in an ever - change world . I hope there be not too much of a pause in the defence review that have already take place , and there have be some debate about that . I understand why a new defence review be take place under a new government , but I think it worth note that we have move to a 360 ° view of NATO and the threat that it face . we may well see a change of Administration in the United States , and with any change of Administration it take time to work out the direction that the new Administration want to take . I do not feel as fearful as some about President Trump return to the White House , because during his last tenure he invest heavily in NATO and do not undermine it . we know that while his habit be to create great upset and make big statement , the reality turn out to be somewhat different , and he work towards build on that . nevertheless , this be something that will have to be consider . what Trump do succeed in do be get european ally to build their defence strategy and budget , and we can not escape the fact that the demand on the defence of Europe be grow and grow , not just on land but at sea . we know that Russia have map the bed of the North sea . it have map the fuel pipeline and the data cable , and obviously the surface platform be at risk . we know that the Royal Navy and our ally spend a great deal of time counteract that , and I be proud that the Conservative Government establish a huge shipbuilding programme the like of which have not be see for very many year . it provide long - term contract that allow the shipyard and the company to invest , and , crucially , allow the Royal Navy to be the capable force that it need to be . that must be key not just to the maintaining of a maritime nation , but to where the maritime interest lie in the world . climate change have already be mention today . an undeniable fact in that connection be the opening up of the High North and the north - east passage . another undeniable fact be that the Russians have be rebuild and revamp basis along their northern shoreline , and yet another undeniable fact be that the Ukraine war that Vladimir Putin illegally start , think he would be able to walk in and dominate that country in a very short space of time , have decimate his economy in the long run . go to war will always decimate an economy , but this war have decimate Russia ' s military , cost it a huge number of military personnel , and have make Putin reliant on other country , such as China . it be notable that before the Ukraine war chinese vessel never really go into the High North , but they do now because Russia let they in . tension will build in the High North , and we have to be ready for it . I think we be ready for it — we have take part in vital exercise in the area — but that just go to show how vital the Royal Navy be . it be , of course , also vital that we have a function air force , and that we continue with the procurement of F - 35s . russian jet try to violate our airspace — certainly NATO airspace — on , I think , a daily basis , and they need to be meet with confrontation . NATO be a deterrent rather than an aggressive force , but deterrence can only happen if those concern feel the consequence of the balance of power . I believe that NATO be strong enough at the moment . no other combine maritime force in the world constantly have at least 36 ship patrol the sea ; that be what NATO be able to bring together . however , it be vital that when we carry out the strategic defence review , we analyse not just what we need in maritime term today , but what will come in the future ; not just how we patrol the airspace today , but what will come in the future . we must also address the position of the Army , which have be under discussion for decade . it be all very well to talk about hollow out the armed force and go for the low number of personnel . this be , in many way , the post - cold war dividend , and that dividend have go , as a number of we warn that it would before the conflict in Ukraine , and it will not come back . that lead to some tough choice . there have to be honesty in the conversation about how much of our gdp we should be spend , because it will add up to 100 % , and that mean that the budget must be cut somewhere else . I be proud that we have the track to get to 2 . 5 % , but , as I be try to ask in my intervention on the Secretary of State , if this review add up to more than 2 . 5 % — if it say , " this be what we need to be able to defend a change arena " — will the Government spend that money ? we can not on one the hand say that we aim to get to 2 . 5 % , rather than give a specific date , and on the other hand say , " we be go to have a strategic defence review , but what if it cost 3 % ? " will this actually be achieve ? that be an important question . the right hon . Member be make a most interesting speech . do he agree that the present size of the British Army be militate against recruitment ? a great many people who might be good in the Army and have consider it as a career option be say , " actually , if I could get another job I might do well , " and that be very , very dangerous . recruitment have become a big problem in the armed force , especially now that unemployment be at historically low level . one of my colleague say to I recently that it be not officer but the rank who be difficult to recruit . I do not have an immediate answer on how we can change that , but I can say this . in my short tenure as the procurement Minister at the MOD , it become blatantly obvious within 24 hour from look at the letter and write question on my desk that accommodation be one of the big issue face the service . I make no criticism of any of my successor or predecessor in that role for try to handle the issue of accommodation , because I quickly discover just how difficult it be . I want to make front - load the capital expenditure budget a priority in order to sort out accommodation , but there be so many legal hurdle in the deal that have be do in the past that it become difficult . I want to put on the record that I see service accommodation as a defence capability , and it should be treat like all other defence capability . if we be ask our service personnel to go to war , do we want the last thing they hear before they go on to the battlefield to be that their family be move out and go somewhere else because they can not live in such condition any more ? do we want the last thing our personnel on Trident hear before disappear for four month to be , " I ' m leave ; I ' m go back to my family home with the kid . we can ' t live like this " ? that mean it have become an issue of operational capability . we need our highly trained and highly professional personnel to know that they be be look after , which start with accommodation . I wish the Government all success in try to grasp this issue and take it forward , because it be exceptionally complex . I be look at the shadow Secretary of State for Defence , my hon . friend the Member for South Suffolk ( James Cartlidge ) , who be one of my successor . I know that he personally try very hard to sort this issue out and carry it forward . I know there be a body of work take place , but this be a priority and need to be sort . I hope that the new Minister for the Armed Forces , the hon . member for Plymouth Sutton and Devonport ( Luke Pollard ) , make good on the 50 write question he submit on 23 and 24 May this year about accommodation , and on the several question table by the now Secretary of State . they obviously recognise that it be a huge concern , and we look forward to find out how they will approach that as soon as possible . I will move on to foreign affair . without a shadow of a doubt , one of the most contentious issue in the previous Parliament , as well as outside and during the general election , be the war between Israel and Gaza , which have inflame passion on all side . I fear that the general election campaign show that some of the militant pro - palestinian protester be step over the mark . that do not apply to all pro - palestinian protester — there be very different set of people — but I be talk about the militant pro - palestinian protester who seek to use fear and intimidation to try to achieve their objective . Mr Deputy Speaker , I have not give notice to the hon . member for Birmingham Yardley ( Jess Phillips ) about what I be about to say , but it be not a criticism , so I hope she will accept it . as she point out in her acceptance speech , it be one of the most horrific campaign she have ever be through . nobody put themselves forward in a democracy , let alone for public service , should have to experience what not just she but several other people experience . do you know what most of they have in common , Mr Deputy Speaker ? they be woman . female candidate in the election , especially labour female candidate , have the most horrific , misogynistic abuse hurl at they over the issue of Gaza and Israel , and we have to call that out . everybody elect to this place be here as a parliamentarian to speak up for the thing they passionately believe in , and no one should ever dismiss someone ' s passionate view about a particular subject , even if we ferociously disagree with they . however , it be incumbent on all of we to call it out when we see , in what should be a fair democracy , people have their tyre slash , be scream at and be intimidate , which happen to woman especially . if we want to have a strong democracy , we have to make sure that this House say with one voice that everybody who want to stand for Parliament , whatever their view , have the right to campaign safely and put their view across . as a country , we have fall a long way behind that . whatever anybody ' s view , we have to call that out . I be a strong defender and supporter of Israel . I believe that Israel have a right to exist , and a right to defend itself . I believe that a close eye must be keep on whether international humanitarian law be be break . if it be , the people who be responsible must be bring before the court and prosecute . the hon . member for Oxford West and Abingdon ( Layla Moran ) make a very powerful speech , and I listen intently to every word she say . her personal experience bring value to this House , as she be able to talk about what the Israel - Gaza conflict mean to she , give that her family be on the ground . who in this House do not want to see a ceasefire ? we all want to see a ceasefire , but there be two side to the coin . it be still Hamas ' s objective to wipe out the state of Israel , which we have to address . we have to keep a balance . as the shadow Foreign Secretary , my right hon . friend the Member for Sutton Coldfield ( Mr Mitchell ) , say , a pogrom be launch on 7 October , and we must make absolutely sure that what happen on that day can not happen again . this House have always push for a two - state solution , but it can not be down to Israel alone to make the ceasefire happen . I will carry on defend Israel ' s right to defend itself and maintain its security . I will also carry on defend international law and make sure it be abide by . if it be not , I will hold people to account . but the call for a ceasefire can not just be on one side . Hamas have to release the hostage and give up their objective of wipe out Israel , and then we may be able to move thing forward . I call Joe Powell to make his maiden speech . thank you , Mr Deputy Speaker . it be a great pleasure to follow the right hon . member for Wetherby and Easingwold ( Sir Alec Shelbrooke ) , and the excellent maiden speech by my hon . friend the Members for Ealing Southall ( Deirdre Costigan ) and for Doncaster East and the Isle of Axholme ( Lee Pitcher ) . it give I great delight to address this House as the new Member of Parliament for Kensington and bayswater . I doubt that , for any of we , the last seven week have be easy . I know that many hon . member will still be catch up on their sleep after the campaign trail , but have our twin bear in the first week of the general election campaign take thing to another level . if timing be everything in politic , that be certainly not a combination I would recommend anyone repeat — but my child will obviously have a great story to tell when they be old . I want to take a moment to thank the team at Queen Charlotte ' s hospital and across the Imperial College NHS trust for their incredible care . our NHS staff deserve our utmost respect and support , and I hope that in the future St Mary ' s , Hammersmith and Charing Cross hospital will finally get what they need to become the first - class premise that patient and staff in our community deserve , include the delivering of plan for a brand - new St Mary ' s hospital . I pay tribute to my two predecessor in this new constituency . Felicity Buchan work hard for the resident of Kensington over the past five year , and I particularly commend she for her work on the Homes for Ukraine programme . some issue be central to our national and international security , which transcend party politic , and support the struggle for a free Ukraine be one of they . I be grateful for her work on this issue . in Kensington and bayswater , we have a ukrainian cultural centre , the Ukraine embassy and a substantial ukrainian population . have personally work to support democracy and anti - corruption in Ukraine for many year , I will make sure that our ukrainian community continue to have a strong advocate in Parliament . I be also fortunate enough to inherit part of Dame Karen Buck ' s former constituency of Westminster North . under previous boundary , she represent north Kensington for many year . I know from experience that ten of thousand of resident have be directly assist by Karen and her staff with expertise and empathy . I hope I can emulate even a small part of her unwavering focus on tackle poverty and our housing crisis , whether that be by hold our social housing landlord to account , by protect private renter , include by abolish section 21 no - fault eviction , or by finally end the outdated feudal leasehold system . Karen do a monumental amount of work to advance those cause , and I be sure she be absolutely delighted with their inclusion in the King ' s Speech . she have always exemplify public service over self - interest . I will do my good , along with my other colleague who be inherit her constituency , to live up to her legacy . I know how grateful we be for her 27 year of service in this House . Kensington and bayswater be an incredible part of London , as many hon . member will already know — indeed , I canvass many of they during the campaign and have already be pick up casework in the corridor . we be an amazing community , with fantastic campaigner and organisation , business , entrepreneur , charity , heritage , music , park and school . there be so much go for it , but there be also a deep inequality that have widen in recent year . there be now a 19 - year gap in life expectancy between a woman bear in Notting Dale in North Kensington and one bear in Holland Park , only a third of a mile away . that gap have increase by five year in the past decade alone . over 6 , 000 child be live in poverty and over 3 , 000 family be on a grow housing waiting list . we be rightly proud of our contribution to the nation ' s economy in term of growth , talent , innovation and finance in so many different industry , and we celebrate the tourist who come to visit our museum , Portobello Road and our park , but we must also tackle the underlying cause of the inequality that prevent too many people in my constituency from reach their full potential , whether they be housing , education or employment opportunity . I know from the thousand of people I have meet across our constituency that far too many feel like government be not work for they . they see too many politician put political party before country and self - interest before community . I know that trust in government and politician have plummet as a result , but it do not have to be this way . I have spend my career work to make democracy work well in dozen of country around the world by support reformer in government to work with civil society to be more transparent , more inclusive and more accountable and to deliver for people on the priority that they care about . in Kensington and bayswater , that mean , for example , get a grip on the dirty money in luxury property that still stain our community . despite recent progress in legislation , and despite the leadership that Baroness Hodge , the right hon . member for Sutton Coldfield ( Mr Mitchell ) and many other have show on this topic , we still have in our constituency one of the high number of anonymously own property register in tax haven , with loophole allow autocrat and kleptocrat to continue shield their ownership . many of those property sit empty , hurt our local business and school and hollow out our sense of community . I agree that those that be freeze under sanction should be utilise as soon as possible , so I be determined to build on our Kensington Against dirty Money campaign and continue advocate for London to end its reputation as the dirty money capital of the world , and instead become the anti - corruption capital of the world . there be no bad example of what happen when government stop listen to people and when transparency and accountability be discard than what happen at Grenfell Tower over seven year ago . seventy - two people lose their life in an entirely preventable tragedy , yet we still do not have truth , justice and change for the bereaved , survivor and affected community . these be people whose life be change forever on 14 June 2017 and who have have to wait far too long for justice and for those responsible to be hold to account . in the come week , the second phase of the public inquiry will report . I know that hon . member here will join I in look to those recommendation to ensure that a tragedy like Grenfell can never happen again . I warmly welcome the inclusion in the King ' s Speech of the duty of candour law for public servant . I applaud the effective campaigning of those affect by Grenfell , Hillsborough , infect blood and Windrush , and of other who have suffer because of an unacceptable defensive culture across many of our public institution . I hope we can look at further measure to ensure robust oversight of the implementation of the recommendation from those inquiry . Kensington and bayswater be a special place make a huge contribution to our national life in so many way . my hope be that , under this Labour Government , we will become a fairer place too , build on our strength and address the inequality that have hold we back . it will not be easy and it will not happen overnight — as a QPR fan , I have learn over many year to be realistic — but we have an opportunity now to restore faith and trust in government and democracy , and to restore our reputation internationally too . rise — Order . before I call the next speaker , may I say that demand to participate in this debate will exceed supply if we carry on at such length ? I do not believe in regulation ; I prefer self - regulation , so my advice be that if member stick to about six minute each from now on , we will not have to impose a time limit . what a pleasure to have hear three such effective maiden speech ! I commend the hon . member for Kensington and Bayswater ( Joe Powell ) for survive not only the election , but the birth of twin . I wish his family well . I wish the hon . member for Doncaster East and the Isle of Axholme ( Lee Pitcher ) a happy birthday . I do not think that make a speech in the House of Commons on future birthday will have the same allure , somehow . I regard Virendra Sharma as a great friend in the House of Commons . I never quite see he as a mafia don , but I do see he as a very effective operator . all new mp , and indeed return mp , could learn a lot from Virendra about how to get thing do in Parliament . I commend the new team at the Foreign , Commonwealth and Development Office and the Ministry of Defence . I be particularly pleased to see the noble Lord Collins of Highbury become an Under - Secretary in the Department . I have work closely with he on development - relate issue over the past five year , particularly as his co - chair of the all - party parliamentary group on nutrition for development . Lord Collins champion those issue in opposition ; I be confident that he will now do so within the fcdo , along with the Minister of State , the right hon . member for Oxford East ( anneliese Dodds ) , whom I congratulate on her appointment . I want to concentrate on international development , although I note that there be no specific mention of it — nor any ambition to return to spending 0 . 7 % on it — in the King ' s Speech . I commend my long - stand right hon . friend the Member for Sutton Coldfield ( Mr Mitchell ) for his effort in the previous Government . not only do he bring his usual vigour and drive to his time as Minister for International Development , but he stabilise what all the evidence present to the Select Committee on International Development show have be a chaotically manage merger of the Department for International Development and the Foreign and Commonwealth Office . whatever the right and wrong of the thinking behind the merger , we can not pretend that it be well execute , or that the randomness of some of the decision and the scale of the funding cut be not seriously damage to frontline programme and the UK ' s reputation as a reliable development partner . thank to my right hon . friend , that be behind we . I listen to his warning about the need for a plan b , although the last thing those deliver aid on the frontline need be the distraction and disruption of further organisational change in the fcdo . however , I be sure that they want to know this Government ' s criterion and anticipate timescale for return to 0 . 7 % . in opposition , Labour Members rightly highlight the cut to the aid budget , and the impact on that budget of spending on refugee in the UK , but in government they need to put their money where their mouth be , so I look forward to hear some detail on that spending in the Minister ' s wind - up speech . if we be to make meaningful progress on achieve the sustainable development goal by 2030 , the Government should embrace the White Paper publish by my right hon . friend the Member for Sutton Coldfield . it be well receive across the development community in the UK and internationally . although it be understandable that a new Government might want to put their own bell and whistle on it , I hope the core objective of end extreme poverty and tackle climate change will remain , along with the framework for do so . I assure my right hon . friend that there be bell and whistle from across the House in the international development White Paper . indeed , and I see the White Paper as an important part of build a new consensus on development , and of re - engage the wide public with that agenda . a cross - party approach be the good way to build public support for development and confidence that funding be be spend effectively , which be a legitimate concern of our constituent . all of we in this place who care about development should set ourselves the objective of increase public engagement in the UK , as should those who work in the sector . in recent year , too many non - governmental organisation have go down an overtly corporate route and lose touch with their member and supporter , who be often the most powerful advocate for aid in their community . have listen to Mr Deputy Speaker ' s guidance , I think I do not have time to go into detail on what I think the specific priority should be , but have co - chair the all - party parliamentary group on HIV / AIDS and nutrition for development , I be absolutely clear that those must be at the heart of the Government ' s approach to international development . the Economist have highlight this week that spend on nutrition deliver the good outcome for the money spend . as the Government move forward on deliver the sustainable development goal , which we seem far from achieve by 2030 , I hope that nutrition will be at the heart of the agenda , and that the Government will take the opportunity of the forthcoming Nutrition for Growth conference in Paris to restate their commitment not just to nutrition , but to international development . it be a pleasure to follow the right hon . member for Dumfriesshire , Clydesdale and Tweeddale ( David Mundell ) . it be also a pleasure to finally sit on the Government Benches with my Labour colleague . the view be so much well from here . it be an honour to have hear such incredibly powerful maiden speech from my hon . friend the Members for Ealing Southall ( Deirdre Costigan ) , for Doncaster East and the Isle of Axholme ( Lee Pitcher ) , and for Kensington and Bayswater ( Joe Powell ) . they have raise the bar . it will be difficult for we to match they . in my acceptance speech on election night , I speak about how the conservative austerity agenda have so badly damage this nation over 14 year . that agenda ' s destruction of our public service and people ' s income devastate community like mine , so it be incredibly welcome to hear the King ' s Speech of a Labour Government who will immediately begin to address those matter . I be particularly pleased to welcome the employment right Bill . in 2021 , as shadow Secretary of State for Employment Rights and Protections , I be honour to accept the invitation of the then Leader of the Opposition , now Prime Minister , to chair a taskforce that ultimately lead to labour ' s Green Paper herald the new deal for work people . for their hard work and dedication , I must thank labour ' s affiliate trade union , the non - affiliate union , the TUC and the then Leader of the Opposition ' s office . I must also mention the expertise of my noble Friend Lord John Hendy and the Institute of Employment Rights , who work on this agenda over many year , and my staff , Karl Hansen and Eli Machover . it be right for we to take action to ban exploitative zero - hour contract and to end the scourge of fire and rehire . while we be at it , we should pay attention to P & o ' s " fire and replace " ; it sack 800 worker over Zoom . those concern have to be hold responsible for their despicable act . I be pleased to import from New Zealand the concept of fair pay agreement . I be delighted to see my right hon . and hon . friend engross the proposal , start with the introduction of fpa in the social care sector . hopefully , that will mark the full restoration of sectoral collective bargaining . over 25 year ago , 80 % of our economy be represent by collective bargaining , but now it be less than 25 % . that must be correct . there be a great deal of work to do , but the introduction of a single status of " worker " will be transformative for the million of worker in precarious and fragile employment , who currently struggle to make end meet and have no hope of plan their future . all of that change with the new deal . as we update trade union legislation , we look forward to the repeal of the unworkable and ill - advise Strikes ( Minimum Service Levels ) Act 2023 and the Trade Union Act 2016 . elsewhere in the King ' s Speech , I very much welcome the two railway Bills and the well bus Bill . have produce , as shadow Transport Secretary , the White Paper set out Labour ' s plan for a nationally integrate , publicly own railway , I be delighted that the Secretary of State for Transport have be so quick off the mark in table the necessary Bills . I place on record my heartfelt thank to the incredible Dr Ian Taylor , formerly of Transport for Quality of Life , for his great expertise and sheer hard work in progress the agenda on rail reconfiguration and the re - regulation of bus . it be right that we get on with establish Great British Railways under public ownership . I welcome Lord Peter Hendy — I mention his brother — to the role of railway Minister , which be undoubtedly an excellent appointment . I can not fail to mention that in my Middlesbrough and Thornaby East constituency we have some of the bad child poverty in Britain . the Prime Minister be right to say that the abolition of the two - child cap be merely one lever for tackle the abomination of child poverty , as all Labour government be destine to do , but the cap be undoubtedly the most cruel and draconian measure to be visit on low income household by the party in opposition . I hope that my colleague on the Front Bench will pull that lever as a priority , and abolish this grotesquely punish measure at the early opportunity . we need a serious approach to public sector pay restoration and outsourcing . I very much welcome the Chancellor ' s commitment to the large programme of insource in british history , as well as the Health Secretary ' s intervention ; he be do what his predecessor do not do : meet junior doctor in an attempt to bring the dispute to an end . we need to grow our economy , but we can not shy away from the fact that our taxation system be grossly unfair . I trust that the glare anomaly will be address early on . I welcome the focus on devolution . there be power that we want to take away from this place and give to our nation and region , but my goodness , that have to come with accountability , transparency and openness . sadly , too often that have be lack , and that must be address . finally , on foreign affair , it be perhaps a statement of the obvious , but our foreign policy must be base on human right and adherence to international humanitarian law . on Gaza , I welcome the Foreign Secretary this week call for an immediate ceasefire , for hostage to be release and for aid to reach the people of Gaza , but the question be how we will apply pressure to achieve these goal . we must have clarity in a number of area . first , I urge the Government to set out how they will use all the necessary lever to achieve the ceasefire , include the end of arm export licensing . secondly , I trust that this Government can provide the House with early confirmation of the re - establishing of direct funding to the United Nations Relief and Works Agency . thirdly , I ask the Government to clarify that they support the process that will prosecute war crime , and that the UK accept the International Criminal Court jurisdiction over Israel and have no truck with the nonsensical legal argument that Israel be exempt from international law . we have see that time and again . I do not think that anybody in this House be not shake to the core by the vision of that young man with down ' s syndrome who , have be attack by IDF soldier , be savage by dog and then bleed to death . we have see such scene over and over , and the justification that it be okay to kill 110 people — innocent child , woman and man — in the pursuit of a military target be an abomination . I hope the Foreign Secretary will quickly clarify the new Government ' s approach to the early recognition of the state of Palestine . we need equality and fairness to resolve this crisis , and it will not be resolve without the recognition of Palestine . there be so much in this King ' s Speech . we have an awful lot to be happy about , and a lot of optimism pour from it . there be much to do , but we be indeed up and run . I call Carla Denyer to make her maiden speech . I be most grateful to you , Mr Deputy Speaker , for call I to speak in today ' s debate . good afternoon , colleague . my name be Carla Denyer . my pronoun be she / she , and I be very much look forward to get to know you all . I congratulate the hon . member for Ealing Southall ( Deirdre Costigan ) , for Doncaster East and the Isle of Axholme ( Lee Pitcher ) , and for Kensington and Bayswater ( Joe Powell ) on their interesting maiden speech . I also want to take a moment to honour the hon . member for Oxford West and Abingdon ( Layla Moran ) for her very compelling speech about the route to peace in Gaza and Israel . I look forward to work with all the newly elect mp , and , in fact , everybody in this place , in pursuit of a well future for our constituent . I will return to the shape of that future shortly , but first I want to look back for a moment and to thank the people of Bristol Central for make history and elect I as the first Green MP for the city and also , as far as I be aware , the first bisexual MP for the constituency . we be , as a city , rightly proud of our first . in 1371 — do not worry , I will not be do every year — the town of Bristol be the first in England to be give the status of a county . in 1739 , John Wesley found the very first Methodist chapel , the New Room , in what be now the very heart of my constituency . in 2015 , the city become the first in the UK to be give the European Green Capital award . in 2016 , the city elect Marvin Rees , and thus become the first major european city to elect a mayor of black african heritage . and what be widely agree to be Banksy ' s first large stencil mural — the mild Mild West — be paint in 1999 , in Stokes Croft in my constituency . in fact , it be on a wall just around the corner from where I first meet a member of the Green party — a meeting that rather change the course of my life . unfortunately , the history of Bristol can not , and must not , be disentangle from the UK ' s shameful and immoral history of colonialism and slavery . a 1499 voyage , lead by merchant William Weston of Bristol , be the first expedition command by an Englishman to North America . and rich Bristol merchant finance more than 2 , 000 slave voyage between 1698 and 1807 . those ship carry over 500 , 000 enslave Africans from Africa to slave labour in the Americas . a blue plaque on the Seven Stars Inn on Thomas Lane in the city centre mark how Thomas Clarkson , an anti - slavery activist , together with the Seven Stars ' landlord , collect testimony from sailor in 1787 that be use as evidence here in Parliament . these statement play a role in the passing of the 1807 Slave Trade Act , which eventually lead to the historic end of the transatlantic trade in enslave Africans . Bristol Central ' s hugely successful M Shed museum highlight the anti - slavery movement , alongside its exhibition about modern public protest , include the Bristol bus boycott , and it hold the infamous , now - topple Colston statue . the exhibition point to the abolition campaign as the start of a british tradition of society campaign for change . today , the city that I have proudly call home for 15 year , and part of which I be now immensely proud to represent here in Parliament , be begin to take responsibility for its history , and continue to lead the way when it come to demand change . like most of the other esteemed Members make their maiden speech , I get the Library note advise I that my remark should not be politically contentious or critical . I admit to have struggle a little with how to define that , give that I be here first and foremost to demand and create change on behalf of my constituent . in 1943 , a slightly different - shape version of Bristol Central elect its first woman MP . I can applaud that landmark moment , though not Lady Apsley ' s report radical right - wing conservatism , imperialist , racist and antisemitic view , or the fact that she apparently consider woman first and foremost as wife and mother . she make her maiden speech to the Commons from her wheelchair and , it be widely report , defied convention by make a passionate appeal for the well treatment of disabled people . that be one thing on which I can agree with she , though I do not think that championing disabled right should ever be consider controversial . I hope that in this Parliament it never will be . nor do I think that a voting system that make every vote count be an especially controversial proposition , so I agree strongly with another of my predecessor : Stephen Williams , the first Liberal Democrat ever to represent what be then Bristol West . he use his maiden speech to call for , as he put it , radical electoral reform and for first past the post to be sweep away and replace with a system of fair vote . now be a good moment to recognise the contribution to Parliament make by my immediate predecessor , Thangam Debbonaire , include as shadow Leader of the House . I pay tribute to her work on behalf of Bristolians , particularly in support of the city ' s amazing creative industry as shadow Secretary of State for Culture , Media and Sport , and her groundbreake move to hold what be believe to have be the first - ever constituency surgery for people on the autistic spectrum . thank you , Thangam , for your service to the city . what unite all these thread be the idea of speak up for what we believe in regardless of whether other might find it contentious , or whether we be swim against the popular tide . as an MP , I be determined to fully honour Bristol Central ' s history of do exactly that : use my voice as a force for good , for real change and for real hope , to create a bright future for my constituent and for we all — the kind of future that the King ' s Speech represent an opportunity to build . that bright future depend on the Government take bold action to tackle inequality and poverty through measure such as lift the two - child benefit cap , a mass council - house building programme , and give council the power to keep private rent under control . private rent in Bristol have increase by 52 % over the last decade , while wage have not even increase by a quarter . this be an untenable situation , but one that around half my constituent find themselves in as private renter . the bright future that I talk about depend on defend and restore our public service , from hospital to dentist , school and youth service , and it mean look to restore the UK ' s reputation on the world stage . this be a reputation that have be sorely damage by Brexit . I know that I speak for the majority of Bristol Central when I say that we must be open and active in our effort to rebuild strong link with Europe and work eventually towards a future where the UK can rejoin the EU . it be a reputation too that have be compromise by our Government ' s refusal to clearly condemn the israeli Government ' s disproportionate response to the horrific terrorist attack of 7 October , and in particular by the UK ' s continue arm sale for use against Palestinians , in persistent breach of international law . I be clear that that must stop , and I be clear too that demand it should not be controversial . finally , it be a reputation that have be seriously erode in relation to climate action . as a councillor I be responsible for propose the UK ' s first climate emergency motion in autumn 2018 — another first for Bristol . I know what the climate science require that we get do in the lifetime of this Parliament , as this critical decade for the climate marche on . the bright future we all want for our constituent and our country demand that we urgently secure a liveable future . our warming planet have just pass another milestone . for the first time , global temperature be above the crucial 1 . 5 ° c limit for an entire year . I hope this House will agree that that be one first that we all have a responsibility to try to ensure be also a last . the last Government seek to break the climate consensus , to weaponise culture war and to spread lie and misinformation about what a net zero future will be like . this government must reverse the damage and have the courage to show genuine climate leadership at this critical time in our planet ' s history . I will stand with the government if they do that , but I will not be afraid to speak up where I think they might need to go a little fast . we have hear in the King ' s Speech a commitment to a clean energy transition and public ownership of public transport , and I hope more will be forthcoming across the week and month ahead of we . I stand ready to work across party line to help to secure the ambitious change we need for our climate and our natural world and to make the UK a fair place . in fact I have already begin that cross - party work , so I say a big thank you to the hon . member of other party and none who have sign my amendment to the Loyal Address already , and well do to those mp whose amendment and motion I have in turn support . the challenge that we face together , and that our constituent face daily , be too important for we to fall victim to political tribalism . as Bristol Central ' s many first illustrate , all our choice today will become part of history . as a Green MP , I feel that responsibility on my shoulder . I will do everything I can to carry it responsibly and repay the enormous trust put in I by the people of Bristol Central . I congratulate all the hon . member who have make their maiden speech . I grow up in Bristol , so I wish the new hon . member for Bristol Central ( Carla Denyer ) well in her parliamentary career . her predecessor be a good friend of mine , and I wish she well as well . I also congratulate my hon . friend the Member for Ealing Southall ( Deirdre Costigan ) , who I know will be very successful in deliver for her constituency . her predecessor be a very good friend of mine — I talk about he in the past tense , but I should not , because he continue to be a very good friend of mine ! my hon . friend the Members for Doncaster East and the Isle of Axholme ( Lee Pitcher ) and for Kensington and Bayswater ( Joe Powell ) also make excellent speech . I remember make my maiden speech in 2020 and how unnerving it be , so I congratulate they all . there be a lot of positive announcement in the King ' s Speech — in fact all the announcement in the King ' s Speech be positive . I be so glad after that after my four and a half to five year on the Opposition Benches , Labour have transition to the Government Benches . I congratulate the Secretary of State for Defence , now that he have take office , and I echo his remark about serve personnel , and non - uniformed personnel , who serve Britain both within our border and abroad . they make an enormous contribution and everyone should recognise that . I be grateful to the people of Stockport for re - elect I as their Labour Member of Parliament . the constituency boundary be slightly different , with Reddish come in and the Manor ward go into the Hazel Grove constituency . I place on record my thank to all labour activist , member and supporter for their commitment during the campaign and for return I to the House of Commons . the topic I want to start with be housing , which continue to be the single big issue that people contact I about . sadly , Stockport council be not part of the Greater Manchester spatial framework , because the liberal Democrat councillor in Stockport align with the Conservatives and vote together in December 2020 against Labour ' s proposal to join the framework . that mean that the borough of Stockport be massively behind on housing target . when Stockport withdraw from the Greater Manchester spatial framework , the borough need to build 793 home per year . in September 2022 , Place North West estimate that that figure have rise to almost 1 , 200 home per year . the council be on schedule to fall short of its target by 6 , 000 home . we be in a housing emergency . I welcome the Labour Government ' s commitment to build 1 . 5 million home and decent , affordable housing for everyone . in my view , Stockport do not need any more development for investor ; it need housing for family and young people so that they can get on the housing ladder and have the dignity and respect of safe housing . People be desperate for secure , safe and affordable home . far too many face homelessness or be place outside Stockport , far from their family , support network and school . I be familiar with a case that come through my office last week . a person experience homelessness be offer a place to live in Birmingham , which be almost 100 mile from Stockport — that be simply not acceptable . many private landlord in Stockport and across the UK have ensure that renting be unaffordable for many . there be bid war for property . it be vital that rent be control and rent cap implement . I urge the Government to go far . on healthcare , it be fantastic that the new Health Secretary have meet the British Dental Association . NHS dentistry be in crisis . so many people in Stockport and across Greater Manchester simply can not even register with an NHS dentist , let alone get an appointment . one of the first step that the Health Secretary take be to meet the British Dental Association , which have a long track record of campaigning for proper funding for NHS dentistry to ensure that people can access high - quality dental care regardless of their circumstance . let I mention the case of someone who contact my office . my paperwork state : " a young mother be unable to find an NHS dentist when pregnant . she be distressed that she can not access NHS dentistry for her now six - month - old daughter , for when she get her first tooth , as she be on the waiting list for heart surgery at Alder hey hospital . her daughter should be check by a dentist prior to surgery due to an increase risk of infection of the heart . child with heart condition need proactive dental care and many parent be simply unable to pay for private dental care . " NHS dentistry be in crisis . I be so pleased that the new Health Secretary and the team at the Department for Health and Social Care be make effort to address that serious issue . Stepping Hill hospital serve the borough of Stockport , although it be not in my constituency but just over the border in Cheadle . I raise the state of that hospital with the former Prime Minister just a few month ago . the building be in desperate need of refurbishment and capital investment . again , I thank the new Secretary of State for his Department ' s announcement of funding for local hospital , include Stepping Hill — an example of Labour in government make a real difference to people ' s life . I will not take up too much of the House ' s time , but I wish to mention two issue quickly . on railway , I thank the friend of Reddish South Station for meet I on several occasion . I will campaign to restore proper rail service to reddish South station , which have one service a week — that be simply not acceptable . I also want to see disabled access at all train station , start of course in my constituency . Brinnington , Heaton Chapel , Reddish North and Reddish South station all need proper disabled access . we must also invest in Stockport station , which be quite old and wear out . it be a wonderful asset , offer service to London , Birmingham , Wales and across England . in 2022 - 23 , passenger enter and exit Stockport station a total of 3 . 2 million time . it be vital that our regional and national rail infrastructure be protect and invest in . the station be date , the lift be often faulty and it be a poor experience for passenger and for the staff work there . the commitment to great British Railways in the Labour party manifesto and from the new Secretary of State for Transport be welcome . anyone who have travel with Avanti will be familiar with the service that it offer , and everyone — employee as well as passenger — be unhappy with it . the ticket price be too expensive , the service be unreliable , and it be just a negative experience overall . Avanti be hold back regional growth for Greater Manchester — it be hold people back from make the commute for business reason , or to meet family or friend . labour ' s plan for a simplified and unified governance structure place passenger at the heart of the railway . the new Government will bring train operator under public ownership and control , which I welcome . the final point I will make be on the employment right Bill . we have far too many employer exploit people and pay they poverty wage ; we need to make sure that people get respectable wage , so that they can bring up their family with pride and have the dignity of work . the Bill announce in the King ' s Speech will address that issue , and I welcome it . I call Jim Allister to make his maiden speech . the other new member who have speak today have set a very high bar with their maiden speech , and I commend they on their delivery and the very cogent construction of their speech . I come to this place represent the constituency of North Antrim . therefore , my first privilege be to thank the elector of North Antrim for place their confidence in I — and , of course , I commend their wisdom . the North Antrim constituency be a magnificent blend of urban and rural . we have the county town of Ballymena ; we have other main town , such as Ballymoney and Ballycastle ; and we have a great patchwork of village and small town , include Bushmills , whose famous product some in this House may be familiar with . other in that patchwork of village have excel in national competition — Britain in Bloom and all of that — such as Broughshane , Ahoghill and Cullybackey . it be a wonderful place to represent ; it be also a place of fantastic scenery , because we have the world - famous north coast . the crown glory of that , of course , be the Giant ' s Causeway , as well as Carrick - a - Rede bridge and all those magnificent place . we also have iconic inland tourist attraction such as the Dark Hedges , so I say to member of this House , " if you ' ve never be to North Antrim , it ' s time to put that right . what ' s be keep you ? " what be keep I from represent North Antrim in this House be a 54 - year dynasty of family and party . from June 1970 , North Antrim be represent in this House by Ian Paisley , father and son . today , I want to pay tribute to my predecessor for the considerable work that he do for his constituent in North Antrim , but it be a new era — it be a new start — and I be here with a very distinctive and particular message in regard to the future of Northern Ireland . there be not much in the King ' s Speech about Northern Ireland , apart from a couple of fleeting reference . it be a disappointment to I that there be nothing to address the disenfranchising of the people of Northern Ireland . let I explain . those member who come from England , Scotland or Wales come to this House as a Parliament that , in tandem with devolved institution — if they have they — can collectively legislate for all the law that govern their constituent . sadly , we can not say that about my constituent or any constituent in Northern Ireland , because in 300 area of law , sovereignty over make those law have be surrender to a foreign Parliament . we be now subject to the last Government ' s protocol and Windsor framework arrangement — subject to law govern our trade , our agrifood industry , much of our economy and much of our environment that this House can not make and that Stormont can not make . those law be make in a foreign Parliament and then , colony - like , be impose on Northern Ireland . the Labour movement have a very proud history of opposition to colonialism , but this Government inherit a position whereby they be preside over a colonial situation of a foreign jurisdiction administer law , and decree and legislate law , in part of this kingdom . that be something that this Government need to address , and I be not talk about trifle incidental law . I be talk about many law that cut to the very heart of what it mean to be a United Kingdom and to be a part of that United Kingdom . I refer to just one , but member will find the 300 list , if they be interested , in annex 2 to the protocol that be foist upon we . I refer to only one , which be the subjection of Northern Ireland to the EU ' s custom code . what that mean in practice be that when Great Britain send good — and it be our main source of supply — to our manufacturing industry in Northern Ireland , it be send they , accord to the EU custom code , from a foreign country , because Northern Ireland be decree to be EU territory . that be an unbearable constitutional and economic affront , and that be something I say to this Government . the Secretary of State talk today about democracy , and the Foreign Secretary will go around the world advance the cause of democracy , yet in Northern Ireland we have a situation where there be law govern so many vital aspect that we can not make and can not change . that have to change , and it have to be change by this House . that be the fundamental message that I bring from my constituent , and that be why I be here — because my constituent will not , can not , should not put up with it , just as the constituent of any Member of this House would not put up with it . it be an honour to speak on the second day of this very important debate , and I thank all those who have make their maiden speech today . we have hear some excellent contribution from around the House , particularly from my hon . friend the Member for Ealing Southall ( Deirdre Costigan ) . there be much on which her predecessor and I agree , and sometimes we even disagree , but one thing on which we very much agree be that the curry in Bradford be far superior to that in Ealing Southall . [ interruption . ] that be perhaps contentious — Birmingham be third . my hon . Friend use a really key word as the theme throughout her speech , which I think we could all do with reflect much more on and use much more , and that be " diversity " and the celebration of diversity . so let I welcome all our new hon . member across the House who have join we in what be perhaps one of the most diverse Parliaments . I look forward to work with all of they . it be my hon . friend the Member for Doncaster East and the Isle of Axholme ( Lee Pitcher ) — I do not know there be an island next to Doncaster East , but we be always learn something new — who say something we should all take great note of . in end his speech , he say — perhaps not in these word , but it will be in Hansard — that he would stay true to the people of his constituency . if I could offer one word of advice to new hon . member , that would be it , because tragically , this place can consume we — where it have its positive , it also have its negative . sometimes speak truth to power be one of the most difficult thing we can do , especially , I remember , as a new member , but I have always believe and champion the idea that one should be free to speak . we can agree to disagree , but we be here to represent our constituent . Westminster do not send I to Bradford . the people of Bradford send I here , and I will make sure that the people of Bradford be always hear . I would also say , as a word of caution , that this be not necessarily a blueprint to success ; by say all the right thing , sometimes one do not succeed in the same way , but I believe that we should continue to be true to ourselves in this place . stick with diversity , I represent the beautiful city of Bradford . I be so grateful to the people of Bradford for trust I and send I back down to Parliament as their representative . Bradford be a diverse place , and people from many different background have come together to call it their home . that be what give the place its strength . my own grandparent come to this country in the ' 60 , work long hour seven day a week in the textile mill , sometimes with 10 people sleep in a room that could barely accommodate three or four . the journey we have make from then be remarkable . may God bless the soul of my grandad . may God give he the high station in paradise . if he be here today and see the achievement that we have make , he would be very proud . all of we have to do that job here — to represent our constituent and those journey . equally , Bradford be a place that have suffer . in the last 14 year , the poverty and deprivation that I have see on the street of Bradford have be unprecedented . the reality remain that the last Tory Government spend 14 year cripple our economy , create a crisis in our NHS , allow crime to rise , pollute our river , break our housing market , let wage stagnate and persecute minority ; so for family in my constituency , there be a lot in this King ' s Speech to feel positive about . as my hon . friend the Member for Middlesbrough and Thornaby East ( Andy McDonald ) , who be no long in his place , say , with the implementation of our transformative new deal for work people to strengthen people ' s right at work , boost wage and tackle bad employer , we can make work pay after year of Tory pay stagnation . with the establishment of great British Energy to cut household energy bill and the plan to boost wealth creation in our community , we can tackle the cost of living crisis that so many family continue to face . with the return of rail operator to public ownership and plan to bring bus under public control , we can ensure that public transport serve passenger , not private company shareholder . with investment in proper neighbourhood policing and name officer for every community — something that I have long champion — we can cut crime , tackle antisocial behaviour and keep our street safe . and with the delivery of more healthcare in our community and improvement to our NHS , we can tackle the stark health inequality that continue to blight community in Bradford and in constituency up and down the country . yet the King ' s Speech should have go much far . fail to scrap the two - child limit , which affect three in five household in Bradford , mean that it will not tackle rampant child poverty . the Government yesterday launch a taskforce to work on a new child poverty strategy , but that taskforce be guarantee to reach at least one conclusion and make at least one recommendation : that child poverty be entrench by the two - child limit , and that that limit must be scrap . I urge Ministers not to kick the can down the road to a time when they will have to scrap the limit anyway . instead , they should stop the delay , scrap the limit now and lift child out of poverty today , and not in six month or a year . after the last Tory Government stand by as clear violation of international law be carry out , re - emphasise in the King ' s Speech the Government ' s commitment to human right and the rule of law be an important step . however , if we want the UK to regain its global leadership on these issue , we can not do so without uphold our responsibility under international law . that include fulfil obligation to abide by and protect the independence of the International Criminal Court , as well as support the International Court of Justice and uphold numerous charter , treaty , convention and resolution . the Government must therefore immediately drop the baseless legal challenge over the ICC ' s jurisdiction and the arrest warrant seek by the chief prosecutor for Benjamin Netanyahu and other , and they must reject all attempt to impede the ICC ' s work . as the Foreign Secretary know , I recently visit the ICC in the Hague with my hon . friend the Member for Leeds East ( Richard Burgon ) to meet human right organisation and to present to the chief prosecutor ' s team evidence of israeli war crime gather over month of meeting with witness and expert . what be clear be just how concerned those organisation be over the lack of UK involvement in such an important case . I again urge the Government to back the ICC ' s effort to secure justice for all victim of war crime . if the government do not get that right — if they stray from uphold international law — it put the whole international rule - base order at risk , and it perpetuate double standard that effectively mean one life be not always value the same as another . the UK have an absolute duty to challenge those double standard , to make it clear that everyone be afford the same protection and to prove that international law institution and UN resolution actually mean something . the Government must do that in Palestine , but also in such place as Kashmir , where they must uphold UN resolution that sit gather dust after more than seven decade and grant the son and daughter of Kashmir their birthright of self - determination . finally , it be important that the Government declare that the UK will play its part in try to secure long - term peace in the middle east . as a number of member have mention , with such death and destruction , a few line about try for peace be frankly not enough . close to 40 , 000 man , woman and child have be kill , while countless more have be injure . home , school , mosque and hospital have be level and reduce to rubble . almost 2 million Palestinians have be displace from their home and force to flee for their life . Gaza remain under siege with insufficient food , water , medicine or fuel reach those in need . the israeli military continue to bomb , shoot and kill palestinian civilian in direct violation of international law . a catastrophic humanitarian nightmare be take place in Gaza . the Foreign Secretary may call for an immediate ceasefire , but mistrust and uncertainty mean that the King ' s Speech should have make it an iron - clothe commitment . the King ' s Speech should have redouble effort to deliver desperately need humanitarian aid to Gaza . it should have make it clear that the sale of arm to the israeli military will end , in line with international law . it should have make clear the UK ' s opposition to the collective punishment of the Palestinians and demand an end to the siege of Gaza . instead of just recommit to the two - state solution , the King ' s Speech should have set out the immediate recognition of a viable state of Palestine . that be what we need to see in the King ' s Speech yesterday , and that be why I table an amendment with my hon . friend the Member for Coventry South ( Zarah Sultana ) to set out that position clearly . after 14 year of the Tories , the King ' s Speech be a strong start to undo the damage they cause , and it have my support , but there be much work to be do . I will continue to press the Government to get the good result for my constituent , because it be my constituent who send I down here , and their voice will be hear . rise — Order . before I call the next speaker , can I express my disappointment that self - regulation do not seem to have work ? one of the consequence of self - regulation not work be that we get the situation of collective punishment to which the hon . member for Bradford East ( Imran Hussain ) be refer . can I make one more plea that we try to self - regulate and perhaps limit ourselves to four or five minute for the rest of the debate ? I call Cameron Thomas to make his maiden speech . it be an honour to follow the hon . member for Bradford East ( Imran Hussain ) and his impassioned word . if I may address he directly — if you will oblige I , Mr Deputy Speaker — as well as other member stake their claim to Britain ' s good curry , it would be an honour on behalf of the people of Tewkesbury to join they in sample great curry and determine a champion . on a more sombre note , I be grateful that during the King ' s Speech there be a commitment to a strategic defence review . I remind the House that in 2018 the russian President deploy a chemical weapon on the street of Salisbury . the life of Sergei and Yulia Skripal be change forever , as be the life of a courageous police officer , and a young mother lose her life . today , in 2024 , the russian war machine again deploy chemical on the battlefield of Europe . I hope that the strategic defence review will give due impetus to counter the renew chemical threat . I once hold the honour of lead a parade at the Menin Gate ceremony in Ypres , commemorate those who give their life in some of the most vicious battle of world war one . I have have the honour to call the salute at the national Cenotaph here in Westminster . it be an honour in equal standing to deliver my maiden speech to the House on behalf of the people of Tewkesbury . I follow a proud lineage of armed force service , which include my two brother and my great - grandfather , Petty Officer Supply Charles Trenchard , who give his life aboard HMS Illustrious in world war two . I first move to tewkesbury 16 year into my own military career with the Royal Air Force assignment at Imjin barrack , so name after the battle of the Imjin river fight by the Glorious Glosters in 1951 while outnumber 18 : 1 . tewkesbury ' s quaint Cotswold village and town , crown by our beautiful abbey , now make for an idyllic environment to raise my darling daughter . should any Member of the House wish to don armour and join I at Europe ' s large annual medieval festival , they would be very welcome . I pay tribute to my predecessor , the honourable Laurence Robertson , a Lancastrian who make north Gloucestershire his home and represent Tewkesbury for 27 year , win at seven consecutive general election . my defeat of that particular Lancastrian , I must say , be not in keep with the tradition set in 1471 by the Yorkists at the battle of tewkesbury ; it be an altogether more peaceful affair , and I find Laurence to be dignified and humble as the result become clear . indeed , the close thing to weaponry on show that morning be the dagger be stare at I by one member of his entourage , which I must admit I thoroughly enjoy . in defeat my predecessor , I become the first non - Conservative Member of Parliament in Tewkesbury since 1885 . the weight of history bear heavily , yet pale alongside the responsibility . the only other time I have be elect in any capacity be by my fellow officer cadet on initial officer training course 60 at RAF College Cranwell , to represent they to the College Commandant , a one - star officer . immediately follow that vote , my squadron leader Craig Gaul bring I to his office , swear that I be his man , but practically force - feed I his Debrett ' s guide to etiquette and beg I not to end his career . six year on , he be no long in the RAF , though I be unaware of any connection . for my own part , I also have to hand in my uniform once it become clear that the change so desperately need by our most courageous and selfless public servant must take place within this House . our country find itself at a crossroad . the climate emergency present an existential threat to humankind and to the ecosystem that support life on this planet . we must collectively and decisively turn to face the threat now and export bold leadership to our neighbour across the world . the future be in the hand of our young people . we must equip they today so that they can apply their energy to the challenge of tomorrow , but we can not expect young people to engage in their political future when the curriculum do not enable they to do so and while an imbalanced education system deny so many the opportunity of the privileged few . neurodiverse child be let down by a neurotypical education system build by neurotypical people for neurotypical people . if we be to unlock the challenge of tomorrow with diversity of thought , we must harness the opportunity of neurodiversity . finally , trust in politic have never be more fragile . it be the responsibility of we all to restore public faith in our political institution . I invite fellow member in the Chamber to renew UK politic through respectful discourse , regardless of our difference , and by dedicate this parliamentary term to public service . voter will engage with politic only if they feel that their vote have value . we must transition to an electoral system of proportional representation . on behalf of the people of Tewkesbury , thank you . I call Kirsty McNeill to make her maiden speech . thank you , Mr Deputy Speaker . let I start by congratulate my hon . friend the Members for Ealing Southall ( Deirdre Costigan ) , for Doncaster East and the Isle of Axholme ( Lee Pitcher ) , and for Kensington and Bayswater ( Joe Powell ) , and the hon . member for Bristol Central ( Carla Denyer ) and for Tewkesbury ( Cameron Thomas ) on their maiden speech . it be an honour to be in the Chamber to hear from our new Defence Secretary and the right hon . member for Sutton Coldfield ( Mr Mitchell ) , who I have work with on the cause of internationalism for many year . I be conscious of the honour and privilege that be a Member of Parliament represent . recent event in the United States of America remind we that we must never let violence or the threat of it undermine our politic . that I be speak today in a Chamber bear the coat of arm of Sir David Amess and our beloved friend Jo Cox be a reminder of the nobility and fragility of our democracy . I will always endeavour to fulfil my duty with the same open heart that they both display . hon . member will know that I have many distinguished predecessor as Midlothian ' s representative , not least William Ewart Gladstone . his midlothian campaign be remember as the first truly modern political campaign . I hope that we continue that tradition somewhat in recent week , although I do not think that any of the midlothian candidate could claim to have inspire the same hysteria at our public meeting ; at his , people be pass over the head of the crowd , as if dead , have faint . the midlothian campaign be also remember as a moment when choice be make about the obligation of international solidarity . in Penicuik , we have a memorial to the prisoner of war who die there during the napoleonic war , bear the inscription " all man be brother " — something that I hope we can hold on to as we seek to make the UK a force for good in the world . it be only two week ago today that I be elect Member of Parliament for Midlothian . in that time , I have have cause to reflect deeply on the spirit of public service that animate the staff in Midlothian council who administer our election , the official at the Scotland Office where I be now privileged to serve , and the parliamentary staff who have welcome we with such professionalism . it be that spirit , too , that call my predecessor , Owen Thompson , to public life , first as a midlothian councillor , then as our Member of Parliament , and latterly as a Privy Counsellor serve the whole nation . his support for constituent and for our many wonderful community group will never be forget . I sincerely hope that I can be of assistance as he continue his work advocate for veteran and miner . it be impossible to be the Member of Parliament for Midlothian and fail to remind the House of that proud mining heritage . I hope that fellow trade unionist in this House will watch the inspire footage of civil right hero and actor Paul Robeson visit Midlothian and singe " Joe Hill " for our miner . I hope , too , to welcome many fellow member to Midlothian to visit our many mining memorial , include the new one in Dalkeith , bear the unforgettable description , " they spend their life in the dark so that other might have light " . mineworker from Midlothian and across our coalfield power this country . I be delighted that our labour manifesto commit to end the injustice of the mineworker ' pension scheme and to a proper investigation of event at Orgreave . some month ago I host an event in Midlothian , and I ask participant what have inspire their activism . one man , Bill , say that he be there because when he be grow up in Newtongrange they have a mine , and now they have a mining museum . this be say in a spirit of reflection , not nostalgia . People in Midlothian be look to the future , seek the industry and sector that can play the progressive role in the next century that mining play in the last . in particular , let I commend all the world - lead scientist work in Midlothian at the Roslin Institute and associate organisation . I be sure that they would acknowledge , whatever their individual brilliance , that none of they would be where they be without the science teacher whose inspiration first light a spark in their young mind . we be all of we product of the investment make in we as child . it be to Midlothian ' s child and young people that I want to make my most solemn undertaking . if you have disability or additional need , you be among my most precious constituent . if you be care - experience , you will always have a friend and champion in I . if you find that your life chance be diminish by poverty or discrimination , then it be by my contribution to help you realise your limitless potential that I wish my time as your MP to be judge . as colleague may know , I have spend much of my time work with and advocate for child . I would often say that good and bad childhood follow people around forever . I know this to be true because of my mother ' s experience of the care system , which inspire her adult commitment to the Children ' s Panel and fierce advocacy for family in crisis . she teach I so much about fight for fairness . More than anything , however , both she and my father teach I about disagree well . while we have be on different side of the constitutional divide , our family , I humbly suggest , hold something of a lesson for Scotland as a whole . it be possible — indeed , it be necessary — to approach disagreement with a spirit of curiosity and care . the birthplace of the enlightenment deserve nothing less . I call Ellie Chowns to make her maiden speech . I be grateful to be call to make my maiden speech in this debate . I congratulate the hon . member for Midlothian ( Kirsty McNeill ) on her passionate advocacy for child and young people . I congratulate all new member , especially those who have make their maiden speech today . there have be some really excellent contribution . I would like to warmly thank all the staff of the House , who have make we feel so welcome here and help we all to find our foot . I be particularly pleased to be call to speak in this debate , which focus on foreign affair and defence , have spend my own career work in the field of international development and have serve in the European Parliament . these be issue that be very close to my heart and I will be follow they with a close eye during the period of this Parliament . I would like to focus my remark today on North Herefordshire , my constituency . it have be my home for over 20 year , and it be an incredible honour and privilege to be stand here today as the first woman MP from the county of Herefordshire . I would like to thank the voter of North Herefordshire for put their faith and trust in I . during my campaign , I promise to work my sock off to represent and serve the people of my constituency . have arrive here in this House , I be delighted to discover that the House of Commons gift shop stock sock in a delightfully fitting shade of green , so I have no fear of run short while I work they off in this place . I reiterate my pledge to my constituent to do everything in my power to repay the trust they have put in I , and to represent and serve they well . before I go far , I would like to honour the tradition of pay tribute to my predecessor , Sir Bill Wiggin , who serve as the MP for North Herefordshire for 23 year . I would like to recognise his long year of service and his contribution to local improvement , such as the installation of the lift at Leominster station ; local improvement be refer to by another Member early . that sort of improvement make such a difference in people ' s day - to - day life and be key to be a good constituency MP . our party politic may be very different , but as a former shadow Minister for Environment , Food and Rural Affairs , he proudly champion North Herefordshire and its farmer . indeed , Sir Bill be famously fond of Hereford cattle and feature they prominently in his literature and on his parliamentary letterhead . I wish he all the good as he enjoy spend more time on his farm and with his family , and I want to thank he for his long service in this House . North Herefordshire be one of the large constituency in England . it be an hour ' s drive east to west , from the Malvern hill to the Welsh border , and an hour ' s drive north to south , from Shropshire nearly all the way down to Ross , the birthplace of british tourism . I be clearly go to be compete with other in invite member to visit our delightful constituency to sample their touristic delight . North Herefordshire be rightly fame for its bustling market town , Leominster and Ledbury , Bromyard and Kington ; for its distinctive black and white village ; and for its people and its produce . it include two of the UK ' s 46 national landscape , the Malvern hill and the Wye valley , so its landscape be indeed gloriously green ! run along the southern boundary of the constituency be the stunning River Wye , about which I shall have more to say shortly . farming be of course central to life in North Herefordshire , and our county be famous for both its cattle and its apple . since my predecessor make it his business to promote the cattle , I will take this opportunity to talk up our Herefordshire apple , which — although hon . member from Somerset may wish to debate this — undoubtedly produce the fine cider in the country . indeed , it be one of my ambition while in this House to introduce some of my county ' s most famed beverage into the aforementioned House of Commons gift shop . however , it be not just the landscape and the produce that make North Herefordshire special ; it be the people . one of the immense privilege of become involve in politic have be the opportunity to get to know the multitude of local institution , charity , community group and thrive business that make up our community . the people of North Herefordshire be creative , innovative , entrepreneurial , and deeply caring . it be impossible to mention all who deserve it , but perhaps I can give the House a flavour by highlight some of they . I think of the creativity of the recent Ledbury poetry festival ; the innovation exemplify by Wye Valley Brewery ' s approach to energy efficiency ; the entrepreneurialism of award - win local food business such as Peter Cooks Bread and my son ' favourite place to eat , the Beefy Boys , home of officially the good burger in the UK ; and the care exemplify by St Michael ' s Hospice , by ECHO , a local charity that be very close to my heart , and by innumerable other local charity and community group . the people of North Herefordshire be what make the place so wonderful , and they be why I be here . in my election campaign I focus on three issue in particular — renew our economy , repair our NHS and restore our river — and I want to say a few word about each of those topic here . first , renew our economy be urgent . the cost of living crisis have hit many people very hard indeed . fuel poverty be a real issue in my constituency , where the combination of relatively low wage and particularly hard - to - heat housing stock make home insulation an urgent priority . I will be press the new Government hard to take the urgent action that we need to ensure that every home be an affordable home and a warm home . for too long , the previous Government neglect the opportunity offer by the green economic transformation , and I very much hope that this new Government will not make the same mistake . the King ' s Speech indicate some welcome step in the right direction , but we need to do more to renew and rebuild our economy on a sustainable basis , one that be compatible with the challenge of climate change that so many member have say they recognise . as will already be clear to the House , a key area of interest for I be housing . the Green policy — the right home in the right place at the right price — will be the guide principle for my colleague and I as we scrutinise the new Government ' s proposal on planning . the country desperately need new home , especially new social housing , and it be vital that those home be accompany by the right infrastructure so that health , education and transport service be not put under yet more strain . it be also crucial to ensure that new house be build to the high possible energy efficiency standard . it be so much cheap to do that now than to have to retrofit they far down the line . give that we enjoy an average of eight hour of glorious sunshine each day in my constituency , I hope the House will forgive I in advance for repeatedly make the case for every single new building in North Herefordshire , and indeed the country , to be fit with solar panel , ready to harness that sunshine . it be extraordinary that we still build house without solar panel on top of they . so I assure colleague , and my constituent , that I will work my sock off in the House to bring forward the policy that will deliver sustainable prosperity by renew our economy . another issue that be of great concern to my constituent be the urgent need to repair our NHS and nurse it back to health , along with the urgent need to invest in the local public service on which we all rely . far too often , on the doorstep and in the village hall of my constituency , I have hear story of people who have be wait far too long for the urgent treatment that they need , and far too often I have hear concern express about the pothole that be perhaps the most visible symptom of under - investment in local government . we need real change . we need an end to the way in which our local NHS and Herefordshire council have be starve of cash . we need funding to match the level of local need . we need a return to multi - year funding settlement for local government , for both revenue and capital funding , to allow council to plan long - term for the infrastructure and service that be need . we need more investment in preventive healthcare service . we need to show our wonderful public - spirited NHS staff how much we value they — not just with warm word and applause , but with training bursary and salary that keep pace with inflation . and this Parliament really must address social care . for too long it have be a political hot potato that no one want to touch , and I confess that I be somewhat disappointed to see no mention of this crucial topic in the King ' s Speech . I believe that mechanism such as a citizen ' assembly on social care could really help we move forward in this vital area with cross - party agreement , and I look forward to work with colleague on this and other measure to help repair our NHS and public service . finally , let I turn to a topic that be very close to my heart and to those of my constituent : the need to restore our river to good health . I have already extoll the virtue of the beautiful River Wye , which form the southern boundary of my constituency . it be an integral part of the landscape and be vote the nation ' s favourite river in 2010 , but the ecological health of this much - love river and its tributary — include the Lugg , the Arrow and the Frome — be under threat , particularly due to phosphate pollution . last year , Natural England officially downgrade its condition to " unfavourable - decline " . the Lugg catchment have be subject to a planning moratorium since 2019 due to excess phosphate level . there be good understanding of the cause of the problem in my constituency — primarily agricultural run - off — with the recent major expansion of the industrial poultry industry clearly play a key role . for too long our river have , unfortunately , be effectively treat as free sewer , and this can not continue . business can not free - ride on the natural world , and company must not profit from pollution . local campaigner have do an excellent job of highlight the condition of the river , and there be now a great deal of good will among all player . what we need now be a supportive Government who will take the action need to enforce pollution rule and invest in genuine solution , because we know that restore the river , and all our river across the country , go hand in hand with renew our economy . indeed , sector such as tourism and the construction industry depend on it . farmer have a key role to play in this restoration and , indeed , in nature restoration across the whole country . I live on a farm , and I be particularly inspire by the fact that so many farmer be lead the transition towards more nature - friendly farming . I will be a voice for those farmer in this House and call for the investment that farmer need to ensure that we can grow more good , healthy and affordable food in the UK in a way that generate and protect good job , and that protect nature and the health of the soil and the water on which all life ultimately depend . in closing , I would like to say that I believe in the politic of co - operation . I believe we can do more if we work together , rather than against each other . I believe we can do more if we focus on our area of common ground , rather than our disagreement , and I know that people in my constituency and across the country want to see a well sort of politic . that be why I be a passionate supporter of a fair voting system in which everyone ' s vote count equally . I pledge to my constituent , and to all other member of this House , that I will work with you to find common ground . I look forward to work my sock off together with you to renew our economy , to repair our NHS and to restore our river . in do so , I hope that together we can create real change and rebuild trust in politic . rise — order . we be slightly run out of time now , so I be go to ensure that our two remain maiden speaker get in . there will obviously be no time limit on they , but I urge they to think of other colleague . I will try to get in as many people as possible , but I be afraid we be slightly run out of time because there have be some quite long speech . I call Martin McCluskey to make his maiden speech . thank you , Mr Deputy Speaker , for the opportunity speak in this debate and to follow the hon . member for North Herefordshire ( Ellie Chowns ) , who speak with such passion , and the many other hon . member who have speak this afternoon . like many in this Chamber , I be a Member for a new constituency . Inverclyde and Renfrewshire West stretch along the Clyde coast and take in the coastal community of Inverkip , Wemyss Bay , Gourock , Greenock and Port Glasgow , before move inland to the village of Kilmacolm , Quarrier ' s , Bridge of Weir , and Houston , as well as Crosslee and Craigends . my constituency have a proud history of look outward around the world , from produce the ship that contribute to our maritime defence to provide the base for the free french navy during world war two . more recently , it have continue with the idea of give people refuge by contribute to the ukrainian refugee and resettlement programme . it be also — people will not be surprised to hear I say this — a beautiful part of the world . I know it be a bit of a tradition for member to say that their constituency be the most beautiful in the country , and I do not intend to disappoint this afternoon , so Inverclyde and Renfrewshire West be the most beautiful constituency in the country . but it be not the beauty of our surrounding that I be most proud of ; it be the resilience , the kindness and the determination of our people . I have the privilege of represent the place where I be bear and raise , and where I continue to live . I see every day what people achieve together for the benefit of the community . in Gourock , which I also have the pleasure of represent on Inverclyde council , the " Bowl and a Blether " group at St John ' s church grow out of the cost of living crisis , but be now a regular event where people from all walk of life can come together for a chat and a warm meal . in Port Glasgow , Parklea branch out provide opportunity for people to develop their skill and talent through horticulture . it have go from strength to strength since it open in 1997 , and early this year I have the pleasure of see how it be invest to expand its work . in Greenock , the Inverclyde Shed have redevelop an old industrial building to create a space for people , in its word , to meet , make , grow and share . in Bridge of Weir just last weekend , I visit the Bridge community centre . it be set up with the simple purpose of provide a post office for the village , but now provide a shop and a community space right on the high street . our people bring our community to life . they look out for each other , and they rarely ask for anything in return . the Prime Minister have speak about a Government of service , and it be the people of my constituency who I look to as the good example of what service really mean . in the last Parliament , these wonderful people and place be represent by two member : Ronnie Cowan for Inverclyde and Gavin Newlands for Paisley and Renfrewshire North , which cover the village of Bridge of Weir and Houston . both of they serve their constituent with distinction . I want to pay particular tribute to Ronnie Cowan , who be my opponent in three election . he will be remember fondly in Inverclyde for his important campaigning in the last Parliament to improve treatment and support for people affect by drug addiction — a problem that emerge from the hopelessness that so many people feel today . that hopelessness have its root in decision make decade ago that still scar many of our community . today , we live with the consequence of the loss of much of our shipbuilding industry and the failure to find a sustainable replacement for those job . in his maiden speech in 1983 , one of my predecessor , Norman Godman , describe shipbuilding and engineering as " the economic backbone of Greenock and Port Glasgow . " — [ Official Report , 24 June 1983 ; Vol . 44 , c . 283 . ] but today , only about 7 % of those at work in my constituency be employ in a manufacturing business . that issue be raise by another of my predecessor , Iain McKenzie , who lead a debate on manufacturing in this place almost a decade ago . it be therefore disappointing that under the last government we do not see the progress that be call for . the measure announce yesterday will begin the work of change that . GB Energy and the Government ' s plan for a national wealth fund be as important for reduce our dependence on foreign energy reserve as they be for provide opportunity here at home . I welcome the ambition of the Government ' s plan . they be put the brake on the approach that say that decline be inevitable . for my constituency , Government work in partnership with energy company , with shipyard and with advanced manufacturer , include in the defence sector , can bring prosperity back to the Clyde . I be encourage to hear the Secretary of State lay out how defence and the defence industry will be central to the Government ' s agenda for growth . industry such as shipbuilding do not just provide people with a source of employment and income . they give they strong relationship , dignity , pride and a sense that the future offer promise and opportunity rather than decline and despair . as a boy , I learn this from my grandfather , who be the union treasurer at Scotts shipyard in Greenock . work and the trade union movement provide he with a route out of poverty , the ability to provide for his family and the chance to ensure that his child and grandchild could see their living standard increase , generation after generation . that be what good work do for people and for community , and that be why invest in the job of the future must go hand in hand with ensure people ' s right at work . the new deal for work people will provide the certainty of well - pay work , underpin by strong right and protection . across Inverclyde and Renfrewshire West , there be already example of manufacturing business , trade internationally , that be offer high - quality , unionised job . Bridge of Weir Leather , which produce the leather for these Benches , be a family - run business that trade around the world from my constituency . James Walker Devol , an engineering firm with a decade - long history in Inverclyde , produce advanced plastic for the oil and gas industry and the renewable sector from its factory in Gourock . the Chancellor have set out her ambition for sustainable growth that include every part of the country . she know what every Labour Chancellor and every Labour Government have understand , which be that economic growth in every part of Britain and a strong economy allow we to pay for the service that our community so desperately need . I speak early about my family , and about my grandparent ' ambition that their child should do well than they do . I close by say something about the people who teach I the value that lead I here , and about those who encourage I to put those value in the service of my community through politic . my grandmother be bear in 1914 , and in the early 1930 she make her first trip to London to enter domestic service for the man who then own Tottenham Hotspur football club . she send the money she make back home to help her mother raise 12 child in a two - room flat on Rue End Street in Greenock . within two generation , her grandson have find his own way to London to sit in the House of Commons . like all new member , I do not achieve this alone . my family and community teach I the value that lead I into public service . unfortunately , neither of my parent live long enough to see this , but they give I the start in life that I want to see for every child . and I be lucky to know two member of this House who demonstrate to I the good of what public service have to offer . the first be the former Member for Glasgow East , Margaret Curran , who have have a lifelong commitment to public service and teach I the cut and thrust of scottish politic — for anyone who have not realise , there be a lot of cut and thrust in scottish politic . the second be the former Member for Inverclyde , David Cairns , who I know be love by many in this House . David be a model MP who work hard for all his constituent and who build his reputation on deliver for people in our community . as a gay man in politic 20 year ago , he show I that who you love should not be a barrier to hold elect office . it be often say that , " you can ' t be what you can ' t see . " if not for David Cairns and the model he set , I know I would not be stand here today with my soon - to - be husband watch from the Gallery above . in everything I do in this place , I will work to live up to their example and to the value of the people and community that raise I . I call John Cooper to make his maiden speech . I congratulate the hon . member for Inverclyde and Renfrewshire West ( Martin McCluskey ) on his excellent maiden speech , which be difficult to follow . I gently say that it be mar only by the fact that he do not reference two of his most famous constituent : William Kidd , the pirate , and my mother , who be bear in Houston . thank you , Mr Deputy Speaker , for allow I to take part in this important debate at the dawn of this new Parliament . I also thank my colleague for their wise counsel and help as I take my first step here in the cockpit of democracy . defence be the no . 1 task of any Government , as we have hear , and I be proud that my constituency , Dumfries and Galloway , have many fine young man and woman currently in our armed force , and many gallant veteran who have serve on air , sea and land . of course , like every constituency , Dumfries and Galloway have many people work in the UK ' s world - class defence industry , which deserve our support . I worry about use the expression " punch above our weight " in relation to our armed force . a british major general who serve with distinction in Afghanistan , and who know a lot more about conflict and boxing than I do , tell I , " that ' s a recipe for get knock out as soon as the bell ring . " I pay tribute to my predecessor , Alister Jack . I make it clear that , although such praise be customary on these occasion , I offer tribute not out of duty but out of genuine respect and admiration . as a special adviser , I have a front - row seat for Alister ' s tour - de - force performance as Secretary of State for Scotland . under his leadership , the Scotland Office , small but perfectly form — not unlike myself — be a bantamweight bazooka , bang on target for the people of Scotland on issue include equality , the independence debate and the benighted A75 and A77 road that be so crucial to Dumfries and Galloway . I hope I can apply the lesson learn at the foot of the master for the betterment of Dumfries and Galloway . I get the fine start possible there and I want to make sure other get the same chance . only through marry the talent and aspiration that abound in the south - west of Scotland with opportunity can we defeat that blight on all rural area : depopulation . we need the three J ' s : job , job , job . we have much work to do to make ours a go - to destination , not a go - through destination . bless with a balmy climate , we be home to some of the country ' s fine dairy herd . our unspoiled landscape be a tourism dream . the terrain , for instance around Newton Stewart and Minnigaff , be ideal for cycling . the Merrick , Cairnsmore of Fleet and the Galloway hill be a delight for hiker . stroll on the beach at Killantringan — I will help Hansard with the spelling later — on the rugged Rhins peninsula , and you will probably have the golden strand all to yourself , and you will see our northern irish friend in this great Union just 14 mile distant . dumfrie itself , astride the mighty Nith , be rightly laud as the " Queen of the South " . Erudite Wigtown be Scotland ' s national book town , and there I pick up a copy of " if " , arguably the fine work by Rudyard Kipling . his line , " if you can meet with Triumph and Disaster and treat those two impostor just the same " , resonate now on the Government Benches , where Labour member be have a moment in the sun , but also on the Opposition Benches , where the blue flame of Conservativism gutter in the storm , burn low , but do not go out . many suppose " if " to be about Kipling ' s son , John , who be tragically kill serve with the Irish Guards in the great war . in fact , it be inspire by Leander Starr Jameson , who grow up in my home town of Stranraer , after his father take editorship of the Wigtownshire Free Press . that venerable newspaper be still in circulation , and I get my first and last journalism job there , as a trainee reporter and latterly as editor . Jameson lead a daring raid against the South African Republic in 1896 . perhaps there be something in the pristine water of south - west Scotland that instil a resilience and self - reliance in its people , for John Paul Jones , father of the United States navy , be also a native Gallovidian . Jones unfortunately go pirate on we in the american revolution . lock in mortal combat with the Royal Navy off Flamborough Head in 1779 , he be repute to have say : " surrender ? I have not yet begin to fight ! " I be proud , then , to have be elect to represent the redoubtable people of Dumfries and Galloway , inheritor of Jameson ' s alacrity and Jones ' s never - say - die attitude , both vital in today ' s febrile time . in conclusion , Bonnie Gallowa ' have a story past and , I be determined , a bright future . I shall endeavour , as Kipling didn ' t quite put it , to keep the heid . I intend to call the wind - up shortly after 4 . 30 pm , so there should be some very short speech now to try to get everybody in . remember , the short speech be the good — the Gettysburg address be only four minute . Richard Burgon , I know , will set an example . I congratulate the hon . member for Dumfries and Galloway ( John Cooper ) on his maiden speech , as well as every single member who have make a maiden speech today , particularly my labour colleague who join we in government . it be a great pleasure to give this speech on the second day of the King ' s Speech debate , welcome the first King ' s Speech under a Labour Government for so long . it make I reflect on the opportunity we now have to deliver the change that people in our community not only need but deserve , after 14 year of conservative misrule . we gather in this House after a period of nearly 15 year that end with more food bank in this country than branch of McDonald ' s , record number on NHS waiting list , 4 million child live in poverty in the sixth rich economy on earth , river literally full of sewage and real wage low than they be back in 2008 . all that be before we get on to the shameful history of corrupt crony contract and mps line their pocket with second , third , fourth and fifth job . I be glad that our Government will make progress on that very shortly , by make an announcement about second job for mps . there be 40 Bills in the King ' s Speech that could initiate a decade of national renewal . as a former trade union lawyer , I particularly welcome the new deal for work people . for too long , we have see worker in this country be treat as if they do not matter . we all see what happen at P & O , when decent , hardworke people be march off their ferry by train security guard in balaclavas and treat like dirt by that very wealthy company . then we have the exciting announcement on how we will bring rail back into public ownership and how we will give local council great power to develop their own bus service . those measure be so important for our community . if there be one thing that run through the history of our party it be the fact that we deliver well when we recognise that there be some thing in life that be more important than the pursuit of profit , and they be the good of people and the good of public service . that be what help we to found our national health service — our party ' s proud achievement in government . we need to rise to the challenge now of secure a great future for it under this Labour Government . as I have say , I be pleased to see new measure to ban mps ' second job . indeed , I draft a Bill in the previous Parliament to do just that . funnily enough , the Conservative Government reject that Bill again and again . I do wonder why that be ! we have a real opportunity now to deliver the change that people need and deserve . I could not have be prouder to have be re - elect to represent my community of Leeds East in this Parliament for the fourth time . I be particularly pleased to welcome into the new enlarge constituency the proud community of Garforth , Swillington and Little Preston . it be great to be work with people locally to improve public service under a Labour Government and to deliver the change that people need . before I conclude this curtail speech , I want to raise two other issue . first , I very much welcome the Government ' s announcement yesterday of a child poverty taskforce . that be an important step forward . what we need now be a long - term strategy , give that 4 million child be live in poverty in the sixth rich country on earth . however , implement a strategy do not mean that we can not take immediate action now . every child poverty expert say that scrap the two - child benefit cap be a key measure , and I encourage our government to get on with that . that be why I support the amendment table by my hon . friend the Member for Liverpool Riverside ( Kim Johnson ) . secondly , I wish to raise respect for international law and the question of arm sale . I be one of the sponsor of the amendment of my hon . friend the Member for Coventry South ( Zarah Sultana ) . as my hon . friend the Member for Bradford East ( Imran Hussain ) mention in his speech , he and I go to the International Criminal Court at the Hague and deliver to the team of the chief prosecutor , Karim Khan , evidence of israeli war crime that we have gather through parliamentary meeting . it be so important that we uphold both the integrity and independence of the International Criminal Court and the integrity of the international rule - base order . I regret to say that I believe that the previous Government flout international law , and I look forward to our Labour Government do something very different . that be why I back the amendment to end arm sale to Israel . we have talk about the legal case , and of course there be a legal case , but it be the moral case that burn in the heart of so many people in our country and around the world when they see the horrific scene from Gaza of the slaughter of man , woman and child . we have debate it so many time in this Chamber that we have almost get use to it . People out there want our government — and I hope that our Government will do this — to take a clear moral stand by , yes , call for an immediate ceasefire and uphold international law , but also by stop arm sale to Israel to put pressure on Netanyahu . we do not want to see arm license in this country go to maim and kill man , woman and child in Gaza . it be completely unconscionable and it must stop , in my opinion . I thank my constituent for re - elect I with an increase majority . I will work night and day for you to ensure the good deal under this new Government that you can get , because you deserve change after nearly 15 year of conservative misrule . you deserve an increase in your living standard . you deserve an end to child poverty . you deserve an nhs that we can be proud of once again . under the last Labour Government , satisfaction level with our NHS be at record high . while it be the Welsh trade unionist and socialist Aneurin Bevan , who be briefly expel from the Labour party and come back in , who create our national health service , the Conservatives vote against the creation of a national health service over 20 time . that be one of the reason they could not be trust with the NHS — [ interruption . ] well , history be important , and have the Conservatives learn from history there would not be just a handful of they on the Opposition Benches after get the bad election result in their history — an election result that I be delighted to say they thoroughly deserve . let we get on with make the change under a Labour Government that people really need , however much Conservative Members resent it and try to stop it . I join many other in congratulate member on their maiden speech — they be so much well than my own — but as we be short of time , let I move back to the topic of this debate , which be defence and foreign affair . while I congratulate the incoming Government on their success , and we wish they well in the spirit of national service , there be serious concern arise already from the Gracious Speech , and the disconnect between the word of the Government and their action , particularly in relation to defence and foreign affair . let we look first at the defence budget . we be tell by the Government that the world be more dangerous than it have be in live memory . we be tell that there be cast - iron support for increase the defence budget to 2 . 5 % of gdp , but where be the action ? stability in term of the defence budget would be to increase it to 2 . 5 % . that be the decision already communicate by the Conservative Government . that mean £ 75 billion of increase defence spending between now and 2031 . where be the stability , in a more dangerous world , in effectively reduce defence spending between now and 2030 — particularly in an environment where defence procurement need long - term reliability from which to plan ? there seem to be a disconnect there . the second area be veteran . we be tell by the Labour Government that they be focus on the defence family , and that the defence process should be about people . quite right too , but what about the veteran Minister ? under the last government , the veteran Minister be a Cabinet member . he have the ability to look right across Government . what be say in the debate down in Plymouth Moor View a few week ago between the two gallant candidate ? do Labour stand on a programme that say , " we ' re go to reduce the importance of the veteran Minister . we ' re go to make they a junior Minister who will be subsume within the Ministry of Defence " ? I doubt that be the message that the resident of Plymouth vote on , but that be what the Government be plan to do . I ask the Government to think again about that . finally , let we look at the overseas development aid budget . back in the dark day of 2021 , when our economy be struggle from the fallout from covid — this massive global pandemic — the Conservative Government take the very difficult decision to reduce ODA from 0 . 7 % of GNI to 0 . 5 % , with an ambition to reverse that as the economic condition allow . at the time , Labour be furious and outraged by that , say that even in the economic situation that exist in 2021 it be the wrong decision . the then shadow Minister for International Development , the hon . member for Birmingham Edgbaston ( Preet Kaur Gill ) , say : " Britain and the world deserve well than a Foreign Secretary who have allow the aid budget to be slash , leave our global reputation lie in tatter " . — [ Official Report , 26 November 2020 ; Vol . 684 , c . 1021 . ] the now Secretary of State for Northern Ireland say that " to choose to break this promise to the world ' s poor people be unforgivable " . — [ Official Report , 26 November 2020 ; Vol . 684 , c . 1028 . ] but what be Labour do now ? the economy have improve significantly since those dark day , yet labour ' s action be to keep the figure at 0 . 5 % . Labour tell we that we need to increase trust in politician , and that trust must be restore . well , the way to do that be to act in government in the way that they say they would act when in opposition . I intend to hold this new Government to account . I call the liberal Democrat spokesperson . thank you very much , Mr Deputy Speaker . I have sit through this important debate and it have be an absolute pleasure . what a galaxy of maiden speech we have hear all around we — and that , of course , be democracy . everyone can take great encouragement from what they have see today . the only problem be that I do not know all these new face , so can I issue a blanket apology in advance to all those on the Labour Benches if I come up to they and say , " I ' m so pleased you be a new Lib Dem MP " ? I do not mean anything by it . if I say to member on the liberal Democrat Benches , " well do on get elect on a labour ticket " , I be terribly sorry about that . you can take comfort , Mr Deputy Speaker , in the fact that I visit an old folk ' home recently and a lovely old lady think I be Jeremy Thorpe . at least it be the right party . I be on my foot today because my party ' s defence spokesperson , my hon . friend the Member for Honiton and Sidmouth ( Richard Foord ) , be ill with covid . I be sure we all wish he a speedy recovery . however , I do five year as my party ' s defence spokesperson . that lead I to my main theme , which I will touch on by simply say that we will build relationship with those on the Government Front Bench and the shadow Front Bench — that be how we work . I will always remember Ben Wallace arrange for I and the present Secretary of State to be helicoptere to Belvoir castle for a meeting of the joint expeditionary force Foreign Ministers . I have never forget that , because it be just two day before Putin ' s tank roll across the border . I remember go in the car from the MOD to board our military helicopter , and the civil servant ask I and the present Secretary of State , " what do you think will happen ? " I think we both say , " he ' ll probably invade . " I also remember Ben Wallace say , during the dinner with the Foreign Secretaries , " I be do this because government change and it ' s as well you be prepared , although you may belong to other party , and that you know as much as you can about the defence brief . " I want to go on the record as thank Ben Wallace for his very generous attitude to keep I brief on intelligence , and I thank the present Secretary of State for his generous offer to see that my colleague , my party ' s defence spokesperson , be similarly brief . that be very good news indeed . I want to congratulate , through reason of friendship , those on the Government Front Bench on their appointment ; it be very good to see they in their place — and indeed , I be bind to say , it be good to see those on the Opposition Front Bench in their place . the shadow Foreign Secretary be quite correct to remind we of what be go on in Sudan . it be not just about Russia and Ukraine or the middle east ; there be all sort of terrible thing happen in the world . I like too the Secretary of State ' s say that Britain be " democracy ' s most reliable ally " . we ought to remember that on a day like today , when all these new face exemplify democracy in its good , healthy , working form . I do not have much time , but I want to touch on two point , one of which I think those on both Front Benches know I care passionately about . I serve for a short spell of time as a private soldier in the Territorial Army , and one of my child serve in the force until recently . the size of our force matter an enormous amount to my party , and I think we all understand that we be very far stretch at the moment — hence my intervention early in the debate about the present size of the British Army be not exactly helpful to recruitment . one other thing that I think be desperately important , base on when we meet with the joint expeditionary force Foreign Ministers , be that — as all hon . member have say — we must work across border , we must work with the european community , and we must work with friend . only by co - operation , by stand together , can we take on the russian bear and see it off . as have quite correctly be say , if Ukraine fall , what be next ? finally , in defence debate during my year in this place , I have always think the atmosphere of consensus across party boundary very important . I know from my own family that it be encouraging to our servicewoman and servicemen to know that politician be speak as one . from what I have hear this afternoon , I have no reason to worry that that will not go on in future . I think that we can work together for the defence of our nation , which we love so well . I call the Opposition spokesperson . it be a pleasure to follow the hon . member for Caithness , Sutherland and Easter Ross ( Jamie Stone ) — although I must say that I have never confuse he with Jeremy Thorpe — and to see you in the Chair , Mr Deputy Speaker , as I respond to the Gracious Speech debate . I thank all right hon . and hon . member who have make speech today , but I pay particular tribute to all those who make maiden speech . the time limit mean that I can not go through those contribution in as much detail as I would like , but I will briefly congratulate all those hon . member . the hon . member for Ealing Southall ( Deirdre Costigan ) speak passionately about diversity , and add to it with her strong irish heritage . the hon . member for Doncaster East and the Isle of Axholme ( Lee Pitcher ) be surely the first ever MP to have work as a sewer baiter . my twin have their 10th birthday during the election campaign , so I know how the hon . member for Kensington and Bayswater ( Joe Powell ) feel . it be painful , but it get well — don ' t worry . I wish he and his family well . the hon . member for Bristol Central ( Carla Denyer ) make a point of order early about energy infrastructure . pylon have also be propose in Suffolk , and I agree with she that there be other option ; we be say to the Government that we want to see they . I be grateful for her very passionate maiden speech . the hon . member for North Antrim ( Jim Allister ) will , I be sure it be fair to say , be a doughty champion for his constituent . it be brilliant to have , in the hon . member for Tewkesbury ( Cameron Thomas ) , a former member of the Royal Air Force in Parliament , especially in the current context . I be passionate about the global combat air programme when I be Minister for Defence Procurement — it show the importance of our maintain combat air competitiveness . I hope that he will contribute to the debate next Wednesday . I be grateful to hear the cut and thrust of scottish colleague , include the hon . member for Midlothian ( Kirsty McNeill ) and for Inverclyde and Renfrewshire West ( Martin McCluskey ) , and , of course , my hon . friend the Member for Dumfries and Galloway ( John Cooper ) , who certainly punch above his weight in his maiden speech . arguably , we do not hear enough about rural matter in the King ' s Speech , but the hon . member for North Herefordshire ( Ellie Chowns ) certainly make up for that . she will clearly be a passionate advocate for farming and the environment in her constituency . I be grateful for all those maiden speech , and I hope that we will hear much more from those colleague in future . turn to defence matter , may I welcome the new foreign affair and defence ministerial team to their position ? as the shadow Foreign Secretary , my right hon . friend the Member for Sutton Coldfield ( Mr Mitchell ) , say , we will work with they where it be in the national interest — especially on support Ukraine for as long as it take — as they do when they be in opposition . we welcome the cross - party spirit in which the Secretary of State for Defence set out his plan for a strategic defence review . we look forward to work with Lord Robertson , for whom I have the great respect , in a constructive and collaborative manner . may I thank the Secretary of State for pay tribute to the two previous Secretaries of State , Ben Wallace and Grant Shapps , both of whom I have the privilege to work with as Minister for Defence Procurement ? they can both be rightly proud of the enormous contribution that they make in support Ukraine , but they have something else in common : they be not afraid to make the unambiguous case for high defence spending , and most importantly , they be successful . it help that they have a Prime Minister who , as Chancellor , oversee the large spending review increase for defence since the cold war , and ensure that we go into the general election with a credible and fully fund plan to increase our defence budget to 2 . 5 % of gdp by 2030 . although I welcome the fact that the Labour Government have say that they be commit to 2 . 5 % , we have nothing but uncertainty over their timetable . indeed , this morning I be interview by Kay Burley of Sky News . she put it to I that the Government ' s timetable be to reach 2 . 5 % by the end of the Parliament — so 2028 or 2029 . I say that that be not what I understand the public position to be , but she tell I that she have be inform privately by the Government that that be the timetable , so I would be grateful if they confirm now , in Parliament , what exactly the position be on this matter of great sensitivity . let I explain why the timetable for 2 . 5 % really matter . when the previous Prime Minister announce that we would commit to 2 . 5 % , he state that his top priority be to replenish our munition . that 2 . 5 % figure enable we to commit £ 10 billion of extra funding over 10 year to fund munition , and it be a fact — I know this — that without a clear pathway to 2 . 5 % , the Ministry of Defence would have have to make substantial cut or deferment to programme in order to afford that necessary replenishment of our munition . that be why it be so significant , and why we need to know exactly what the position be . be Kay Burley correct that the Government have tell Sky News that they have a timetable for reach 2 . 5 % by 2028 or 2029 ? if not — if there be no timetable for 2 . 5 % — how be the MOD go to fund its munition strategy ? will those order for shell and missile for the Army , Navy and Air Force actually be place this year ? if not , what will be the impact on our world - lead defence sector , and above all , what will be the impact on our warfighting capability as a nation ? without a clear pathway to 2 . 5 % , what will be the immediate impact on the Department ' s finance ? will the MOD continue to invest in cut - edge capability such as direct energy weapon and hypersonic ? that 2 . 5 % would also have stabilise our two big defence programme in light of the inflationary funding pressure that follow Putin ' s invasion of Ukraine . this be all open and in the public domain — the Public Accounts Committee be talk about it in the lead - up to the general election . I be talk about the nuclear deterrent and the global combat air programme , our absolutely essential sixth - generation fighter programme . I be delighted that we now have consensus between the Government and ourselves on both the nuclear deterrent and GCAP , but can the Government confirm that delay 2 . 5 % will have no impact on the fund element of either of those two major programme ? can the Secretary of State or the Minister respond also confirm that the Secretary of State ' s strategic defence review will conclude entirely before the next spending review commence , so that that review be threat - base , rather than force on to the financial back foot by Treasury consideration ? of course , if the Government ' s public position be that there be no timetable to 2 . 5 % , they will inevitably point to the old chestnut of the public finance be bad than fear , justify the inevitable cut or deferment of programme that follow . I have the great respect for the Secretary of State , but we do hear some of that in his opening remark . I be afraid that that excuse will not wash , though . inflation be at 2 % and on target ; the economy be grow at a healthy rate and ahead of our competitor ; wage be rise ; unemployment be almost half what it be in 2010 , when we take power ; and the deficit be forecast to fall to just over 1 % of gdp by the end of the current forecast period . [ interruption . ] Labour Members chunter . they talk about mission ; when we come to power , our mission be to save this country from bankruptcy , because once again , the socialist have run out of other people ' s money . the forecast deficit in 2010 be head well north of 10 % , so we do the right thing : we have to take difficult decision , and we restore our public finance . because of that , when the pandemic strike and the energy support have to be put in place , we could afford that enormous support . we be proud of that — proud of furlough , of save those job and those business in every constituency . we do it because of those difficult decision after the mess Labour leave we in 2010 . [ interruption . ] Labour member talk about the previous Prime Minister but one , but our strong economic legacy can not be use to pray in aid a cover for cut and deferment . [ interruption . ] they quibble when we talk about a strong economic legacy . how else can we describe low unemployment , inflation at 2 % , a low and fall deficit — half what it be when we take over from they — or the high growth in the G7 ? that be a fantastic inheritance . far from be an excuse for the cut that the Government will have to come to , those be the feature of the very improvement in economic condition that make our pre - election commitment to 2 . 5 % financially credible and deliverable . we strongly welcome the Prime Minister ' s staunch support for NATO , as evidence in Washington , and we want he to succeed on his pledge to strengthen Britain ' s defence . that be in our national interest , but it be action that matter and by which the Government will be judge , and defer and delay 2 . 5 % offer nothing but uncertainty to our armed force at the bad possible time . if the Government have a private timetable to reach 2 . 5 % , they need to share it ; if there be not one , I urge the Secretary of State to persuade the Prime Minister and his Treasury colleague to think again , because in this more dangerous world , high defence spending be a matter of the utmost urgency for Britain . it be an honour to close such a well informed and at time passionate debate , and I will endeavour to respond to as many point as I can get through in the time available . as my right hon . friend the Defence Secretary say at the beginning of this debate , the Foreign Secretary be extremely disappointed that he be not able to participate today , and I know that he will want to update the House shortly on his recent international engagement . it be an enormous privilege for I to speak in this Chamber for the first time as the Minister of State for Development , as the Minister for Women and Equalities , and as part of a new Government who be proud to serve our country and be work to reconnect Britain with the world . I welcome the hon . member for South Suffolk ( James Cartlidge ) to his new place on the Opposition Front Bench , and of course the right hon . member for Sutton Coldfield ( Mr Mitchell ) , to whom I be personally very grateful for reach out to I on my appointment . I note that both the previous incumbent in my role and the Defence Secretary say at the very beginning of the debate that this be a time when we need to respect other ' point of view . I think that have largely hold , although perhaps we have a slight change of approach in the speech by the hon . member for South Suffolk . overall , I think we hear throughout this debate a definite determination to focus on bring people together when we can as part of a national mission of renewal . we hear so many excellent maiden speech today — really terrific introduction to the House from many new colleague — but it be particularly pertinent that my new hon . friend the Member for Midlothian ( Kirsty McNeill ) make reference to the need to recognise that so often , we have more in common than divide we . we need to bear that approach in mind locally , nationally and globally in these often dangerous time . it be clear that the british people have give this new Government a mandate for change in order to deliver our progressive vision for a share future — a vision root in cool - head realism about the world as it be , and guide by hope for what it can be . as I say , we be already work to reconnect Britain to the world after 14 year during which there have , at time , be disengagement and isolationism . in so do , we be turbocharge our mission for growth , to bring investment and job to every part of our country . in these often dangerous and divide time , the UK ' s security be our first priority , as my right hon . friend the Defence Secretary make clear . we will stand up for our interest and for our value . we will create a new relationship with the EU , we will deepen our engagement with the global south , we will reclaim leadership on tackle the climate crisis , and we will champion human right and international law . we will work in partnership with our friend and ally to reduce global poverty and the driver of conflict and instability , and we will also empower woman and girl . in that connection , I congratulate my new hon . friend the Member for Doncaster East and the Isle of Axholme ( Lee Pitcher ) on his heartwarming maiden speech , and particularly his reference to the woman in his life . indeed , many new member have make reference to their partner and family in their maiden speech . as the Minister for Development and for Women and Equalities , I know that deliver a truly effective and modern approach to development have never be so urgent or so important . on that , I concur with the right hon . member for Dumfriesshire , Clydesdale and Tweeddale ( David Mundell ) . partnership , not paternalism , be require to deliver the change that be so desperately need . next week , I will go to the G20 development ministerial meeting in Brazil to reconnect with ally and partner country in the global south . together , we must reform the international financial system to tackle unsustainable debt , accelerate growth and unlock climate finance . together , we must enhance our ability to prevent conflict , and together we must restore our development reputation to deliver both for our international partner and for the british people — and it do need restore . the right hon . member for Sutton Coldfield rightly refer to the critical role for development for the world ' s poor and most vulnerable people , for our stability , for security and for global prosperity . the commitment to development have always be fundamental for my party . so many powerful champion from this House be household name : Barbara Castle , Clare Short , Gordon Brown , and of course my predecessor who hold this brief in opposition , my right hon . friend the Member for Wigan ( Lisa Nandy ) , to whom I pay tribute . the shadow Foreign Secretary have often be critical of damage do under conservative government to development and our country ' s reputation . he refer to the fact that previous conservative Governments have " literally remove " food " from the plate of starve child . " — [ Official Report , 6 July 2022 ; Vol . 717 , c . 922 . ] he also say that previous conservative Governments have " trash " our international reputation . I appreciate his honesty , but now be the time for reflection on a fact that he do not mention today : the damage do by the uncontrolled growth in the previous Government ' s spending from the development budget on accommodation . that spending be classify as overseas development aid , but it lead to cut in programme for some of the needy people in the world . in a spirit of openness , we must surely acknowledge today that that have do tremendous damage to our reputation . we be waste no time in seek to restore our development reputation by increase support for those most affect by Hurricane Beryl , and by ensure that the Foreign Secretary visit our close ally . I have listen carefully to the Minister . as she know , not least from what I say today , I have be critical of early decision , but can she tell the House today whether she have yet think through when we might see the 0 . 7 % return ? that be absolutely something that this Government take incredibly seriously . under previous Labour Governments , the 0 . 7 % commitment help to build our reputation across the world . we have be clear that we be determined to get back to 0 . 7 % as fiscal circumstance allow , but we will also be clear about situation in which the percentage of our gross national income that can go to development have be compromise because of uncontrolled cost , such as those incur under the previous Government . surely the shadow Foreign Secretary must acknowledge that damage and what have happen to programme for some of the poor people around the world under his party ' s watch . as I state , we have seek to restore our development reputation by increase support for those affect by Hurricane Beryl , and by immediately take action to reconnect with our ally , with the Foreign Secretary visit Germany , Poland and Sweden in his first 48 hour in his role , and the Defence Secretary , of course , visit Ukraine . the Defence Secretary be crystal clear : Ukraine and its people have no firm friend than the UK in their fight against Putin . the Ukrainians be defend our share security and prosperity , and we stand with they now and always . the right hon . member for Wetherby and Easingwold ( Sir Alec Shelbrooke ) rightly refer to their bravery as well as that of the UK ' s armed force , to whom I pay tribute . it be a pleasure to hear from new member who have service experience , include in the maiden speech of the new hon . member for Tewkesbury ( Cameron Thomas ) , and the new hon . member for Dumfries and Galloway ( John Cooper ) talk about the noble military history of his constituency . we be clear that under the new Government , the UK will pledge £ 3 billion in military aid to Ukraine every year . we be speed up delivery , include of a new package of military equipment , and will aim to play a lead role in support a clear , irreversible road for Ukraine to full NATO membership . that commitment from the UK to ensure that Ukraine can proceed to NATO be unshakeable . as have be mention , we will also set out a clear and credible path to spend 2 . 5 % of UK GDP on defence , as we call on other to step up . I would gently point out to the hon . member for Broadland and Fakenham ( Jerome Mayhew ) that there be no credible plan from the previous Government . will the Minister give way ? no , I will not ; I will make progress . we be undertake the unglamorous , hard work of put that plan in place , rather than engage in the wishful thinking we see from the previous Conservative Government on this issue and so many other . as this debate have indicate , there be deep concern in our country and globally about the death and destruction in Gaza . the Liberal Democrat spokesperson , the hon . member for Oxford West and Abingdon ( Layla Moran ) , refer to it , as she have often do so powerfully ; she have both a professional understanding of the issue and , sadly , personal experience of it . before the Foreign Secretary ' s first fortnight in the job be up , this priority be clear from his application to visit the region . he go to Israel and the Occupied Palestinian Territories to progress diplomatic engagement , as we play our part in effort towards long - term peace and security in the middle east . it be clear that the situation in Gaza be untenable and intolerable . we need a ceasefire not tomorrow or next week , but today . we need the immediate release of all hostage , unfettered and rapid access to humanitarian aid into Gaza , and action to enable british national and their family still trap there to leave . my hon . friend the Member for Middlesbrough and Thornaby East ( Andy McDonald ) inquire about the new Government ' s position on UNRWA . we recognise the vital role that UNRWA play in save life in Gaza , provide basic service and promote stability in the west bank and the wide region . we be closely consider funding to UNRWA and will ensure that we keep Parliament inform . the Foreign Secretary make the case clearly in the region for an urgent , credible and irreversible pathway towards a two - state solution , an end to illegal israeli settlement and rise settler violence in the west bank , and a reformed and empower Palestinian Authority . this Government be clear that the world need a safe and secure Israel alongside a viable and sovereign palestinian state . Sudan be rightly mention by the shadow Foreign Secretary . I be determined to be fully brief on that situation , as well as the situation in Gaza , on come into my role . in my first week in office , I announce new lifesaving support for up to 150 , 000 refugee in Libya who be flee escalate violence in Darfur . we must do all we can in this area . the Government be accelerate work on rebuild that connection with the rest of the world . we be make real the right that we all hold in common . I be particularly pleased to hear member , include my hon . friend the Member for Stockport ( Navendu Mishra ) , refer to the right of disabled people in this debate , and the new hon . member for Bristol Central ( Carla Denyer ) speak about disabled people in her maiden speech . we be also accelerate work on tackle corruption and money laundering , which be rightly refer to by my new hon . friend the Member for Kensington and Bayswater ( Joe Powell ) , and we be make sure that the voice of work people be hear . I be pleased to hear the new hon . member for North Antrim ( Jim Allister ) refer to the importance of the trade union movement , perhaps from a slightly unexpected angle . we be take a strong , consistent and long - term approach to China and convene a new clean power alliance . we be clear that Britain be strong when we work with other . that point be make by so many speaker , include my new hon . friend the Member for Ealing Southall ( Deirdre Costigan ) in her powerful remark and my hon . friend the Member for Bradford East ( Imran Hussain ) . together , we need to turn towards the project for national renewal , and Britain ' s enormous potential in the world . together , as the new hon . member for North Herefordshire ( Ellie Chowns ) say , we can achieve and do so much . together , we can work towards a liveable planet that be free from poverty . the work towards that start now . order , that the debate be now adjourn . — ( Christian Wakeford . ) debate to be resume tomorrow . business of the House ( today ) order , that at today ' s sit the Speaker shall put the Questions necessary to dispose of proceeding on the Motion in the name of Lucy Powell relate to Sittings of the House ( Friday 19 and 26 July ) not later than one hour after the commencement of proceeding on the Motion for this order ; such question shall include the Questions on any Amendments select by the Speaker which may then be move ; proceeding on that Motion may continue , though oppose , after the moment of interruption ; and Standing Order No . 41a ( defer division ) shall not apply . — ( Lucy Powell . ) business without Debate Sittings of the House ( Friday 19 and 26 July ) Resolved , that the House shall sit on ( i ) Friday 19 July at 9 . 30 am and ( ii ) Friday 26 July at 9 . 30 be and notwithstanding the provision of Standing Order No . 11 ( 4 ) the Speaker may interrupt proceeding to permit statement to be make by Ministers at any time during the sitting ; and the provision of Standing Order no . 14 ( 1 ) shall apply . — ( Lucy Powell . ) notice of Questions ( 24 July ) Resolved , that , notwithstanding the provision of Standing Order no . 22 ( 5 ) ( a ) , the question for oral answer to the Secretary of State for Northern Ireland circulate on Wednesday 17 July shall be put down for answer at the question time on Wednesday 24 July . — ( Lucy Powell . ) adequacy of the Scotland Act 1998 Motion make , and question propose , that this House do now adjourn . — ( Christian Wakeford . ) thank you for call I , Mr Deputy Speaker . I will hesitate for just a second as the Chamber clear — my normal popularity . three year ago , on 16 March 2021 , I present to the House the implication of the unlawful Scottish Government investigation and contrive criminal charge against Alex Salmond . I recommend empower the Scottish Parliament to investigate as a scottish court find that the Government act illegally and engage in a process taint by bias against Mr Salmond . regrettably , the investigative committee appoint by Holyrood be limit in its power of investigation , operate without the protection of privilege and be thwart at every turn by the delay , obfuscation and even threat from the Scottish Government and institution of state . three year on , that failure in democratic accountability have not be address . the investigatory power of the Scottish Parliament could have be strengthen . decision about whether and who to prosecute could have be make entirely independently of Ministers in the Scottish Government . neither of those thing have happen , force I to raise the matter again . Mr Salmond have be find innocent . he previously succeed in Scotland ' s high civil court in establish the illegality of Scottish Government action . he be currently sue the Scottish Government in a civil action . that have be assist as some of those involve in construct the case against Mr Salmond be now themselves under police investigation . I will therefore focus today on the wide failing in this sorry case and what they raise for the state of the rule of law in Scotland . in 2017 , senior Scottish Government figure set up a procedure for deal with sexual harassment allegation that effectively target Alex Salmond . I believe that , at an early stage , that be do with the knowledge of Nicola Sturgeon ' s team , and potentially with their encouragement . the procedure apply retrospectively to former Ministers — Mr Salmond no long be a Minister — but exclude civil servant . Sue Gray , then head of propriety and ethic at the Cabinet Office , express discomfort with the procedure . despite that , the Scottish Government proceed . an investigate officer be appoint . they be to have have no prior contact with complainant , yet the officer appoint , Judith Mackinnon , have in fact have extensive prior contact with the complainant . it have now also emerge the person decide the case — former permanent secretary Leslie Evans — also meet with complainant during the process . that information be withhold from the Court of Session in one of the many breach of the scottish governmental duty of candour in this case . Mr Salmond be inform of the complaint against he in March 2018 . all be deny , and in April 2018 his legal team immediately raise concern about the fairness and legality of the new procedure as well as concern over Mr Salmond ' s access to witness and document . he offer mediation and arbitration to bring the illegality of the process into focus ; it be repeatedly reject . message between two civil servant in early February 2018 show how Liz Lloyd , Sturgeon ' s chief of staff , be directly interfere in discussion with complainer ahead of their complaint be make . her role — acting , we must assume , with the knowledge of her boss — be central to these event . furthermore , evidence to the Holyrood inquiry from Mr Salmond ' s former chief of staff , Geoff Aberdein , state that Liz Lloyd in early March 2018 inform he that " there be two individual complainer " . three other witness support that assertion . that directly contradict her claim that she first become aware of the allegation in April 2018 , yet it be a claim she doubtless feel compel to make in order not to contradict Nicola Sturgeon ' s position already give to the Scottish Parliament . sturgeon mislead the Scottish Parliament would , of course , have lead to her resignation . the same untruth be repeat on behalf of the Scottish Government during the judicial review . it be the position of Mr Salmond ' s legal team that neither Lloyd nor Sturgeon be tell the truth . very quickly after my previous debate on these matter , the scottish police visit I , ask where I have get all this information . they get a nice cup of tea and a biscuit . strangely , they have no interest whatsoever in what appear to be prima facie evidence of perjury by those hold high office . let I say clearly today that these matter obviously require to be properly investigate by the police . in August 2018 , ignore the evident impropriety of the process , the permanent secretary Leslie Evans decide that some complaint against Salmond be well - found . Salmond be tell of Evans ' decision , and that a press release be to be issue at 5 pm . salmond ' s legal team be about to lodge a judicial review of the whole procedure , so it urgently seek — and receive — write assurance that no press release would be issue . despite those assurance , only hour later , the Daily Record publish news of the allegation — part of the decision report have be unlawfully leak . other than Mr Salmond , only the Scottish Government have that report . however , I have meet a witness who have make a statement that he be tell by the then political editor of the Daily Record that the story be leak by Liz Lloyd . the House should know that the prosecutor from the Information Commissioner ' s Office investigate the leak conclude : " I have sympathy with the hypothesis that the leak come from an employee of the Scottish Government . " the Scottish Government fight the judicial review , at huge cost , despite their own legal adviser tell they in no uncertain term that they would fail . they be warn : " it make little sense to continue to defend the indefensible " and that the least bad option be to concede the case . eventually , both the Scottish Government ' s external counsel tell the Government that they be in an untenable position and be suffer extreme professional embarrassment because of Government failing . they be also warn — this be important — that civil servant be deliberately mislead both they and the court . despite these repeat warning , the Government only concede the judicial review after their external counsel threaten resignation . in January 2019 , the Court of Session find that the Scottish Government have act unlawfully , and that their action and process be procedurally unfair and taint by apparent bias . commentator often describe the investigation as " botched " . it be that , and more : it be illegal , pure and simple . yet no one have be hold accountable , and million of pound of taxpayer money be waste . that be perhaps unsurprising when look at the attitude of those at the top of the scottish civil service . the same day that Salmond win his case , the permanent secretary Leslie Evans send a message to a colleague say that the battle be lose but not " the war " . that be hardly the language of an impartial civil servant . senior figure at the top of the Scottish Government appear to have collude to ensure that Salmond be report to Police Scotland . there be evidence of contact between figure in the Scottish Government and officer of the Scottish National party . WhatsApp message reveal that Liz Lloyd be convene a " council of war " WhatsApp group . a whistleblower reveal communication from Sue Ruddick , the SNP ' s chief operating officer that in their word point to " to collusion , perjury , up to criminal conspiracy . " in the communication , she and the then chief executive of the SNP Peter Murrell , encourage and coach complainant into report Salmond to the police . appear at the Holyrood inquiry in December 2020 , Murrell be ask whether he be part of the so - call " council of war " WhatsApp group . Murrell deny even use WhatsApp , yet it emerge that he do have WhatsApp and have use it within week of the evidence session . yet another clear lie . the House may wonder what the Scottish Government investigation have to do with the Scottish National party in the first place . the answer be provide by Anne Harvey , a qualified lawyer who be then a senior official for the SNP in this House , who wisely refuse to have anything to do with what she characterise as a witch hunt . I recommend colleague read again my debate on 16 March 2021 . in that debate , I outline the action of senior officer of the SNP Peter Murrell and Sue Ruddick , and their compliance officer Ian McCann , whose interference in an ongoing police inquiry represent nothing less than an attempt to pervert the course of justice . the Police Scotland investigation be trigger by Leslie Evans , who send the result of this internal inquiry to the Crown Agent , Mr David Harvie . the Crown Agent be responsible for oversee all prosecution in Scotland . despite the subsequent police inquiry and court case , Salmond be acquit on all charge by a majority female jury in front of a female judge . as a result of the Scottish Government ' s unlawful handling of the allegation , the Scottish Parliament establish a committee to examine how the First Minister , Scottish Government official and special adviser deal with complaint against Salmond . even before the committee ' s report be publish , the convener say the committee be be undermine by " delay , prevarication and obfuscation " on the part of the SNP Government . when publish , the report be damn . it read : " many document be , in our view , insufficient to provide a complete picture of the event be consider by the committee and again that have hamper the committee ' s work " . there would be uproar if a Committee of this House be impede in such a manner , but the Scottish Government ' s attempt to thwart the parliamentary inquiry do not stop there . it ignore two vote in the Scottish Parliament and wait until the very last minute to release legal advice it have receive on the judicial review . that advice be only release the day before Sturgeon would give evidence , after the opposition threaten a no confidence motion against the current First Minister , John Swinney . even then , when release , it be not the full advice . crucial part be only make available after Sturgeon have appear . additionally , the Crown Office be threaten msp with prosecution due to the proceeding of the committee . such threat would be treat in Westminster as a contempt of Parliament . at the instigation of the Crown Office , Police Scotland open an investigation after WhatsApp message give to the inquiry be make public . the message show Peter Murrell call for pressure to be put on the police to investigate Salmond . throughout this sorry business , the Crown Office have be enthusiastic in its pursuit of those who have publish evidence in this case . a journalist have be jail . another journalist be prosecute in a case completely dismiss by the sheriff court . the Crown Office engage in a legal battle with the Spectator to stop the publication of evidence to the parliamentary committee . what be most troubling be that at the time , the line manager of David Harvie , the Crown Agent who oversee prosecution in Scotland , be Leslie Evans , the Scottish Government permanent secretary . and Mr Harvie ' s legal boss be the former Lord Advocate James Wolffe , who himself be advise the Scottish Government not to concede the judicial review against that same Scottish Government ! that set - up be fundamentally wrong . I will outline just one example of why . on 2 March 2021 , Mr Harvie , the Crown Agent , be at pain to tell the parliamentary committee , under oath , that he have never discuss the case with his line manager , Leslie Evans . now , that may be true . however , what I can now tell the House be that document show Mr Harvie have , in fact , discuss the matter with Leslie Evan ' s private secretary — her representative on earth , if you like — in the day before he become involved in the case . it be fundamentally unsatisfactory that the then Crown Agent , the senior official in the administration of justice in Scotland , can not be rely upon to tell a parliamentary committee the whole truth . I find it even more unsatisfactory when the Crown Office show no interest in investigate these grave matter . in give evidence to the inquiry , Nicola Sturgeon repeatedly fail to answer question because she " could not recall " . in the end , the committee find , by a vote of five to four , that Nicola Sturgeon have give an " inaccurate " account of her knowledge of the allegation . in one of its clear finding , the parliamentary committee find , unanimously , that Leslie Evans be personally as well as corporately responsible for failing that cost the scottish taxpayer million of pound and lead to the humiliation of the Scottish Government in the high civil court in Scotland , due to their unlawful behaviour . have there be any penalty for those failing ? of course not . instead , Ms Evans ' contract be extend , along with her pension . the damage she have cause , both by her action and inaction , have be leave totally unaccounted for . something must be do to prevent these failure of accountability in public service in future , and I hope that the " duty of candour " legislation in the King ' s Speech mean that something finally will be do . alongside the Holyrood inquiry , the lawyer James Hamilton be ask to consider whether Nicola Sturgeon have breach the ministerial code during this affair . while Mr Hamilton conclude that Sturgeon do not breach the code , his report be so heavily redact by the Scottish Government that he , in a highly unusual move , insist on the publication of a rather stark note along with it . Hamilton say that such redaction " present an incomplete and even at time mislead version of what happen . " I have hear evidence that special adviser — not lawyer — appoint by Nicola Sturgeon have be directly involve in the redaction of Mr Hamilton ' s report . I have pursue this point with the current permanent secretary , but I have not receive a satisfactory or clear reply . to obtain further information on the Hamilton report , a freedom of information request be make to the Scottish Government . the Scottish Government refuse to publish the request information , claim that they do not hold it — despite its be their report . the Information Commissioner rubbish their claim , and order that it be publish . the Scottish Government attempt to appeal against that decision . I attend the appeal last year in Edinburgh , and note that the Government case be not just summarily dismiss , but dismiss in a completely humiliating manner . I have bring a number of case against government , and I have never see quite such an outright humiliating dismissal . despite these loss , the Scottish Government have still fail to publish the information request , and now oppose the publication on other ground . when I first bring these matter to the attention of the House , Nicola Sturgeon be still First Minister in all her unchallengeable pomp . she be not any more . we all know what have happen to she and the top management of the SNP since . I can not and will not go into all that now , but that be the important backdrop to this sorry saga . my purpose today have be to concentrate on matter of fundamental principle , so we can ensure that such unlawful and shameful event can not be repeat . these event have occur under the devolution settlement secure under the Scotland Act 1998 . the Holyrood parliamentary committee suffer because it do not have adequate power to hold the Scottish Government to account , which allow it to be frustrate by the Government and threaten by the Crown Office . it be simply not appropriate for the Lord Advocate to be both the public prosecutor and the Government ' s legal adviser . I put forward that position three year ago , in my Adjournment debate of 16 March 2021 , and be support by the former Member for Edinburgh South West , Joanna Cherry . Ms Cherry present a private Member ' s Bill that have cross - party support . however , despite the case be concede in principle by the Scottish Government , no legislative action have follow . there be also concern about how the SNP ' s leadership exert influence over the rule of law in Scotland , in the Scottish Parliament , the Crown Office and Procurator Fiscal Service , the court , the police and the medium . Nicola Sturgeon be no long First Minister , but her successor have continue to suppress the truth about their party ' s disgraceful attempt to destroy Alex Salmond , and in so do they have continue to deny he proper redress . however , this be about more than Alex Salmond . to ensure that it never happen again , we must review the consequence for civil servant find to have act improperly by parliamentary committee , we must strengthen the investigative power and legal protection offer to member of the Scottish Parliament , and we must immediately separate the power of Scottish Law officer from their role in administer criminal justice and provide advice to the Scottish Government . it be time to invoke a famous phrase , often invoke in England but just as pertinent in Scotland : fiat justitia — let justice be do . before I sit down , may I — in what be otherwise an incredibly serious debate — apologise to the Minister for the fact that my action today force she to make her maiden speech at such short notice ? if I may say so , she carry that off brilliantly , and deserve double point for it . I thank the right hon . member for warmly welcome I to the Chamber and , indeed , for the work that we have do together in the past on promote the value of humanitarianism . he will know not only that this be my first day speak at the Dispatch Box but that my maiden speech , just a short while ago , be my very first contribution of any kind in this House . I hope that with nearly four decade of dedicated service in this place , he may still recall the trepidation of standing here to speak for the first time . turn to the subject matter of the debate , I begin with a celebration of the Scotland Act 1998 . it be 25 year since her late Majesty Queen Elizabeth II open the Scottish Parliament and the late , and much - miss , Donald Dewar be swear in as First Minister . Donald Dewar , the father of devolution , describe the Scottish Parliament as " not an end " but a " mean to great end " — namely , great social justice in Scotland . that be the drive imperative that still guide Labour , which be why ensure support for both the Union and the devolved institution should be see as a precondition for , and not the sum total of , this Government ' s ambition . in the quarter century since the establishment of the Scottish Parliament , we have see a deepening of devolution through the 2012 and 2016 Scotland act . crucially , those reform be base on cross - party consensus in Scotland . I be immensely proud that I will now have a role in the ongoing success of those act as they continue to deliver for people in Scotland . it be right that we continue to hear view from all side on how constitutional framework should evolve . however , I believe that it be through relationship and collaboration that we will drive progress together and deliver for the people we be send here to serve . as my right hon . friend the Secretary of State for Scotland have make clear , we all need to work on reset relationship . indeed , the Prime Minister have already make this a priority , with his first official engagement be with the First Minister in Scotland . that have be mirror by early engagement by Ministers throughout the UK Government , and I assure the House that it will continue . for my part , I be clear that improve and ongoing co - operation will depend on three main thing . the first be the sincerity of our collective commitment to a deep and durable resetting of relationship . like the 1998 Act itself , collaborative working must endure beyond specific administration and Ministers , and be about more than formal structure and machinery . that do not always mean that we will agree , but we must be more mature about those disagreement , and depolarise and detoxify the tone of debate in Scotland . that should be the nature of grow - up politic and it be what the people of Scotland , and of all four nation of the UK , rightly expect from we as their elect representative . secondly , we need a dynamic understanding of devolution as an ongoing process of redistribute power , which be already evidence in our commitment to metro mayor in England and to further devolution within England , as set out in the King ' s Speech , and in the establishment of the Council of the Nations and Regions . thirdly , we must commit to a genuine era of people power , with community , co - operative , civil society and local government work with the Government at all level to deliver the change Scotland need . as I hope my maiden speech make clear , we all need to have an open - hearted approach to work together in the good interest of the people we serve . I turn now to the substance of today ' s debate . I appreciate the deeply hold concern of the right hon . member . the Government be focus on rebuild trust in politic across the whole of the UK . in our manifesto , we have be clear that it be not only here in Westminster where more must be do to uphold the standard we expect to see in public life . scrutiny of the Scottish Government be a matter for the Scottish Parliament , and it could be raise there by the right hon . member ' s colleague . nevertheless , we have commit in our manifesto to ensure that member of devolved legislature will have the same free speech protection enjoy by mps here at Westminster , to well ensure that elect representative can hold those in power to account . I hope that the right hon . member will welcome that commitment . it be important to emphasise that legal proceeding between Mr Salmond and the Scottish Government be ongoing . I appreciate that there will be many view on how the Scotland Act 1998 might be improve . that be only right , and I be sure that we will continue to hear those view both here and in the Scottish Parliament , but as I have say , the settlement have be remade over the course of 25 year on the basis of broad consensus . delivery must now be our focus . as the King ' s Speech set out yesterday , this Government be commit to deliver change for Scotland . from make Scotland the home of great British Energy , which be central to our mission to make the UK a clean energy superpower , to the new national wealth fund and the new deal for work people , we will deliver a well outcome for people in Scotland , particularly those at the sharp end of inequality , which hold back too many people . while it be true that co - operation between government at a political level have not always be straightforward , nevertheless the Scotland Act have endure . I have often say that while scot do not have to agree about everything , we do have to find way to agree about more . labour be the party of devolution and we will be a Government of collaboration , but above all we be go to deliver for the people of Scotland . there be so much to do . it be time to get start . question put and agree to . House adjourn .