Speaker ' s statement I remind member that the private Member ' s Bills ballot book be open today in the No Lobby until 6 pm , at which point it will be take to the Public Bill Office and remain open for signature until the rise of the House . the ballot draw will be hold at 9 am tomorrow in Committee Room 8 . Oral Answers to Questions Scotland the Secretary of State be ask — Industrial Strategy what discussion he have have with the Scottish Government on a new industrial strategy . what discussion he have have with the Scottish Government on a new industrial strategy . what discussion he have have with the Scottish Government on a new industrial strategy . this be , of course , my first scottish question on this side of the House , and I be delighted to be join by so many colleague from Scotland behind I . I welcome back return member from all party and thank those who have not return for all their hard work on behalf of their constituent . I thank the former Secretary of State for Scotland , Sir Alister Jack , for his work represent Scotland in Whitehall and the UK Government in Scotland . I also thank all the staff in the Scotland Office for make we so welcome . their professionalism be unsurpassed . I be very pleased that we be recently able to welcome 19 female afghan medical student to Scotland so that they can continue their study . the work to bring they here be initiate by Sir Alister Jack , and their safe arrival in the UK be a credit to our commitment to help they . I congratulate the hon . member for Berwickshire , Roxburgh and Selkirk ( John Lamont ) on his new position . I be sure he will be diligent in hold I to account , and I hope that I be diligent in hold he to account . I be sure the whole House will join I in congratulate Scotland ' s Olympians and Paralympians , who have achieve so much sporting success this summer . this government will introduce a new industrial strategy to drive long - term , sustainable growth by secure investment in crucial sector and industry in all part of Scotland and the UK , which involve work in close partnership with the Scottish Government . that will support our national mission to have the high sustained growth in the G7 . an industrial strategy that embrace the job of the future must involve our high education institution , include the three world - class university in Glasgow . what be the Government do to ensure that that be the case ? I thank my hon . friend and congratulate he on his wonderful victory in Glasgow North . Scotland ' s 19 world - class high education institution be an essential part of our economy , culture and global reputation , and they be paramount to the successful delivery of our mission . we punch well above our weight in Scotland , which be something that we need to protect and nurture . by the end of next week , I will have meet the principal of all of Scotland ' s university . I want to deepen and strengthen those relationship , and I believe that the knowledge and expertise of those institution will be crucial to deliver a new industrial strategy and the goal of this new Government . Coatbridge and Bellshill have a rich history of heavy industry , but follow year of empty rhetoric and empty soundbite from the previous UK Government and the current Scottish Government , there have be a failure to honour the legacy of industry across Scotland and deliver a long - term , sustainable and coherent strategy . what step will the Secretary of State take to ensure that industrial job in Scotland be as much a part of its future as they be of its history ? I thank my hon . friend and congratulate he on win Coatbridge and Bellshill . Scotland and its world - class industrial workforce will play a drive role in our ambition to become a green energy powerhouse in this country . for example , my right hon . friend the Secretary of State for Energy Security and Net Zero , the Scottish Government and I meet representative of Petroineos early this week to discuss what support can be provide to ensure a sustainable future for the industrial cluster in the wide Falkirk and Grangemouth region , which be crucial to the entirety of Scotland and the UK . that include our commitment to fund Project Willow with the Scottish Government . I thank my right hon . friend for his response . a UK - wide industrial strategy that support job in Scotland be incredibly vital . however , this week we have hear the concern news that the Mitsubishi Electric plant in my constituency be look to reduce its workforce by 440 from its current complement of 1 , 600 . this be a highly skilled workforce create world - lead product such as air source heat pump and air conditioning unit , which be vital as we look to decarbonise our economy . through no fault of its own , however , Mitsubishi Electric have see its order book fall away due to short - term economic pressure . may I ask the Secretary of State to meet the management , worker and I to see what the UK Government can do to support — order . I think the Secretary of State have hear the question . I thank my hon . friend for his question . I be really sorry to hear of the difficulty face Mitsubishi Electric ' s workforce , and of the uncertainty those worker face during this difficult time . I pay tribute to my hon . friend for his effort to support the worker in his constituency , and we have talk about this issue already . I will commit as a matter of priority to a meeting with the company and its workforce in the come week . I , too , welcome the Secretary of State to his new position and congratulate he on his appointment to what I can tell he be a splendid job to hold in government . on an industrial strategy , will he focus his ministerial colleague ' mind on the potential development of tidal stream generation ? that provide an enormous opportunity for our manufacturing sector to create a supply chain that be base here in the United Kingdom , rather than have to bring capacity from overseas . I agree with the right hon . Gentleman and congratulate he on his role when he be in the Scotland Office . we hope to emulate much of the work that he do . I have meet the European Marine Energy Centre and those involve with tidal resource in his constituency . this be critically important to our net zero ambition and in get to clean power by 2030 . I be due to meet they when I visit his constituency in the come week , and I will make sure that this be top of the agenda . I call the liberal Democrat spokesperson . I congratulate the Secretary of State and welcome he to his place . I associate myself with his early remark , particularly about Scotland ' s Olympians and Paralympians . I be delighted to hear the recognition in his first answer of the role that our university will play in a new industrial strategy , which be go to be vital in Scotland , particularly in the light of the recent admission about the mess that the Scottish National party have make of our economy in Scotland . that be why I be baffle to see the UK Government cut £ 800 million from a supercomputer project at the University of Edinburgh that have the potential to support research on drug discovery , climate change and advanced engineering . what discussion do the Secretary of State have with the Chancellor of the Exchequer about the impact of that ? as the hon . Lady will know , the Chancellor of the Exchequer do a full audit of Government spending in the first weekend that she be in office , and find a £ 22 billion black hole . the exascale computer that she talk about be announce by two previous Prime Ministers and two previous Chancellors , and indeed be in the Budget in the early part of this year , but no money be allocate and therefore the project have be pause , pende both the Budget on 30 October and the spending review next year . support for Working People what step he plan to take to support work people in Scotland . I be proud to be part of a UK Government that will oversee the big upgrade of worker ’ right in a generation . we have set out the new deal for work people and will write it into law within our first 100 day . over 75 reform will deliver on a core part of our growth mission to raise living standard , and up to 7 , 800 worker across Ayrshire stand to benefit from Labour ' s plan to make work pay . in addition to this Government ' s action on the new deal for work people , we should ensure that there be a fair deal for those who power our country in the past . from my previous work with the Coalfields Regeneration Trust , I know the vital difference that that extra support make to those community and their family . can the Secretary of State give an update on the proposal to end the injustice of the mineworker ' pension scheme before it be too late ? mineworker from my own constituency of Midlothian , from my hon . friend ' s constituency and from across our coalfield power this country , so I be delighted that our labour manifesto commit to end the injustice of the mineworker ' pension scheme by conduct a review of the unfair surplus arrangement and of transfer the investment reserve fund back to member . I would be delighted to write to my hon . friend and to other Members represent coalfield seat with a further update in due course . I welcome the Secretary of State to his position . he will know that the Scottish Government have their own tax - raise power . he will remember criticise the Scottish Government for not use they , then criticise the Scottish Government when we do use they . nevertheless , this generate £ 1 . 5 billion of extra revenue in Scotland , and tax those who earn more slightly more allow we to tax those who earn slightly less even less than be the case in the rest of the United Kingdom . what advice would he give the Chancellor to mirror those effort in Scotland to have a more progressive and fair tax system for our worker ? the Member will be aware that the Institute for Fiscal Studies have say this morning that the tax policy of the Scottish Government have actually cost Scotland money rather than raise it . he will know , too , that this Government have have to undertake a comprehensive audit of spending to make sure that we can clear up the mess that we have inherit . the £ 22 billion black hole be real , and the Treasury reserve have be spend more than three time over . he will be aware that the focus of the Chancellor be on make sure that we fix the foundation and get the economy back on track . borderland Inclusive Growth Deal what step his Department be take to support delivery of the Borderlands inclusive growth deal . this Government be commit to deliver economic growth in all part of the country and we be work closely with local partner and the Scottish Government on the Borderlands growth deal . together , we be ensure that it deliver the uplift in economic benefit set out in the deal . I congratulate the hon . Lady on her appointment , and I particularly congratulate the Secretary of State on his . be on your own in this House be a tough gig , and he exercise it in exemplary fashion over seven year , but — as I find — have new colleague bring a whole new set of challenge of its own . will the hon . Lady ensure that the mountain bike centre at the Caerlee mill in Innerleithen be prioritise ? there have be a suggestion that the project will not now go ahead in that location . it be vital that we have that centre and it be vital that the mill be refurbish . the UK Government have pledge £ 19 million for the mountain bike innovation centre project , as part of the Borderlands growth deal . my official be work closely with all local partner , include Scottish Borders council , to progress this project . I expect to provide an update on the development of the project shortly . relationship between UK and scottish government what discussion he have have with the Scottish Government on the effectiveness of the relationship between the UK and Scottish Governments . I congratulate my hon . friend on win Glasgow East . the people of Scotland want their two government to spend more time fight for they than fight each other , which be why reset the relationship have be a priority for this Government and , indeed , the Prime Minister . I have have numerous productive meeting with Scottish Government Ministers , include the Deputy First Minister . we have have 17 day of visit across Scotland , and seven member of the Cabinet have already visit . there have be dozen of call between secretary of State and Cabinet Secretaries . I look forward to work with the Scottish Government to deliver our share priority for the people of Scotland . Scotland ' s official economic forecaster , the Scottish Fiscal Commission , have say of the Scottish Budget that " much of the pressure come from the Scottish Government ' s own decision . " do the Secretary of State agree that the Scottish Government must accept responsibility for the catastrophic state of Scotland ' s public finance ? my hon . friend be right ; the Scottish Fiscal Commission do say that . while this new Government be clean up the mess of the previous Conservative Government , the SNP seem to be clean up its own mess . in 2023 , Audit Scotland say : " the Scottish Government ' s projection suggest that it can not afford to pay for public service in their current form . " as we have hear , the IFS say this morning that SNP decision have reduce the tax take rather than increase it . this be about treat taxpayer ' money with respect and be honest about the tough choice we face . an honest assessment of the SNP Government ' s Budget be that these problem have be store up for year . tough decision have be kick into the long grass , and money have be spend recklessly . it be a problem of the SNP ' s own making , and the scottish people will suffer as the SNP try to clear it up . I call the shadow Secretary of State . I , too , start by congratulate both Ministers on their appointment to the Scotland Office . I love my time at the Scotland Office , and I know they will be very well support by the Department ' s excellent team of official , some of whom be in the Box today . labour plan to end the winter fuel payment , take money away from elderly people who have work all their day . Age Scotland have say : " at minimum , a quarter of a million pensioner in Scotland on the low income or live in fuel poverty will no long receive this vital financial support over the winter month , while hundred of thousand more on modest income be go to struggle " . Labour have cut the winter fuel payment across the UK , and the SNP be do labour ' s dirty work in Scotland . what do the Minister have to say to the 250 , 000 elderly scot who be in poverty and struggle with the decision of Labour and the SNP ? I welcome the shadow Secretary of State to his new post . during the inheritance statement a few week ago , the Chancellor set out how the current Government be fix the foundation and try to clear up the dreadful legacy leave by the Government of which the hon . Gentleman be a member . the Chancellor do not want or expect to make these decision , but they have to be make to try to get the finance in balance and to make sure that we can fix the foundation to deliver on our manifesto . that be the legacy of the previous Government and , as I say in my previous answer , the SNP have make a mess of the public finance over the last 17 year . as we see in the Scottish Parliament yesterday , the SNP have one hell of a mess to clear up , and it be scottish pensioner and the scottish people who will pay the price . labour be take a leaf from the SNP playbook by refuse to take responsibility for its own action . this be happen because of choice make by this Labour Government that have be pass on by the SNP in Edinburgh . labour ' s election slogan be all about change and , under this Labour Government , pensioner do not seem to have any change to spare . a woman call Lesley tell Age Scotland that the winter fuel payment " be literally a life saver for we . " another person , Brian , tell Age Scotland : " I would freeze without it , or go hungry . " be this the change that Labour mean — take money away from struggle pensioner ? there seem to be no recognition or apology from the shadow Secretary of State for the legacy his party have leave this government to try to clear up . we know about the massive overspend in public service by the previous Government , and the audit the Chancellor do in her first weekend in office reveal the £ 22 billion black hole . these thing have to be fix . we do not expect or want to make such tough decision , but we have have to make they to fix the foundation of our economy . may I add my congratulation to the Secretary of State ? I know it have not always be easy and sometimes it have be a lonely path , so I offer my personal congratulation to he on his appointment and to the hon . member for Midlothian ( Kirsty McNeill ) on take her place . I will take the Secretary of State at face value on improve the relationship between the Scottish and UK Governments , but he will be aware of the devastating consequence of the cut in the winter fuel payment for pensioner in both our constituency and across Scotland . in order to work well with the Scottish Government , will he do well than give they just 90 minute ' notice next time ? I welcome the hon . Gentleman back to his place , have win the election for the new constituency of Arbroath and Broughty Ferry . he should look at what the Finance Secretary say in the Scottish Parliament yesterday : she announce half a billion pound of cut , include £ 120 million in health service and £ 20 million in mental health service , and she have sell the family inheritance by use the ScotWind money to plug the additional funding gap in the budget . Audit Scotland and the Institute for Fiscal Studies have be clear that this be a problem of the Scottish Government ' s own making , so if they want to reset the relationship , they can start by take responsibility for their own action . economic Growth what discussion he have have with the Scottish Government on step to help promote economic growth in Scotland . I be committed to work with the Scottish Government and have already meet the Deputy First Minister four time in eight week . reset the relationship between Scotland ' s two government be crucial to drive economic growth . just last week , my right hon . friend the Chancellor of the Exchequer be in Glasgow and meet the First Minister . the Prime Minister have make reset the relationship a key part of his new way of work in government . he have meet with the First Minister to have those discussion and with member of the business community to discuss grow the scottish economy . it be the choice of all of we to grow the scottish economy and something we all need to do together . the Secretary of State will be aware that macroeconomic policy sit here in Westminster and that decision take here have a huge impact . we have work on this issue before , so do he agree with the SNP that be outside the custom union and the single market be bad for growth in the scottish economy , or do he agree with the Conservatives and their Reform party colleague that it have be good for the scottish economy ? the hon . Gentleman be take no responsibility for the decision that his party make in the Scottish Government . we see that yesterday with they plug the hole in their own public finance . the IFS have be clear that the decision the Scottish Government have make have take the tax take down in Scotland , despite be it be the highest tax part of the country . if we be to reset this relationship , they have to start off by take accountability and responsibility for their own decision . Sport have play an essential role in economic growth in Scotland . what step will the Secretary of State take to ensure that the legacy of Sir Andy Murray be recognise in Scotland ? I would like to announce to the House that Andy Murray and I be not relate , despite the fact that we share the same physique [ Laughter . ] I assure the House that the Scotland Office and this Government will do all we can to ensure that the wonderful legacy of one of Britain ' s good sportspeople of all time be maintain . Energy Industry what step he be take to support the energy industry in Scotland . what step he be take to support the energy industry in Scotland . what step he be take to support the energy industry in Scotland . Scotland be at the forefront of this Government ' s mission to make Britain a clean energy superpower by 2030 . we will headquarter Great British Energy , a new publicly own clean energy company , capitalise with £ 8 . 3 billion , in Scotland . that will help create thousand of job , and deliver energy security and low price permanently for consumer . just this week , the sixth allocation for the contract for difference scheme be announce , with over 130 renewable project award contract and 20 % of those project base in Scotland . I welcome the Secretary of State to his position . we watch he for many lonely year as he hold the fort on his own . he be always outnumber , but never outgunne . will he now use the full firepower of the Scotland Office to convince Cabinet colleague and industry player of the vital role and potential of the arnish fabrication yard in Stornoway and its sister yard in Methil , both of which be come up for sale as part of the go to market of Harland & Wolff ? will he assure worker at the arnish yard and at Stornoway port that they will play a big role in the renewable future and in GB Energy ? I thank my hon . friend for that question , and congratulate he on win the Western Isles . he be Mr Western Isles , and he will be a champion for those island . the Government will continue to engage with Harland & Wolff , local mp and the Scottish Government to monitor the situation and support a resolution that provide long - term certainty for the yard and workforce across the whole UK , with all four yard across the UK be treat as one . the Under - Secretary of State for Scotland , my hon . friend the Member for Midlothian ( Kirsty McNeill ) , recently visit the arnish yard . I have visit the Methil yard twice — once before the election and once during the election — and I have regular meeting with the Deputy First Minister on this issue and hope to meet she again in the come week . we will do all we can to protect these yard . have spend many year work for my right hon . friend when he be on the Opposition Benches , may I welcome he to his position as Secretary of State for Scotland ? the creation of GB Energy will support 50 , 000 new job across Scotland . it will deliver low household bill and help we meet our net zero obligation . give that Glasgow already have a fantastic renewable industry , may I ask what work he have do with his Cabinet colleague to ensure that GB Energy support job in Glasgow ? I congratulate my hon . friend on win his seat in Glasgow South . his question be much well than any that he ever write for I . my right hon . friend the Secretary of State for Energy Security and Net Zero be due to make an announcement on the location of GB Energy very soon . I regret that , in the interim , I can say no more than that , although I be sure that my hon . friend ' s word of encouragement in respect of Glasgow will not have escape the attention of my Cabinet colleague . I can announce exclusively to the House today , Mr Speaker , that GB Energy will be headquarter in Scotland . my right hon . friend will be aware that I have be work closely with Unite , GMB and local management at the Methil yard in my constituency during the restructuring process at Harland & Wolff . do he agree that 200 skilled worker at Methil and those at Arnish have a vital contribution to make to our ambition to grow our renewable sector , and also that all stakeholder have a vital role in secure the long - term future of these yard ? I congratulate my hon . friend on win Glenrothes and Mid Fife . I acknowledge his effort , and those of many hon . friend in the House and of people in the local area , advocate for the Methil fabrication yard . the yard , along with many other like it , will have a key role in fulfil our ambition for Scotland and the UK to become a green energy powerhouse . in addition to GB Energy , there be the national wealth fund , which will help unlock further investment opportunity for port and heavy industry , and manufacturing company will have a crucial role to play in create job in our transition to net zero . I have be to the Methil plant twice . it have a world - class workforce , and I can assure they that we will do everything we possibly can to make sure that they have a bright future . I welcome the Secretary of State to his place and thank he for his generous word about the work of Sir Alister Jack , who be previously in that role . do the right hon . Gentleman share my consternation this morning that two sanction russian oligarch now have a share in Harbour Energy , our large producer of North sea oil and gas ? that seem incredible at this time , not least because the company that they be use to have this stake — LetterOne — be force to divest itself of a broadband company because it be a threat to national security . can we look again at this decision ? may I welcome the hon . gentleman to his place and congratulate he on win his seat ? the Foreign Secretary be sit two seat along from I , and I be sure that he will have hear what the hon . Gentleman say . I be sure that the issue be a concern to everyone in the House , and we will make sure that a write response be give to the hon . gentleman as soon as possible . I call the shadow Secretary of State . the Rosebank oilfield will provide more than £ 6 billion of investment in UK - base business . the Jackdaw oilfield will cater for the energy need of 1 . 4 million UK household . this Labour Government be jeopardise all that investment , energy and job by drop the UK Government ' s opposition to the judicial review , which aim to block these vital energy project . can the Secretary of State seriously tell the 90 , 000 people whose job rely on oil and gas in Scotland that the future of this crucial industry be secure under Labour , when it be his Government ' s policy to oppose all new development ? I thank the shadow Secretary of State for his question , but he should stop scaremongere , give the 90 , 000 - strong workforce in the North sea . oil and gas will be with we for decade to come . the finch decision , to which he refer , be something that this Government have to consider very carefully . the Secretary of State have start a consultation on consenting , which will affect Jackdaw and , indeed , Rosebank , and that should conclude within the next six month . scottish Work Visa Scheme if he will make an assessment with Cabinet colleague of the potential merit of devolve the power to introduce a scottish work visa scheme to the Scottish Government . if he will make an assessment with Cabinet colleague of the potential merit of devolve the power to introduce a scottish work visa scheme to the Scottish Government . we will strengthen the Migration Advisory Committee , and establish a framework for joint work with skill body across the UK , the Industrial Strategy Council and the Department for Work and Pensions . the need of our economy be different across the region and nation , and different sector have different need . give that skill policy and employment support be devolve , we will work with the Scottish Government when design workforce plan for different sector . this will ensure that our migration and skill policy work for every part of the UK . the tourism and hospitality sector right across my Argyll , Bute and South Lochaber constituency be desperate for people to come and work , but because of Brexit and the end of freedom of movement , we have the job but we do not have the people . the Government know that Scotland need people , so will the Government reaffirm Jackie Baillie ' s commitment — her assurance to voter — and commit to facilitate the creation of a scottish visa ? we be committed to ensure that there be effective scottish representation on the Migration Advisory Committee , and I look forward to work with the Home Office and engage with sector on ensure that immigration work for all part of the UK . the skilled worker salary threshold and the skill list be simply not work . will the Minister ensure that the skilled occupation list be fit for purpose in Scotland , and that it work for our energy transition ? fix the foundation of our economy be the key to long - term prosperity . that include future - proof the economy for all , whether that be long - establish family or new arrival . the Chancellor will set out plan to fix the foundation in the Budget on 30 October . Prime Minister the Prime Minister be ask — Engagements if he will list his official engagement for Wednesday 4 September . I know the whole House will want to congratulate our Team GB olympic and Paralympic athlete and support staff for their outstanding achievement so far . yesterday ' s incident in the channel be shocking and deeply tragic , and our thought be with all those who have lose their life , and their family . we must have a renew determination to end this . the chair of the Grenfell Tower inquiry , Sir Martin Moore - Bick , have today publish the inquiry ' s phase 2 report . I know that the thought of the whole House will be with the bereaved and the survivor of the Grenfell Tower tragedy , and the resident in the immediate community . I will make a statement shortly after pmq today . this morning I have meeting with ministerial colleague and other . in addition to my duty in this House , I shall have further such meeting later . I associate myself with the Prime Minister ' s remark about the loss of life in the channel , and about Grenfell . the late suicide figure be a sobering reminder of the misery cause by mental ill health . Maghull Health Park in my constituency be a centre of excellence , with high , medium and low - security hospital on the same site . the staff do an amazing job , but demand have go through the roof , especially since the pandemic . do my right hon . and learn Friend agree that it be essential that we give mental and physical healthcare the same level of priority in this country ? yes , and I thank my hon . friend for raise this critical issue . so many be affect by the tragedy of suicide . I be pleased to hear about the work that he refer to , but 1 million people be not get the mental health support that they need . that be why we will recruit 8 , 500 mental health worker to treat adult and child , and bring forward legislation to modernise the Mental Health Act 1983 — an Act that I think be well overdue for modernisation . I call the Leader of the Opposition . I join the Prime Minister in pay tribute to the Grenfell community . we will rightly discuss that important issue shortly after Prime Minister ' s question . I also join he in congratulate our record - break Olympians and Paralympians on everything that they have achieve . lastly , I pay tribute to the hard work , bravery and dedication of our police . this summer , in challenge circumstance , they serve our community commendably and keep we all safe . government be about make choice , and the new Prime Minister have make a choice : he have choose to take the winter fuel allowance away from low - income pensioner and give that money to certain unionised workforce in inflation - bust pay rise . could I ask the Prime Minister , why do he choose train driver over Britain ' s vulnerable pensioner ? this Government be elect to clear up the mess leave by the Conservative party , and to bring about the change that the country desperately need . our first job be to audit the book , and what we find be a £ 22 billion black hole . it be no good their complaining . Richard Hughes , the chair of the Office for Budget Responsibility , be very clear : he describe it as " one of the large year - ahead overspend against … forecast outside of the pandemic " . those be his word . we have have to take tough decision to stabilise the economy and repair the damage , include target winter fuel payment while protect pensioner . some 800 , 000 pensioner be not take up pension credit , and we intend to turn that around . we will align housing benefit and pension credit — something the previous Government defer year after year — and , because of our commitment to the triple lock , pension be project to increase by over £ 1 , 000 in the next five year . the Prime Minister also inherit inflation back at target , interest rate be cut , low unemployment and , indeed , the fast - grow economy in the G7 . but that be not the point , because the Prime Minister now have to start take responsibility for his own decision . if , as he say , the public finance be a priority , it be his decision , and his alone , to award a train driver on £ 65 , 000 a pay rise of almost £ 10 , 000 , and it be also his decision that a pensioner live on just £ 13 , 000 will have their winter fuel allowance remove . can the Prime Minister explain to Britain ' s low - income pensioner why he have take money away from they while at the same time give more money to highly pay train driver ? we spend the whole election with the right hon . Gentleman try to tell the country that everything be fine , and this be the result the Conservatives get : a massive Labour mandate to change the country . if he carry on pretend everything be fine for ordinary people across the country , his party will be in opposition for a very long time . I remind he that we inherit absolute chaos from the Conservatives . we lose an average of 3 million working day a year to strike under his watch . you can not fix the economy if the train do not work , and you can not fix the economy if the NHS be not work . when it come to winter fuel payment , the Conservatives be have a competition , as I understand . they will be vote later on today . from the shadow housing Minister , the right hon . member for North West Essex ( Mrs Badenoch ) , we find this — she be the favourite , I think , and some Conservative Members will probably be vote for she this afternoon . she say : " I have people in my constituency tell I that they don ' t need the winter fuel payment … why do we not have a more sophisticated mechanism for means - testing ? " . she be the favourite , I think , in the contest the Conservatives be have . the Prime Minister talk about the public finance . the UK ' s public finance be more robust than those of almost any other major advanced economy . here we have it : he inherit a low deficit than France , America , Italy — [ interruption . ] order . when I point at someone to be quiet , I mean it . I do not need a reaction back like that . the UK currently have a low deficit than France , America , Italy and Japan ; it have the second - low debt in the entire g7 . the Prime Minister oppose every difficult decision that we take to deliver that , so I certainly be not go to take any lecture from he on that score . he talk about protect ordinary people ; last year , under the Conservative Government , a low - income pensioner with just £ 13 , 000 receive not only the winter fuel payment , but hundred of pound of additional cost of live support , both of which he have now scrap . Age UK have say that cut the winter fuel allowance be " the wrong policy " , and only this morning we have learn that the vast majority of the poor pensioner — pensioner in poverty — will see that vital support remove . can the Prime Minister tell the House very specifically , and the pensioner who be watch , how much less support a pensioner on £ 13 , 000 will receive this winter ? the right hon . Gentleman talk about tough decision . it be tough to inherit a £ 22 billion black hole , which the OBR do not — [ interruption . ] that be the inheritance ; that be what the Conservatives leave . back when they be in government , they would pretend that it be not there . they would have walk past it and put it in the long grass . we be not go to do that , because we be elect to change this country for the well and stabilise our economy . no Prime Minister want to do what we have to do in relation to the winter fuel allowance , but we have to take the tough decision to stabilise our economy to ensure that we can grow it for the future . as I have say , we be work hard on pension credit . we be align it with housing benefit , which they do not do for year , and over five year it have a project increase of up to £ 1 , 000 for those on pension — tough decision that they duck . the Government do not have to choose to take money off low - income pensioner in order to give it to highly pay train driver . that be a choice that the Prime Minister have make , and it will be clear to any pensioner watch that he simply can not explain why he have make that choice . turn to another important issue , the Government have suspend 30 of the UK ' s 350 arm export licence to Israel . it be a decision that the Chief Rabbi say " beggar belief " and will " encourage our share enemy " . can the Prime Minister therefore explain how his decision will help to secure the release of the 101 hostage still be hold by Hamas ? may I start by say that I think the whole House will be shock by the horrific killing of six hostage in the last few day ? I know that I speak for the whole House when I say that . the remain hostage must be release , and we need a ceasefire to ensure that that can happen , that desperately need aid can get into the region , and that we can begin the path to a two - state solution . the right hon . Gentleman ask how we arrive at this decision . he know very well , because the legal framework be clear . the late guidance be issue in 2021 , under his government , and that mean that licence have to be keep under review , as they be by his Government . I think he probably know the advice that be give to his government ; he understand the framework . we have carry out the review in the same way and come to a clear legal conclusion , and share that conclusion and assessment with Parliament . we will , of course , continue to stand by Israel ' s right to self - defence , but it be important that we be a country commit to the international rule of law . that give we the strength of argument in discussion with our ally on important issue . this be a difficult issue — I recognise that — but it be a legal decision , not a policy decision . the Leader of the Opposition know the framework — [ interruption . ] the Conservatives shout , but they issue the guidance and they know what the test be . that test have be assess . we have come to a conclusion , and we have put that before the House for it to consider . I appreciate the Prime Minister ' s answer , but he will know that decision like this also have important and broad geopolitical implication . he mention ally . it be essential that we maintain transatlantic unity in the face of terrorist threat and avoid any perception of split between our two nation . can he therefore update the House , or tell it what engagement he have with the United States prior to take this significant decision ? I acknowledge the importance of work with our ally on all issue , as we have be do , as I be able to make very clear at the NATO summit that I attend in the early summer . of course , as the right hon . Gentleman and the House would expect , we have talk this through with our ally . they understand ; they have a different legal system . that be the point they make . [ interruption . ] the shadow Foreign Secretary chunter . this be a serious issue and it require serious consideration . the Leader of the Opposition know the legal framework very well . he also know that apply the framework — the fact of that framework — and arrive at a decision do not permit I to simply say , " I be not go to implement the legal decision or conclusion that have be reach . " I do not think he be really invite I to do that . these decision have not only geopolitical consequence but emotional one . the Prime Minister take that action on the very same day as the funeral of israeli hostage murder by Hamas — something that the Board of Deputies of British Jews describe as " a terrible , terrible message to be send " . I hope the Prime Minister understand the hurt that have be cause . will he take this opportunity to reassure Israel and the jewish community that the United Kingdom and this House stand behind Israel and its right to self - defence ? let I be very clear , as I have say before and I say again : we recognise and support Israel ' s right of self - defence , and we have take action in support of that right of self - defence . I have make that repeatedly clear in all my engagement with Israel , across the region and with all our ally ; I stand by that . in relation to licence , this be not an Israel issue ; it be the framework for all licence that must be keep under review . it be the same test for all licence , as the Prime Minister know , and we have apply the law to the fact and come to a legal conclusion . I do not think the Prime Minister — [ interruption . ] I do not think the Leader of the Opposition be really invite I to put that to one side . this be a serious issue ; we either comply with international law or we do not . we have strength in our argument only because we comply with international law . I appreciate that the conservative party do not think that international law matter , and that be why we get into the pickle that we do . I welcome the Home Office ' s decision to close the Bibby Stockholm barge in my constituency . we all know that barge be a gimmick . first , it arrive late ; secondly , it cost the taxpayer a fortune ; third , it be laden with fire and disease risk ; and fourthly , it likely contribute to the death of a 27 - year - old asylum seeker on board . will the Prime Minister reassure my constituent that this and similar unworkable gimmick will be close down as we clear up the conservative party mess ? unlike the conservative party , we will not waste money on gimmick . that be why , within day , we end the Rwanda scheme and announce the launch of the border security force , and we have be prepare legislation to introduce counter - terrorism power to tackle gang . in the first two month , we have remove on plane more than 400 people who have no right to be here . compare that with the four volunteer send to Rwanda , which cost £ 700 million . this be a Government of service , not a Government of gimmick . we come to the leader of the Liberal Democrats . I echo the Prime Minister ' s word about the terrible tragedy at Grenfell . I welcome the inquiry and look forward to discuss the statement shortly . for the past 18 year , Norman have be a full - time carer for his wife , Ros , who have multiple sclerosis and Alzheimer ' s disease . early this year , he be force to go back to work to earn the extra money for the cost of care for his wife . as their income be just a few hundred pound above the limit for pension credit , they be set to lose their winter fuel allowance , unless the Prime Minister listen to the Liberal Democrats and other and change that plan . if he do not , what advice do he have for Norman and Ros , and million of struggle pensioner , as they face rise heating bill this winter ? I thank the right hon . member for raise that important point . I know how much he have champion carer , both politically and personally . we have take a difficult decision — I do not pretend it be not difficult ; of course it be — because we have to stabilise the economy . the first thing that the Chancellor do be an audit . she find £ 22 billion - worth of unfunded spending commitment . we can not walk past that ; we can not pretend that it do not exist — that be what the last Government do . we have to take tough decision . we will put in all the support that we can , and will talk to the right hon . gentleman about it , but we have to take the tough decision on this . the Conservatives walk away from those decision , and that be what get we into this mess in the first place . we can not grow and fix our economy unless we stabilise it first . we recognise the appalling financial problem leave to the Prime Minister by the last Conservative Government , but no one understand the difficult decision require to balance the book as much as unpaid family carer such as Norman . many million of pensioner have struggle over recent year thank to the last government — the number who can not afford to heat their home have double since 2019 — so will the Prime Minister support our campaign for more urgent action to invest in insulation and renewable , so that we can help pensioner and all family make it cheap to heat their home every winter ? yes , of course . I remind the right hon . Gentleman that 800 , 000 pensioner be not claim pension credit , which of course then deal with the winter fuel payment . that be why we be take so much care to ensure we get those pensioner on to pension credit . again , align housing benefit with pension credit — something that the last Government leave undo for year — will make a massive difference , and of course there be the triple lock , which over five year will mean that pension be expect to rise by up to £ 1 , 000 . four year ago , the previous Government order a review into the hormone pregnancy test drug Primodos , and find that it have cause " avoidable harm " . primodo be give to woman in the 1960s and ' 70 , and result in many baby be bear with severe disability . for the past 12 year , I have stand in this Parliament and plead repeatedly with the last government to do the right thing . will the Prime Minister commit to a fresh approach on this issue , and will he meet with I and the campaigner Marie Lyon to discuss how we can give closure to the family who have be deny justice for the past 50 year ? I thank my hon . friend for that question , and for her work on the all - party parliamentary group on hormone pregnancy test . I be sympathetic to the family who believe their child suffer from those test , and commit to review any new evidence that come to light . at the moment , the Department of Health and Social Care be review a publication from Professor Danielsson , and we will follow the result of that review . I be happy to ensure that the Health Minister meet my hon . friend to discuss this matter far . I thank the Prime Minister for visit Northern Ireland within the past fortnight , and particularly for the time he spend with injure officer of the Police Service of Northern Ireland . he will know of their courage , but he will also know of the dog determination of our chief constable , Jon Boutcher , in his desire to see adequate resourcing for his officer who not only stand for law and order in Northern Ireland , but stand in the face of racism , violence , and an ongoing national security threat from dissident republican . may I therefore ask the Prime Minister to earnestly and urgently engage in a discussion about uplift the national security grant afford to the Police Service of Northern Ireland , and to ensure that the psni can face the challenge that we need they to face head on ? I thank the right hon . gentleman for that question . it be important for I to go to Belfast to meet the injure officer and simply to say thank you for what they be do , and of course , to recognise the impact on their family . I recognise the difficult financial position that the psni face , and the chief constable and I have speak about this issue on more than one occasion , as member would expect . predominantly , it be for the Justice Minister and the Executive to set the PSNI ' s budget , and how the chief constable allocate that budget be an operational matter for he , but I have be talk to he about what further support might be possible , because I realise just how important it be to he , to the psni and to Northern Ireland more generally . last week , ticket - sell website such as Ticketmaster leave million of oasis fan furious , but bad still come minute later , when ticket start to be reliste online for thousand of pound . this profiteer at fan ’ expense be not a one - off , and the Co - operative party be campaign for a new licensing body with real tooth to tackle this online touting . do the Prime Minister agree that fan should be at the heart of live music , and that urgent action be need to protect fan against this horrid practice ? yes , I do . first , it be great that oasis be back together — from what I have determine , about half the country be probably queue for ticket over the weekend — but it be depressing to hear of price hike . I be committed to put fan at the heart of music and end extortionate resale , and we be start a consultation to work out how good we can do that . offshore Energies UK report that the Government ' s propose windfall tax increase will cost our economy £ 13 billion , risk 35 , 000 job and see investment in the North sea slash from £ 14 . 1 billion to just £ 2 . 3 billion by 2029 . it also suggest that there will be a £ 12 billion cost in tax revenue . how do this proposal chime with the Prime Minister ' s goal of economic growth , and will he reverse this tax increase , which industry leader be call economic suicide for the oil and gas sector ? we be committed to the necessary transition to renewable energy , which will lead to cheap energy , energy independence and the job of the future . but let I be clear : oil and gas will play their part for many year to come , and that be why I have be clear about the support that we have for they . I be sure the hon . member and other will want to celebrate the fact that , just this week , contract for difference secure a record 131 new clean energy project — enough to power 11 million home — and they be the job of the future . the Prime Minister will remember visit my constituency in June , when we tour Germany Beck , a fantastic development of 600 new home , but because of Tory dither and delay , it take the good part of a decade for that site to get through planning . opposition Members can grumble all they want , but my family be pay the price for their mistake . can the Prime Minister reassure I that this Government will speed up the planning process so that we get more home build , and will one of his Ministers meet I to discuss the housing crisis in York ? yes . I remember that visit well , and be strike by the delay in planning because the system be break by the previous Government . we will deliver 1 . 5 million new home , drive economic growth and fulfil the dream of home ownership shatter for 14 year under the former Government . that mean change the planning rule — a tough decision they be not prepared to make — to make that happen and to grow our economy . last month , SSE , the operator of the new viking energy wind farm in Shetland , be pay £ 2 million in order not to generate any electricity from it . be there not something badly wrong with an energy market that pay big corporate not to produce electricity while the people live among the turbine endure some of the high level of fuel poverty in the country ? will the Prime Minister and the Government now look seriously at the idea of an island tariff , so that island community such as those represent by I and his hon . friend the Member for Na h - Eileanan an Iar ( Torcuil Crichton ) may see some genuine benefit for the community from host such renewable energy development ? I thank the right hon . gentleman for raise this issue , which be obviously a considerable concern to he and his constituent . National Grid , as he know , do balance the grid by occasionally request some generator to stop when there be not enough capacity on the network . that be not good enough . that be not acceptable , for the reason set out in his question . it be a problem that be not fix over the last 14 year , but a problem we be determined to fix as we go forward . I will make sure that a relevant Minister speak to he about the particular issue in his constituency . as a surgeon from East Anglia , I welcome the measure the new Government have take to fulfil their mission to fix the NHS . in my constituency of Bury St Edmunds and Stowmarket , the West Suffolk hospital be badly affect by RAAC — reinforce autoclaved aerate concrete — just like the James Paget hospital in Norfolk , where I have work for nearly 30 year . do the Prime Minister agree with I that the RAAC hospital must be priority as the new Government undertake their review of the new hospital programme ? I thank my hon . friend , who bring huge expertise to this area , for his question . we have to reset the new hospital programme and put it on a sustainable footing . the last Government promise 40 new hospital . the problem be there be not 40 , they be not new and some of they be not even hospital . hospital with RAAC , include West Suffolk hospital , must be a priority , so we be review the programme , and the Secretary of State will update Parliament as soon as possible . after 14 miserable year of the bad Tory Government in modern time , the good this Prime Minister can offer the british people be , " thing can only get bad . " for he and his calamitous opinion rating that be probably true , but why do he think he have such an unprecedented fall in his popularity ? be it his attack on the pensioner ? be it leave child in poverty ? be it the re - emergence of Labour cronyism , or be it because his austerity be even bad than the conservative variety ? I remember when Scottish National party Members use to sit at the front , but they be now a long way up and there be very few of they , so I do not think we need lecture on popularity and win election . I welcome this week ' s news of the change that the Government plan on Ofsted , include the removal of single - word judgment . this be great news for headteacher in West Lancashire who have raise the issue with I along with other issue about Ofsted , and for parent , who will have more transparency on the performance of school . how do the Prime Minister see those change develop a more positive relationship between Ofsted , Government and school , and improve standard so that all our young people thrive ? we be commit to the good education for every child , whatever their background and wherever they come from . the current single grade do not work well . that be why we be go to have a rich dashboard , which will give parent more information and allow intervention more quickly , and why it have be so warmly welcome across the country . I be new to this House , but I know that we all want our pensioner to live with dignity and security . in my constituency around 17 , 000 pensioner be expect to lose their winter fuel payment this year . of most concern be those just above the pension credit threshold , who will be hard hit . will the Prime Minister consider broaden eligibility for the winter fuel payment , so that those low - income pensioner who rely on it to stay warm can continue to benefit ? I welcome the hon . Lady to her place . Reigate be obviously a place I know very well , as she know . the reality be this : that decision have be take because of the £ 22 billion black hole , so responsibility for the decision lie with the party that break the economy . there be a reason we have a mandate for change , and a reason why Conservative Members be sit on the opposition Benches : it be because they break the economy , and I be not go to apologise for clear up the mess that they leave . after 14 year of conservative failure , crime and street drinking blight area of Southall town centre , West Ealing and Hanwell Broadway in my constituency . will the Prime Minister set out how his Government will take action to ensure that our town centre be transform into place where my constituent can finally feel safe again ? this be an important issue . I have hear too many people say that antisocial behaviour be some sort of low - level issue , but it really impact life across the country and we have to tackle it . that be why we will put more police on the street , have more effective power to deal with antisocial behaviour , and introduce Young Futures programme to divert young people who be get into trouble . Haygrove School if he will visit Haygrove School in Bridgwater . the Schools Minister will be happy to visit the hon . member ' s constituency . I thank the Prime Minister for his answer . Haygrove School be one of the top - perform school in Somerset , but it be unfortunately one of those build by Caledonian Modular and now condemn as unsafe . I be grateful for the meeting with the Schools Minister , but can the Prime Minister give Haygrove and the other school affect an assurance that they will be rebuild , and quickly , because those pupil and staff be still work in portacabin ? I be grateful , and I recognise how serious an issue this be and why the hon . member raise it . it be of real importance . the Minister will visit , and the Department for Education be pursue all available avenue for redress against the party responsible for the issue at the school . I will ensure that the Minister be fully brief and have a full discussion about that when the visit take place . engagement I be a proud MP for a new town , but over the past 14 year , Telford have lose its A & E and have few police officer , GPs and teacher per head . we have also have 40 % cut to our local government budget . will my right hon . friend the Prime Minister back place such as Telford , rather than overlook we as have be the case over the past 14 year ? I thank my hon . friend for raise this issue , and I know he will be a really strong champion for his constituency . we be a Government who will be base on action , not slogan , and that be why we will have local growth plan , improve public service and investment in transport link . we will fix the mess that the Conservatives leave after 14 year , and we will devolve power to those with skin in the game . in the past five year , there have be 10 fatal accident on the A66 along the short stretch in the Eden valley in Westmorland . in our community , we be naturally deeply concerned that the vital A66 northern trans - Pennine project , which would make the road considerably safe , have be put under review by this Government . will the Prime Minister take the opportunity now to end the uncertainty today , commit to this project and save life ? I thank the hon . gentleman for raise this question about fatality on road , which be a very serious issue on the A66 and other road across the country . we have inherit a broken economy , and we have to review what we be spend money on . we be go through that review , and we will report back as soon as we can . will the Prime Minister join I in send condolence to the family of Jahziah Coke , a 13 - year - old boy who be stab and tragically kill in my constituency ? do he share my concern about the prevalence of young people carry knife ? what more can be do to end this scourge that be destroy family and community ? I be sure I speak for the whole House in say that our thought be with Jahziah ' s family at this difficult time . this be tragic , it be senseless and his age just absolutely make one shudder . our mission be to halve knife crime . zombie - style knife and zombie - style machete will be ban from 24 September , and there be a surrender scheme , which start on 26 August . we be do a rapid review of the online sale of knife , which be often a problem in these case . we will pursue that with determination , and I invite everybody across the House , in light of this and so many other tragic case , to join with we on that mission . rise — final question . those of we from Staffordshire Moorlands be immensely proud of our beautiful area and unique identity . can the Prime Minister guarantee that we will not be force into a devolution deal or local government reorganisation against our will ? it be very important that local people have a say , but it be equally important that we devolve to those who have skin in the game . one of the way in which we can restart our economy be by make sure that those with skin in the game take the decision that be relevant to they and their area . Grenfell Tower Inquiry Phase 2 report this morning , Sir Martin Moore - Bick publish the final report of the Grenfell Tower inquiry . I be sure the whole House will join I in thank he , the member of the inquiry and the whole team for their dedicated work . I want to speak directly to the bereaved family , the survivor , and those in the immediate Grenfell community , some of whom be with we in the Gallery today . Sir Martin conclude this morning — I be afraid that there be no way of repeat this that will not be painful — that " the simple truth be that the death that occur be all avoidable and that those who live in the tower be badly fail over a number of year and in a number of different way " by , as the report lay out in full , just about every institution responsible for ensure their safety . in the face of an injustice so painful and so deserving of anger , word can begin to lose their meaning , after seven year still wait for the justice that you deserve . I want to say very clearly , on behalf of the country , that you have be let down so badly before , during and in the aftermath of this tragedy . while Sir Martin set out a catalogue of appal industry failure , for which there must now be full accountability , he also find " decade of failure by central government " . he conclude : " in the year between the fire at Knowsley Heights in 1991 and the fire at Grenfell Tower in 2017 there be many opportunity for the government to identify the risk pose by the use of combustible cladding panel and insulation … by 2016 , the department be well aware of those risk , but fail to act on what it know . " far , he find : " the department itself be poorly run " and " the government ' s deregulatory agenda … dominate the department ' s think to such an extent that even matter affect the safety of life be ignore , delay or disregarded . " so I want to start with an apology on behalf of the british state to each and every one of you , and indeed to all the family affect by this tragedy . it should never have happen . the country fail to discharge its most fundamental duty to protect you and your loved one — the people we be here to serve — and I be deeply sorry . I also want to express my admiration for the strength it must have take to relive those event when give your evidence to the inquiry , and indeed to see write down today the circumstance that lead to the death of your love one . after all that you have be through , you may feel that you be always one step away from another betrayal . I get that , and I know that I can not change that with just word today . but what I can say be that I listen carefully to one of the member of the inquiry , Ali Akbor , this morning . he say this : " what be need be for those with responsibility for build safety to reflect and to treat Grenfell as a touchstone in all that they do in the future . " I consider myself someone responsible for build safety , and that be exactly what I will do and what I will demand of this Government . today be a long - await day of truth . it must now lead to a day of justice — justice for the victim and the family of Grenfell — but also a moment to reflect on the state of social justice in our country and a chance for this Government of service to turn the page . that be because this tragedy pose fundamental question about the kind of country we be . a country where the voice of working - class people and those of colour have be repeatedly ignore and dismiss . a country where tenant of a social housing block in one of the rich part of the land be treat like second - class citizen , shamefully dismiss , in the word of one survivor , as " people with need and problem " and not respect as citizen , as people who contribute to Britain , who be part of Britain and who belong in Britain . unbelievably , that continue even after the tragedy . Sir Martin highlight : " certain aspect of the response demonstrate a marked lack of respect for human decency and dignity and leave many of those immediately affect feeling abandon by authority and utterly helpless . " that alone should make anyone who feel any affinity towards justice bristle with anger . Sir Martin continue that he find " systematic dishonesty on the part of those who make and sell the rainscreen cladding panel and insulation product . " he go on to say : " they engage in deliberate and sustained strategy to manipulate the testing process , misrepresent test datum and mislead the market . " Sir Martin also cite " a complete failure on the part of the LABC " — the Local Authority Building Control — " over a number of year to take basic step to ensure that the certificate it issue … be technically accurate . " he find that the work of the Building Research Establishment " be mar by unprofessional conduct , inadequate practice , a lack of effective oversight , poor reporting and a lack of scientific rigour " and that the tenant management organisation " must … bear a share of the blame " . its only fire safety assessor " have misrepresent his experience and qualification ( some of which he have invent ) and be ill - qualified to carry out fire risk assessment on building of the size and complexity of Grenfell Tower " . he also find " a chronic lack of effective management and leadership " on behalf of the London Fire Brigade , with tragic consequence on the night of the fire . in the light of such finding , it be imperative that there be full accountability , include through the criminal justice process , and that this happen as swiftly as possible . I can tell the House today that this Government will write to all company find by the inquiry to have be part of these horrific failing , as the first step to stop they be award Government contract . we will , of course , support the Metropolitan police and the prosecutor as they complete their investigation . but it be vital that as we respond to this report today , we do not do or say anything that could compromise any future prosecution , because the great injustice of all would be for the victim and all those affect not to get the justice that they deserve . there must also be more radical action to stop something like this from ever happen again . one of the most extraordinary quality of the Grenfell community be their determination to look forward . they be fight not only for justice for themselves but to ensure that no other community suffer as they have do . some important reform have take place in the last seven year , which we support in opposition , include ban combustible cladding , new oversight of building control , a new safety regime for all residential building over 18 metre , new legal requirement on social landlord , and make sure that fire and rescue service be train and equip to handle large - scale incident , include move from " stay put " to " get out " when need . we be now address the recommendation from Sir Martin ' s first report to introduce a new residential personal emergency evacuation plan policy for anyone whose ability to evacuate could be compromise , with funding for those renting in social housing . we will look at all 58 of Sir Martin ' s recommendation in detail . there will be a debate on the floor of this House . we will respond in full to the inquiry ' s recommendation within six month , and we will update Parliament annually on our progress against every commitment we make . but there be some thing I can say right now . there be still building today with unsafe cladding . the speed at which this be be address be far , far too slow . we only have to look at the fire in Dagenham last week — a building that be still in the process of have its cladding remove . this must be a moment of change . we will take the necessary step to speed this up . we will be willing to force freeholder to assess their building and enter remediation scheme within set timescale , with a legal requirement to force action if that be what it take . we will set out further step on remediation this autumn . we will also reform the construction product industry that make this fatal cladding , so home be make of safe material and those who compromise that safety will face the consequence . we will ensure that tenant and their leaseholder can never again be ignore , and that social landlord be hold to account for the decency and safety of their home . as the Government tackle the most acute housing crisis in live memory , build 1 . 5 million new home across the country , we will ensure those home be safe , secure and build to the high standard ; place of security , health and wellbeing that serve the need of resident and their wide community , because a safe and decent home be a human right and a basic expectation , and the provision of that right should never be undermine by the reckless pursuit of greed . one of the tragedy of Grenfell be that this be a community that nurture so much of what we want from housing : people who have make the Tower their home and be entitle to a place of safety and security , not a deathtrap . and yet , time and again they be ignore . two week ago , I make a private visit to Grenfell Tower . I lay a wreath at the memorial wall and affirm the Government ' s commitment to the work of the Memorial Commission , deliver a permanent memorial on the site through a process lead by the Grenfell community . as I walk down that narrow staircase from the 23rd floor and look at wall burn by 1 , 000 - degree heat , I get just a sense of how utterly , utterly terrify it must have be . as I see example of the cladding on the outside of the building and listen to description of the catastrophic and completely avoidable failure of that fatal refurbishment , I feel just a sense of the anger that now rise through that building . it leave I a with a profound and very personal determination to make the legacy of Grenfell Tower one of the define change to our country that I want to make as Prime Minister . to the family , the survivor and the immediate community , we will support you now and always — especially those who be child . in the memory of your love one , we will deliver a generational shift in the safety and quality of housing for everyone in this country . in the memory of Grenfell , we will change our country ; not just a change in policy and regulation , although that must of course take place , but a profound shift in culture and behaviour , a rebalancing of power that give voice and respect to every citizen , whoever they be and wherever they live . we will bring the full power of government to bear on this task , because that be the responsibility of service and the duty we owe to the memory of every one of the 72 . in that spirit , I commend this statement to the House . I call the Leader of the Opposition . I thank the Prime Minister for advance sight of the statement , especially give the timing of Prime Minister ' s question time . I associate myself and everyone on this side of the House with the Prime Minister ' s powerful word regard the pain of the bereaved family , survivor and all those affect the tragic event surround Grenfell Tower . many be with we today in the Gallery , and I want to pay tribute to their strength and patience in wait for this moment . it be not hyperbole to say that we would not be here today without they . it be their tenacity and strength that bring the truth to light . for that , they deserve our thank . their search for truth and justice be a noble one and have our full support . while the Grenfell community ' s loss will have leave a hole that nothing will ever be able to fill , I hope that whatever healing be possible from today , each and every one of they take some small measure of it . I know they will never forget the 72 people who tragically lose their life , and nor shall we . today ' s publication , as the Prime Minister say , be , to put it bluntly , a damn indictment of over 30 year of successive state failure , stretch as far back as Knowsley Heights in 1991 and then multiple incident from there . Sir Martin Moore - Bick and the work of the inquiry have paint a picture of systemic indifference , failure and , in some notable case , dishonesty and greed . Sir Martin and the team work on the inquiry be to be commend for the depth and rigour of their work . while such a comprehensive report as have be publish today deserve to be consider in full , and I welcome the Prime Minister ' s commitment for time in the House to do that , there be some immediate point that I feel will command support across the House and that I will address to the Prime Minister . first , the work to remediate and , where possible , identify new at - risk building must continue if we be to meet , as I be confident the whole House would agree , the former right hon . member for Maidenhead ' s pledge that no such tragedy could occur again . I know that task be not a simple one and I thank the Prime Minister for recognise the importance of this issue . a significant barrier to make progress quick be financial liability . that be an issue I be all too aware of when I become Chancellor and why one of the first major spending decision I make be the creation of a new £ 1 billion fund to pay for remediation work in public and private building affect by material beyond dangerous ACM cladding . the previous Government ' s clad safety scheme have ensure an additional £ 5 . 1 billion be available to support remediation work , come from a combination of a developer contribution and a building safety levy . I ask the Prime Minister and the Chancellor to give due consideration to any further request , especially with the upcoming fiscal event towards the end of October . the second point I be confident the Prime Minister would agree on be the need to maintain and update our legal and regulatory framework to keep pace with change in material , construction and supply . the last Parliament pass the Fire Safety Act 2021 and the Building Safety Act 2022 . I acknowledge , as the Prime Minister say , that he work constructively with the then Government to deliver those improvement . these piece of legislation comprehensively reform our fire safety and building regulation regime and ensure that a new building safety regulator , locate in the Health and Safety Executive , be create . but I also know that these be step stone towards a fire and building safety regime that remain persistently fit for purpose . in particular , I urge the Prime Minister to give special attention to the recommendation in today ' s report , especially its call for : more regular updating of approve document b ; a single regulator ; a sole Secretary of State responsible , to end the fragmentation of whitehall responsibility ; and a new chief construction adviser . I want the Prime Minister to know that should he deem that further legislation be require to support proportionate and necessary measure to protect the public , while protect leaseholder from excessive cost , we will work collegiately with he to deliver that . thirdly , ally to the need for continue improvement in the legal and regulatory framework , the report also shine a light on the significant failure of oversight . those responsible for ensure the independence and rigour of testing and compliance be find by this report to have have those very thing compromise . in particular , the BRE in its work with supplier in part enable what Sir Martin Moore - Bick ' s report have plainly describe as systematically dishonest behaviour on the part of supplier . so , I welcome the Prime Minister ' s commitment to continue to support the Metropolitan police and the Crown Prosecution Service in pursue any appropriate criminal charge against a small number of developer and contractor who knowingly and fraudulently cut corner on build safety for greed and financial gain . I do not want to let this moment pass without also acknowledge the local failure today ' s report highlight , whether from : the tenant management organisation responsible for the building itself , which allow relationship with those live in Grenfell Tower to become so broken that tenant be marginalise and , at worst , ignore ; the repeat fire safety report that be not act on ; the lack of effective management and leadership at London Fire Brigade ; or the local council , which have a lack of adequate oversight into the management and maintenance of the building , and the care and concern of those live in it . there will be further lesson to learn from this inquiry . there will be difficult question for all those responsible , act over a long period of time . I know the Prime Minister will agree that we must approach those question with the honesty and directness they deserve . let I conclude . at the time , the former right hon . member for Maidenhead apologise to the victim for what she describe as failure at a local and national level in response to the fire . I share in those same word still . I think today , however , demand more . as a Prime Minister , current or former , you be a custodian of the state . its failure , whether on your watch or not , be something that you feel deeply . to that end , I want to extend my deep apology to the family and victim of the Grenfell Tower tragedy . the state let you down , and it must never do so again . the mission to ensure that no such tragedy can ever happen again be one that I know the whole House support , but more than that , it be part of a legacy that we must create and maintain , so that our action meet the full meaning of our word . I thank the Leader of the Opposition for the tone and substance of his response . we do owe it to the victim , their family and the community to work together to ensure that they get the justice they deserve , and that we make this a turning point that mean this will never happen again . there will be a debate in which the whole House can participate , because although hon . member have an opportunity to ask question today , they will also want to make substantive contribution on this tragic issue and , no doubt , on issue of concern in their own constituency relate to cladding and fire safety , so we will ensure that time be available . I welcome the right hon . Gentleman ' s approach to work jointly , as we be able to do ourselves when we be in opposition . in particular , the remediation work be behind schedule and need to speed up , and we must do all we can in that regard . financial liability be obviously an issue , and we will look into the sufficiency of that . as for the legal and regulatory framework , obviously change have already be make , but I think further change will be necessary , and we will share those with the opposition as soon as we have some realistic proposal to put before the House . if we can then join together in pass the necessary legislation as quickly as possible , it will be a mark of our determination to treat this as a turning point . I agree with the right hon . Gentleman ' s comment on criminal proceeding . we clearly do not want to prejudice those proceeding , but I do not think anyone could read this report and not be absolutely shock by the description of some of the dishonesty — this be not just incompetence but dishonesty : the manipulation of test and the market . it be not possible to read about that in the page of this report and not have a renew determination to ensure that justice be deliver for those who deserve that justice . rise — Order . I thank the Prime Minister for his remark about the need for caution in comment relate to particular legal case or inquest . I repeat the waiver that I grant under the sub judice rule on 21 June 2022 , and I appeal to all member absolutely to speak , but to be cautious about what they say . I now call the Mother of the House . do the Prime Minister recognise how painful it must be for the Grenfell community to have have that tower loom over they for seven year , and for it to have take seven year even to reach this stage ? have visit Grenfell , he will be aware that most of the 72 who die be among the most marginalised , and that they be largely people of migrant heritage . can he give an assurance that the bereaved will receive all the support they need , include financial support , and can he also give an assurance that it will not take another seven year to bring those responsible to justice ? I thank my right hon . friend for that question . she be absolutely right to focus on the community and the bereaved . decision on a memorial , whatever form it take , must be take in consultation with the community , and I give an absolute commitment that we will do that as well as provide the support that they need . during my visit , I have a sense — just a small sense — of just how painful this must have be and continue to be . we can not allow another seven year to pass before we take the necessary action . I call the leader of the Liberal Democrats . I thank the Prime Minister for his extremely powerful comment and associate my party with all of they . the Grenfell disaster be a tragedy that shame our whole society . the report lay bare failing of government of all party over decade , and on behalf of my party , I be sorry . we must all learn from it and do everything we can to change the system , in order to prevent more horrifying tragedy like this from happen in the future . it be right that we pause today and remember the 72 people who lose their life , as well as the survivor and bereaved family and friend who have fight so long and so hard for justice . this be their day . they have wait far too long to get the truth , and many will remain frustrated that even after today they will still be wait for justice and meaningful action . let I therefore raise three of the many issue that the family have raise . first , in order to get the justice that the family crave , criminality must be investigate , try and punish , whether it be corporate manslaughter , fraud or misconduct in public office . will the Prime Minister confirm that the police , prosecutor and court will have all the resource they need to bring those responsible swiftly to justice ? secondly , what more can the Prime Minister do — what more can we all do — to bring about great urgency when it come to act on all these recommendation , so that the report do not just gather dust on a whitehall shelf ? even now , seven year on , essential work to make more than 2 , 300 building safe have not even start . can the Prime Minister tell the House what more will be do to remove dangerous cladding as quickly as possible , force those responsible to pay , not the tenant and leaseholder ? finally , we must tackle the big systemic issue that come up time and again in such scandal , from Hillsborough to Horizon to infect blood . like the victim of other scandal , the bereaved and survivor of Grenfell have call for a duty of candour on public official , and we welcome its inclusion in the King ' s Speech . can the Prime Minister tell we when that legislation will be publish , and whether the duty will cover all public official ? I join the right hon . gentleman in the sense that this have take too long and have be too hard , and it be not unique in that respect when it come to injustice of this kind . let I deal with his specific point . it be really important that criminality be fully investigate , and we will give the relevant authority all the support and resource necessary . we will respond as quickly as possible to the report ' s recommendation , within six month . it be a long report and there be many recommendation , and I think it be right that we take time to look through they , consider how they can comply with and then come back to the House , and come back to the House annually , to assess the progress that we be make and to be hold to account on it . there be no doubt that the removal of cladding need to be speed up , and measure have already be take in that regard . the right hon . Gentleman mention the Hillsborough law , which feature in the King ' s Speech . the duty of candour be very important . we will look at it again in the light of the report , because although we be determined to introduce the legislation as quickly as we can — it be long overdue — I think , have read some of the report already , that it be worth reflect and ensure that what be in the report be incorporate in whatever law we be forward . as we have hear , it be now more than seven year since 72 people lose their life in Grenfell Tower in north Kensington . as we have hear again today , the disaster be entirely foresee and entirely preventable . it be the result of organisation and individual be systemically dishonest and put profit before people ' s life . I pay tribute to the next of kin , the bereaved and the survivor , include those who be here today , for their resilience and strength ; this be a very painful day for the community . the shameless merry - go - round of buck - passing that have happen for the past seven year must now come to an end , so I thank the Prime Minister for his personal commitment to drive last change and hold people accountable . can he assure I that the Government will now do everything in their power to ensure that criminal prosecution take place as soon as possible ? can he commit to ensure that company identify in the report be exclude from public contract , be hold to account to the full extent of the law , and pay their full weight of the cost of the building safety remedial work that be necessary ? can he also ensure that the phase 2 recommendation for central Government will be a blueprint for real change , and that their implementation will be swift and as comprehensive as possible , so that we can truly say that a tragedy like Grenfell will not happen again ? I can confirm that we will do everything to ensure that there be full accountability , include criminal accountability , where appropriate . I remind the House — as you have do , Mr Speaker — that notwithstanding the strong finding in the report , the last thing that the victim , the bereaved and the community want or need be for anything to go wrong with possible legal proceeding . we must all bear that in mind , but I absolutely understand my hon . friend ' s sentiment . on the contract , I stand by what I say in my statement . I concur with my hon . friend on the resilience and strength of the victim , the family , the survivor and the community . it must have be really hard to give evidence to the inquiry , and it must be really hard to read the detail of what happen in this long report . it must be even hard still to read the conclusion about the failure and the dishonesty , so we must pay respect to their resilience and strength . very sadly , for most of we this report be not a surprise , because many of the thing that be be say over many year have now come to fruition in its recommendation . as the Prime Minister have rightly allude to , it be clear that the conspiracy around the testing of product must be subject to criminal proceeding . will he therefore look immediately at some of the recommendation that affect the Government : namely , bring responsibility under one Department , with one Minister be responsible and answerable to this House , to make sure that action be take ? secondly , will he ensure that a single regulator be introduce to make sure that the various different aspect that be clearly wrong do not occur again ? I thank the hon . gentleman for his question , which be really important . we will report back on all the recommendation within six month , but if we can act more quickly on some of they , we will do so straightaway . we have six month to report back , but if there be recommendation that we can accept and move forward , we will do so rather than wait for the end of the six - month period , because it be very important , for all the reason that he powerfully put across . I thank the Prime Minister for his comment on the community in north Kensington , which be also my community in Shepherd ' s Bush and Hammersmith . Grenfell Tower be a daily presence not only for the survivor and the family of victim , but for all of we in west London , particularly those who live in the many high - rise building surround Grenfell . will the Prime Minister ensure that all housing be build safe and make safe from the risk of fire , which his predecessor fail to do ? above all , will he pledge that those complicit in the Grenfell fire be bring to justice so that there be no mistake about their guilt or their punishment ? it be important that there be full accountability and that , where appropriate , people be bring to justice — that be the least that the family , the survivor , the bereaved and the community deserve . I absolutely understand my hon . friend ' s point about the wide community . this tragedy have impact the wide community , as he well know from his work as the constituency MP . I see a bit of that when I visit . there be various writing on the wall around the memorial , where people from the area have record their private view , and they be an important read for anybody who want to be in a position of leadership . I thank the Prime Minister for his statement , and I also thank Sir Martin Moore - Bick . may I refer the Prime Minister to recommendation 113 . 58 ? after Piper Alpha , an independent offshore safety investigation body be establish . after the Paddington rail crash , we establish the independent Rail Accident Investigation Board . former Fire and Housing Minister Nick Raynsford , former chief investigator of the air accident investigation branch Keith Conradi , a lead building control specialist and I make a submission to the inquiry recommend that there should be independent incident investigation of serious building failure of this nature , which would be able to conduct an investigation far more quickly than a public inquiry and with accumulate expertise . however , that role have be leave to the London Fire Brigade , which have be heavily criticise and would therefore be conflict in any investigation of a similar incident . that be why the LFB be not put in charge of investigate this incident in the first place . could we come and see the Prime Minister about this very serious matter ? I thank the hon . member for raise a really serious issue . we will , of course , look at that recommendation . we will report to the House , and I will make sure that a meeting be set up so that he be able to input directly into our consideration on that particular recommendation and any other that he have concern about . first and foremost , today be about the family of Grenfell and the 72 people who die . for they , today be another emotionally exhausting day , but we must remember that their fight for justice be also our fight . Grenfell lay bare the sad truth of the stigma attach to social housing . it be a stigma I remember experience when people make assumption because I live on a council estate . it be a stigma that attach to people from all walk of life — teacher , doctor and firefighter . they be people who pay their rent on time , but who be treat with disdain by housing provider . this damn report confirm that people ' s voice be ignore , and that safety concern about the industry be ignore or disregard at all level of the Government and the housing sector . it be unforgivable . the Prime Minister have speak about the culture . will he commit to ensure that this new Government address the culture within our housing sector , which often treat social housing tenant as an afterthought ? my hon . friend speak powerfully and make a really important point in relation to social housing , and the report be litter with example of disrespect and of people not be listen to or take seriously . yes , policy and regulation be part of the answer to this issue , but policy and regulation on their own be not the complete answer . there have to be a change in culture and behaviour , and turn a corner need to mean something more than pass a new law or put in place new guidance , much need though that be . it mean all of we adopt a different culture and behaviour . otherwise , we will be back here in I don ' t know how many year have the same debate again , and we can not visit that on the victim , the survivor , the deceased and the community of Grenfell . our heart ache at the injustice and horror that befell individual and their family at Grenfell Tower , and I commend the Prime Minister for the strength and power of his remark from the Dispatch Box today . can he give a commitment that his Government will continue to work constructively with the devolved government to ensure the quick removal of all clad right across these isle , so that we do not see a repeat of this horrible tragedy ? yes , and that be a really important point . regardless of where someone live or which government they live under , the right to safe and secure housing be important . the Deputy Prime Minister have already meet the First Minister of Scotland , and we will take every opportunity to work jointly on this issue . how many time must we come here and hear another example of how the state , which should be on the side of ordinary people , become the enemy of working - class people ? we have have Hillsborough , the Horizon Post Office scandal , the contaminate blood scandal , Windrush , and the treatment of former armed force personnel who be member of the LGBT community . in each of those , the state have become the enemy of the people and delay pay compensation to they . can the Grenfell inquiry be a watershed when we end the process by which the state become the enemy of working - class people , we treat they with the dignity they deserve , and we ensure that their compensation be pay rapidly and not delay , as it have be in all those other case ? in the case of freeholder who be still hold out and not pay for the remedial work to their property , it be about time they pay fine for delay that work . that be a really important point , because there have be I don ' t know how many example of injustice where people have not be listen to and have be disregard . different Prime Ministers over the year have stand at this Dispatch Box and quite genuinely make commitment on the back of report . I do not doubt that for a minute . I think every Prime Minister who have stand here in relation to any of those injustice mean every word that he or she say in response , and yet it go on . so there be something more fundamental that we have to make time to consider , because I do not want to be back at this Dispatch Box — or any future Prime Minister to be at this Dispatch Box — have a version of the same discussion about injustice , about people be disregard , not listen to and not take seriously after the event for too long , and about justice come too late for people who desperately need it . that be what I mean by turn a corner . the inquiry report be damn , and the testimony that we hear be utterly devastating . first and foremost , all our thought be with the victim , the survivor , the bereaved and everybody affect . in the last Parliament , many of we fight tooth and nail on a cross - party basis to improve the Fire Safety Bill and the Building Safety Bill so that social tenant and leaseholder who be still live in building cover in cladding and with other fire safety defect could get that remediation work do as quickly as possible . it be now clear that in some case , the waterfall system that have be set up , by which we identify who be responsible , be simply not work and be take far too long . one idea that be on the table in the last Parliament be that in some case , the Government could put the money up to pay for the remediation , to take away the risk , and then use the power of the state and its lawyer to go after those responsible with penalty , so that the taxpayer would not lose out . will the Prime Minister , who say that this be a moment of change and have commit to speed thing up , please review that idea to see whether it could be use in some limited case where there have still be no action ? that be a really important point . from my own constituency , I know of example where there be a contract , then a subcontract , a subcontract and another subcontract . in one case in my constituency , it go through seven subcontractor before the person who be actually responsible be find . everybody simply take a cut of the contract and pass it on . that be a real problem , and we have to get to the bottom of it . we can not allow that to happen . of course , we will consider any proposal that be put forward in response to this report , but this be a very real problem of contract simply be subcontract over and over again . try to find accountability be very , very difficult . I thank the Prime Minister for his statement today . I recently visit the Grenfell site with Lord Boateng , who be in the Gallery today — we do not mention name . excuse I , Mr Speaker . everybody there at Grenfell want people to be hold responsible — those in boot but also those in suit . a lot of money have also go missing , and some have call for the use of joint enterprise to ensure that everybody be hold responsible . some survivor have write a poetry book , and there be one poem call " so what Simon " by Mary Gardiner . this be just the ending : " this be not about mercy , grace or kindness . it ' s about justice and honesty and believe we be all bear equal and that be how we die . no amount of wealth can make we differ so much that where we live become a rabbit hutch . change your mind , you people with power , or give it over and let we flower . " do the Prime Minister agree that justice delay be justice deny ? yes I do , and I particularly agree that justice be not a question of grace or kindness ; it be an entitlement . it be an entitlement of every single citizen in this country , and that need to be honour as we go forward from here . can I just take the opportunity to thank all those work on the memorial , which I know be very important ? the work on the memorial be at an important stage , and I know it be very important to the community . I thank the Prime Minister for his statement today . the Grenfell fire be an unimaginable tragedy but , as he rightly say , it be also a comprehensive failure by the british state , and in many respect that comprehensive failure persist today . I be grateful for the word that he say about give all resource and support to the police and the Crown Prosecution Service , because clearly the victim , the survivor and the community of North Kensington want the insight and the answer that they have partly have today , but they also want justice , and that need to be deliver as soon as possible . equally , I fully support the effort that the Prime Minister be go to make to see if further regulatory change be require . they need to be make in a proportionate and effective way , and there be lesson to be learn from change that we have make in the recent past . but when make those change , can I urge he to look in particular at the status of the testing facility — the Building Research Establishment — and at the way it operate , which I think have fail significantly , as be lay out in the report ? finally , I concur with the broad point that the Prime Minister make today , which be that when one speak to the victim and their family , one be leave with a very strong sense that many people in social housing in our country feel that they be second - class citizen and that they be be treat with disrespect . that must end . will he take forward the work that begin with the social housing White Paper to ensure that that never happen again ? yes , all support will be give to the police and the CPS , and I absolutely agree that this must be do as swiftly as possible . I think the police make a statement in relation to that early today . I will look at the particular point the right hon . Gentleman raise in relation to testing . I think the whole House need to come together to recognise that in social housing there have be a profound disrespect for a very long time across a number of community , and we have to turn a corner on that . follow the wildfire of 2022 in Dagenham and Rainham , the ongoing crisis at Launders Lane in Rainham and now the devastating fire at the Spectrum building , also in my constituency , will the Prime Minister join I in commend the outstanding work of our emergency service ? will he also comment on the Government ' s plan to improve fire resilience and safety in residential building and to hold those who be responsible to account when tragedy like this happen ? yes , it be important that they be hold to account . I thank my hon . friend for raise those issue in relation to Dagenham and I join she in commend the emergency service who have to respond to these awful incident . from speak to some of the first responder , I get a real sense of the impact it have on they . I know that the Deputy Prime Minister have visit the Dagenham scene in the last few day . I thank the Prime Minister for his statement and the way he deliver it , and Sir Martin for his comprehensive report . the needless death that happen at Grenfell will never go away and never be forget . those of we who have be on the silent walk for Grenfell every year since it happen , and visit many time , fully understand the strength of feeling and the deep anger in the community at this needless loss of life , bring about by a contract culture , deregulation , privatisation , ignorance and , frankly , contempt for working - class community by many who should have do much more to protect and defend those people . so I hope the Prime Minister ' s word will be carry through , and that criminal action will follow against those who deliberately neglect those who be in appalling and extreme danger . will the Prime Minister assure the House that the removal of dangerous cladding that have happen at most local authority - own building all over the country will now also take place in the private sector leasehold building that many of our constituent live in , where they be face with enormous insurance cost because of the existence of dangerous cladding ? this have go on for several year , and as the company that be responsible for the dangerous cladding refuse to pay up , the problem be force on to the people who be themselves the victim who be be put in danger . there be so many lesson to be learn from Grenfell , and I hope that the contract culture in local government that the Prime Minister just speak about — the endless subcontracting , subcontract and subcontract so that those responsible for dangerous condition evade all responsibility — will end . I also hope that we will end the idea of the local government internal market and instead have the principle of local government delivery of service as the primary responsibility to ensure that all citizen live in safety , and that council housing grow rapidly over the next few year and we get more good quality , secure council housing build for the good of the people who be live in desperate housing need , often in the private rent sector . we be take action on that important point about leaseholder , be it in relation to insurance or in relation to other issue of which the House be well aware . it be important that be include in the work we take forward , and I be absolutely committed to ensure the quality of council housing and social housing as we build those 1 . 5 million home . as the whole House know , it be not just a number that we be talk about . each and every person who lose their life be a human being to be respect , cherish and remember for who they be . on the Chelsea council estate that I have the honour of represent , Grenfell and the incompetence and indifference show by the local council and the tenant management organisation , both before and after the tragedy , be still very much discuss . one of the strike thing bring out by the report be the extraordinary response of the local community where the official response fail . it be hearten to hear the Prime Minister talk about a rebalancing of power , which be essential . I hope that we will ensure that council gather proper information on the disabled people live in social housing , 15 of whom die in the Grenfell fire , to ensure that they can be evacuate safely in such a situation . as well as take action against company , which I fully support , will the Prime Minister commit to work closely with local authority to implement the report , and to protect our fellow citizen , whether they live in social housing or not , from this sort of thing happen again ? I thank my hon . friend for that question . it be really hard to read the part of the report that deal with the indifference and disrespect after the tragedy . I would have think that after such a tragedy , whatever the failure that go before , these people would at the very least be treat with the utmost respect , yet the same disregard and lack of basic respect and dignity continue . that be part of what this report be about . it be important that there be plan in place for disabled people , and we have take that forward for people with disability who be house in circumstance in which they clearly need an evacuation plan . of course we will work on this with local authority and all relevant authority . one of the thing I learn from my interaction with the bereaved , survivor and Grenfell United during my time as Housing Minister be that their pain be compound by their frustration at the pace of change , even some year after the fire . I share their frustration as we try to make progress on build safety issue . one of the thing that sharpen our mind and make the Government machine jump to it be the prospect of external scrutiny . I hear the Prime Minister say that he want to return annually to update the House on progress . I know he will do his good , but I be afraid that I do not think that will give the Government machine the kind of impetus require . will he recommend to whoever be elect Chair of the Housing , Communities and Local Government Committee that they establish a Sub - Committee to look at progress on the report ' s recommendation ? if not , will he support the establishment of a cross - party Committee of the House to drive through these change and to monitor Government progress ? although an annual debate be welcome , I do not think it will give the sense of urgency require to address these issue swiftly . the question of external scrutiny be really important , and we will , of course , report annually . as the right hon . Gentleman probably know , the report have a recommendation on scrutiny that we want to look at carefully and discuss with the community , which have strong view on this . obviously , we will take into account the view of member on both side of the House , include on whether this be something a Select Committee should look at . I be not sure it be my role to tell a Select Committee what to look at , but I agree that the question of external scrutiny and accountability be really important . we have to make sure that the most robust scrutiny be in place . I do not think I have ever hear my right hon . and learn Friend speak more powerfully , more personally or more movingly than he do in this statement . I know that the more than 20 , 000 resident in my constituency who be still live in high - rise block with the nightmare of fire risk constantly upon they will welcome what he say about the Government take a consistent and measured view of the recommendation , and move to implement they systematically . they will also welcome what he say about the prosecution of those responsible for what Sir Martin call " systematic dishonesty " and " deliberate and sustained strategy to manipulate the testing process " . I reinforce what the hon . member for St Albans ( Daisy Cooper ) say about remediation . many of the owner of these block have sell on to further owner , and to further owner beyond that . the Prime Minister speak about subcontracting , but there have also be on - selling . some of those owner live in tax haven such as the British Virgin Islands , and they be simply not comply . they be not even apply to the building safety fund to get this remediation work do . will my right hon . and learn Friend consider very carefully what power the Government can take in order to take control of these building , get the work do and then recover the cost , if necessary by acquire and sell the building themselves ? I thank my hon . friend for raise that very real issue . one of the thing we need to do be look at what further power may be necessary . we can not suggest for a minute that the exist legislation , guidance and policy be sufficient . we need more power , and we will look at that and bring proposal back to the House . there will be a general debate , of course , because I know that many member will want to discuss particular issue face constituent who be fearful of the condition in which they live . I thank the Prime Minister for his very serious and compassionate statement . the event of June 2017 feel like yesterday . although I can not imagine how the people directly affect be feel right now , we must act in every way we can , and we must act together as much as possible . however , I note that the inquiry ' s report do not make new proposal on transparency and accountability for social housing tenant and leaseholder , particularly on access to fire risk assessment and related information , which be still very hard for resident to access — I see that for myself in London , and I be still see it in Brighton . the previous Government do not act on the call for housing association to be subject to freedom of information requirement , despite they include call make by the Information Commissioner as long ago as August 2017 . will the Prime Minister act now to fix these gap in resident empowerment and access to information ? that would be very simple , but it be not cover by today ' s report . we will obviously look at all the recommendation and report back to the House , but we need to look at the wide issue too . access to risk assessment be an important issue that we be consider . there should not be gap . one of the benefit of a general debate be that it will be an opportunity to raise these and further point , which we will take away and consider . today my thought be with the victim , the survivor , the family and the entire Grenfell community . the systemic dishonesty and many other injustice mean that the people of Grenfell be treat like second - class citizen . successive Governments , the local authority and industry know about the risk , but they fail to act . as Sir Martin say , the death that occur be entirely avoidable . seven year on , no none have face criminal proceeding and there be still thousand live in home wrap in unsafe cladding . I welcome what the Prime Minister have say today , I welcome the way he deliver his statement , and I be thankful that the Government will implement the phase 1 recommendation to ensure that every disabled person live in a high - rise block have a personal evacuation plan specific to their need , but when the Prime Minister return to update the House , it be vital that those live in unsafe home have clear deadline for when the flammable or unsafe cladding will be remove , so that they can have a decent night ' s sleep . I agree that the work be go too slowly ; we need to push that work on , with clear timetable to ensure it be do . in response to the first part of my hon . friend ' s question , the wording of the report , which say that the death be entirely " avoidable " , must be chill for all the family member and the community at large . I commend the Prime Minister and the Leader of the Opposition for their candour , and the tone that they adopt — it be pitch perfect . may I press the Prime Minister on a point make by Sir Max Hill KC in broadcast interview this morning , about the urgent need for justice and for prosecution to be bring ? colleague across the House have raise the issue , and the Prime Minister have address it , but will he ensure that there be adequate resource in the police arena and capacity in the court system to bring case , where appropriate , as speedily as possible ? business be inclined to dissolve themselves and disappear into the ether very quickly . will he make sure that there be capacity in both the investigation and prosecution arena to ensure speed ? we all recognise that people have be wait far too long . Sir Max Hill have personal experience of these sort of case , as have I . we need to ensure that resource be in place , and that we be clear about the speed of decision making . they be not straightforward decision , but none the less they should be take as swiftly as possible . we need to ensure that the court be in a position to handle the case as soon as they be ready to go to court , if there be case to go to court . I join colleague in remember the 72 people who lose their life in the Grenfell Tower fire tragedy , and I say to their friend and family that I will always fight to deliver justice for their love one . as chair of the Fire Brigades Union parliamentary group , I put on record my admiration for the heroic bravery of the firefighter who attend that night . the FBU have long say that deregulation and corporate greed be the reason for the catastrophe , and the report vindicate that view . do the Prime Minister agree ? when will the Government set up the statutory advisory body on fire policy , in order to give firefighter and control staff a voice in set national standard , and to ensure lesson be learn ? when will the timetable for that be set ? I place on record my gratitude to the firefighter on the night . have be to Grenfell Tower , I can only begin to imagine what it must have be like to have be confront with the situation that they face , and to deal with the circumstance they have to deal with . time and again , our first responder be ask by we , rightly , to do very challenging thing . they do it , and we should thank they for that . I thank the Prime Minister for take the recommendation so seriously , and for raise concern about the parity of esteem for social housing tenant . we have see problem in that area so many time , so I thank he for take those recommendation forward . will he join I in pay tribute again to the volunteer organisation , include the found member of Grenfell United , as well as member of other charity and church who work tirelessly in the aftermath of the Grenfell tragedy ? a passage in the report highlight two group : one group be the TMO , the business and those charge with responsibility , and the other be those who live in the tower . those group be treat differently before , during and after the tragedy , which relate to the question of esteem that the hon . Lady rightly touch on . we must stop talk about the issue and act on it . my thought today be with the family and love one of the 72 people who die so tragically in the fire . as the report identify , those death be entirely " avoidable " and be the result of corporate greed , because profit be put before people . some 3 , 000 medium and high - rise building be still be monitor by the Government because they be clothe in unsafe cladding . will the Prime Minister state how he will support leaseholder live in those building , whose life be on hold at the moment ? I stand in solidarity with the family in support of justice . I hope they do not wait as long as the Hillsborough family . many premise be be monitor . that need to continue . we need to bear down on all the relevant authority to ensure they be safe and give leaseholder the support they need . will the Prime Minister help to ensure this type of disaster will not happen again by look carefully at build control inspection ? since deregulation , such inspection be often not carry out in person but through phone call and photograph . poor inspection of work across the UK building industry mean other such disaster will happen again and again , unless we look carefully at how our building control inspection work . I agree with that . the way build control inspection be carry out in this case make for a shocking read in the report . it be particularly grave , but not the only example of such building control inspection . we will look at that as we respond to the report . I thank the Prime Minister for the most powerful and heartfelt statement I have ever hear he make , put the 72 victim of the Grenfell fire and survivor in the community at the heart of the road map go forward . as the Prime Minister say , justice must be speedy , with prosecution for those who be involve in systemic dishonesty . Justice also mean that those responsible for the broad building safety crisis should pay to make building safe , so how will the Prime Minister ensure that now happen at pace ? justice need to be speedy and , in this case , it be important we ensure that it be swift . we should bear in mind it have already take seven year to get to where we be today , which double the need for that speed . all those with responsibility need to take responsibility ; I think the word of one member of the inquiry this morning , about those with responsibility take the report as a template and guide for the future , be very important . all those with responsibility for building safety include I , which be why I will take that approach in government . I thank the Prime Minister for his tone , compassion and understanding , and the seriousness in his voice and word today . I honestly and sincerely believe the Prime Minister speak for everyone in the House in the way he convey the statement , and I thank he for that . on behalf of Democratic Unionist party member , I convey our collective sympathy to the family . they be never far from our thought , even though a number of year have pass . the report catalogue failure . there be similar building in Northern Ireland , so will the finding and recommendation of the report be convey to the Minister at the Northern Ireland Assembly with the urgency require , ever mindful that the Northern Ireland housing executive and other be financially stretch ? what help can be give to deliver the much need improvement across this great nation , the United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland ? I thank the hon . gentleman for raise the question in relation to Northern Ireland . of course we must work with all the relevant authority in Northern Ireland . I take the early opportunity after the formation of the Government to go to Northern Ireland to make clear that would be the way I will work on all issue . that be particularly important in relation to the safety of people in the place that they live . I thank the Prime Minister for his statement . I associate myself with the remark make about think about the victim and their family , who be still fight every day for justice . I welcome the Prime Minister ' s commitment to ensure they will see justice through the criminal justice system . the report make over 50 recommendation and suggestion about the regulatory framework , so will he reassure I that the Government will work closely with local authority to ensure they have the support they need to respond to any additional regulatory burden that might be put on they in the come month and year ? I thank my hon . friend for her question . it be important that we work on the regulatory framework with local authority and with all those charge with responsibility so that there be justice in this case , and secondly , that we take the necessary action to ensure that this never happen again . I welcome the Prime Minister ' s personal commitment to change the culture and behaviour towards council tenant that allow this tragedy to happen . it be a national scandal . can he ensure that resident , tenant and professional firefighter on the frontline be hear and listen to ? we can not trust those who cause the tragedy in the first place to put thing right . that be an important issue . this case be an example of where those concerned for their safety in the place where they live have make point , put forward issue and raise concern but not be listen to . that be a characteristic of how not just housing but other aspect of life be deal with . we must ensure that we listen to those who be most concerned . it be their place , their home , they be entitle to feel safe and secure there , and it be our responsibility to ensure that they be . as the Prime Minister so painfully say , the Grenfell fire destroy life and rip family apart , but constituent of mine be suffer , too . they be afraid to go to sleep at night , because they live in building that be build more recently than Grenfell , with fire safety risk . the building standard that inform the recladding of Grenfell and the building of more recent block of flat be strong on thermal insulation to save energy cost but very weak on fire safety , and their implementation , as we now know from this report , have be even bad . the building regulation of other jurisdiction cover both thermal insulation and fire safety risk . how long will it take for UK building regulation to catch up ? that be one issue that we will have to look at in light of the report , but I accept that there be people today in accommodation where they fear for their safety , because of the condition in which they be live . have speak to some of those people , I get a sense of what it be like for they to worry every night about the safety of themselves and their family , particularly those with child . I thank the Prime Minister for his statement and his commitment today . as he have say , the report make it clear that the Conservative Government ' s obsession with deregulation mean that safety issue be ignore , delay or disregarded . it say that the Government be well aware of the deadly risk of clad before the fire , but fail to act . it conclude that all 72 death be avoidable . this morning , Grenfell United — survivor and bereaved family — urge our new Government to break old habit and bring systemic change by both separate Government from corporate lobbying and tackle social and racial injustice and inequality . will the Prime Minister undertake this work without delay ? I read very carefully what the report say about deregulation . as we go forward from here , we must avoid the habit of simply blame somebody else for everything and pull together and say that it be our responsibility . we be a new government . irrespective of where the failure lie , it be our responsibility now to take this forward to ensure safety . I know that be a sentiment share across the House and I thank the Leader of the Opposition for the approach that he have take . if we do it in that way , we can do what the survivor , the bereaved , the family and the community most want , which be to show our determination to ensure that this never happen again . today ' s report list a series of terrible failure that let down the Grenfell community . the Grenfell fire affect community in every part of the UK , and I wish to pass on the thought of my constituent in Irvine to the family and love one . a fire at a 14 - storey block of flat in Irvine in 1999 spread via external cladding . the Garnock Court fire result in one fatality and lead to change to scottish building regulation , which the then local MP fight to have implement . I hope my right hon . friend will look at the lesson from the Garnock Court fire as he start to address this terrible injustice . we must look at this question of external cladding . some measure have be take in the past seven year , as I reference in my statement , but we need to look at this again . the description that I be give when I be at Grenfell Tower of how the fire spread , and the role play by the cladding , be chilling . have read the summary of the report , may I say how difficult it have be to contain one ' s anger ? like many west London mps here , I visit the site soon after the fire . in the follow month , we meet the victim , the family of the victim , the firefighter , the local representative , and the traumatise call centre operator , some of whom have never recover . I be castigate then for use the expression " social murder " . this report define ; it be social murder . exactly as the Prime Minister say , we need urgent action . we have be promise a debate . for that debate , may we have the definitive report for each of our constituency on what action have be take , what action will be take , and what the deadline will be ? may I return to recommendation 113 . 7 in the report ? in the building regulation , we define high building as above seven storey or 18 metre . that take no account of those other property in which there be vulnerable resident in particular who be now at risk . the recommendation be to urgently review those regulation . may we have a timetable for that review , as it have consequence for many of our constituent ? I thank my right hon . friend for make that point . on the debate , it be important that as much information as possible be make available and that we be able to deal with the question that member of this House have raise . that be why we be look at the date of that debate . I want it to be as soon as possible , but I do not want it to be so quick that member will be frustrate because they will rightly want information or assurance that need a little bit of work through . I will try to make sure that that happen . the safety of building that be not at the specific height be among the issue that we have to consider here . we be all well aware of these very troubling case , and they have to be part of the debate . that conclude that very serious statement . I will give those on the Front Bench some time to vacate the Chamber and allow the new Ministers to take their seat . Budget Responsibility Bill consider in Committee [ Ms Nusrat Ghani in the Chair ] I remind member that , in Committee , Members should not address the Chair as " Deputy Speaker " . please use our name when address the Chair . " Madam Chair " or " Chair " be also acceptable . clause 1 - announcement of fiscally significant measure I beg to move amendment 9 , page 1 , line 14 , at end insert — " ( c ) or any change to the government ' s fiscal target . " this amendment require the OBR to produce and publish a section 4 ( 3 ) report at the time new fiscal rule be announce by the Treasury . with this be will be convenient to take the following : amendment 2 , page 1 , line 25 , at end insert — " ( 2A ) in any case where the Office have act in accordance with subsection ( 2 ) , it may notify the Independent Adviser on Ministers ' interest of the circumstance in any case where it consider those circumstance may be relevant to — ( a ) the Ministerial Code , or ( b ) the function of the Independent Adviser on Ministers ' interest . " this amendment enable the OBR to notify the Independent Adviser on Ministers ' interest where the OBR consider that any instance where the Treasury have not request a report under section 4A ( 1 ) in advance may give rise to consideration of compliance with the Ministerial Code . Amendment 5 , page 1 , line 25 , at end insert — " ( 2A ) where the OBR prepare a report in accordance with subsection ( 1 ) or ( 2 ) , it must take account of the impact of the measure or measure on — ( a ) the UK ' s compliance with , and ( b ) the fiscal cost of meeting , the UK ' s net zero target as set in section 1 ( 2 ) of the Climate Change Act 2008 . " this amendment require the OBR to report on the impact of fiscally significant measure announce by Government on the UK ' s statutory net zero target . amendment 1 , page 2 , line 4 , at end insert " or ( b ) the measure , or combination of measure , be likely to have an impact on — ( i ) the cost of government borrowing , ( ii ) interest rate , or ( iii ) the rate of growth of gross domestic product . " this amendment broaden the definition of fiscally significant measure to those which fall below the cost threshold , but have wide fiscal effect , by affect either the cost of government borrowing , interest rate or rate of economic growth . amendment 6 , page 2 , line 4 , at end insert " or if the condition in subsection ( 3A ) be meet . " see the statement for Amendment 7 . amendment 7 , page 2 , line 6 , at end insert — " ( 3A ) the condition in this subsection be that the measure , or combination of measure , form part of category of measure with a cumulative impact on — ( a ) public sector net debt , ( b ) public sector contingent liability , or ( c ) both , that exceed a specified percentage of the gross domestic product for a specify period . " specified " mean specify in , or determine in accordance with , the Charter for Budget Responsibility " the purpose of this amendment be to extend the definition of fiscally significant measure to include measure with a cumulative impact on public sector net debt or contingent liability when take together with other measure in the same category , such as public project with private sector partner . amendment 3 , page 2 , line 16 , leave out " 28 " and insert " 56 " . see the statement for Amendment 4 . amendment 4 , page 2 , line 17 , at end insert — " ( 6a ) after the publication of a draft under subsection ( 6 ) , the Treasury must consult — ( a ) the Office for Budget Responsibility , ( b ) the Treasury Committee of the House of Commons , and ( c ) such other person as the Treasury consider appropriate . ( 6b ) when a modify charter so as to include provision by virtue of this section be lay before Parliament , the Treasury must also lay before Parliament a report on the outcome of consultation under subsection ( 6a ) . " the purpose of this amendment be to impose a requirement on the Treasury to undertake a full consultation and publish the outcome of that consultation prior to revision of the Charter for the purpose of the Bill . clause 1 stand part . clause 2 stand part . amendment 10 , Title , after " measure " insert " and of any change to the government ' s fiscal target " . this amendment be consequential to Amendment 9 . it would amend the long title of the Bill . thank you very much , Madam Chair . may I first take the opportunity to congratulate you on your election ? I promise to try not to try your patience over the come week , year and so on , but we will see how thing go . I wish primarily to speak today to amendment 9 and , of course , consequential amendment 10 , which effectively seek to ensure that the fiscal lock propose in the Bill should also include any change to the fiscal rule and would require the Office for Budget Responsibility to produce a report on their effect on public finance . the Office for Budget Responsibility be of course construct by a Conservative Chancellor follow the poor forecasting record of the previous Labour Government . between 2000 and 2010 , the then Labour Government ' s forecast for economic growth be out by an average of £ 13 billion , and their forecast for the budget deficit three year ahead be out by an average of £ 40 billion . their forecast therefore lack credibility , and to re - establish confidence and credibility the OBR be create by the Conservative Government . labour lack economic credibility in the past , and I be afraid it still lack it now . the fact simply do not stand up the false claim that the Government have inherit the bad economic circumstance since the second world war ; they transparently have not . contrary to the rewriting of history that the current Labour Government be attempt , when we take over from Labour back in 2010 , inflation be 3 . 4 % . when they take over from we , it be 2 . 2 % . the annual deficit be half what we inherit in 2010 , unemployment be about half what it be in 2010 , and we hand Labour the fast economic growth in the G7 . the dominant political and economic narrative since the second world war be in fact , as have be widely comment on , that every single Labour Government end up with unemployment higher at the end of their time in power than when they take over from the Conservatives precede they . the british public should not be take for fool . just because Labour keep claim something , that do not mean that it suddenly become true , which be why clarity over plan and rule be so important . the fiscal rule be of course restriction on fiscal policy set by the Government to constrain their own decision on spending and taxis . the fiscal rule set by the previous Government say that the debt to GDP ratio should be fall within a five - year horizon , and that the ratio of the annual budget deficit to GDP should be below 3 % by the end of the same period . labour ' s manifesto for the election propose the follow fiscal rule : balance the current budget , so that day - to - day cost be meet by revenue , and that debt must be fall as a share of the economy by the fifth year of the forecast . on the surface , therefore , the debt rule appear to be broadly the same under the new Government . the Government have even say that they have an " ironclad " commitment to reduce Government debt . it be therefore critical what definition of debt be use for the fiscal rule . clearly , any change to the fiscal rule be financially significant decision because they affect how much the Government can borrow and spend . on Second Reading , the Exchequer Secretary to the Treasury say : " our fiscal rule be non - negotiable . " — [ Official Report , 30 July 2024 ; Vol . 752 , c . 1263 . ] great , but why then have the Chancellor repeatedly fail to rule out that she will change the definition of debt in her fiscal rule to allow , presumably , for massive borrowing ? the Government can not run from the scrutiny that they should be subject to if they be consider make such a change . we believe that our amendment require an OBR report on change to the fiscal rule be entirely consistent with the Government ' s state policy intent , and should therefore be fairly uncontentious . after all , on Second Reading , the Chief Secretary to the Treasury say that " the announcement of a fiscally significant measure should always be accompany by an independent assessment of its economic and fiscal implication , in order to support transparency and accountability . " — [ Official Report , 30 July 2024 ; Vol . 752 , c . 1211 . ] we agree , and not accept our amendment would be contrary to those goal , because clearly change the fiscal rule would be a fiscally significant measure in anybody ' s book . furthermore , the Chief Secretary say that " fiscal discipline and sound money be the bedrock of our plan . " — [ Official Report , 30 July 2024 ; Vol . 752 , c . 1213 . ] well , change the fiscal rule would be change the foundation and that bedrock . transparency and clarity be important in relation to the public finance , because Ministers should never forget that it be not their money that they be spend ; it be the public ' s money . the public have a right to know how their money be be spend , and government be about make difficult choice with limited resource . with Government spending be above £ 1 . 2 trillion per year , the british public recognise that the Government clearly have choice . it be not an endless supply of money , but it be a very , very large amount . in the last few week , the new Labour Government choose to spend the public ' s money on pay settlement for their union friend rather than on support pensioner . those settlement be estimate to cost about £ 10 billion . they also choose to spend £ 8 . 3 billion on a public energy company and £ 7 . 3 billion on a national wealth fund , so far from inherit a £ 22 - billion black hole , they have actually just spend £ 25 billion create one within their first few week of come to power . my hon . friend be make a fantastic speech on the importance of be responsible with our public finance . much of the Bill be concern with responsibility and transparency . do he know whether the Government publish an impact assessment when they take away the winter fuel allowance ? I thank my hon . friend for that point . my understanding be that the Government have not publish an impact assessment , as would normally be the case for something with such a significant impact . I think that speak to the whole narrative that we be hear from the government : claim one thing when the fact speak differently . as I say , far from inherit a £ 22 billion black hole , they have actually spend , or commit to spending , an additional £ 25 billion . that be a choice that they make , so the claim that the Labour Government be have to take the winter fuel allowance away from million of pensioner as a response to unexpected financial constraint simply do not stack up against the fact , or indeed the word of the Chancellor herself , who on 25 March 2014 — yes , a decade ago — say : " we be the party who have say that we will cut the winter fuel allowance for the rich pensioner and mean - test that benefit to save money " . — [ Official Report , 25 March 2014 ; Vol . 578 , c . 174 . ] that be a direct quote in Hansard from the current Chancellor , so no , the Government ' s restriction of winter fuel payment be not a response to financial circumstance ; it be a long - establish , clearly state labour policy intent — a deliberate policy choice , but a policy that they conveniently forget to tell the public about in the run - up to the last election . I hope , however , that the Government can be straight with the public on this point about the fiscal rule , accept the amendment that we be propose , and provide assurance to all member and the outside world that there be no sleight of hand here . we want the Bill to work as they say it be intend to , and to include financially significant decision , such as on the level of Government borrowing and the fiscal rule . I would therefore appreciate it if the Chief Secretary to the Treasury confirm in his wind - up that the Government do not intend to change the definition of debt in their fiscal rule or practise some accounting trick to hide the level of Government borrowing , and that they do indeed wish to be clear and transparent about the public finance . if Labour Members vote against our amendment , it will merely prove that they be plan to change their fiscal rule in the Budget to borrow more money , increase debt , and run away from independent OBR scrutiny — the very opposite of the state intent of the Bill . I call Dr Jeevun Sandher to make his maiden speech . thank you , Madam Chair , for allow I to give my maiden speech in this House . like every member across this House , it be the great honour , privilege and responsibility of my life to represent my community of Loughborough , Shepshed and the village . I rise at the most difficult moment for our community and our country since the second world war , when many feel despondency , despair and anger . I know that every member across this House want our community to succeed and to contribute to our national success . that be what my community have do before and will do again , with hope and determination . my story do not begin in Loughborough . I be not bear there — unlike my neighbour , who be now my friend , and who have make it my home . my story instead begin in rural Punjab , 4 , 000 mile away , where my father be bear almost 70 year ago . his chance of die before his fifth birthday be one in four . today , a child bear in the same place be around nine time less likely to die . that be what economic growth mean . it mean less suffering , it mean less misery and it mean less death . that be why I become an economist : to build prosperity and to lessen misery . I learn my trade in the Treasury and then go to work in Somaliland , one of the poor nation on Earth , where I help to write its economic policy , its budget and its national development plan . that be where I see the horror of climate change lead to drought , hunger and death , but it be also where I learn that even in the darkest of hour and the most difficult of moment we can build prosperity . now I stand here as the elect Member of Parliament for my community . it say something remarkable about our nation that the fact that I , the son of immigrant , be stand in this Chamber be in and of itself unremarkable . it speak to our common culture — a culture forge of different background , a culture that not only reject the violence we see over the summer , but completely reject its reasoning too . my election represent an historic first for my community . I be a member of an under - represent minority — I be , of course , the first Member of Parliament elect by the man and woman of Loughborough to have a beard . to the organiser of the beard of the year competition I say , " call I . " luckily for I , my dad be not eligible for that particular competition . I know that the right hon . member for Islington North ( Jeremy Corbyn ) have win the award several time ; I hope he do not mind I win the prize this time , as long as I let he win the argument . my predecessor in this place , Jane Hunt , be not a contender for that award , but no one can doubt her commitment to team Loughborough , and every single member across this House and across my community will wish she the very good , especially as she have recover from cancer . her predecessor , Baroness Morgan , have talent that be well know both in this and the other place . before she be my good friend and mentor Andy Reed . member who know Andy will know that he be still a lead figure in sport policy , and they will also know that Andy be the nice man in british politic . it be his character that I hope to live up to in this place . however , I rise to speak at the most difficult time for our community and our nation since 1945 . our community be in crisis . wage in my constituency be £ 10 , 000 low than they would be have we grow at new Labour rate . the divide cause by deindustrialisation have widen from crack into chasm , with young man who use to leave school and get good job now 20 % less likely to get any job ; in our most deprive neighbourhood , life expectancy fall before the pandemic ; more than any fact or figure , the despair , the despondency and the anger ; across and beyond our shore , war in Europe once more , with democracy in danger ; and , most seriously of all , a planet that be burn . for my community , this be the hot summer we have ever know , follow by the bad flooding we have ever see , destroy home . the Prime Minister and I see that destruction when we visit the home of Ian and Alan . no one should wake up in the morning to find their home destroy by flooding , but that will only become more common in the year ahead . what we do in the next decade will determine the fate of our community , of democracy and of our planet . either we will rise to this moment , build prosperity for all , protect democracy and stop emit carbon , or everything we hold dear will crumble and fall . previous generation have show we that we can rise to this moment that threaten we . our country stand alone against fascism in Europe and win . I think today of my constituent William Williams , 104 year old , who fly Spitfires in the war . as his generation rise to their moment , so can we . my community have show I that we can . when the water come and the flood rise , my constituent Caz and Carl do not pause to think if they could help , only how they could help . they organise collection , they provide refuge , and they look after perfect stranger . it be their spirit that I carry into this place — ask not if , but how . how can we build prosperity and protect our planet from burn ? we can do so by invest in a green transition that create good job and get wage rise for the people and place leave behind when the factory close . that be what we can achieve , and we be see it work already in the United States . in my community there be world - lead hydrogen research and industry . we need green hydrogen for fertiliser and to keep our truck move . it be not a coincidence that I have choose to speak in this debate , with Treasury Ministers on the Front Bench ; I say to they , " get out the cheque book " — they be very excited by that — " because I will be ask for money from both the National Wealth Fund and GB Energy . " however , this be about more than cash . it be about rebuild hope and prosperity . as a previous generation rise to their moment , in the midst of the most destructive war in the history of humankind , an economist write a report that still define our nation . he write : " freedom from want can not be force on a democracy or give to a democracy . it must be win by they . " it be win by they . they build prosperity for all , with good job across our country , education for all , housing for all and healthcare for all . as that generation rise to their moment , so will we , by build prosperity , protect our planet and end despair and despondency . as previous generation rise to their moment , we will too , with the hope and determination that define our community and that define our country . a very strong maiden speech , without a script in hand — your parent will be proud . it be a delight as ever to serve under your chairmanship , Ms Ghani . I congratulate the hon . member for Loughborough ( Dr Sandher ) on his maiden speech and his kind comment about his predecessor Jane Hunt , a great colleague of this House . it be one of my great pleasure in my previous role as Minister for science and research to visit the fine university he now represent ; I wish he and they well , and I wish he all the good of luck with those on his Front Bench in procure the financial support he seek . this be a disreputable bill , if we be brutally honest . it be a piece of political theatre , which all of we on both side of this House should think very strongly about give our support to . this history of this place be of legislation make in haste , which this House subsequently repent at leisure . I say this in all seriousness and in the spirit of this place : at a time when there be low trust in politic , do our constituent — do the hon . Gentleman ' s constituent , when they troop to the ballot box and return he to this place only week ago — seriously expect that our role would be to give away even more of our responsibility ? can any of we , hand on heart , say that our constituent know what and who the OBR be ? do the elector of Bristol North West , Hampstead and Highgate , Richmond Park or , indeed , Arundel and South Downs send we to this place only to give away our duty and responsibility to the unnamed , unknown and unelected official — well - meaning , no doubt — of the Office for Budget Responsibility ? hand on the face of a stop clock be sometimes more accurate than the OBR forecast , as they be at least correct twice a day for sure . in truth , this legislation , put together at breakneck speed , have more hole than a swiss cheese . if we look at clause 1 ( 3 ) , who decide the " cost " ? propose new section 4A exempt any measure that be intend , at the time of its introduction , to be temporary . member of this House will be familiar with the fact that income tax itself , one of the large ever fiscal measure , be intend to be temporary ; perhaps the Minister will address that fact when he wind up . income tax be introduce by Pitt the Younger in 1799 as a temporary measure . well , here we be , 225 year later , and that temporary measure be still go extremely strong . who define what be and be not a fiscal measure — a measure with a potential impact on the gdp of this country ? many thing decide in this House will have a direct or indirect impact on the gdp of this country ; the decision by Tony Blair to take we to war without a vote in this House undoubtedly have an impact on our gdp . decision to introduce a four - day working week — if this House so choose to make they , as be its right — would have a material impact on the gdp of this country . the Centre for Business and Economic Research estimate that every bank holiday cost this country a sum approach £ 3 . 6 billion . three , four , five or six bank holiday add up to a 1 % impact on GDP , which I speculate may be the threshold for the OBR to intervene . on trade deal , if those on the Government Benches fulfil their ambition to realign with Europe — to federate and once again abrogate our trade to Europe — that would potentially have a material fiscal impact on GDP . there be very few domain of this House — very few of the decision that our constituent have send we here to legislate and decide on their behalf — that would not potentially fall foul of this rule . I will delight the hon . Gentleman , because , as I be sure he see on the amendment paper , I have table an amendment that would look at trade deal . one of the reason why I feel compel to do that , and explore this question that he raise about the economic impact , be that while he be in government and , indeed , a Treasury Minister , the Government do not publish any information for the very trade deal he be talk about . I will always welcome a sinner who repenteth but , for the avoidance of doubt , be he say that he now believe there should be independent scrutiny of thing such as the trade and co - operation agreement ? it be good to have a proper debate . I certainly think that if we want and seek good government — which , like the human condition , be not a perfect state , but a state that we should seek constantly to perfect — the high level of transparency and the very important exercise in Government publishing of impact assessment when they make material decision , as require by Cabinet Office guidance , be thing that the whole House should join hand and agree on . it be one of the reason why I ask my colleague , my hon . friend the Member for Droitwich and Evesham ( Nigel Huddleston ) , whether the Government have publish an impact assessment on their callous decision to withdraw the winter fuel allowance from so many pensioner . the hon . member for Walthamstow ( Ms Creasy ) will well know that the process of trade deal undergo extensive scrutiny in this House , and I take one of those trade deal through that process of scrutiny in a former life . I will conclude , because I simply want to alert hon . member to what they be potentially do as they seek to support this Bill . it be not for partisan or political advantage , but about the important role of Parliament , which have be litigate many time in this Chamber and in debate . unsurprisingly , I have listen to the hon . Gentleman ' s speech on a number of occasion , and I agree with quite a lot of what he be say about transparency . do he agree that the burden of his argument be that we can not make a government behave well or govern more effectively by quango ? this quango be set up by George Osborne to trap an incoming Labour Government and restrict and slow they down , and it be an odd thing that we see this quango be gild . as ever , the hon . Member make an important and weighty contribution . he be exactly right about the direction of travel . on both side of the House , we will all find our own particular point on the envelope when it come to the balance around organisation that can hold we to account and , in particular , hold a mirror to Government and ensure that this House act with the good , most accurate and well - mean datum . my core point be that we be send here by our constituent . I again congratulate the hon . member for Loughborough , who have be send here on behalf of his constituent and have give a fine speech today , but I do not believe — he may intervene and correct I — that the citizen of Loughborough , whether they vote for Jane Hunt or for he , intend that one of the very first action he and we would take as legislator would be to award more of our power and place more fetter on ourselves . this be the right Chamber for accountability . we should hold ourselves to account ; we have a number of way in which to do that to ourselves . the hon . member for Blackley and Middleton South ( Graham Stringer ) make a very real point about quango , arm ' s length body and how we hold ourselves to account . that be my point . I understand that many colleague wish to get in . I support the amendment put forward by my hon . friend the Member for Droitwich and Evesham , because it be quite right that we have rule . I be an accountant by training , and the first thing we learn — whether someone be an accountant or in performance sport — be that we play by the rule as they be ; we do not seek to rig the rule in our favour . it be a pleasure to speak in the same debate as the maiden speech give by my hon . friend the Member for Loughborough ( Dr Sandher ) . I be sure other speech be come that will show just how impressive the new generation of MPs be across the House . it be also a joy to follow the hon . member for Arundel and South Downs ( Andrew Griffith ) , because I have always enjoy the experience of listen to he . when he be a Treasury Minister in the previous Government , I watch he , debate with he and try to encourage he to take on the buy now , pay later lender — that be relate to what I will say about legal loan sharking . but I have to be honest : be lecture by former Conservative Ministers about fiscal probity be a bit like be lecture by Toad of Toad Hall about safe driving , give the experience of many of our constituent , which have lead to the need for this legislation . I put on record my support for this legislation , because frankly anybody who have have to renegotiate a mortgage since the Liz Truss Budget know exactly why it be need and why we must protect the british public from the consequence of bad decision making at a national level . as we see in many example under the previous Administration , the public have pay the price for that and will continue to do so . of course , the legislation do not fetter previous government , but it would fetter the discretion of the hon . Lady ' s own Front Benchers . in that context , do she not have the same confidence in her Front Bench that many other seem to enjoy ? I be a bit disappointed that the hon . Member do not seek to call I Ratty . I be also quite strike by the fact that he , a former Conservative Treasury Minister , rise not to hold himself accountable for the consequence of decision make by the previous Government , or indeed to defend they , but simply to say , " you will be hold to a high fiscal standard . " we on the Labour Benches welcome a high fiscal standard ; that be the purpose of the legislation . political decision will still be make , but we will make they with the benefit of independent information . he will know that there be many debate in the previous Parliament , and indeed in those before it , in which independent information about and verification of the economic impact of policy matter but be miss . indeed , he mention trade deal , which be an example of where we do not have independent information . I will comment on that only briefly , because my amendment have not be select — he will be as disappointed as I be about that . the amendment that I have table be intend to probe the legislation and the concept of " fiscally significant . " amendment 6 and 7 — and indeed amendment 8 , although it be not consider in scope for selection — be about how we hold ourselves to account for the impact on future generation . I be not here to make a maiden speech ; I be essentially the old guard now because I have be here for 14 year — [ interruption . ] I know , it be very sad — my hon . friend the Member for Northampton North ( Lucy Rigby ) be look at I in horror . you be not as old guard as some . yes . but in that time , many of we have have persistent concern , and one of mine have always be the private finance initiative . the Government be ask all of we to make and support some very tough decision because of the economic mess that the country now find itself in . my view be that we must look at all outgoing in that process . if somebody come to a constituency surgery because they have multiple outstanding loan and could not pay their rent , we would look at the debt that they hold . that be the challenge with private finance : it be the legal loan - sharking of the public sector . amendment 6 and 7 be about the process of get a grip on our debt and ensure that we learn from the damage that private finance have do . let we be clear : nobody can absolve themselves from private finance . government of all persuasion have seek to use that process — the ability to put only the repayment on the book , rather than the substantial cost of borrowing . that start under John Major ; yes , there be multiple pfi under the previous Labour Government ; and indeed , the previous Conservative Government continue to use private finance until 2018 . that be why , as of February this year , there be still 700 PFI scheme represent a capital value of £ 57 billion , but for which we will pay back £ 151 billion in the year ahead . we be ask pensioner to pay more for heat their home , but we should be ask how we can pay less for the private finance debt that we have build up . private finance be about be able to build thing such as school and hospital . anybody who have an outstanding PFI debt in their constituency , or a school or hospital that urgently need rebuilding , such as Whipps Cross hospital in my constituency , understand the importance of be able to access private finance . for the avoidance of doubt , I be not say through my amendment that we should never work with the private sector ; I be say that PFI be a catastrophically bad deal and that , cumulatively , it would meet the legislation ' s target of 1 % of gdp , so it be a fiscally significant policy . my amendment be about try to understand how we will deal with cumulative debt and cumulatively fiscally significant policy . I agree completely with my hon . friend . as a member of the even old guard than her — the original og ! I be certainly the old guard from the start of the previous Labour Government . that be relevant because I have a discussion at the time with the then Paymaster General , Geoffrey Robinson , about the cost of pfi for hospital . his answer be succinct : " if you want the hospital , you have to go down the PFI route . " he say that because the Treasury rule be so rigid about find money for socially need project — hospital in that case — the Government have to work around they , at what would eventually be a huge cost to the taxpayer . there be a warning there about rigid rule and not deal with reality . it will not surprise my hon . friend that I agree with he not just about his football team but in his analysis . the legislation be about have well fiscal rule and tough constraint when government make decision . we see with the Liz Truss Budget how catastrophic those decision can be . many member will have come across PFI in their constituency , but it be worth put on the record just how big it be , because that be relevant to the legislation . we be talk about 700 project , but each project can be hundred of individual building . one of those 700 project be make up of 80 school , for example , which show the scale that we be talk about . about half of pfi be hold between the Department of Health and Social Care and the Department for Education . that be how we build desperately need school and hospital , but the cost be absolutely critical . some NHS trust be now spend 13 % of their total budget on PFI repayment — £ 2 billion a year for some . in practical term , that mean that some trust be spend more to repay what be essentially a payday loan for the public sector than they be spend on drug for their patient . it be a huge drain on our public finance . in 2020 , during the pandemic , Norfolk and Norwich University Hospitals NHS Foundation Trust pay £ 66 million to service its PFI commitment — the same amount that it spend on lab equipment , surgical tool and personal protective equipment . University College London Hospitals NHS Foundation Trust have already pay out £ 200 million in dividend to the company that own its PFI , so the money be not just go to repay a debt for build a hospital ; it be go out in pure profit to those company . that be why I draw the parallel with payday lender and buy now , pay later company : once you be hook in , you have to keep pay the debt . it be not just a problem in the NHS . Hanson academy in Bradford have reach a debt of £ 4 . 16 million because of its PFI debt . it be now refer to as the UK ' s " orphan " school because nobody want to run it or take it over , give its financial position . Liverpool city council pay £ 4 million a year for Parklands high school , which be , again , build under PFI but be no long need because of fall school roll . the council have roughly £ 42 million leave to pay back on that contract for an empty , dead building . the equity solution company that own it have post profit of £ 340 , 000 from that project this year alone . PFI company have make £ 111 million in pre - tax profit from education project alone . that be about £ 800 , 000 per project , and the equivalent of 5 , 5000 new teacher ’ salary . the company take on the risk of those deal to rebuild our public infrastructure , but the reality be that we do not let school and hospital go bust , so they take on the ability to print money . that be what the deal be do . I will wager that every new and return MP have have a conversation with someone in local government , a local hospital or a local school who talk about the damage that PFI be do to their budget , as if it be non - negotiable . my amendment be about change that culture . one challenge be that we have let those company run rampant . that do not mean that we should not work with the private sector ; it mean that we should learn lesson , and I think we could learn some very simple one . for a start , a lot of the company be incorporate in overseas territory , which raise question about the amount of tax that they be pay on those deal . tax be originally part of the Treasury assessment of the deal , which be why work in that way be consider good value for money , and why my hon . friend the Member for Blackley and Middleton South ( Graham Stringer ) be tell that it be the good way to get a school or hospital . we could also learn from payday lending by cap what the company pay . after all , we cap the return on defence project . it make no economic or ethical sense that we cap what can be earn from a military contract , but when someone build a school or a hospital , they have free rein . above all , we need to know how much we owe , because even the Infrastructure and Projects Authority within Government could not get a grip on the total reality of our PFI commitment to date . that be partly because this have be do at a local government level , through devolution and in silo within company , but it seem a very simple thing : even if those debt be be hold overseas , the people pay they be very much here . in Northampton , there be 42 school cost £ 30 million per annum , include £ 4 . 2 million in pre - tax profit in 2021 - 22 , and Northampton ' s budget as a local authority be in a very difficult position right now . the firm that own all those school be base in Guernsey . in Birmingham , 11 school be part of the Birmingham Schools Partnership , own by Innisfree . Innisfree own 260 school across this country , as well as my local hospital in Whipps Cross . it be base in Jersey and be make million of pound in profit from these deal . we have never consolidate those loan to ask ourselves whether we could renegotiate they as a country and therefore claw some money back , because we do not know who we owe what to , or how much it be go to cost . amendment 6 and 7 deal with the challenge pose by the threshold of this legislation . it be absolutely right to set a threshold for what be fiscally significant , and individual pfi would not go anywhere near a threshold of 1 % of GDP , which be about £ 28 billion . however , when we add they up , it be very clear from what we already know about our PFI commitment that they do . as such , these amendment be intend to probe the Government about how we deal with debt and spending that might not meet that threshold individually , but might do so cumulatively , and to look at what we can do in the future to make sure that if we work with the private sector — again , I be not say that we should never do so ; I be say that we should learn from PFI — we make well decision . after all , this legislation be about make well - inform , independent decision . that be why I also table amendment 8 , to learn the lesson from trade deal . the hon . member for Arundel and South Downs be right : the Government ' s decision to go for the trade and co - operation agreement — the hard of Brexits — have cost we an estimate 4 % of gdp , so again , that would be a fiscally significant decision . it would be as catastrophic as that Liz Truss Budget — indeed , many of we can see that it have be — but we do not have an independent assessment . amendment 6 and amendment 7 , which be an enable amendment , would ensure that we have an independent assessment of cumulative spending look at these issue . I know that the Minister be as interested as I be in what we can do to tackle the drain that PFI represent and work well with the private sector . I hope that this legislation and the concept of put PFI on the book be the start of a conversation about well public spending , and I hope that Toad of Toad Hall will recognise that maybe this time it be good that they be in the passenger seat . I will speak in favour of amendment 1 to 4 , which be table in my name . once again , I welcome this Bill and this Government ' s intent to rebuild trust with the financial market and across our economy as a whole . the Liberal Democrats be optimistic about the new Government ' s state commitment to build a strong platform for economic growth , particularly after year of conservative turmoil . I remain hopeful that this Bill can support fiscal responsibility and transparency and help prevent a repeat of the Conservatives ' disastrous mini - Budget . the amendment table in my name would strengthen the legislation so that that aim can be achieve . I welcome the concern that the hon . member for Arundel and South Downs ( Andrew Griffith ) have show for my constituent in Richmond Park and their thought about this legislation , but I wonder where his concern for my constituent be when the Government of which he be a part cheer on , champion and vote for that disastrous mini - budget that so undermine our stable economy , to the detriment of the wellbeing of individual , community and business . liberal Democrats understand how much our constituent have suffer from the increase in mortgage payment , high fuel bill and escalate food price . we understand the disastrous effect of the chaos and uncertainty work by the previous Conservative Government in their horrendous mismanagement of the economy , and we know that future prosperity can only be build upon a firm foundation . we know the heavy burden that our constituent continue to feel in their pocket and their personal finance , and we know that they deserve well . as I have previously acknowledge , the broad positive response that this Bill have evoke across the business and finance sector be indicative of the desire for stability , and we welcome the engagement from economist — such as the new hon . member for Loughborough ( Dr Sandher ) , who I wish well in the beard of the year contest — and industry expert who advise of the beneficial impact this Bill will have on confidence in the public finance . we have carefully scrutinise the detail of the Bill to make sure it will achieve its intend aim . in particular , we have look closely at the threshold for fiscally significant measure , which will be set at 1 % of GDP or approximately £ 30 billion , and whether the propose fiscal lock could be circumvent by government announce major change that fall just below that threshold . although we understand that the bar have be set relatively high to prevent a large - scale irresponsible fiscal event such as the disastrous mini - Budget , we be aware of the limitation this place on the Bill , especially when it come to measure that might have relatively small up - front cost to the Government but significant indirect fiscal or economic effect . I therefore ask Treasury Ministers whether a GDP measure alone can adequately capture the impact on the economy of a spending or taxation measure , and whether the Government should examine the possibility of use additional criterion when set the threshold . that be why I have table amendment 1 , which would broaden the definition of " fiscally significant measure " to include those that fall below the cost threshold but could have wide fiscal and economic effect . the amendment would ensure that the OBR be able to produce a report when it judge that propose measure be likely to affect interest rate , the cost of government borrowing , or economic growth . whereas a fiscal lock base solely on GDP could leave open the possibility of circumvention , that wide definition would enable the OBR to step in if it think it likely that government measure might precipitate the kind of economic disaster we see after the mini - Budget . it be possible to imagine a situation where a fiscal measure fall just short of the 1 % of GDP threshold , but be none the less likely to carry significant ramification for the cost of Government borrowing , for economic growth and , crucially , for interest rate . we can not forget that any spike in interest rate do not just carry grave consequence for the public finance , but have a huge impact on household finance and people ' s living standard . we all witness mortgage rate skyrocket in the aftermath of the previous Government ' s catastrophic mini - Budget , and million of family be still struggle with high bill as a result . it be therefore wholly appropriate that interest rate be take into consideration when assess whether a measure be fiscally significant . this Bill be an encouraging sign of this Government ' s intention to act with more integrity and transparency than the last , but its provision alone may not be enough to protect voter from the consequence of another disastrous mini - Budget if a future Chancellor or Prime Minister be so minded to deliver one . that be why strengthen the fiscal lock by broaden the definition of " fiscally significant measure " be such a vital safeguard . I also wish to speak in favour of amendment 2 , which would enable the OBR to notify the independent adviser on Ministers ' interest if they think a failure to request a report ahead of a fiscal event might constitute a breach of the ministerial code . the 2022 mini - Budget be clearly the moment when the conservative party ' s carelessness take our country to the brink . however , we should not forget that it be the culmination of year of mismanagement and disregard for the principle of good governance from a conservative party that consider itself to be above the rule . sideline the OBR ahead of a major fiscal event be the pinnacle of the arrogance we have see so many time before . the ministerial code put in place guardrail that be crucial for good governance . it promote essential principle such as transparency , accountability and openness . for example , it state that Ministers have a duty to " be as open as possible with Parliament and the public " . those be principle that all government should abide by , especially when they relate to economic matter , and the Liberal Democrats have long call for the ministerial code to be enshrine in legislation . in the same vein , amendment 2 would provide for useful scrutiny of the Government ' s action by empower the OBR to notify the independent adviser on Ministers ' interest if they have reason to believe that vital principle of the code may have be violate . we must never again have a Government put the country ' s finance at risk out of their disdain for the rule , and this amendment would help achieve that aim . finally , I wish to speak in favour of amendment 3 and 4 . their purpose be to strengthen scrutiny of any change to the charter for budget responsibility , so that provision of the Bill can not be circumvent simply by revise the threshold set out in that charter . a full consultation , along with an extended period of scrutiny , would ensure that Parliament and the public be fully informed of any propose change and give the opportunity to engage with they , improve transparency and accountability . responsible public finance be essential for the stability , certainty and confidence that drive economic growth , and for get mortgage rate under control . the Conservative Government have show all too clearly the damage and pain cause by fiscal irresponsibility . I therefore urge the House to accept the amendment I have table . the Liberal Democrats want to see a thriving british economy — one that provide job and opportunity for work people and be attractive to business and investor . we believe that this Bill be a significant step in promote long - term stability , and we urge the Government to accept our amendment , which would strengthen the legislation and help create the condition for responsible economic governance . rise — I think I would offer some tip to colleague in the Chamber . if you be bob , you will be call . if you be on the list , but be not bob , you be indicate to the Chair or the Speaker that you no long wish to be call , so if you hope to be call , bob throughout the debate . if you be on the list and commit to bob , but leave the Chamber , you be indicate to the Chair or the Speaker that you no long wish to be a priority on the list . however , you can speak to the Chair or the Speaker and ask permission to leave and return , and you will then remain where you be in the priority list . unless member stand , I do not know whether they wish to contribute to the debate , so who wish to bob ? rise — I call Amanda Martin to make her maiden speech . thank you , Ms Ghani . I start by commend my hon . friend for their impassioned speech , particularly my hon . friend the Member for Loughborough ( Dr Sandher ) . he will be pleased to know that I will not be a contender this year in the competition that he mention . maybe later , menopause depend . it be a huge honour to stand before you today as the newly elect Member of Parliament for Portsmouth North . this moment be not lose on I ; I be fill with immense emotion at the thought of represent the place where everyone I love life . Portsmouth be a city rich in history , innovation and , most importantly , community spirit and pride . it be also a place of first . throughout our city ' s storied history , we have be pioneer in many field , be it shipbuilde , maritime trade or cultural advancement . Portsmouth have always lead the way , and it be that spirit of innovation that I intend to champion while in this House . I be deeply humble to make my maiden speech in this debate highlight the importance of fiscal standard , because during the election campaign so many people tell I that their mortgage have go through the roof , or that they have lose the ability to buy or rent their first home , or indeed any home , because of the action of the last Government . I understand personally what it be like when a full - time job do not even cover the bill . my gramp be a train driver . he teach I the importance of hard work and public service . he introduce I to the trade union movement and to the Labour party , which I be proud to say have be at the centre of my adult life . my mum be a factory seamstress and my dad be a plumber and then a police officer . as a kid , time be tough , but our house be always full of love , humour and determination . my dad work three job and my mum set about make childhood the very good it could be . my gramp navigate the track with precision and care , my mum sew with love , and my dad serve his community . I know I will bring the same attitude to my time in this House , because the opportunity here be so very precious . like so many of my colleague on the Government Benches , I be the first in my family to go to university and the first to become a teacher , but thankfully not the last to enter what I still deem to be the very good profession in the world . the right education really do empower young people and give they belief and the opportunity to succeed , whatever their background and circumstance . I be so very proud to be part of a Government who will bring down the barrier to opportunity and tackle child poverty , work across department to ensure that all kid get the good start in life . have be a teacher for 24 year , I know that not everyone have the start in life that I feel privileged to have have . be allow to try thing and fail be a great lesson . my working - class background mean that I sometimes seem a bit impatient . this be because I know that people from my background must fight hard , and do not often get a second chance , so they have to seize every opportunity as it arise . as an MP , I want to champion child and young people from all background across my city , so that they be give every chance to succeed and fulfil their potential , whatever that may be and wherever that may take they . the child and young people in Portsmouth deserve nothing less . Portsmouth , as I have say , be a city of first . the first dry dock in the world be build there in 1495 . the first ragged school be establish there in the name of John Pounds in 1818 . we be the first to have a steam railway in 1837 , and the first co - operative society in Britain be set up there in 1796 by dockyard worker feed up with be rip off by local tradesman . the first oil - fire HMS Queen Elizabeth be build there in 1913 ; the second ship be very close to my heart . in 1956 , the first football league game play under floodlight take place there ; it be Portsmouth versus Newcastle . in 2024 , the Portsmouth woman ' s football club turn professional for the first time . another first be the nursery on Whale Island ' s naval base ; it be pioneer a brilliant programme to help child deal with separation and the unique challenge of have a parent in the military who be serve away . Portsmouth also produce the first female Secretary of State for Defence , and as I raise this first , I would like to pay tribute to my predecessor . Penny Mordaunt ' s service to our city , and particularly her role in the coronation of our king , be to be celebrate . in this House she have many role in Government . she have always champion the Royal Navy , and from what I hear , she love her time in the parliamentary hairdresser . however , the sword now pass to I , and I will continue her lead as I champion our Royal Navy and our great city , both here and at home . now for my final first for our great city . for the first time in our city ' s history , both Portsmouth mp be Labour mps . we build on the work of our predecessor : Lord Frank Judd ; Sarah McCarthy - Fry ; and my very dear friend , mentor and freeman of our city , Syd Rapson . together , my good friend the new Minister with responsibility for early education , my hon . friend the Member for Portsmouth South ( Stephen Morgan ) , and I will work night and day to be champion of change for the city we call home , Portsmouth . I be so very proud of the positive campaign we run in Portsmouth North . we unashamedly focus on the need for opportunity and for real change . I want to put on record my thank to the many people who help I get here , include the Pompey Belles , my amazing family of 17 , friend and the dozen of volunteer from Portsmouth Labour and beyond . as I begin my journey in this House , I know that the need for change have never be so great . as this debate highlight , after 14 year of Tory rule , there be so many uncertainty for the people in my city . People be struggle ; the money just do not go far enough . school be underfunde and understaffed . appointment in primary care , the NHS and dentistry be , in some area , almost impossible to get . youth service outside the voluntary sector stretch only to offer support with probation . our high street be a mess , and housing be in complete chaos . however , not everything be about money and pay . this be about pride . pompey people be proud people . they do not shout about success , unless they be in football . they rarely grumble — equally , unless it be about football . many of they just get their head down , roll up their sleeve and get on with it , and many feel betray and let down by those who should have be there for they . for some , trust in politician have disappear , and I can understand why . People on the doorstep and in the street be wary and feed up with broken promise . many feel alone , isolated and betray . come from one of the most trust profession in the country to one of the least , I get it . I know that , as the MP for Portsmouth North , the chance for opportunity and real change lie with I — real change , that people can see , feel and be part of ; positive change that they can proudly shout about . as Alan Ball say , " this be Portsmouth , people go to war from this city " . it be a city that deserve the very good , and I aim to give my very good in represent and serve it . what of the city of Portsmouth ? we officially turn 100 year old in 2026 , and a raft of famous figure have help shape our city , include Charles Dickens , Isambard Kingdom Brunel and James Callaghan , a labour Prime Minister in whose honour I hope next year to secure a blue plaque . as rich in culture as our city be , it be also full of unsung people who should be right up there with the famous people I list . these include — this be in no way an exhaustive list — Shamila from Portsmouth City of Sanctuary , Roni at Pamodzi , Isabelle from Loaves of Love , Laura at STEMunity and Mandy , an award - win community volunteer . they be just a few of the people in my city make it great . I feel extremely privileged to have seven magnificent ward in my constituency , and to have live , work or have family and friend in every single one of they . they be all special and unique in their own right , from Paulsgrove , Drayton and Farlington to Cosham , Hilsea and Nelson , and Copnor and Baffins . they be also all very much Pompey , and when you walk down the street it would not be uncommon to hear , " oi , mush , don ' t be a squinny " , or " Oi , you loon " , or " din " . as a whole , Portsmouth North be make up of those magnificent seven ward , with 70 , 000 constituent , 35 school , our brilliant Queen Alexandra hospital , 11 gp practice , hundred of charity , small , family - run , large , regional and national business , a municipal and thriving international ferry port , seven allotment , 27 pub , one mobile and four static library , a shoreline , the good view in the world to watch the sun rise or set at Portsdown hill with a crack burger van , a pond , a marshland , a forest — albeit a mini one — and the training ground for the football club who be simply the good . as a season ticket holder and a trust board member , it be sad to say that Fratton Park reside in the south of my city , but I get the brilliantly name John Jenkins training ground . I stand here today not only as the Member of Parliament for Portsmouth North , but as a proud representative of a city that have always be full of first , and will have so many more to come . I will acknowledge that together as we work we may face time of choppy water and , as they say in the Navy , " fair wind and follow sea " . and as they say at Fratton Park , " play up Pompey " . that speech will delight every corner of Portsmouth North . I call Dave Doogan . it be a great pleasure to follow the hon . member for Portsmouth North ( Amanda Martin ) and that rundown of her fantastic constituency . I want to go there now that I have hear about it , although she might be surprised to know that I be quite familiar with that part of the world around Portsmouth North , Fareham , Gosport , Hayling Island and Southsea . it be a beautiful part of the world , and while it can not compete with Scotland in scenery , it certainly win the day when it come to weather in the summertime . she might also be surprised to know that there be a fairly high concentration of pompey supporter in Perthshire . that be a legacy of the Royal Naval aircraft workshop outside Perth , when people use to go down to the Royal Naval aircraft yard in Gosport , and pick up a loyalty to Pompey from there . I offer many congratulation , not least on a fantastic maiden speech but also on those exceptional shoe . I be concern , indeed trouble as many people will be , about the role of the Treasury and Chancellor in the last couple of month . we be here to talk about budget responsibility , and I wonder what answer we would get if we be to ask the 80 % of pensioner on these island who be about to be strip of their winter fuel payment what they think be responsible about that budget intervention . we could ask the million live in poverty across these island — a disgrace in and of itself — what they think about budget responsibility in their life , now double scupper by Labour ' s two - child cap . we could ask the million of work poor across these island , who be try to do right by their child , their employer , and just pay their bill to get by , and who put their kid to bed every night and then sit up all night worry about everything , what difference this fiscal lock will make to their life . the Chancellor ' s first two act on take up her role be to make life hard for the poor family in society who have the least . once she have dispatch they , she turn her fire on pensioner , remove their winter fuel allowance . austerity 2 . 0 — it do not matter to Scotland whether austerity come in a Labour or Tory wrapper , it be still as caustic . that be relevant because the Chancellor want we to believe that the Bill and the fiscal lock will make everything okay , but it do not . the Office for Budget Responsibility will take no view on the qualitative merit or otherwise of any Treasury decision , but merely on the quantitative dimension in fiscal term . there be no lock in the Bill to protect the people of these island from this Labour Chancellor . we hear ad nauseam that the Chancellor have no choice in any of these action , and the bad inheritance since the war , and it go on and on . well : " the number may be a little bit bad than they think at the time , and I think there be some thing that be hide from view , but the overall picture over the next four or five year be very , very similar to what we know before the election . " those be not my word , but those of Paul Johnson , the director of the Institute for Fiscal Studies . if that be not good enough , the SNP warn throughout the election that if Labour stick to Tory spending plan , taxis would rise and / or budget would be cut , and here we be . the SNP even challenge Labour in Scotland on that point during the election , and the leader of Labour in Scotland , Anas Sarwar , say , " read my lip : no austerity under Labour " . he be not say that now be he , because he can not . perhaps the Chancellor , or those on her Front Bench , can advise we about whether Mr Sarwar be have a stumble with the truth that day , or whether they have forget to let their branch office in Scotland in on the plan . despite all that , the Chancellor and her Treasury Front Bench persist in their claim about a £ 22 billion black hole to defend their indefensible attack on the poor in society . it be unacceptable , and the Bill , if enact , will do nothing to protect community from that . I be also trouble by the language that those on the Treasury Front Bench seek to use to accrue some form of disproportionate credit for bring forward the Bill . at its core , the Bill be nothing more than an additional provision to the exist Act , and the exaggerated language around it expose the weakness of the Government ' s position on this fiscal lock . nothing be either lock in or lock out by the Bill . the OBR can not stop any Budget or fiscal adjustment , good , bad or indifferent . that be Parliament ' s role , as other right hon . and hon . member have point out . on Second Reading I point that out to the Minister , who decline to concede on the absolute fact that the position be as I have just set out . I hope he have have a chance to reflect on the so - call fiscal lock , which be nothing more than an administrative assessment of Treasury plan on which nothing be contingent . the hon . member for Walthamstow ( Ms Creasy ) say that she be keen for those on the Treasury Front Bench to be hold to a high fiscal standard . fair enough , but the Bill will not do that . this be in abstract the narrow one - dimensional protection from bad fiscal policy . Labour member be seemingly addicted — the Bill evidence this — to some sort of pound shop exaggeration , and a troubling reliance on hyperbole when detail something profoundly ordinary . the fiscal lock and the Bill will not protect the devolved nation and their budget from the austerity of the Labour Front Bench . before the general election , when Labour in Wales be face NHS budget pressure , the now Secretary of State say that " all road lead to the Tories " and Westminster , in accordance with those budget pressure . now , after the election , we have a Labour Government , the SNP in Scotland be face those same budget pressure , and it be the SNP ' s fault . they can not have it both way . they have get the job and they need to own it . the Chancellor claim that the SNP should raise income taxis to pay for her cut to the winter fuel allowance in Scotland . the cheek of it ! I remind those on the Treasury Front Bench that 70 % of taxis raise in Scotland go directly to the Treasury . we have pay our due , and shame on the Chancellor for try to get scottish taxpayer to pay twice to compensate for her axe wield . the double standard of it all be staggering . she want the Scottish Government to raise income taxis in Scotland , which be precisely what she refuse to do ahead of the UK general election . why will she not mirror the Scottish Government ' s progressive income tax regime to increase taxis slightly on those of we who be well off , and reduce taxis slightly for those on the low income ? that would raise nearly £ 16 billion for the Treasury . if she have do that and follow the SNP Scottish Government ' s lead , she would not have have to attack our pensioner ' winter fuel allowance . a significant element of budget responsibility be ensure that people own their decision and their own mess . labour will find that SNP Members be keen to help they in that pursuit . in summary , there be nothing particularly to object to in this inherently ordinary and transactional provision in the Bill , except for the behaviour of the Government advance it . I call Will Stone to make his maiden speech . thank you , Ms Ghani , and congratulation on your position . I also congratulate my hon . friend the Member for Portsmouth North ( Amanda Martin ) on her inspire speech . I feel like I know her constituency a little well now , and I commend all those who have deliver their maiden speech today and in recent week . they have all be fantastic . it be truly an honour to make my maiden speech in a debate on budget responsibility , and I be proud to be elect in this new Labour Government — a Government commit to fiscal responsibility , credibility and accountability . we will ensure that taxpayer ' money be manage and spend wisely , not recklessly as the previous Administration do . I have the absolute pleasure of represent Swindon North , the town where I be bear , raise and be proud to call my home . I be also proud of the fact that I be the first Member of Parliament in Swindon North ' s history to have be bear in the town . I pay tribute to my predecessor , Mr Justin Tomlinson , who serve as the Member of Parliament for North Swindon for 14 year . Justin be a ferocious campaigner and he also support many local community group and be incredibly passionate about football , namely our local club , Supermarine FC . while we do not align politically , Justin have my respect , so I thank he for his service . I would also like to mention another former Member of Parliament for Swindon : one of my mentor , the labour peer Lord Michael Wills . I have learn so much from Michael . even though he be go through an incredibly tough time with his health , he have always be there to support and guide I with his expert knowledge . Michael be not only a top - notch politician , but a publish author of crime novel . I only recently find that out , but I guess it be not too much of a surprise , consider he be once a Minister of State for Justice . I be truly privileged to follow in his footstep . if I be half the parliamentarian he be , I will have do Swindon proud . I hope the House will join in wish he a speedy recovery , and I hope to repay his trust in the Chamber . I be the first brazilian jiu - jitsu black - belt to be elect to Parliament , and I use to run my own academy . Ms Ghani , I promise this be somewhat relevant . when I leave the Army , I have offer to teach brazilian jiu - jitsu across the world , from Abu Dhabi to Arizona , but I pick Swindon . I be often ask , " why do you choose Swindon ? " , but it be an easy answer for I : I love Swindon . I love my hometown . it be a wonderful town build on industry and be full of passion and hope . our history be a proud history of reinvention . we start life as a farming town with a focus on pig market , then we transition and become a hub for the railway in the 19th century . generation of railway worker and their family benefit from the cradle - to - grave healthcare that be rumour to have inspire the great NHS . as technology develop , so do Swindon , and we become home to the like of Rover , Honda and Mini , but what be next ? we be at a pivotal point in history for my town . where do Swindon go next ? my hope be that it will go as it always have : into the future , at the forefront of new technology and green technology . I hope that my right hon . friend the Member for Doncaster North ( Ed Miliband ) hear that . it be my mission to foster green growth in Swindon and see the town thrive again with high - skilled , well - pay job . I believe that in a grow , stable economy , we can see that happen . Swindon be not just famous for its high number of roundabout — if anyone in the Chamber have ever visit , I be sure they will remember those fondly — as we have also have the pleasure of not one , but two James Bond movie be film in the town . it be impossible to talk about Swindon without mention its people . the people make Swindon what it be : a kind , welcome , industrious place full of passion , innovation and a desire to support other , include strong local charity such as BEST , a charity at the forefront of tackle antisocial behaviour through mentoring and sport , the Kelly Foundation , which support people suffer with mental health issue , and change suit , which be break down barrier in diverse community to ensure that people get the help they need . I want to say how proud I be of the resident in Swindon . we have see tough time across the country , with riot spark by division invade many community , but they do not come to Swindon because in Swindon we know that diverse community can stand strong together against extremism . we will not let division and hatred divide we ; we will unite together and stand strong . Swindon , for all its quality , be not without its fair share of challenge — challenge that I will face head on . our people be among the least likely in the country to go on to high education . we have grow level of knife crime and antisocial behaviour , raw sewage be pump into our stream and resident of large housing estate be affect by unjust management company and fleecehold . however , I be confident that with our renew Labour party and our ambitious agenda set out in the King ' s Speech — whether that be recruit and retain teacher , increase police presence on our street , provide mental health professional in school or reform leasehold and fleecehold — all back and fully cost in a fiscally responsible Budget , the people of Swindon North will experience the positive change they deserve . to finish , I be proud to be here represent such a fantastic group of people . it truly be the opportunity of a lifetime , so once again , I thank so much the people of Swindon North who have put their faith in I . I will not let they down . I call Marie Goldman to make her maiden speech . first , I congratulate member who have also make their maiden speech in the Chamber this afternoon . in particular , I congratulate the hon . member for Swindon North ( Will Stone ) . I wonder whether his skill as a brazilian jiu - jitsu black - belt lead he to apply to be an extra in those movie that he mention . I will be watch out for he in the fight scene . it be the honour and privilege of my life to be stand in this Chamber give my maiden speech as the Member of Parliament for Chelmsford . it be a wonderful , young city locate in the heart of Essex that I have have the joy to call my home for the past 20 year or so . the constituency cover the main urban area of the city of Chelmsford . it be bless with beautiful park and flank river that wind their way through the city centre , pass the home of the Essex Eagles at the Essex county cricket ground . we have a thriving high street that attract shopper from mile around . investment into the constituency from the public and private sector mean that its future continue to look bright . from Waterhouse Farm in the west , to Chelmer village in the east , and from Springfield in the northern reach to the southern boundary of Goat Hall and everywhere in between , I be proud to call Chelmsford my home and even prouder to be stand here today represent its constituent in this magnificent place . Chelmsford have one of the busy two - platform train station outside of London . have now rejoin the rank of the commuter , I know at first hand the importance of the brand - new station be construct just outside the northern edge of the constituency . the new Beaulieu Park station will have a significant positive impact on passenger from Chelmsford , give they more choice and flexibility and remove the need for many of they to travel into the city centre to commence their rail journey . a new station must not be see as job do , however . train travel in this country be expensive and complicated . ultimately , I do not believe that the public care too much about who run the train ; they care more about how much rail travel cost they , whether the train run on time and whether they be comfortable and efficient . they be often frustrate by the bewildering array of ticket option , whose detailed restriction seem design either to make they miss their train as they try to work out which one to buy , or to make they buy the wrong ticket . they be not design for the faint of heart or the novice traveller . that seem like madness if we want to encourage more people to make use of public transport . the whole system need to be simplify , and I be keen to see the legislation pass yesterday do just that . without an economy that can support investment in new rail station or the redevelopment of junction , include the major Army and Navy interchange in the centre of Chelmsford , we know that such project be in danger of never happen at all . I be pleased to support the Bill before we today to ensure that the terrible , wasteful fiscal mistake of previous government be not repeat , leave more headroom for investment in our country ' s future . the new Beaulieu Park station be important to my predecessor , Vicky Ford , and I pay tribute to her dedication to that project . it be the culmination of more than a decade of partnership work in Chelmsford that Vicky join after her first election to Parliament in 2017 . knock on door throughout this year ' s campaign , I find that many constituent be grateful for her help with issue they have raise with she . they also note her visible loyalty to her party , as she be rarely see without her trademark blue nail polish to match her little blue car and an outfit that almost invariably include a splash of blue . I thank she for the time she spend serve the Chelmsford constituency . from the very bottom of my heart , I thank the constituent of Chelmsford who have place their trust in I to represent they in this place . I know they do not do so lightly . indeed , it have take 74 year of careful consideration for the good people of Chelmsford to send to this place anyone other than a Conservative . indeed , it have be 100 year since they make the choice to elect a Liberal to represent they . that slow pace of electoral change in Chelmsford may lead those not familiar with Essex ' s first city to conclude that Chelmsfordians have little appetite for innovation , but nothing could be far from the truth . among other thing , Chelmsford have a rich and distinguished history in the world of science and technology . most notably , it host the first ever entertainment radio broadcast in the United Kingdom in 1920 from the Marconi New Street work right in the centre , feature Dame Nellie Melba . that lead to regular entertainment broadcast from Great Baddow in the south of the constituency and eventually to what we now know as the BBC . it be hard to spend much time knock on door in Chelmsford and speak to Chelmsford resident without come across someone who use to work for Marconi . its modern - day successor Teledyne e2v , locate little more than a stone ' s throw away from the site of the original Marconi factory , have more than take up the mantle of innovation in Chelmsford . many of my constituent be now employ there . think of any space mission of the past few decade and the chance be that its imaging equipment contain component design and build by Teledyne in Chelmsford . from NASA ' s New Horizons mission to Pluto and the Kuiper belt , launch in 2006 , to the plan 2028 launch of Ariel by the European Space Agency to observe the atmosphere of thousand of planet beyond our own solar system , Teledyne and its employee be reach for the star . that be what I want everyone to have the opportunity to do : to reach for the star , to feel that sense of opportunity and to know that even the sky be not the limit . but they can do that only if we invest , and the very good place for that investment be in our child and young people . we be lucky in Chelmsford to have excellent school . I thank the teacher and other school staff who work so hard every day to give the child we entrust into their care the good possible start in life , but they be increasingly do so with their hand tie behind their back , with dwindle resource , crumble building and ever great workload . I be the first in my family to go to university and the first elect to any public office — let alone as a Member of this House . I have be able to achieve that because I have have a love and supportive family , lot of incredible campaign volunteer — and , of course , a sizeable dose of luck . but I also know that a critical part of my success be owe to the amazing state school education that I receive , the dedicated and inspirational teacher I be lucky enough to be teach by throughout my school life , and the extracurricular activity — in my case , largely music base — that broaden my horizon and lift my eye to the star . I worry that that be not the overwhelming experience of those go through our education system today . I worry that child be go through the day with little or no food in their belly , I worry that school be have to cut club because they no long have the time or the resource to hold they , and I worry that the perform art , such as music and drama , have be see for too long by previous government as expendable and an unimportant luxury without recognition that they provide child with the skill and confidence to stand up on large stage — dare I say , in parliamentary Chambers — and be hear . if you be a child with special educational need or disability , well , good luck with that , because the system be utterly , tragically , devastatingly break . but I also take hope from the wind of change that blow just a couple of month ago . we know that there will be difficult choice ahead , but my hope be that we recognise that invest early on and give child the good possible start can pay much great dividend in the future . when Guglielmo Marconi bring his fledgling invention and experiment to the United Kingdom in 1896 , he do so because he believe that this be a country that can see potential and will invest in that potential for the long term . it pay off , and a whole industry grow from the humble beginning of a short radio broadcast in the heart of my constituency . whatever choice be make by the Government in the loom Budget , it be my sincere hope that they recognise the importance of give school and teacher the resource they need to allow all child to reach for the star . I call Bayo Alaba to make his maiden speech . I commend the hon . member for Chelmsford ( Marie Goldman ) for a great speech . I know Chelmsford well — it be a beautiful town — and I commend her passion for support young people in school and their journey , which be very important and something that we need to protect . thank you , Ms Ghani , for allow I today to make my first contribution in this House . I think it be right to start off by thank my predecessor as MP , Sir James Duddridge , for 19 year of dedicated service . he become MP in 2005 when Southend East and Rochford be newly redrawn . the rural area to the north of Southend have be bring back within the constituency for the first time in many year . throughout many boundary iteration , from Southend East and Rochford to Rochford and Southend East and back again — you can see the creativity in rename the constituency — the area have always be Tory - hold , until now . I be particularly proud to speak here today as the seat ' s first ever labour representative . the constituency consist of not just the city of Southend but the village of Great Wakering , Canewdon , Barling , Paglesham , Stambridge and Shoeburyness , the suburb of Southchurch and Thorpe Bay , and Rochford itself . it be a beautiful constituency , rich in culture , where you should bring your walking boot as well as your swimming costume . it be the place where Dame Helen Mirren go to primary school and home to the Cliffs Pavilion , which host oasis in 1995 — that might be tricky next time round depend on who can get ticket . as a Southender , I be contractually oblige to mention that Southend be the site of the long pier in the world , at 2 , 158 metre , with the option to walk or take a purpose - build train . I make the mistake some year ago of walk it with my son — he be a little bit old now , and he be up in the Gallery . my calf be struggle by the end of it . from watch the maiden speech of Labour colleague past and present , I have be strike by the nature of the local industry that be so often name - check . tin , pottery , steel , textile and coal be among the staple product in historical labour seat . those be noble and important good — they be labour good — but they be not the stock - in - trade of my own seat . Southend ' s primary industry and expertise have always be tourism : good time , escapism and happy memory . those be our export . Southend be a city that allow people to meet a sea turtle , admire a vintage car , win a large teddy bear and even have their palm read , often during the course of a single day . it be a place where past generation have go in search of freedom and pleasure , and it be hard in today ' s world to think of a call more important than that . indeed , the musician Billy Bragg immortalise one of the road that take people to southend in his 1985 song " A13 Trunk Road to the Sea " . the chorus name - check Shoeburyness , and Bragg later say that he hope his song would imbue the A13 — I know this be a bit of a reach — with the same romance as route 66 in America , " the Road to your Dreams , " which run from Chicago to Los Angeles . that be a lofty lyrical ambition indeed , and it be always go to be a hard ask , but speak as someone who grow up in the east end of London in that era , I can confirm that the idea of Southend always carry a certain magic . that be one reason why I feel so privileged to represent the area today . another reason be the constituency ' s military heritage . at the eastern part of my seat we find Shoebury garrison , an area steep in military history , and in the north be Southend airport , which now serve holidaymaker but in a past life be Rochford airfield , a fighter base that help to fend off fascism during the second world war . as a former soldier , I be station in the Southend area for a short while . one of my great pleasure when canvass be run into old Army friend still live in the seat — if they be prepared to open the door to I . for I , as someone who leave school with no qualification , get into a lot of trouble as a young boy and need a second chance , night school and the military provide a lifeline . I quite simply would not be here today in the mother of all Parliaments without the opportunity that give I and the ethos of service that it instill in I . to properly understand Southend , we need to understand its proud military history . the city be build on a unique blend . the discipline and the dignity of the armed force be combine with the creativity and the freedom of the art — a place for both the soldier and the singer , if you like . but there be a risk of get too misty - eyed . coastal area such as mine have be on the economic sharp end for 30 or 40 year . the root cause of that , most notably , be budget air travel , and that be not go away . recent year have bring fresh challenge . Southend ' s economy be at the sharp end during the covid pandemic . the city be still in its recovery phase . many of the jewel in Southend ' s crown — the Kursaal venue on the seafront or the Freight House in Rochford — remain unused or underused . I be determined that these building will come back to life again , as part of our future . I believe that change be afoot . there be a Southend renaissance at work . the people of Southend be ready to seize the initiative and want more . southender be strong , independent and unbelievably hard - work . this weekend we hold City Jam , an awe - inspire international street art festival , now in its third year . but we can not do this alone . that be one of the reason why I be so pleased not just to be Southend ' s first ever Labour MP , but to be one of many first - time Labour mps in seaside seat that we have never win before . seat such as Southend East and Rochford need a real and impactful regional policy . too little thought have be put into how we build on exist asset and specialism , to create a sense of place and an economic centre of gravity . Southend East and Rochford ' s future will be find in modern technology , modern infrastructure and green energy , by identify opportunity in well - pay , modern job sector . we need a year - round economy , not just a seasonal one , so that young people can move from seasonal work into well - pay position . simply put , Southend East and Rochford will need to regain its cultural capital . this be something I have some experience in , have be one of the creative pioneer of east London ' s creative industry . my wife Debbie and my child be here in the Gallery today , and they have always be there for I — certainly during my career pivot from the creative industry into politic . I thank they for their unwavering support and complete belief in I . I believe it be my duty to help shape and create the future job and business for this generation and future generation to grow into , just like Adebayo Alaba and Atinuke Awesu do , my late parent , who sacrifice everything as part of the Windrush generation to leave their family and community behind in Nigeria in order to raise a family here , in one of the most welcoming country in the world . simply put , it be now my job to ensure that community such as Southend East and Rochford be vibrant , dynamic , stable and welcoming . when we talk about the public finance , as we be in Committee today , we should all bear that in mind . our economy will be strong if we can fulfil the potential in every corner of the country , include on the esplanade of Southend and in the town centre of Rochford and Southend — place that have so much to contribute to our economy and our culture , yet too often have be sideline . I look forward to represent my constituent in this House . I look forward to contribute to future debate about our economic future , and I look forward to contribute to many other discussion . I call will Forster to make his maiden speech . thank you , Ms Nokes , for give I this opportunity to make my maiden speech . before I do , I pay tribute to the hon . member for Southend East and Rochford ( Mr Alaba ) , who speak of his and his constituency ' s proud military past . I be sure that he will see his constituency through these tough challenge and on to a bright future . it go without say that it be a great privilege and an honour of a lifetime to be here , have be elect by the people of Woking . I thank they for elect I as their Member of Parliament . however , I must begin by address the Bill and the severe crisis face my local authority , Woking borough council . despite be relatively small , the Conservatives leave woke with more than £ 2 billion of debt follow risky investment decision . this legacy be one of negative equity , service cut and unsustainable debt repayment . it could be argue that the Conservatives in Woking invent Truss economic before the former right hon . member for South West Norfolk have her small stint as Prime Minister . what have happen in my constituency show why the Bill be so important . I fear that , without support from the new Government , the situation in Woking , like the rest of local government , will only worsen . my constituent will suffer the most , and that be unacceptable when it be not their fault . I urge the Government to step in and provide the assistance we so desperately need to ensure that my community can recover and thrive . Most people might think of Woking as a modern constituency , but it have a rich history that stretch back through the century . Woking be mention in the Domesday Book . Sutton Place , famous for be the former home of Paul Getty , date from 1525 , and be one of the old unfortified house in the country . woke palace — now sadly a ruin — be a royal residence for both Henry VII and Henry VIII . as a result , woke football club , my local team , be affectionately know as the Cards , after Cardinal Wolsey . several act of Parliament have have an especially profound impact on Woking . for example , the Basingstoke canal be authorise by Parliament in 1778 . the canal run through much of woke constituency . it have shape our area , and be a popular cycling and walking route and a haven for nature . but like so many place in the country , woke as we know it today be shape by the railway . with steam , stone and iron , Woking be cast into the proud town it be today . in the mid - 1800s we lay the foundation to become the great commuter town we be . woke be also a wonderfully diverse and welcome place , home to the Shah Jahan mosque , the old in the country . a vibrant muslim community have develop in the town as a result . more recently , we have welcome ukrainian refugee , and I attend many event to support our new ukrainian resident with my predecessor , our former MP Jonathan Lord . that be a powerful example of cross - party co - operation , and I thank Jonathan for his service as woke ' s MP , especially on this humanitarian issue where there be no disagreement whatsoever . although we be opponent at the last election , I wish he and his family well for the future . woke ' s MP before Jonathan be Humfrey Malins , who found the Immigration Advisory Service in 1992 , which to this day provide free asylum and immigration advice to those who need it . he get a CBE for his work . woking have a proud history of elect mp who welcome immigration , and I be pleased to follow that tradition . our town be also know for its connection to McLaren ; it host its Formula 1 team and luxury car be build there . I be privileged to make a visit only yesterday . as a young child of around 11 , I remember watch with excitement as McLaren tour the town with its Formula 1 car , drive by Mika H ä kkinen , to celebrate their success . McLaren be win again , much like the Liberal Democrats . the town also take great pride in be home to the World Wide Fund for Nature . we have press issue , such as sewage in our river and the fight against climate change . I be already work alongside the five other newly elect liberal Democrat mps in Surrey to hold Thames Water to account for sewage dumping in our local river and stream . one of my first act as an MP be to bring all the surrey mps together to meet Thames Water to petition it for improvement and a well service . woking be fortunate to be surround by green space . I love walk my dachshund Toffee on Horsell Common , where HG Wells famously land his alien in " War of the Worlds " . so it be not a great surprise when Ed Davey ' s Liberal Democrats turn up and start campaign with their out - of - this - world stunt . of course , I ' m only " woke " — I wouldn ' t dare call my liberal Democrat colleague alien . get back to the matter at hand , my constituency have a much - love local hospital , Woking community hospital . despite feel like I be bear and breed in Woking , I be not actually bear in the constituency . actually , no one have be bear in a hospital in Woking for generation . I be bear in Frimley Park hospital , one of the nearby hospital we depend on , as Woking lack maternity service . however , Frimley Park be plague with RAAC — reinforce autoclaved aerate concrete — and its future be far from certain . I will work with my hon . friend the Member for Surrey Heath ( Dr Pinkerton ) to press the Government for a solution to rebuild Frimley Park hospital . another major issue be the cost of rent and mortgage . as someone under 40 — just — I understand these issue deeply . they have be raise consistently by local people on the doorstep . the increase cost of mortgage and rent in the past two year be a further reason why the Bill be so important . my journey into politic begin because of Surrey county council ' s failure to protect vulnerable child . at the time , it be rate the bad county council in the country because of that failure . we can not allow vulnerable child to be fail again . the wide theme of why I be elect , and indeed why so many of my hard - work Liberal Democrat colleague have be elect , be that we understand our community ' local issue . I have work for 15 year in local government and serve as deputy leader of Woking council . I have see first hand the crippling issue that some council face . when I look at the face of the Liberal Democrat mps here , I see people who have work hard in local government for year . what a glorious theme for this new Parliament : a cohort of 72 who understand the local issue our community face , and a force for good in the country and in the Chamber when we need it most . I call Jake Richards to make his maiden speech . thank you , Ms Nokes . it be such a great privilege to speak in this debate and make my maiden speech after the hon . member for Woking ( Mr Forster ) and for Chelmsford ( Marie Goldman ) . my hon . friend the Member for Southend East and Rochford ( Mr Alaba ) make a fantastic speech about the city in his constituency , which I have have the great privilege of swim in . his speech do due justice to that great place . my hon . friend the Member for Swindon North ( Will Stone ) make a faintly terrifying speech about his brazilian jiu - jitsu skill , and he certainly do justice to Swindon , too . it be a great honour to speak in the Chamber as the Member of Parliament for Rother Valley . for so many on the Labour Benches in particular , make our maiden speech be the conclusion of long and hard - fought campaign in which we be ultimately victorious . in the early hour of 5 July , which just happen to be my birthday , we celebrate the end of 14 year of Conservative Government and the first Labour Government of my adult life , but we also humbly accept the responsibility that we have be give . in the context of an often bitter and heated political campaign , and from the thousand of value conversation I have in my constituency , one can not avoid the fact that we as a country face daunt and urgent challenge . we can not overlook the deep apathy towards the ability of politic , and indeed this place , to effect change . there have be the rise of online disinformation blame bogeyman who do not exist . conspiracy theorist and keyboard warrior purposefully ignore the complexity of the world around we for attention . political culture too often thrive on division and controversy , not the common good . the hyperactive vitriolic politic see so often across the Atlantic be seep into our discourse here , undermine constructive dialogue . there be an epidemic of alienation among our young people , with level of self - harm and suicide in my constituency increase all the time . child be arrive at school still in nappy and too often without breakfast in their belly . waiting list for mental health support now stretch to half a decade , with many young people reach their majority by the time they be see . too many people in my constituency feel they have to leave their village or town to get on in life . there be a disillusionment that their home , their community , their place be no long offer the security and hope that people deserve . there be a fear for the future . I be tell so often during the election campaign , " what ' s the point of politic ? this country be break . " perhaps some of those factor come to the fore over the summer recess , when a group organise to attend a hotel just a few mile from my constituency in Wath , plan to set that building on fire know full well there be innocent people inside . the picture on our television be difficult to comprehend . I speak to a young mother who have be make homeless and be be temporarily accommodate there with her child . the terror she describe will haunt I forever . but from the gloom of that violent act come hope . the day after the hotel be attack , I reach out to the muslim community in my constituency and be invite to a meeting after evening prayer . I arrive eager to show solidarity , but anxious about the fear and damage that the community would have suffer — and yes , there be plenty of concern . but the first question I encounter be not one of anger or retribution , but instead a comment urge I to speak with the perpetrator of the violence in order to well understand the cause and motivation . it be a moment of great generosity and sensitivity , and one that will always stay with I . indeed , that spirit of togetherness , care about the bond that unite we , be everywhere to be see in the Rother Valley . Dinnington boxing club hold an event after the riot , with several south Yorkshire boxing club , to show unity and togetherness ; a determination to portray south Yorkshire in a different light . that spirit run through the club . I will always recall have a pint at the Little Mester in North Anston when a young lad from the club arrive to rapturous applause , only to explain that he have casually run a marathon that morning , on his own , wholly unorganised , to raise money for a local child ' s hospice . he have hear that it require more fund for toy . I think of the dementia caf é in Winthrop Gardens , which provide such an invaluable service , or the Maltby Lions , who be out every week , rain or shine , to raise money for deserve cause . I think of the community caf é at the beautiful Ulley reservoir , the work of the Salvation Army at the Dinnington food bank , the Community Fridge in Kiveton Park , the volunteer gardener in Harthill , the community energy project in Woodsetts , or the MacMillan coffee morning in Anston . this spirit ultimately win the day , even in the shadow of horror . in a previous life , as a pupil barrister , I sit behind prosecute counsel at the trial of the murderer of Jo Cox MP . I learn an awful lot — not about legal process or criminal procedure , but from Jo ' s family , who arrive each day at court with smile , hold hand and with a bag of sweet that they offer to assemble journalist , security guard and indeed the lawyer , include the defence barrister . I take inspiration from their strength . it be an honour to campaign for my hon . friend the Member for Spen Valley ( Kim Leadbeater ) in that vital by - election , and it be even more so to share these green Benches with she today . that spirit of generosity , the strength of unity in the face of the dark force , be what I will try to further in my role in this place . in that spirit , I praise Alexander Stafford , my predecessor , who be a hard - work MP , and who leave the House as his brother arrive — no doubt the hon . member for Farnham and Bordon ( Gregory Stafford ) will follow in his brother ' s footstep . in this place , Alexander will perhaps be well remember for his work promote the independence of Somaliland , and I know from my own social medium that many in Hargeisa be very grateful for his adoption of their cause . I thank he for his service . let I end by say that I will work every day in this place to do my utmost to tackle the force of division and darkness during my time here , and to do my bit to bring people together , because after all , as Jo Cox tell we , we have more in common than that which divide we . I call Clive Jones to make his maiden speech . thank you very much for call I , Madam Chair . I congratulate the hon . member for Rother Valley ( Jake Richards ) on his very interesting speech — I learn an awful lot about his constituency . I have also learn a lot today about Southend East and Rochford , Portsmouth North and Swindon North , and especially about my colleague , my hon . friend the Members for Woking ( Mr Forster ) and for Chelmsford ( Marie Goldman ) . I actually know quite a lot about they before , but it be nice to hear some more . I particularly like the speech from the hon . member for Loughborough ( Dr Sandher ) , who suggest that the Minister might like to get his chequebook out . let I say to he , " if you be get your chequebook out , I would like you to spend some money for the constituent of Wokingham . " member on these Benches have a strong sense of social justice . this come to we from many direction during our life . fifty year ago , I have an inspirational social and religious study teacher , John Featherstone , to whom I be grateful for help to instil these value in I . this sense of social justice will , I hope , guide I during my time in this House . I be very pleased that John be up there in the Gallery today . it be a pleasure to represent the constituency of Wokingham , whose boundary somewhat change at the last general election . I would like to pay tribute to my three predecessor , who each represent part of the constituency . from James Sunderland , the former MP for Bracknell , my constituency inherit the parish of Finchampstead and Wokingham without . I always find James approachable and straightforward , and I understand that his constituent find the same . Sir John Redwood be the MP for the former Wokingham constituency for a remarkable 37 year — a tremendous stint of public service — during which he have a profound influence on public policy . he serve in Margaret Thatcher ' s Government as a junior Minister , and in John Major ' s Cabinet as Secretary of State for Wales , where he be well know for his enthusiastic miming of the Welsh national anthem . the ward of Thames and Twyford be represent by Theresa May — now Baroness May of Maidenhead — for 27 year . she be a dedicated public servant who serve as Home Secretary and Prime Minister . she also have a well - deserve reputation among her former constituent , who hold she in high regard and talk about she warmly , with affection and with much respect . although our politic be different , I wish all of my predecessor well in their future endeavour . it be an honour and a privilege to be elect to represent the people of Wokingham , where I have live for much of the last 50 year . I go to school there , and my child go to school there . they be bear in the nearby Royal Berkshire hospital , where I be proud to be a governor . it be also the hospital where doctor find my cancer in 2008 and begin my successful treatment . in 2016 , they be there to help I again , and diagnose a need for a quadruple heart bypass . without the Royal Berkshire hospital , I would not be stand here today . our NHS staff be wonderful , and clinician at the Royal Berkshire hospital deserve all the praise that be heap on they by my constituent . today we be debate the Chancellor ' s Budget Responsibility Bill . in a previous debate , she announce the pausing of the new hospital building programme , which include the Royal Berkshire hospital . part of the building date back to 1839 , and staff have to work in office where the window do not open , and they regularly have to walk around bucket that be there to catch dripping rainwater . I must repeat my plea to both the Chancellor and the Secretary of State for Health and Social Care for a speedy decision as to when the much - need rebuild of our beloved hospital will happen . if I may , Madam Chair , I would like to give you a short tour of the Wokingham constituency . in the north be the world - famous Henley regatta course at Remenham and the very successful Leander rowing club — one of the most successful sport club in the world . I be delighted that the former Prime Minister choose to visit the Leander Club during the recent general election , and even more so that his visit coincide with a boat trip that I and my hon . friend the Members for Henley and Thame ( Freddie van Mierlo ) and for St Albans ( Daisy Cooper ) be make to highlight the dumping of raw sewage into our waterway . it be fun to wave at the Prime Minister from that beautiful stretch of river , and the medium all seem to enjoy it as well . Wokingham have wonderful , picturesque village . Wargrave be first record in 1061 and feature in the Domesday Book . the village of Twyford date from 871 , when Alfred the Great ' s army escape vike pursuer by cross the River Loddon . Wokingham have a thriving and grow brewing sector that be establish great reputation among beer lover , include the Loddon brewery , the Elusive brewery and the Siren brewery . the Stanlake Park wine estate in Hurst be one of the old wine producer in England . the Chancellor will know that our town centre and village centre , like many other in the UK , be find life difficult . the cost of living crisis create by the previous Government continue to limit people ' s spending power , and online competition be ruthless . business rate be a huge issue for our local retailer , who make our high street the great place they be , and I do hope that the Chancellor and Ministers will look into the reform of business rate at the early opportunity . Wokingham town receive its market charter in 1219 . I thoroughly recommend the market , especially the fruit and veg stall and the fishmonger . my wife like I to buy flower for she from Darren ' s flower stall . she say they last long than any supermarket flower . use this market be good value for money and it be an important part of our local character . today , the constituency be gain a reputation as a home for life science business . I be pleased , when leader of the council , to be involve in the early stage of discussion with Lonza , a swiss public company that will be invest several hundred million pound in the constituency over the next few year . Wokingham have many charity in which volunteer work hard to improve the life of our resident . I will mention just a few : the Wokingham food bank , First Days , Wokingham in Need , build for the Future , Citizens Advice , Age UK Berkshire , Wokingham United Charities and the Cowshed . the dedication and hard work of the volunteer in these charity and many other be truly inspirational . in the southern part of the constituency , in Arborfield , there be a former Royal Electrical and Mechanical Engineers garrison , with which the town have an important relationship for many year . John Walter , a newspaper editor and politician , and the son of the founder of the Times , live on the Bearwood estate . he be a Whig MP for the county of Berkshire before 1832 — early beginning of what I hope will become a long - stand tradition in our area . Madam Chair , from your chair you must be think that this 59th Parliament have so many young face , and I hope you will be include I in that category . I bet you be wonder , " what be his secret ? " it be very simple : I work in the toy industry for many year , run manufacturing and import business . play with toy every day for the last 30 to 40 year be what make I look so young . our toy make many young people and their parent happy . I be hope to be just as successful in my second career , help the people of Wokingham to improve their life . if I can achieve this , I will have have two worthwhile career . finally , I be grateful to the many people — in particular , my family and friend — who have help I in my campaign to be elect to the House of Commons , some of whom be in the Gallery today . Wokingham have never before elect a Liberal Democrat MP . I will work tirelessly to represent my constituent and I will endeavour to make they feel recognise and support . I come here idealistic and hopeful , hope that we can make the public feel the same about our institution , and I want to ensure that we do they justice on these battered but far from broken green Benches . I call Sonia Kumar to make her maiden speech . it be a great pleasure to follow the hon . member for Wokingham ( Clive Jones ) , and to listen to the excellent speech make in this Chamber . it be an honour to address the House as the new Member of Parliament for Dudley . the last Labour MP to represent Dudley be Ian Austin , now Lord Austin , who serve as Minister for the West Midlands in the last Labour Government . he be a passionate and dedicated servant of the town in which he grow up . my immediate predecessor , Marco Longhi , also have a deep passion for the heritage of Dudley . in his contribution to the House , he seek to protect the historical building not just in our town but throughout our country . I now look forward to play my part in protect and preserve our heritage , and to go far by preserve our remarkable healthcare system . work at the Dudley group NHS foundation trust as a physiotherapist , I see patient from across our town — from Gornal , Castle and Priory , St Thomas ' s , Brockmoor and Pensnett , St James ' s , Sedgley , and Upper Gornal and Woodsetton . see at first hand the ongoing issue face by our NHS , and hear at first hand the challenge my patient encounter , serve as the catalyst for my decision to enter this House . my primary goal be to enhance the wellbeing of my resident in Dudley , and to secure an nhs that be equip to meet the evolve need of our country . the NHS , found by a Labour Government , be truly a remarkable institution , and its history , achievement and challenge remind we of the importance of invest in a comprehensive and fair healthcare system . Dudley be the capital of the Black Country , and I know my constituency neighbour will agree . it have a long and proud history , celebrate on Black Country Day . Dudley be the drive force behind the industrial revolution . it be home to Dudley castle , which be build by the Normans and be where people can visit the delightful Dudley zoo . yet Dudley ' s attraction go back even far . Wren ' s Nest national nature reserve be part of the Black Country UNESCO geopark . it have one of the old lime work in the UK , and the rock there be 428 million year old . Wren ' s Nest contain over 700 different type of fossil . People come from all over the world to find fossil , and I invite hon . member to walk around Wren ' s Nest with I to look at the spectacular landscape and to see if they can find a fossil of their own to take home . perhaps nothing display the pride of the people of Dudley as much as our Black Country Living Museum . this magnificent tourist attraction not only promise a bostin ' day out ; it have also be use as a film location for , among other , the tv series " Peaky Blinders " and film such as " Stan & Ollie " . the museum have recently add a new attraction to show what life be like in the 1940 , 1950 and 1960 . a few year ago , the museum have an exhibition to mark 100 year since the granting of woman ' s suffrage . it be a measure of the progress we have make since then that I can now make my maiden speech as Dudley ' s first female MP . like the Black Country Living Museum , Dudley have change through time . in the past , Dudley smelt iron ore , mine coal and limestone , and build a canal network that stretch across the country . now , the Dudley - base Black Country Innovative Manufacturing Organisation be a world - class centre for rail innovation , help town and city across the world meet the challenge of the 2020s . this Bill will also help we meet the challenge of the future . it will protect market stability and public trust , and ensure the Government ' s fiscal plan be independently and transparently scrutinise , future - proof our economy . that will help business owner like my father , Ashok Kumar , who arrive in this country at the age of nine . he set up his own business and be still work as a greengrocer 45 year on . he teach I the importance of hard work and heritage . as a new MP , nothing give I more pleasure than talk to business owner like my dad . I would like to finish by pay tribute to two extraordinary woman , without whom I would not be in this Chamber today . my sister have be my guide light from the moment I be bear . she have support I unconditionally and encourage I to pursue my dream , and today , as every day , she teach I to never give up . my maa , Rajinder Kaur , teach I the value of community , faith and resilience . she be an aspiring Bollywood actress . while those dream may have fall short , her legacy will be etch in history by be mention in this House today . hon . member will be pleased to know this speech be nowhere near the length of a Bollywood movie , and be come to a close . I finish by turn once more to the people of Dudley . it be an honour to represent they and our great town in this House . I promise I will work as hard as I can to bring prosperity and happiness to our town , and I will not let they down . I pay tribute to the hon . member for Dudley ( Sonia Kumar ) for her excellent maiden speech . indeed , we have hear more than half a dozen excellent maiden speech today , several of which touch on the climate crisis and the future of child in our country , theme that relate to my amendment . I be touch to hear the passion with which all the new Members speak about their experience and commitment . my amendment 5 require the OBR to report on the impact of fiscally significant measure announce by the Government on the UK ' s statutory net zero target . the justification for my amendment be that we simply can not separate the economy and the climate — they be interlink . to deliver the green economic transformation that we so urgently need , as reference by hon . member speak early , every single policy must be align with the UK ' s net zero target and every government spending decision should be as well . it make sense to increase the OBR ' s remit on net zero to specifically consider the impact of climate risk on economic stability , and how far policy introduce at fiscal event will reduce or increase these risk . fiscal event , namely Budgets and spending review , lock in what be happen in our economy for year to come , even generation , so it beggar belief that they be not properly take account of climate impact . whether those policy be spend on new road , subsidy and tax break for oil and gas , investment in renewable infrastructure or giveaway like a freeze on fuel duty , they all have direct impact on the UK ' s prospect of meet our net zero target . those impact should be make clear and consider explicitly in the policy - make paper . we need to be think about the impact of today ' s economic policy on the prospect for future generation . the cost of fail to take an approach that consider climate impact be eye watering . a 2022 report by the Grantham Institute find that climate change damage to the UK be project to triple by 2050 and more than double again 50 year later , so climate prudence and fiscal prudence be one and the same thing . give that the OBR ' s main duty be to assess the health of the UK economy and the sustainability of its public finance , it need to be charge with assess whether fiscal event be reduce or increase climate risk to the economy . bring net zero into the OBR ' s mandate be consistent with the Government ' s five mission . indeed , in announce its clean energy superpower document , Labour say that it will add net zero mandate to all relevant regulator that need it . I would argue that the OBR be a relevant regulator that need a net zero mandate . that be why I be propose this probe amendment today . as other member have mention , it would also represent increase transparency around how fiscal policy choice be impact the UK ' s progress towards our net zero target and help ensure that future government also consider that . it be also an important step stone towards a net zero test , which would assess the aggregate climate and nature impact of every fiscal event . again , this be something that Labour commit to in opposition . in his wind - up remark , will the Minister comment on whether he be able to ensure that this test be integrate into the legislation that he be propose ? I hope that Labour will use this opportunity to commit publicly to introduce a net zero test in government , and will take a step towards do that by back my amendment . I call Lauren Edwards to make her maiden speech . thank you for give I the opportunity to speak , Madam Chair . I pay tribute to the many hon . member who have give such impressive maiden speech today . it be an honour to follow my hon . friend the Member for Dudley ( Sonia Kumar ) who give such a passionate speech about her constituency , and who certainly do her family very proud . although she have leave her place , may I also commend the hon . member for Chelmsford ( Marie Goldman ) for her excellent speech , which , as somebody bear in Australia , I particularly appreciate for its reference to the australian opera singer , Dame Nellie Melba ? financial market stability and public trust in announcement on fiscally significant measure be , funnily enough , not issue that come up regularly on the doorstep . but the real - life consequence when these two important pillar of our society be lack be central to the recent conversation that I have across Rochester and Strood . the cost of living pressure , already challenge for most , be heighten as family find that they have to pay , on average , hundred of pound more just to put a roof over their head . the cause of that additional pressure — the former Truss Government ' s mini - Budget — be a deeply undesirable situation that this Bill seek to prevent from ever happen again . one reason give for the adverse market reaction to that mini - Budget be the lack of forecast by the Office for Budget Responsibility — an omission which , in turn , contribute to a lack of investor confidence in the plan . political party , whatever their colour , can have the good policy in the world , but if they be not back with economic competence and market confidence in those who be hold the purse string , no one will be well off for they . we can not and should not play fast and loose with the economy , so , like many other , I take great comfort from the Bill . that include the chair of the OBR himself , Robert Hughes , who say that the Bill will address a gap in the current law and " serve to strengthen the legal foundation for fiscal management . " it be surely only right that policymaker , when make major fiscal decision , base those decision on up - to - date economic and fiscal outlook , publish at the same time to give maximum transparency . I dwell so much on economic stability as I view it as a necessary precondition for economic growth — this Government ' s chief mission — and because , in recent year , there have not be enough focus on the latter in place such as Medway . I be immensely proud to call Rochester and Strood my home and honour to have be give the opportunity by its resident to represent they here in this place . I will work hard every day to ensure that resident ' voice be hear in this Chamber and to get a well deal for everybody in Rochester and Strood . I will do that by continue to drive regeneration work in my constituency , work that I begin as a former cabinet member on Medway council . I will work with the Government and the private sector to bring more investment to our town and village , support the local business community to thrive , and provide more opportunity for young people , so that they do not feel that they need to move away to get on in life . Rochester and Strood have many strength , not least the military presence at Brompton barrack , home of the Royal Engineers . the River Medway , which run the length of the constituency , have so much potential for industry , leisure and tourism , and a very rich maritime history from the day of Chatham dockyard . we have a burgeon creative community centre at Chatham Intra , develop green industry out on the Hoo peninsula , and high - quality technical college and university . however , we also have high level of deprivation in the constituency , not enough good - quality and affordable housing , an overburdened hospital , and not enough infrastructure , include health service , public transport and banking service , to support our community , particularly on the more rural Strood side of the constituency . tackle those issue , among other , will occupy my time in this place , with the simple aim that I leave thing well than when I arrive . my commitment to public service will not waver , whatever the political weather , because that be what I have be send here to do and it be a responsibility that I take immensely seriously . although I choose Rochester and Strood as my home in adulthood , I pay tribute to my predecessor , Kelly Tolhurst , who be bear and raise in the constituency and be rightly very proud of that fact . as she say in her own maiden speech , her successful journey " be one that every young person in my community should feel be possible for they " . — [ Official Report , 25 June 2015 ; Vol . 597 , c . 1121 . ] her commitment to , and love for , the place that she grow up in be undisputed , and I thank she genuinely for her year of service . like many new mp , I have be think very carefully about how I can use the skill and experience from my previous career to support the important legislative work do in this place and to benefit my constituent . it be my experience of work here during the last financial crisis that lead I to become a financial regulator at the Bank of England , so I aim to use my voice to ensure that the pursuit of much - need economic growth be do in such a way as to preserve the stability of our economy and our financial system . I intend to draw on my 13 year of experience as an elect trade union representative to ensure that the new deal for work people deliver for my hard - work constituent , who often struggle with insufficient pay and right , and to help to drive the Government ' s commitment to invest in our people by improve their knowledge and skill . I will use my experience in local government to ensure that legislation allow local authority to invest to save , and to think much more long term — both thing that I consider to be in the good interest of council tax payer . I will try to ensure that this Government ' s approach to devolution be one that will genuinely pass power to local community , which I think be well place to know what their area need , and work in the good interest of my constituent . finally , I hope to continue the cross - party working I have enjoy with representative from across Kent and the south - east , so that our region grow and prosper under this Government . we face significant challenge in our region — infrastructure , transport and border issue alone . these can not be resolve solely within our distinct geographical area . my politic be underpin by collaboration and co - operation , and I know that by work together we can deliver the regional economic growth that be need to drive so much of what we want to achieve : well - run public service , decent and affordable housing , and well life chance for all . I call Fred Thomas to make his maiden speech . thank you , Madam Chair . before I talk about Plymouth , may I celebrate the amazing speech that we have hear this afternoon , and pay tribute to the wealth of experience and passion , not just on the Government Benches but across the Chamber ? it be really heartening . my hon . friend the Member for Rother Valley ( Jake Richards ) speak about the spirit that we have all see in the community that we represent , and the confidence that he have in that spirit to overcome some of the challenge that we be face as a nation and in our community . I completely share that . let I now talk about Plymouth , the city that I call home and the city that I be so proud to represent in this place as the Member for Plymouth Moor View . I want to talk about our people , our institution , our roll hill , grey warship glint in the south coast sun and the noise that 18 , 000 Argyle fan make on match day . I want to talk about the gritty determination of staff at one of the big hospital in the country , and I want to talk about hope . I will frame this speech with two principle that I live by during my time in the Royal Marines , principle that be well known among the armed force community in Plymouth . first , a leader must be a dealer of hope . when the chip be down , leader have to step forward and give hope . I believe that be our job in Parliament too . in Plymouth , community come together to give each other hope . there be immense strength and resilience in the street , the housing estate , the front room and wherever folk get together and organise to change the life they and their neighbour be live , make simple , tangible change by address the need in front of they . we have Whitleigh Big Local , the four Greens Community Trust and Connecting Youth CIC , to name just a few , work in partnership with the local community to improve the thing that matter and to bring hope . I want to use my position in this House to empower our community to effect change and generate hope that life will get well and that family can be lift out of poverty . today , relative child poverty in Plymouth Moor View be at 23 % , set against the regional figure of 17 % . I will not accept rise child poverty , because the second principle that I live by , one I believe a lot of we share , be this : " the standard you walk past be the standard you accept . " if we see something that we know be wrong and we keep walk , we be effectively say we be happy with that situation . the hard option be not to walk past , but to take action . Derriford hospital in Plymouth serve almost 2 million people across Devon and Cornwall . I have meet the nurse , paramedic , doctor and volunteer , who do fantastic work under immense pressure . they be people who do not just walk past . however , the hospital be up against it : in June alone , there be 5 , 000 instance where a patient wait more than four hour in A & E . that represent a series of personal tragedy for the patient affect . with the new Government , I will work tirelessly to change that story . away from the hospital , the beat heart of our city be Plymouth Argyle football club , which be in its second season now in the championship , make it one of the top club in the English football league . yet in Plymouth , many family struggle to afford access to sport for their kid . I be a keen footballer and I believe in the power of sport to set young people up for life . I will use my platform to improve access to sport in Plymouth , because a standard where this country have the fine football league , watch the world over , but our own youngster can not afford to play be not a standard I will walk past . I pay tribute to the excellent work that the Argyle community trust and the Plymouth football boot bank do already to broaden access to sport in Plymouth . as a former Royal Marines commando , it be a particular privilege to represent the city that be home to not only the large naval base in western Europe , but the Royal Marines , who be still headquarter in Plymouth . Ours be a city where so many resident have serve in uniform , and I take this opportunity to thank every single one of they for their service and dedication . I also pay tribute to my predecessor for his heartfelt effort to raise the profile of the veteran agenda . for century , Plymouth have have a proud military history , and the Prime Minister recently call it " the frontline of defence in this country " . Navy , Marines and Army personnel have deploy from Plymouth for hundred of year . the tradition of proud military service run through our city like the writing in a stick of rock . now , as we find ourselves as a country in another moment of critical international instability , Plymouth be again a keystone of our national security . devonport dockyard be the home port for the frigate , survey vessel and amphibious shipping that be crucial for our safety . it be also where the submarine that host our nuclear deterrent be maintain , and will be for generation to come . we be also home to highly skilled small and medium - sized enterprise such as MSubs — maker of unmanned submersible craft use in the most special military project — Barden bearing and Collins Aerospace , whose cutting - edge engineering be integral to the UK ' s modern weapon system . from our military institution and our manufacture base to our hospital , our football club and our dockyard , we stand up and we serve in Plymouth . we give a lot to this nation , but for all this — if I can borrow a phrase from a friend and a constant source of advice , my hon . friend the Member for Plymouth Sutton and Devonport ( Luke Pollard ) — Plymouth do not get its fair share . I will work tirelessly with the Government to change that , because in Labour we respect service , and our will be a Government of service — a Government of hope . as I serve my country before in uniform , so I will serve my city now in office . as I be train to do in the Marines , I will strive to be a dealer of hope . when it come to take action , I will remember , along with colleague on both side of the House , that the standard we walk past be the standard we accept . I call Lucy Rigby to make her maiden speech . I pay tribute to my hon . friend the Member for Plymouth Moor View ( Fred Thomas ) on his fantastic maiden speech and to all hon . member who have make such brilliant maiden speech in this afternoon ' s debate . it be a privilege to follow they and to make my own maiden speech in the context of such an important Bill . Northampton have send member to Parliament since 1283 , and it be the honour of my life to be among they as the Member of Parliament for Northampton North . one of those former member , I be proud to say , be the trailblaze Margaret Bondfield — the first woman to serve in Cabinet in this country , the first to be appoint to the Privy Council and the first to chair the TUC . I hope , in the course of my time here , that we might find way to see Margaret ' s name give great recognition and prominence , as I believe be due . some 51 year after Margaret Bondfield ' s arrival in this House , the good people of my constituency elect Maureen Colquhoun — a trailblazer herself in relation to many issue , include be the country ' s first openly gay MP . I want to pay particular tribute to my two immediate predecessor : Sir Michael Ellis and Sally Keeble . Sir Michael step down at the last election , have serve Northampton North for 14 year and serve the country as a Minister in multiple role . he be also remember locally for perform lifesave cpr on a constituent have a coronary episode — I be more than aware that that set I a very high bar for look after my constituent . like Sir Michael , Labour ' s Sally Keeble serve Northampton North for well over a decade and serve her country in government too . Sally have many achievement — notable among they be the taking through of one of the last piece of legislation under the previous Labour Government to protect develop country from vulture fund . Sally remain a dedicated and committed public servant . I do not mind admit that I speak to plenty of resident during the election campaign who tell I that while they really appreciate my doorstep pitch for their support , they would be vote for Sally Keeble . I be aware of the example of good service in this place that have be set for I , and I hope to live up to they , so I want my constituent to know that serve our community in Northampton will be my first and high priority for as long as I remain in this place . this place could , in fact , be in my constituency , because Northampton have be the seat of Parliament on more than 30 occasion . King John even move the Treasury to Northampton in 1205 , when he fall out with a few people in London over something akin to the disastrous mini - Budget — an option that I suspect those supportive of the Treasury ' s current location will be glad to know be not suggest , as far as we know , to the former right hon . member for South West Norfolk . we be a town of deep pride in both our present and our past . we be the large town in England . we have building of neo - gothic splendour ; strong community ; beautiful green space such as Eastfield Park , Abington Park and the racecourse ; and not one but two shoe army : premiership champion Northampton Saints , and the mighty cobbler . our boot and shoemake industry have provide many member of this House with their footwear over the year , include , I be proud to say , the former Prime Minister and Member for Sedgefield , who wear the same lucky pair of Church ' s brogue at every Prime Minister ' s question for 10 year , which just go to show where a good pair of Northampton shoe can get you . service run deep in my family . my mum work for the NHS and the Ministry of Defence . my dad serve in the Royal Engineers for 30 year , include in the first Gulf war and in the balkan conflict . I be bear on RAF Wegberg in Germany , and , like many force child , grow up on military basis all over the place . I learn the true value of service , and acquire a continue and personal respect for the dedication of our armed force and a deep patriotism — not for its own sake , but through a commitment to our british value of the rule of law , democracy , tolerance and liberty . that strong sense of fairness lead I to train as a lawyer , so 13 year after my dad serve on the NATO deployment in Bosnia , I go out to the Hague to be part of the International Criminal Tribunal for the Former Yugoslavia , the body establish to bring to bear some semblance of justice follow that conflict . I will never forget the testimony of witness to the most appalling of crime against humanity . that experience show I not only the importance of the international community , but the value of justice be do . those principle be particularly important in the context of Russia ' s aggression in Ukraine and the ukrainian people ' s brave fight for freedom . my career as a solicitor have offer I a rich and varied experience for which I be very grateful . I specialise in competition law and spend time in the City , at the regulator and at Which ? , which give I particular insight into how market and regulation work — and can work well — for consumer , business and the country as a whole . give the serious ongoing pressure on living standard and family budget in my constituency , and the challenge in our wide economy , the Government ' s focus on those issue be extremely welcome . the Bill be so vital precisely because it will guard against the recklessness that unfortunately cause so many of my Northampton North constituent so much financial pain and additional hardship . it be an extraordinary privilege to represent Northampton North in this place . I will continually endeavour to live up to that honour for as long as I be here . it be a pleasure to serve under your chairship , Ms Nokes . may I start by congratulate hon . friend and other on deliver their maiden speech ? it have be a pleasure to be in the Chamber to hear they this afternoon . they will clearly be great champion for their constituency . I will take a few moment to remind the House of why we be take forward the important clause in the Bill , and to set out the Government ' s view on the propose amendment . at the general election , the Government receive a mandate for economic growth . that be the only route to improve prosperity , and it be now our national mission . a crucial first step to achieve it be to deliver economic stability . we have see what happen without stability : at the 2022 conservative mini - Budget , huge unfunded fiscal commitment be make without proper scrutiny , and key economic institution such as the Office for Budget Responsibility be sideline . that be why we have make a commitment in our manifesto to a fiscal lock that will strengthen the role of the OBR , and why we have take quick action to deliver on that commitment . that will reinforce credibility and trust by prevent large - scale unfunded commitment that be not subject to an independent fiscal assessment , and prove that we be a responsible government who will not play fast and loose with the public finance as the previous Government do . the Bill set out the legal framework for the operation of the fiscal lock , and build on the Budget Responsibility and National Audit Act 2011 . in line with that establish legal framework , some of the technical detail underpin the fiscal lock will be set out via an upcoming update to the charter for budget responsibility , a draft of which the Treasury have publish to support scrutiny of the Bill today . I will now talk through the Bill ' s two clause . the first be the main substantive clause , set out the operation of the fiscal lock . it introduce a new section 4A into part 1 of the Budget Responsibility and National Audit Act 2011 , which relate to budget responsibility and be use to legally establish the OBR . clause 1 make five key change . first , new subsection ( 1 ) of section 4A guarantee in law that from now on , every fiscally significant change to tax and spending will be subject to scrutiny by the independent OBR . it will require that before a Government Minister make any fiscally significant announcement to Parliament , the Treasury always request that the OBR prepare an economic and fiscal forecast . this build on exist legal framework require the OBR to produce at least two forecast per year . importantly , the OBR ' s assessment should include the extent to which the Government be meet their fiscal mandate . that requirement apply when two or more announcement be make and the combination of measure be fiscally significant , irrespective of whether the measure be announce at the same time . it will also apply separately to cost and saving , so that those can not be offset against each other . new subsection ( 2 ) strengthen the role of the OBR by require it to produce an independent assessment if it judge that the fiscal lock have be trigger . if a fiscally significant announcement be make without the Treasury have previously request a forecast , the OBR be require to inform the Treasury Committee of this House of its opinion , and then prepare an assessment as soon as be practicable . new subsection ( 3 ) define a measure or combination of measure as " fiscally significant " if they exceed a specified percentage of gdp . in line with the exist legal framework , the precise threshold will be set via an update to the charter for budget responsibility , a draft of which will be publish on gov . uk . the threshold level itself will be set at announcement of at least 1 % of nominal gdp in the late forecast — as an example , this year , that 1 % threshold would be £ 28 billion . new subsection ( 4 ) ensure proper scrutiny of the Government ' s fiscal plan without prevent they from respond to emergency such as the covid - 19 pandemic . it set out that the fiscal lock do not apply in respect of measure that be intend to have a temporary effect and be in response to an emergency . the charter will define " temporary " as any measure that be intend to end within two year . to safeguard against this subsection be use to avoid proper scrutiny , as set out in the update charter , the OBR will have the discretion to trigger the fiscal lock and prepare a report if it reasonably disagree . finally , new subsection ( 6 ) prevent any future Government from choose to ignore the fiscal lock by simply update the charter for budget responsibility alongside a fiscally significant announcement . it achieve this by require the Government to publish any update to the detail of the fiscal lock , such as the threshold level at which it be trigger , at least 28 day before the update charter be lay before Parliament . clause 2 set out when the Bill will come into force and to whom it apply . subsection ( 1 ) confirm that it deal with reserved or excepted matter , and that its provision extend and therefore apply to England , Wales , Scotland and Northern Ireland . subsection ( 2 ) and ( 3 ) allow for the commencement of the legislation to occur at the appropriate time , as be usual practice . we expect this will take place ahead of the upcoming Budget on 30 October . I will now turn to the amendment that right hon . and hon . member have table . before my right hon . friend do so , will he give way ? briefly , yes . be this Bill not design to prevent the recklessness of the previous Tory Government , who effectively crash the economy , leave this new Labour Government with the responsibility of put thing right ? my hon . friend have hit the nail on the head . indeed , I might go so far as to say that that be one of the reason we achieve such a large mandate at the last general election , with so many hon . friend on the Government Benches . we will never play fast and loose with the economy , as member on the conservative Benches do , and this Bill will prevent that from happen again in the future . I start with amendment 9 and 10 , table by the shadow Chancellor . they would require the OBR to publish a report whenever his Majesty ' s Treasury announce new fiscal rule . the purpose of the Bill be to ensure that no government can make large - scale announcement of tax and spending without be subject to independent assessment . the Government ' s robust fiscal rule will support economic stability , but do not change tax and spending . it be those decision that matter , as we see when the previous Conservative Government announce £ 45 billion of unfunded commitment in the 2022 mini - Budget . will the Minister give way ? briefly . the Minister can answer this briefly as well . could he confirm that he have no plan to change the fiscal rule ? the hon . Gentleman be enjoy himself , but he know the answer : wait for the Budget . the amendment from the official Opposition be therefore not necessary . to answer the question from the shadow Financial Secretary , the hon . member for Droitwich and Evesham ( Nigel Huddleston ) , as I have be invite to do so , the Chancellor have already confirm that the Government will set out the precise detail of our fiscal rule at the Budget on 30 October , alongside an update OBR forecast . amendment 6 and 7 , table by my hon . friend the Member for Walthamstow ( Ms Creasy ) , focus on the definition of " fiscally significant " measure to which the fiscal lock will apply . they would extend the definition to include measure that have a cumulative effect on public sector net debt or contingent liability . I welcome my hon . friend highlight this issue , on which I know she have work for many year . the draft charter text state that measure will trigger the lock when the combine costing be at least 1 % of gdp in any year , and specifically : " the costing of a measure be the direct impact of a policy decision on the public finance " . it be difficult to set and interpret a threshold consistently for contingent liability as they can often be large in maximum exposure , but low in expected or reasonable bad - case loss . effective management of contingent liability be important , and transparency be key to good fiscal management . the Government plan to announce new significant contingent liability at fiscal event to make sure there be transparency with Parliament . we will of course continue to notify Parliament of new contingent liability , as set out in " manage Public Money " . the amendment would also place a condition on policy with a cumulative impact on public sector net debt , and my hon . Friend note public - private partnership as an example . she be refer to PFI and PF2 model , which the previous Government have no long proceed with , and there have be no change to this policy . as the Chancellor say in her Mais lecture early this year , we will also report on wide measure of public sector asset and liability at fiscal event to ensure transparency across the whole balance sheet , which include non - debt liability . report transparently on the Government ' s stock of contingent liability be key to ensure we do not take excessive risk . I can therefore confirm today that the Government will publish a report on our contingent liability . I expect the contingent liability central capability to do this in early 2025 . have say all that , I recognise the issue my hon . friend raise , and I will arrange to meet she to discuss they far . move on to the liberal Democrat amendment , amendment 2 be table by the hon . member for Richmond Park ( Sarah Olney ) . as she say , it would enable the OBR to notify the independent adviser on Ministers ' interest if the fiscal lock be trigger . I remind hon . member that the purpose of this Bill be to ensure that never again do we find ourselves in a situation , like at the 2022 Liz Truss mini - Budget , in which fiscally significant measure be announce without accompany OBR analysis . if a future Government be to act in this way , the Bill provide a clear remedy . the OBR be empower to independently notify the Treasury Committee and to produce its own report . this would be available for full scrutiny by stakeholder and Parliament , which would be able to hold Ministers to account in the normal way . we therefore do not consider the amendment necessary . amendment 1 , also table by the Liberal Democrats , would broaden the definition of fiscally significant measure to cover anything that be likely to have an impact on the cost of government borrowing , interest rate or economic growth . the Bill be focus on prevent irresponsible large - scale fiscal announcement that could undermine macroeconomic stability , such as at the mini - Budget . to support that , we need clear and robust legal framework that ensure the provision be trigger only when appropriate . this require precise definition that everyone , include the OBR in particular , can understand clearly and work with practically . it would therefore not be helpful , in the Government ' s view , to have a broad , vague definition that might repeatedly trigger the fiscal lock under many different circumstance . amendment 3 and 4 would require the Treasury to consult the OBR and the Treasury Committee before the charter can be update for the purpose of the fiscal lock , and to publish a report on the outcome of any such consultation . it be of course important that the view of the OBR and of Parliament be take into account when make change to the charter . however , I hope the hon . Member will accept that it will not be necessary to set out this specific process in primary legislation , because the Bill already include an important safeguard on the fiscal lock , which be the requirement that any change to the charter for budget responsibility be publish in draft at least 28 day before they be lay in the Commons . that will ensure that the OBR , the Treasury Committee , this Parliament and all stakeholder will have a clear opportunity to make representation to the Treasury and to publish their view , as they see fit . amendment 5 , table by the hon . member for North Herefordshire ( Ellie Chowns ) , would require the OBR to take net zero target into account when prepare a report on fiscally significant announcement . strong legal framework be already in place in the Climate Change Act 2008 to support the transition to net zero in 2050 . the Act legislate for interim five - year carbon budget , and require the Government to report on those periodically . Parliament and its Select Committees already scrutinise that in great detail . the Green Book , the Treasury ' s guidance on how to appraise policy , project and programme , require Departments to assess the climate and environmental impact of policy proposal , with major bid and proposal at fiscal event be assess accordingly in that way . we therefore do not consider the amendment to be necessary . do the Minister agree that have commit to give a net zero mandate to all relevant regulator , the OBR be indeed a highly relevant regulator ? and it be equip to do the job it be suppose to do , alongside the other regulatory body that hold the Government to account , the Committee on Climate Change . in conclusion , I hope I have be able to provide some assurance and that hon . member will be content to retract their amendment . if not , I urge the House to reject they . I thank other member for their contribution to the debate . I gently invite the hon . member for Arundel and South Downs ( Andrew Griffith ) to reflect on his own party ' s record in crash the economy through unfunded tax cut , lose control of public spending and ruin family finance , before offer advice to this Government on fiscal responsibility . I say to the SNP spokesperson , who be not in his place , that I be surprised to see so many discredit conservative party line to take in his speech . who know that the SNP and the Tory party be one and the same thing ? with this Labour Government our commitment to fiscal discipline and sound money be the bedrock of all our plan . the Bill will guarantee in law that from now on every fiscally significant change to tax and spending will be subject to scrutiny by the independent OBR . that deliver on a key manifesto commitment to provide economic stability and sound public finance by strengthen the role of the independent OBR . that be a crucial first step to achieve sustained economic growth , and I commend the Bill to the House . I call shadow Minister Nigel Huddleston . I will not detain the House long by repeat the argument that I make in my opening comment , but I be disappoint by the Minister ' s response , and in particular by his refusal to accept our amendment . it be alarming that he be refuse to do so because , as I outline , I believe they be consistent with the goal of the Bill overall , and I think the credibility of the Bill will be seriously undermine if it do not include the fiscal rule . I like the Minister a lot . we go back a way and have always have civil conversation , but if he do not believe or consider the level , type and definition of debt to be " fiscally significant " , then with the great respect perhaps the Treasury be not the right home for he . they be transparently fiscally significant , and an important part of the consideration we be talk about today . I thank the hon . gentleman for give way , and for invite I to suggest whether I should try to find a job in another Department . I just point out that , have arrive at the Treasury , I have see the impact of fiscally significant level of debt after 14 year of the Conservative Government . have he get anything to say to the House on that matter ? yes , I have indeed . as I outline in my original statement , the argument the right hon . member be make do not stack up with the fact . the economic circumstance that Labour inherit be well in many area than those we inherit from they back in 2010 . the economy be the fast growing in the G7 . on unemployment , every Labour Government since the second world war have increase it while in power , for we to then clear up and reduce it when we take over . inflation be low when Labour take power then when we inherit it , and annual debt be high when we take over in 2010 . Labour member keep say all those thing , but the challenge be that it do not stack up with the fact . they make argument about the level of debt , as I outline early , but they have already announce £ 10 billion for inflation - bust salary increase for their union mate , £ 8 billion on energy provision , and £ 7 billion on the national wealth fund . that be £ 25 billion of additional money that they have spend . if there be a black hole in the finance , it be clearly one of their own making by the announcement they have make since come into government . that £ 25 billion be a huge amount of money , but I will finish discuss those point , because we have this debate early . rise — I will not give way at the moment , because I want to move on to some more positive thing . there be load of time . we have Third reading as well , so let we enjoy ourselves . just because the Government keep repeat the narrative do not make it true . I be sure they will continue to do so , but the £ 25 billion of additional spending that I have just outline be a choice they have make . the argument they be have to make — that they be have to cut payment to pensioner in response to the circumstance they have inherit — be not true because , as I outline in my opening speech , it be a deliberate , long - state policy choice articulate by the current Chancellor a decade ago . it be not a response to circumstance , but deliberate labour policy . on a more positive note , I congratulate all those who have make their maiden speech today : the hon . member for Loughborough ( Dr Sandher ) , for Portsmouth North ( Amanda Martin ) , for Swindon North ( Will Stone ) , for Chelmsford ( Marie Goldman ) , for Southend East and Rochford ( Mr Alaba ) , for Woking ( Mr Forster ) , for Rother Valley ( Jake Richards ) , for Wokingham ( Clive Jones ) , for Dudley ( Sonia Kumar ) , for Rochester and Strood ( Lauren Edwards ) , for Plymouth Moor View ( Fred Thomas ) , and for Northampton North ( Lucy Rigby ) . they have make incredible contribution . the breadth of experience that they bring to this Parliament be astounding , and I be largely talk here about Government Members . I say it with a great degree of respect , because in many circumstance — in fact , in nearly every single circumstance — they have replace good friend of mine who contribute significantly to this House . they all have big shoe to fill , but what they have say today be impressive . in particular , those who speak without note be a lesson to we all . what a beautiful tour we have around the United Kingdom . everyone who speak today speak eloquently about their constituency and their constituent and showcase their rich heritage and rich history . it be incredibly impressive . I be sure their constituent will be proud of what they have say . with that , I will finish my comment , but the debate will continue . question put , that the amendment be make . Stuart Andrew Edward Argar Victoria Atkins Gareth Bacon Kemi Badenoch Harriett Baldwin Steve Barclay Peter Bedford Saqib Bhatti Bob Blackman Sarah Bool Andrew Bowie Karen Bradley Aphra Brandreth Suella Braverman Julia Buckley Alex Burghart James Cartlidge James Cleverly Geoffrey Clifton - Brown Lewis cock John Cooper Alberto Costa Claire Coutinho Geoffrey Cox Harriet Cross Gareth Davies Mims davy David Davis Charlie Dewhirst Caroline Dinenage Oliver Dowden Iain Duncan Smith Luke Evans Peter Fortune Ashley Fox Mark Francois George Freeman Louie French Richard Fuller Mark Garnier John Glen Andrew Griffith Alison Griffiths Rebecca Harris John Hayes Damian Hinds Simon Hoare Richard Holden Kevin Hollinrake Nigel Huddleston Neil Hudson Jeremy Hunt Bernard Jenkin Robert Jenrick Dr Caroline Johnson Lincoln Jopp Alicia Kearns Danny Kruger Katie Lam John Lamont Julia Lopez Alan Mak Kit Malthouse Jerome Mayhew Andrew Mitchell Iqbal Mohamed Gagan Mohindra Robbie Moore Joy Morrissey Wendy Morton Kieran Mullan David Mundell Andrew Murrison Ben Obese - Jecty Neil o ' Brien Rebecca Paul Chris Philp Mark Pritchard Shivani Raja Jack Rankin David Reed Joe Robertson Gavin Robinson Andrew Rosindell Jim Shannon Neil Shastri - Hurst David Simmonds Greg Smith Rebecca Smith Andrew Snowden Ben Spencer Patrick Spencer Gregory Stafford Blake Stephenson Mel Stride Graham Stuart Desmond Swayne Bradley Thomas Nick Timothy Thomas Tugendhat Martin Vickers Matt Vickers Helen Whately John Whittingdale James Wild Gavin Williamson Mike Wood Jeremy Wright Paul Holmes Stuart Anderson Jack Abbott Debbie Abrahams Zubir Ahmed Luke Akehurst Bayo Alaba Dan Aldridge Douglas Alexander Heidi Alexander Sadik Al - Hassan Tahir Ali Mike Amesbury Callum Anderson Fleur Anderson Tonia Antoniazzi Scott Arthur Jessica Asato James Asser Jas Athwal Catherine Atkinson Lewis Atkinson Calvin Bailey Olivia Bailey David Baines Alex Baker Richard Baker Alex Ballinger Antonia Bance Paula Barker Lee Barron Alex Barros - Curtis Johanna Baxter Danny Beales Apsana Begum Torsten Bell Hilary Benn Clive Betts Polly Billington Matt Bishop Olivia Blake Rachel Blake Elsie Blundell Kevin Bonavia Jade Botterill Sureena Brackenridge Jonathan Brash Phil Brickell Julia Buckley Richard Burgon Maureen Burke David Burton - Sampson Dawn Butler Liam Byrne Ruth Cadbury Nesil Caliskan Alan Campbell Irene Campbell Juliet Campbell Markus Campbell - Savours Dan Carden Sam Carling Alistair carn Sarah Champion Bambos Charalambous Luke Charters Feryal Clark Ben Coleman Jacob Collier Lizzi Collinge Tom Collins Liam Conlon Sarah coombe Andrew Cooper Beccy Cooper Jeremy Corbyn Deirdre Costigan Pam Cox Neil Coyle Jennifer Craft Stella Creasy Torcuil Crichton Chris Curtis Nicholas Dakin Ashley Dalton Emily Darlington Jonathan Davies Paul Davies Shaun Davies Alex Davies - Jones Marsha de Cordova Josh Dean Kate Dearden Tan Dhesi Jim Dickson Anna Dixon Samantha Dixon Anneliese Dodds Helena Dollimore Peter Dowd Graeme Downie Neil Duncan - Jordan Angela Eagle Maria Eagle Colum Eastwood Lauren Edwards Sarah Edwards Clive Efford Damien Egan Maya Ellis Chris Elmore Kirith Entwistle Florence Eshalomi Bill Esterson Miatta Fahnbulleh Linsey Farnsworth Josh Fenton - Glynn Mark Ferguson Patricia Ferguson Natalie Fleet Emma Foody Catherine Fookes Paul Foster Vicky Foxcroft Daniel Francis James Frith Gill Furniss Barry Gardiner Allison Gardner Anna Gelderd Alan Gemmell Gill german Tracy Gilbert Preet Kaur Gill Becky Gittins Mary Glindon Ben Goldsborough Jodie Gosling Georgia Gould John Grady Lilian Greenwood Nia Griffith Andrew Gwynne Amanda Hack Louise Haigh Sarah Hall Fabian Hamilton Paulette Hamilton Emma Hardy Lloyd Hatton Helen Hayes Tom Hayes Claire Hazelgrove John Healey Mark Hendrick Meg Hillier Chris Hinchliff Jonathan Hinder Sharon Hodgson Rachel Hopkins Claire Hughes Alison Hume rupa Huq Patrick Hurley Imran Hussain Leigh Ingham Natasha Irons Sally Jameson Adam Jogee Diana R . Johnson Kim Johnson Darren Jones Lillian Jones Louise Jones Ruth Jones Sarah Jones Gurinder Josan Sojan Joseph Chris Kane Satvir Kaur Liz Kendall Afzal Khan Naushabah Khan Stephen Kinnock Jayne Kirkham Gen Kitchen Sonia Kumar Uma Kumaran Peter Kyle Laura Kyrke - Smith Peter Lamb Ian Lavery Noah Law Kim Leadbeater Brian Leishman Emma Lewell - Buck Andrew Lewin Clive Lewis Simon Lightwood Rebecca Long - Bailey Josh MacAlister Alice Macdonald Andy MacNae Justin Madders Seema Malhotra Amanda Martin Rachael Maskell Alex Mayer Douglas McAllister Martin McCluskey Siobhain McDonagh Andy McDonald Chris McDonald John Martin McDonnell Blair McDougall Lola McEvoy Pat McFadden Alison McGovern Alex McIntyre Gordon McKee Kevin McKenna Catherine McKinnell Jim McMahon Anna McMorrin Frank McNally Kirsty McNeill Anneliese Midgley Julie Minns Navendu Mishra Abtisam Mohamed Perran Moon Jessica Morden Grahame Morris Joe Morris Margaret Mullane Luke Murphy Chris Murray Ian Murray James Murray Katrina Murray Luke Myer James Naish Connor Naismith Kanishka Narayan Pamela Nash Josh Newbury Samantha Niblett Charlotte Nichols Alex Norris Melanie Onn Chi Onwurah Simon Opher Abena Oppong - Asare Kate Osamor Kate Osborne Tristan Osborne Taiwo Owatemi Sarah Owen Darren Paffey Andrew Pakes Matthew Patrick Michael Payne Stephanie Peacock Jonathan Pearce Toby Perkins Jess Phillips David Pinto - Duschinsky Lee Pitcher Jo Platt Luke Pollard Lucy Powell Gregor Poynton Peter Prinsley Richard Quigley Yasmin Qureshi Steve Race Connor Rand Andrew Ranger Mike Reader Ellie Reeves Joani Reid Emma Reynolds Martin Rhodes Jake Richards Jenny Riddell - Carpenter Lucy Rigby Dave Robertson Tim Roca Matt Rodda Sam Rushworth Sarah Russell Tom Rutland Oliver Ryan Jeevun Sandher Michelle Scrogham Mark Sewards Baggy Shanker Michael Shanks Tulip Siddiq Josh Simons Andrew Slaughter John Slinger Cat Smith David Smith Jeff Smith Nick Smith Karin Smyth Gareth Snell Euan Stainbank Jo Stevens Elaine Stewart will Stone Alistair Strathern Wes Streeting Alan Strickland Graham Stringer Kirsteen Sullivan Lauren Sullivan Zarah Sultana Peter Swallow Mark Tami Mike Tapp Alison Taylor David Taylor Rachel Taylor Fred Thomas Gareth Thomas Nick Thomas - Symonds Adam Thompson Emily Thornberry Marie Tidball Stephen Timms Jessica Toale Dan Tomlinson Jon Trickett Henry Tufnell Anna Turley Matt Turmaine Karl Turner Laurence Turner Derek Twigg Liz Twist Harpreet Uppal Tony Vaughan Valerie Vaz Christopher Vince Christian Wakeford Imogen Walker Chris Ward Melanie Ward Paul Waugh Chris Webb Michelle Welsh Catherine West Andrew Western Matt Western Michael Wheeler John Whitby Jo White Katie White Nadia Whittome Steve Witherden Sean Woodcock Rosie Wrighting Yuan Yang Mohammad Yasin Steve Yemm Daniel Zeichner Gerald Jones Keir Mather the Committee divide : Ayes 109 , Noes 366 . question accordingly negative . Amendment propose : 2 , page 1 , line 25 , at end insert : " ( 2A ) in any case where the Office have act in accordance with subsection ( 2 ) , it may notify the Independent Adviser on Ministers ' interest of the circumstance in any case where it consider those circumstance may be relevant to — ( a ) the Ministerial Code , or ( b ) the function of the Independent Adviser on Ministers ' Interests . " — ( Sarah Olney . ) this amendment enable the OBR to notify the Independent Adviser on Ministers ' interest where the OBR consider that any instance where the Treasury have not request a report under section 4A ( 1 ) in advance may give rise to consideration of compliance with the Ministerial Code . question put , that the amendment be make . Gideon Amos Steffan Aquarone Josh Babarinde Alison Bennett Si â n Berry Alex Brewer Jessica Brown - Fuller Charlotte Cane Alistair Carmichael David Chadwick Wendy Chamberlain Danny Chambers Ellie Chowns Chris Coghlan Victoria Collins Daisy Cooper Adam Dance Steve Darling Edward Davey Ann davy Bobby Dean Carla Denyer Lee Dillon Sarah Dyke Sorcha Eastwood Tim Farron Richard Foord will Forster Z ö e Franklin Andrew George Sarah Gibson Marie Goldman Tom Gordon Monica Harding Pippa Heylings Liz Jarvis Clive Jones Paul Kohler Ben Lake James MacCleary Angus MacDonald Ben Maguire Helen Maguire Mike Martin Freddie Van Mierlo Calum Miller John Milne Iqbal Mohamed Layla Moran Edward Morello Helen Morgan Tom Morrison Susan Murray Sarah Olney Manuela Perteghella Al Pinkerton Adrian Ramsay Joshua Reynolds Ian Roome Anna Sabine Roz Savage Liz Saville - Roberts Vikki Slade Lisa Smart Ian Sollom Jamie Stone Luke Taylor Cameron Thomas Caroline Voaden Max Wilkinson Munira Wilson Martin Wrigley Claire Young Wera Hobhouse Sarah Green Jack Abbott Debbie Abrahams Zubir Ahmed Luke Akehurst Bayo Alaba Dan Aldridge Douglas Alexander Heidi Alexander Sadik Al - Hassan Tahir Ali Mike Amesbury Callum Anderson Fleur Anderson Tonia Antoniazzi Scott Arthur Jessica Asato James Asser Jas Athwal Lewis Atkinson Calvin Bailey Olivia Bailey David Baines Alex Baker Richard Baker Alex Ballinger Antonia Bance Paula Barker Lee Barron Alex Barros - Curtis Johanna Baxter Danny Beales Apsana Begum Torsten Bell Hilary Benn Clive Betts Polly Billington Matt Bishop Olivia Blake Rachel Blake Elsie Blundell Kevin Bonavia Jade Botterill Sureena Brackenridge Jonathan Brash Phil Brickell Julia Buckley Richard Burgon Maureen Burke David Burton - Sampson Dawn Butler Liam Byrne Ruth Cadbury Nesil Caliskan Alan Campbell Irene Campbell Juliet Campbell Markus Campbell - Savours Dan Carden Sam Carling Alistair carn Sarah Champion Bambos Charalambous Luke Charters Feryal Clark Ben Coleman Jacob Collier Lizzi Collinge Tom Collins Liam Conlon Sarah coombe Andrew Cooper Beccy Cooper Deirdre Costigan Pam Cox Neil Coyle Jennifer Craft Stella Creasy Torcuil Crichton Chris Curtis Nicholas Dakin Ashley Dalton Emily Darlington Jonathan Davies Paul Davies Shaun Davies Alex Davies - Jones Marsha de Cordova Josh Dean Kate Dearden Tan Dhesi Jim Dickson Anna Dixon Samantha Dixon Anneliese Dodds Helena Dollimore Peter Dowd Graeme Downie Neil Duncan - Jordan Angela Eagle Maria Eagle Colum Eastwood Lauren Edwards Sarah Edwards Clive Efford Damien Egan Maya Ellis Chris Elmore Kirith Entwistle Florence Eshalomi Bill Esterson Miatta Fahnbulleh Linsey Farnsworth Josh Fenton - Glynn Mark Ferguson Patricia Ferguson Natalie Fleet Emma Foody Catherine Fookes Paul Foster Vicky Foxcroft Daniel Francis James Frith Gill Furniss Barry Gardiner Allison Gardner Anna Gelderd Alan Gemmell Gill german Tracy Gilbert Preet Kaur Gill Becky Gittins Mary Glindon Ben Goldsborough Jodie Gosling Georgia Gould John Grady Lilian Greenwood Nia Griffith Andrew Gwynne Amanda Hack Louise Haigh Sarah Hall Fabian Hamilton Paulette Hamilton Emma Hardy Lloyd Hatton Helen Hayes Tom Hayes Claire Hazelgrove John Healey Mark Hendrick Meg Hillier Chris Hinchliff Jonathan Hinder Sharon Hodgson Rachel Hopkins Claire Hughes Alison Hume rupa Huq Patrick Hurley Imran Hussain Leigh Ingham Natasha Irons Sally Jameson Adam Jogee Diana R . Johnson Kim Johnson Darren Jones Lillian Jones Louise Jones Ruth Jones Sarah Jones Gurinder Josan Sojan Joseph Warinder Juss Chris Kane Satvir Kaur Liz Kendall Afzal Khan Naushabah Khan Stephen Kinnock Jayne Kirkham Gen Kitchen Sonia Kumar Uma Kumaran Peter Kyle Laura Kyrke - Smith Peter Lamb Ian Lavery Noah Law Kim Leadbeater Brian Leishman Emma Lewell - Buck Andrew Lewin Clive Lewis Simon Lightwood Rebecca Long - Bailey Josh MacAlister Alice Macdonald Andy MacNae Justin Madders Seema Malhotra Amanda Martin Rachael Maskell Alex Mayer Douglas McAllister Martin McCluskey Siobhain McDonagh Andy McDonald Chris McDonald John Martin McDonnell Blair McDougall Lola McEvoy Pat McFadden Alison McGovern Alex McIntyre Gordon McKee Kevin McKenna Catherine McKinnell Jim McMahon Anna McMorrin Frank McNally Kirsty McNeill Anneliese Midgley Julie Minns Navendu Mishra Abtisam Mohamed Jessica Morden Grahame Morris Joe Morris Margaret Mullane Luke Murphy Chris Murray Ian Murray James Murray Katrina Murray Luke Myer James Naish Connor Naismith Kanishka Narayan Pamela Nash Josh Newbury Samantha Niblett Charlotte Nichols Alex Norris Melanie Onn Chi Onwurah Simon Opher Abena Oppong - Asare Kate Osamor Kate Osborne Tristan Osborne Taiwo Owatemi Sarah Owen Darren Paffey Andrew Pakes Matthew Patrick Michael Payne Stephanie Peacock Jonathan Pearce Toby Perkins Jess Phillips David Pinto - Duschinsky Lee Pitcher Jo Platt Luke Pollard Lucy Powell Gregor Poynton Peter Prinsley Richard Quigley Yasmin Qureshi Steve Race Connor Rand Andrew Ranger Mike Reader Ellie Reeves Joani Reid Emma Reynolds Martin Rhodes Jake Richards Jenny Riddell - Carpenter Lucy Rigby Dave Robertson Tim Roca Matt Rodda Sam Rushworth Sarah Russell Tom Rutland Oliver Ryan Jeevun Sandher Michelle Scrogham Mark Sewards Baggy Shanker Michael Shanks Tulip Siddiq Josh Simons Andrew Slaughter John Slinger Cat Smith David Smith Jeff Smith Nick Smith Karin Smyth Gareth Snell Euan Stainbank Jo Stevens Elaine Stewart will Stone Alistair Strathern Wes Streeting Alan Strickland Graham Stringer Kirsteen Sullivan Lauren Sullivan Zarah Sultana Peter Swallow Mark Tami Mike Tapp Alison Taylor David Taylor Rachel Taylor Fred Thomas Gareth Thomas Nick Thomas - Symonds Adam Thompson Emily Thornberry Marie Tidball Stephen Timms Jessica Toale Dan Tomlinson Jon Trickett Henry Tufnell Anna Turley Matt Turmaine Karl Turner Laurence Turner Derek Twigg Liz Twist Harpreet Uppal Tony Vaughan Valerie Vaz Christopher Vince Christian Wakeford Imogen Walker Chris Ward Melanie Ward Paul Waugh Chris Webb Michelle Welsh Catherine West Andrew Western Matt Western Michael Wheeler John Whitby Jo White Katie White Nadia Whittome Steve Witherden Sean Woodcock Rosie Wrighting Mohammad Yasin Steve Yemm Daniel Zeichner Gerald Jones Keir Mather the Committee divide : Ayes 73 , Noes 375 . question accordingly negative . clause 1 and 2 order to stand part of the Bill . the Deputy Speaker resume the Chair . Bill report , without amendment . third read I beg to move , that the Bill be now read the third time . I will not take up too much more time , but I will provide a final reminder of how important this legislation be . at the general election , the Government receive a mandate for economic growth . sustained growth be the only route to improve prosperity and to improve the living standard of the british people . it be now our national mission . economic stability be key to achieve this . we have see what happen without it , when huge , unfunded fiscal commitment be make without proper scrutiny and when key economic institution such as the OBR be sideline . we can not let ourselves get into that position again . unfunded , unassessed spending commitment not only threaten the public finance , they can threaten people ' s income and mortgage , as we see under the previous Government . I therefore encourage conservative Members — who have tell we today that , after 14 year of conservative government , the economy have never be so good — to reflect , if only for a moment , on why they lose all credibility for economic competence and suffer the bad election result in their history . once again , I congratulate all my hon . friend and other hon . member on their excellent maiden speech today . I thank hon . and right hon . member on both side of the House for their contribution , and I thank the Clerks and official who have support the Bill ' s rapid passage . the Budget responsibly Bill form a small but vital part of our plan to restore economic stability and deliver economic growth . for these reason , I commend it to the House . I call the shadow Minister . I thank everyone who have contribute to the debate on the Bill , both today and before the summer recess , especially new member who have make their maiden speech : the hon . member for Loughborough ( Dr Sandher ) , for Portsmouth North ( Amanda Martin ) , for Swindon North ( Will Stone ) , for Chelmsford ( Marie Goldman ) , for Southend East and Rochford ( Mr Alaba ) , for Woking ( Mr Forster ) , for Rother Valley ( Jake Richards ) , for Wokingham ( Clive Jones ) , for Dudley ( Sonia Kumar ) , for Rochester and Strood ( Lauren Edwards ) , for Plymouth Moor View ( Fred Thomas ) and for Northampton North ( Lucy Rigby ) . they all speak incredibly well , with passion and eloquence , and we wish they well for their time in the House . we conservative believe that sound public finance , fiscal responsibility and independent forecast be the foundation of economic stability , which be why it be a Conservative Government who create the OBR more than a decade ago , and it be why today we table our amendment to improve the Bill and stop labour move the goalpost on the fiscal rule . by vote against our sensible proposal , Labour Members have show they be not serious about our public finance . what be they try to hide ? it be clear that the purpose of the Bill be to distract everyone from Labour ' s economic record and pave the way for tax rise in the autumn Budget . let we examine Labour ' s economic record . the party have be in government for just nine week and have already carry out nine act of economic vandalism . it have remove the winter fuel allowance from 10 million pensioner despite promise not to ; cave in to its union paymaster by agree inflation - bust pay rise ; fail to commit to invest 2 . 5 % of national income on defence ; cancel vital infrastructure upgrade on the A27 and A303 ; cut funding for a vaccine manufacture plant that would protect our health ; impose whitehall diktat to concrete over our green space ; stop conservative plan to build 40 new hospital ; scrap fund for a next - generation supercomputer , undermine our status as a tech superpower ; and appoint labour donor to senior civil service job without open competition . nine week , nine act of economic vandalism . we know there be more harm to come , with Labour ' s autumn Budget set to raise taxis . during the election campaign , Labour promise over 50 time not to raise people ' s taxis , but the Labour Government be plan to do just that . it will be hard - work people , pensioner and business who will pay the price . may I invite the Chief Secretary to the Treasury to return to the Dispatch Box to rule out raise taxis on work people , such as driver , saver and business owner ? at the same time , will he rule out change the fiscal rule to allow for more Government borrowing and debt ? I always welcome the opportunity to return to the Dispatch Box , and I thank the shadow Minister for invite I to do so . opposition provide an opportunity for reflection . while he be offer his thought on our two month in office — two month of great relief for the british people — do he have anything to say about his 14 year in office before the election ? I think the answer from the Chief Secretary to the Treasury be no , which confirm everything we already know . it mean that the people can never trust Labour with our economy , that Labour will raise taxis and cut investment at every opportunity and that Labour ' s honeymoon be well and truly over . question put and agree to . Bill accordingly read the third time and pass . House of Commons Commission Resolved , that ( 1 ) in pursuance of section 1 ( 2 ) ( d ) of the House of Commons ( Administration ) Act 1978 , Rachel Blake be appoint to the House of Commons Commission , and ( 2 ) in pursuance of section 1 ( 2b ) of that Act , the appointment of Shrinivas Honap as an external member of the Commission be extend to 30 September 2026 . — ( Lucy Powell . ) I call Tim Farron to present a petition . the Member be not present . Police Station closure : Sutton Coldfield Motion make , and question propose , that this House do now adjourn . — ( Vicky Foxcroft . ) it be not often I see so many member in the House when I talk about the royal town of Sutton Coldfield , but it be a great honour to see so many here tonight . it be not often , either , that I have need to raise a constituency matter on the Adjournment of the House , but the subject I address today be of such grave importance to my constituent and to the future security of the royal town of Sutton Coldfield that it demand urgent ministerial attention at the Dispatch Box . the last time I hold an Adjournment debate be in respect of the reassertion of the royal status of Sutton Coldfield . on that occasion , the Government make clear our right to use the word " royal " in the title of our town , and my constituent be grateful and deeply honour by the reassertion of the royal status that we have now enjoy for 496 year . today , 10 year later , I be once again extremely grateful to Mr Speaker for grant I this debate on the subject of the propose closure of the Royal Sutton Coldfield police station . this proposal be be peddle by the Labour police and crime commissioner and have appal virtually all my constituent and appear to be support only by two Labour councillor in the royal town . the royal town of Sutton Coldfield have more than 100 , 000 inhabitant . we also host the second big new housing development in the country — around 5 , 500 new home in the Langley area . a town of this size require a fully equipped , proactive and professional police station , housing all manner of relevant police asset . our current police station have protect our town since 1960 and sit on the main road into the town centre , give police officer immediate access . core policing mean local policing , serve our community by deal with all police issue , reassure the community and offer a safe refuge to victim of crime and harassment . core policing be about a 24 / 7 response , where officer work locally to cover response call and know their area and the local hood and villain . it be about a locally base criminal investigation department that can provide qualified investigator who focus on locally report crime , from minor offence to major crime , such as robbery , serious assault and burglary . investigator become aware of local crime and emerge problem through locally base intelligence . neighbourhood officer know local issue and problem . they deal with minor offence and antisocial behaviour , provide proper reassurance to the local community . our excellent business improvement district , lead by Michelle Baker , which help drive progress in the town centre , continually warn about the danger of shoplifting and antisocial behaviour . the police deal with local offender , include sex offender . they work with all agency — probation service , social service , child ' s service , the NHS and fire service — to address local issue . there be specially train officer work with partner agency , and they need privacy to work with victim of domestic violence and sex crime , who need an appropriately sized safe space . a town of 100 , 000 soul and rise deserve all of that , and , in our case , we pay for it . the resident of Sutton Coldfield pay £ 8 million into the police precept every year . the estimate running cost of £ 303 , 000 a year for the current station represent less than 4 % of the annual local police precept . I mention in pass that £ 20 million be find to renovate and embellish the police headquarters at Lloyd House . over recent year , I have make it crystal clear to my constituent , who so generously re - elect I at the last general election , that I would do my good to prevent any closure or any diminution in police activity in the royal town . I be very pleased to see that pledge mirror in the election material produce by the newly elect Labour West Midlands Mayor , who pledge to halt the closure of all 27 police station throughout the west midland . he clearly have little influence with his Labour colleague . rise — I give way with great pleasure to my neighbour . I be very grateful to my right hon . friend . I think he would acknowledge that Sutton Coldfield police station cover more than Sutton Coldfield . it also cover community in my constituency , particularly in the streetly area . the Labour police and crime commissioner ' s closure programme have be go on for far too long , and we need our police station now more than ever . my right hon . friend make an excellent point . I will come to the strategic point that she have make in just a moment . I be point out the apparent lack of influence that the newly elect Labour Mayor of the West Midlands have with his colleague , as , in his literature , he promise to keep open the 27 police station . but not even a fortnight after the general election , I be astonish to see a " for Sale " sign in front of our police station . neither I as the Member of Parliament , member of the Royal Sutton Coldfield town council nor any of our councillor be inform . back in March 2023 , there be promise by the PCC of consultation with our town council . Mr Speaker have make it clear that he want to see great respect for politic and politician , but how can that noble aim be achieve when we see this sort of cynical , manipulative disregard of the wish of the local people by those elect to serve our interest ? I have no doubt that some will argue that such a decision be an operational matter for the police . the whole point of police and crime commissioner be that they should represent the wish of local people , and speak up for we in respect of police decision . I be a member of the Cabinet that introduce police and crime commissioner , and I have to say that in my view the jury be out on whether they have be a successful reform to our law and order architecture . if police and crime commissioner be capture by the local police establishment , that reform be by definition a failure . they be mean to represent we to the police , not the police to we . they be our servant , not our master . do the right hon . Gentleman share my concern that in my constituency we do not have a single publicly accessible police station ? they have be close under a programme lead by our previous police and crime commissioner . we have never have a labour police and crime commissioner in Staffordshire ; our police and crime commissioner have always be a Conservative . would the right hon . Gentleman hold my commissioner accountable for those closure in the same way that he seek to hold his commissioner accountable for his ? the hon . Gentleman must , as he be , champion the interest of his constituent as he see fit , but I be very glad to hear that he have a conservative police and crime commissioner . I do not know whether he still do , but if he do , I be sure that they will serve the community extremely well . on the subject of consultation , the perfectly fair and legitimate request by myself and the leader of the Royal Sutton Coldfield Town Council , Mr Simon Ward , for the police and crime commissioner to come before the town council and answer question from the councillor and public have be turn down . instead , he want a behind - close - door meeting with I , the leader of the council and a couple of other councillor . no ! we want genuine public consultation — transparency , not behind - close - door private meeting . I fully understand the need for value for money , and that the Royal Sutton Coldfield police station be at present inadequately use . indeed , for many year at Christmas I visit our local police station to dispense House of Commons fudge and humbug to the hard - work officer and staff who work there . over recent year , the consumption of fudge and humbug have diminish as resource have be take away from the station , but instead of denude police service from a significant location in a key strategic part of the west midland to the north - east of Birmingham , the police service should be look at base far more of the service that I describe early in a strategic hub , build on the advantage of a significant space in Sutton Coldfield , rather than try to flog it off . our police station be once an operational command unit for the West Midlands police , which now look set to be reduce to a refit of three small dilapidate semi - detach house . what a contrast to the brilliant West Midlands Fire Service , which have invest in its strategic location in the royal town , adjacent to the police station . before anyone suggest that this be all down to the wicked Tories mercilessly cull budget , consider these four fact : funding for the West Midlands police have be increase by nearly £ 40 million , take the annual police budget to £ 629 . 2 million ; we have recruit an extra 2 , 176 police officer ; we have invest £ 24 million in violence reduction unit in the west midland , to tackle the most devastating crime and put the bad criminal behind bar ; and we have invest £ 9 million in the west midland through the safe street fund . during the course of the campaign to save the police station , I have have the benefit of advice from several former West Midlands police officer responsible for police in the royal town . I thank they for their year of diligent service and for their insight and advice . they tell I that they be totally opposed to the closure of the police station , and that this be their professional opinion and advice . they make it clear that they oppose the loss of a significant visible deterrent and the easy access to a fast redevelop town centre , with the recent reopening of the Royal Cinema — probably the fine boutique cinema anywhere in the UK — and the purchase of the Gracechurch shopping centre , as well as the million of pound of investment secure under the previous Conservative Government . all that add to the case for more policing in Sutton Coldfield . the loss of our police station will mean a significant reduction in service and a diminution of policing . the loss of the custody cell , currently mothball , come at a time when we have see , from the recent disgraceful rioting and demonstration , that circumstance could arise where there would be a strategic need for such thing . those regionally strategic facility should not easily be disregard . it be not that long ago that the expensive facility be provide ; indeed , I think I perform the opening ceremony . that strategic point be at the heart of the intervention from my right hon . friend the Member for Aldridge - Brownhills ( Wendy Morton ) , who rightly talk about the importance of a strategic location north - east of Birmingham , serve both my and her constituent . my right hon . friend be so right to make that point . he demonstrate that police station be integral to our community , but with the potential loss of the Sutton Coldfield station and Aldridge under threat , what do that leave we with strategically on the eastern flank of the west midland , at a time when we know resource have be increase ? in the case of Aldridge police station , if we lose the base , we lose the base for our police officer as well . this should not be about " brick or bobby " ; it should be about both and make sure we have a strong police presence in our community . once again my right hon . friend put her finger on the critical point and underline the case that she and I be make for the good policing of our constituent . the sale of our police station will realise million of pound , much of which will clearly not be spend in Sutton Coldfield . in its place we be offer a low - grade option for police with very limited facility , sell short the people of Sutton Coldfield : at well , a small public contact centre , comprise three small police house to the rear of the exist station . that be clearly a wholly inadequate marginal replacement for a proper police station . it be a measure design to save money and not to enhance policing . it be well know that policing be local or it be nothing , and the propose closure take the local out of police in the town . the motto of the West Midlands police be " forward in unity " . this decision take we backwards in great disunity . the PCC ' s proposal have be strongly condemn by resident , former police officer , all elect conservative councillor , senior figure throughout the local community , and by I as their MP . I pay particular tribute to the vigorous campaigning and eloquent argument put forward by Simon Ward , the leader of Royal Sutton Coldfield town council , and his hard - work councillor , by our energetic local Birmingham City conservative councillor , include the highly effective David Pears , and by Jay Singh - Sohal , a former police and crime commissioner candidate with immense experience of police issue . however , those be but the tip of a huge local campaign , vigorously support and engage in across my constituency . on the day of the disastrous announcement of the sale of the police station , I receive a letter in the post from the pcc — not address the press matter , but instead discuss his hope on matter such as community police . for community police to be effective , it must take advice from the community it hope to police and protect , and not press ahead without consult that community . with decision such as this pay such little regard to local opinion and safety requirement , it can not be a surprise that West Midlands police be place under special measure under the Labour police and crime commissioner . until he start work alongside local community , instead of dictate to they the fate of key service such as the police station , thing may only get bad . the decision to close the royal town ' s police station be a mistake . I urge the Labour police and crime commissioner to reconsider his stance and to engage with humility , rigour and energy in a proper public consultation with the local people whom he serve , so that he can listen to their concern directly and honour the West Midlands police mantra of " forward in unity " . my right hon . friend be be very generous . on the subject of engagement , it be high time that the Labour police and crime commissioner engage fully with we on Aldridge police station and come clean about his intention . I want to make sure that he be leave in no doubt that my right hon . friend and I will continue to fight tooth and nail for these vital service that our community deserve . it be wrong , as I be sure my right hon . friend agree , that resource be all too easily direct to other part of the west midland , particularly to Lloyd House , when we have need in our community as well . I must draw my remark to a close so that we can hear from the Minister , on whose appointment I wish belatedly to congratulate she , but my right hon . friend once again make a critical point about consultation on these decision . as I have say , the whole point of have police and crime commissioner be that they should listen to their local community and represent their heartfelt view . I hope that by listen to what my right hon . friend and I and so many other be say in our respective area , the police and crime commissioner will have another look at this matter and see what he can do to satisfy we on a vexed subject that have cause enormous local anxiety , fear and pain about such a sharp diminution in the police resource that we all wish to see . I congratulate the right hon . member for Sutton Coldfield ( Mr Mitchell ) on secure this debate . it be a pleasure to see he back in his place after the general election . I know that he have a very long - stand interest in this issue , and I commend he on take the necessary step to secure this debate . I think he first raise this subject in 2018 , if my record be correct . as come through in his very powerful remark , the subject of the debate be very important to he and to his constituent . I be very grateful to the right hon . member for Aldridge - Brownhills ( Wendy Morton ) and my hon . friend the Member for Stoke - on - Trent Central ( Gareth Snell ) , who make intervention . I will state at the outset that as a constituency MP , I fully appreciate that the status of police station can be the focus of significant attention and generate strong feeling in community . of course , I be not as familiar with development in the constituency of the right hon . member for Sutton Coldfield as he be . he will also understand that , in the main , we be talk about decision and consideration that be not within the direct purview of central Government and myself as the Minister for Policing . indeed , he admit that he be part of the Government who introduce police and crime commissioner to give that accountability at a local level . I remind he that we have election for police and crime commissioner early this year , in which the police and crime commissioner for the West Midlands be elect on his own mandate . I say this not to try to minimise the matter at hand , but simply to set out the context of my response . I stress the general importance of a strong local police presence . before I come on to the particular situation in the right hon . Gentleman ' s constituency , I will make a general point about this Government ' s recognition of the importance of police force have a strong local footprint . I think we would all acknowledge that technology have change the way that the vast majority of we communicate and interact with the world , and it be therefore right to have a range of mean by which people can contact and engage with the police , include online and by telephone , but these channel should not be see as a substitute for a physical police presence , such as that provide by police station . none of we would wish to see the possibility of go to a local police station to get assistance or to speak to an officer consign to history , and it be important for many of our constituent . I know that the focus of this debate be very specific , but I will make two broad point . first , the Government need no reminder about the importance of that strong local police presence in community . after all , it be this Government who have commit to restore neighbourhood police in all our community , so that people feel confident that they be be protect and our law enforce . secondly , member will be aware that police force be operationally independent from Ministers and Government , and that be absolutely as it should be . it mean that the democratically elect police and crime commissioner , and the operationally independent chief constable , be responsible for take decision on police station and their whole estate . in do so , they will use their judgment , local knowledge and expertise to ensure that the use of their estate give the good service to the community and fulfil value - for - money obligation . I know that the right hon . Gentleman will be concern about get value for money . let I turn to Royal Sutton Coldfield . I know that the police station have serve the town for many year — since 1960 , as I understand it . the police and crime commissioner ' s office have confirm to I directly , and to my official , that although the police station be currently list for sale , as the right hon . Gentleman mention , it remain operationally open and with police access as normal . a new police station , locate on Anchorage Road , immediately adjacent to the exist building — I understand the distance between they be 300 yard — have be confirm as the new police station site by the police and crime commissioner . it be small — I hear what the right hon . Gentleman say — but I understand that the current building be occupy at only 20 % , mean that 80 % of it be not occupy at the moment , which do not seem to be value for money . the small police station will be more modern and more appropriately sized for the local presence , base on the current level of occupancy , and it be expect to be ready to move into next year . the police and crime commissioner have already publicly commit to the new station house the response team , the neighbourhood police team and the criminal investigation team , and it will be open to the public . furthermore , ownership of the current police station will be retain until the new police station be open . it have also be confirm to I that there will be no disruption or break in the public ' s access to the police . [ interruption . ] the right hon . Gentleman look like he want to intervene , so I happily give way . I be extremely grateful to the Minister for give way . I completely agree with and accept a lot of what she say prior to her last point . the burden of the case that I and my right hon . friend the Member for Aldridge - Brownhills ( Wendy Morton ) have be make be that more resource should be put into the exist police station , which be underuse , as the Minister rightly say . the police should not be sell it ; they should be reinforce it with service that be need not just in the royal town but regionally . the three dilapidated house at the back will in no way whatsoever provide a full police perspective of the sort that the royal town and adjacent area should get . there be no comparison between what be propose — in spite of the language that the Minister have receive from the police and crime commissioner — and what exist at the moment . we be argue that a strategic increase in service should be put into the exist building , which , as she rightly say , have serve the town and the area since 1960 . will she perhaps reflect back to the police and crime commissioner the importance of engage with the local community , in a way that he have not , which would be good both for the position of police and crime commissioner and for the local community ? the right hon . Gentleman make his case , and I be sure that the police and crime commissioner will have hear it . I far understand that there have be an offer — which I think the right hon . Gentleman refer to — to have that meeting with the police and crime commissioner , to discuss the option and what he be plan to do . can I also gently say , as I do at the beginning of my remark , that it be for the police and crime commissioner and the chief constable to decide how good to use the asset available to they ? I understand that the chief constable be absolutely committed to this new way of provide the police station in this area . operationally , that be what he believe be the good way of provide police to the right hon . Gentleman ' s constituent . before I finish , I want to take the opportunity to express my gratitude and thank to all our serve police officer , police community support officer and special . I be sure that all member of the House will agree that they do an amazing job in very difficult circumstance , particularly over the past few week when we have see disorder on our street . as I have set out and try to explain to the right hon . Gentleman , decision about police station be ultimately matter that sit outside my remit as a Minister . in any event , I hope that it have be helpful to have this discussion this evening and to talk through some of the issue . I have set out the Government ' s commitment to ensure that we have a strong , visible neighbourhood policing offer in all our community , which be central to what this Government will deliver through our safe street mission . I again thank the right hon . gentleman for raise this important issue on the Floor of the House this evening , along with other right hon . and hon . member . question put and agree to . House adjourn .