New Members the follow Member make and subscribe the Affirmation require by law : genevieve Victoria Kitchen , for Wellingborough . the follow Member take and subscribe the oath require by law : Damien James Egan , for Kingswood . Member Sworn I understand that the hon . member for Romford ( Andrew Rosindell ) wish to take the Oath to the King . the follow Member take and subscribe the Oath : Andrew Richard Rosindell , for Romford . Oral Answers to Questions Defence the Secretary of State be ask — EU Permanent Structured Co - operation Projects what assessment his Department have make of the potential merit of participate in further EU permanent structured co - operation project . the Department ' s priority be to finalise entry into the permanent structured co - operation military mobility project before consider involvement in other project . however , we assess that the EU ' s standard " third country " term for PESCO project involve procurement or capability development will continue to impose significant constraint on UK involvement . I appreciate that the UK Government ' s attitude to PESCO be to take each project on a case - by - case basis , but may I suggest that publish criterion for that case - by - case assessment would be useful ? it be obvious to the dog in the street that PESCO will evolve at light - speed , and the UK risk miss out on a lot of important co - operation that could be beneficial . will the Minister publish that guidance ? otherwise , I will be table 68 parliamentary question to cover each of the 68 PESCO mechanism . I note the hon . Gentleman ' s suggestion , and I fear that my answer will give he encouragement to table the 68 question , because it be right that we consider each opportunity in PESCO on its merit . PESCO be a vehicle for increase military mobility around the continent . Non - EU NATO partner support that fully , and the UK be among they , but industrial or technological co - operation will not always be in the UK ' s interest , or in the interest of UK industry , so it be right that we consider these thing case by case . Ukraine : Military Support what step he have take to increase military support for Ukraine . during his visit to Ukraine on 12 January , the Prime Minister sign an historic UK - Ukraine agreement on security co - operation with President Zelensky , illustrate our long - term commitment to support Ukraine . the Prime Minister announce that the UK will provide £ 2 . 5 billion in military aid to Ukraine in 2024 - 25 — a £ 200 million increase on the previous two year — to cover rapid procurement and gifting of equipment , development of international capability coalition , and train through Operation Interflex . I thank the Minister for that response . there be clearly widespread support in this House and the country for help Ukraine to resist russian aggression , but there be concern , give that President Zelensky have recently identify a shortage of arm and ammunition , particularly in the light of the impasse in the US Congress . what discussion have the Minister have with his counterpart in the EU and other european nation about help to bridge the gap in the short term , and on how we will deal with it if , in the long term , the election of President Trump reduce NATO spending in general , and its spending on Ukraine in particular ? of course , we be aware of the scepticism among republican presidential candidate and in the US Congress about fund for Ukraine . that be why UK Ministers — the Foreign Secretary , the Secretary of State for Defence , the Prime Minister and I — have be in Washington to make the case for the US continue to support Ukraine , no matter the outcome of the election . second - guess the outcome of the US electoral system be probably not sensible , but notwithstanding the fantastic effort , lead by Prime Minister Kallas of Estonia , to increase the manufacturing of ammunition in particular , it be clear that european manufacturing capacity be not yet at even half the target set . that should be cause for all of we to consider how we might urgently ramp up manufacturing if the bad come to the bad . I call the Chair of the Defence Committee . Ukraine can win the war , and must win the war . the Minister touch on the provision of ammunition and equipment , but Ukraine also need hundred of thousand of train personnel . I very much welcome the extension of Operation Interflex , and the work that we be do , but could we not be do far more of that with our ally to assist Ukraine ? my right hon . friend be right to point to the importance of the training effort . that give I the opportunity to reflect on this week be the 10 - year anniversary of the russian invasion of Crimea , which give rise to Operation Orbital . since then , across Operation Orbital and Operation Interflex , 60 , 000 ukrainian troop have be train . continue to train they , not as individual but increasingly as formation , be undoubtedly the key to unlock the real potential of the ukrainian armed force . we have all see the event that have take place in the past few day regard the russian offensive in Ukraine . they must act a wake - up call to all of we . this be our problem , and our fight , with the Ukrainians , to defeat Putin . we need to make sure that we step up the amount of ammunition and arm that we ship to Ukraine . we need to do that with our european partner , and we need a plan , not just for the short term but for the long term , so that we defeat Putin . what talk be the Minister and the Cabinet Secretary have with our european ally to ensure that Ukraine win this war ? such conversation happen all the time . only last week , the Secretary of State be at the late donor conference , follow by NATO Defence Ministers . I be in Norway a week or so early , have exactly those conversation with ally . as the right hon . Gentleman suggest , while traditional armament such as artillery ammunition be important , so too , increasingly , be the novel precision weapon system that the UK be very much at the forefront of supply to our Ukraine friend . be it not time that both side of the House come together to agree on a common policy of increase defence expenditure , so that by increase our support for Ukraine , we can set an example to our american ally , without whose help there can be no future for peace and security in Europe ? my colleague on the Opposition Front Bench know that I try not to throw gratuitous punch in the House , and I know that they be enthusiast for military spending , but their colleague the shadow Chancellor have thus far decline to say that she would adopt anything other than the 2 % target for NATO spending , which be not the same as what the Government be currently spend , or what they currently intend to increase spending to , so the suggestion make by my right hon . friend the Member for New Forest East ( Sir Julian Lewis ) be timely . it would be fantastic if , in the next hour , the shadow Secretary of State be to make the same commitment as we have . let we try now , then . I call the shadow Secretary of State . in the last year of the last Labour Government , we be spend 2 . 5 % of gdp on defence , a level that have not be match in any of the subsequent 14 Tory year . like the Defence Secretary , the Leader of the Opposition and I be in Munich at the weekend , and the urgency of the need for more help for Ukraine run through every discussion . everyone be also profoundly move by the word of Yulia Navalnaya , speak even after the news of her husband ' s death at Putin ' s hand . this be the brutality that the Ukrainians be fight , and this be why UK support must not falter . we strongly back last month ' s UK - Ukraine security agreement , which the Defence Secretary have describe as " a 100 - year alliance " . will the Government take the necessary next step and provide an implementation plan for this year and future year , to ensure that Ukraine receive the help that it need now and for tomorrow ? while I be grateful for the history lesson on what be spend under the last Labour Government , the commitment to match our spending in a future Government be conspicuously absent from the right hon . Gentleman ' s question . however , let I return to the collegiate spirit in which defence question be normally conduct . I absolutely agree that what the Secretary of State set out in his speech about the partnership with Ukraine require a strategic approach , with very long horizon set for what our co - operation , both industrial and military , could look like . long horizon be fine , but Ukraine need more help now . I be concern about the £ 2 . 5 billion for Ukraine that be announce last month and describe by the Prime Minister as " the big single package of defence aid to Ukraine since the war begin " . — [ Official Report , 15 January 2024 ; Vol . 743 , c . 578 . ] the Minister have say much the same today . in response to a question from I last week , however , he would not rule out use that money to cover the UK ' s operational cost at NATO basis . will he rule that out today ? will he confirm today that every penny and every pound of the £ 2 . 5 billion for Ukraine will go to Ukraine ? I fear that the right hon . Gentleman have miss something over the last two year . the £ 2 . 3 billion that the Government have provide for operation to support Ukraine have always include not just the gifting in kind that take the headline , but Operation Interflex and other avenue through which we support the Ukrainians . the fact be that next year ' s spending and that of the year after will match exactly what we do in previous year , in term of the breadth of that contribution . it be also true that the long - term strategic alliance that the Secretary of State set out and the commitment year on year to spend more than any other european ally be not mutually exclusive ; we be do both . I call the Scottish National party spokesperson . on 17 February , at the Munich conference , Prime Minister Frederiksen of the Kingdom of Denmark say : " if you ask Ukrainians , they be ask for ammunition now , artillery now . from the danish side , we decide to donate our entire artillery . " do the Minister not agree that ally should be a little more like Denmark when it come to recognise the consequence of not meet Ukraine ' s need ? we be full of admiration for our danish colleague , but the reality be that the UK have provide almost its entire heavy artillery capability , in term of AS - 90 . those that we have hold on to be those that service the battlegroup in Estonia and the very high readiness armoured battlegroup . similarly , we have be generous with our ammunition stock , while retain those that we need for our very high readiness force . More than that , we have catalyse the production of 155 mm ammunition in the UK , and even far , we have be buy up as much 152 mm and 122 mm ammunition around the world as we possibly can . the UK ' s contribution to the ukrainian artillery fight be not confine to what we have in our own ammunition stockpile ; it be much , much big , and amount to hundred of thousand of round . to paraphrase a former Member , the Government ' s response have be weigh in the balance and find want . give the Czech Republic ' s profound donation of artillery and shell , on top of the danish donation , as well as a commitment of over 1 million shell from the EU , I hope the Minister can come to the Dispatch Box and correct the balance . can he advise the House on how much of this new investment , which be welcome , be in tactical armament and artillery ? the overseas ammunition acquisition plan from previous year remain broadly as it be , which amount to about 300 , 000 round buy on international market and provide to Ukraine . the 155 mm manufacture acceleration be subject to a different funding package that the Secretary of State and his ukrainian counterpart have be work on . it be important to note that the £ 200 million additional money from last year to this be focus on the provision of drone , and those tactical drone be prove to be most significant , in term of their impact in the battle space . army : Size what step he be take to increase the size of the Army . the late figure for the full - time strength of the Army be 73 , 520 . the Army be continue to work towards its " Future soldier " structure of 73 , 000 regular and 30 , 000 reserve personnel . there be no plan to change this . the good news be that provisional figure suggest that January have the high number of Army application for six year . medium report have suggest that white man have be actively discriminate against in recruitment , and that security check may be relax due to promote ethnic diversity within the Army . a number of senior military figure have purportedly warn that the pervasiveness of wake ideology be push on to the armed force be a real and present threat to national security , and will give aid and comfort to the King ' s enemy . will the planned review of diversity policy seek to address those concern ? I be grateful for the hon . Gentleman ' s remark , but I do not recognise the situation that he describe . we take security extremely seriously and ensure that all personnel have security clearance appropriate to their job . check normally require at least three year ' UK residency , but Commonwealth candidate be permit to accrue qualifying residency while serve , although they can not take up role and rank that require high level of vetting . this policy have be in place for several year , and it have not change . figure in the Times last month show that the british Army will shrink to as small as 67 , 000 by 2026 due to the crisis in recruitment and retention . as threat to the UK increase , will the Minister finally commit to halt the cut that he continue to make to the Army ? the Government be stick to 73 , 000 regular and 30 , 000 reserve personnel , as I say early . those figure be in " Future Soldier " , publish in 2021 , and they remain unchanged . Gaza : humanitarian aid what step his Department be take to assist in the provision of humanitarian aid to Gaza . the Ministry of Defence continue to stand ready to support the effort , lead by the Foreign , Commonwealth and Development Office , to pursue land , air and maritime route to deliver urgently need humanitarian aid . many of my constituent in Stoke - on - Trent South be extremely concerned about the humanitarian crisis in Gaza and want to see much more aid get into Gaza . it be vital for the innocent civilian population there . will the Secretary of State update we on what more be be do to ensure additional route , and particularly a sea route , into Gaza for humanitarian aid to innocent civilian ? my hon . friend will be pleased to hear that I have be to the region on a number of occasion — I have visit Israel and Cyprus twice , as well as visit Egypt and Saudi Arabia — with the specific intention of try to resolve the problem that he describe . we have already deliver 150 tonne of aid , but the problem be get that aid into Gaza . although we have persuade the Israelis to open Kerem Shalom , we desperately need Ashdod to be open , too . as we have discuss with the Cypriots , we could then create a humanitarian aid route from Cyprus direct to Ashdod and straight into Gaza via Kerem Shalom . " live in our shoe " Report if he will continue to issue online update on the implementation of accept recommendation from the " live in our shoe " report , publish on 30 June 2020 . family be an integral part of the armed force community . our commitment to they remain strong and be reinforce by the Haythornthwaite review , the defence Command Paper refresh , the family strategy , which be publish in January 2022 , and my hon . friend ' s excellent " live in our shoe " framework for deliver more family - sympathetic policy . the family of armed force personnel have to put up with more separation , relocation and danger to their love one than the family of any other public servant , and they often feel slightly disenfranchised . they might not know their Member of Parliament , and they might fear to approach they because of the impact it might have on their spouse or partner ' s career . do my right hon . friend agree it be incredibly important that the public can see the follow - through on the 86 recommendation that the Ministry of Defence accept in full and on the 20 recommendation that it accept in part ? my hon . friend will be interested to hear that I have a slightly different number . my number be that 106 of his report ' s 110 recommendation have be accept . regardless of the exact figure , I entirely agree on the importance of make sure that armed force family live in decent accommodation . when we ask armed force personnel to fight abroad , they should live in good accommodation when they come home . my hon . friend be familiar with the steering group , which include family , federation and the author of his excellent report , and he will be pleased to hear that it meet again on 28 February . Armed Forces Recruitment what step his Department be take to tackle recruitment challenge in the armed force . what step his Department be take to recruit armed force personnel . what step his Department be take to recruit armed force personnel . what step his Department be take to recruit armed force personnel . in a challenging labour market , we continue to apply an array of measure to support recruitment and retention and to refine the armed force ' offer . these include the big pay rise in 20 year , flexible service and an improved accommodation offer . the Haythornthwaite review have a key part to play , and team have be stand up across the Ministry of Defence to implement all 67 recommendation , work to establish a reward and incentivisation architecture that will attract and retain the skill we need . I be grateful for the Minister ' s answer , but the quality of force accommodation be also an important factor in both recruitment and retention . will he consider give local commander great agency in get small repair do locally if the national contractor fail to act quickly enough ? I absolutely agree with my hon . friend . head of establishment can access an approve funding pot to address minor maintenance work , up to a maximum value of £ 25 , 000 per item , which be extremely helpful and get away from some of the bureaucracy involve with the prime contractor . seven experienced personnel be leave for each five recruit . despite the diversity and inclusion policy , some of which be counterproductive in my opinion , and in addition to Capita ' s initiative , last year there be a net loss of 310 servicewoman . fall retention rate be overshadow operational effectiveness . can the Minister outline what he be do on retention ? I be grateful to my hon . friend and ministerial predecessor . over the past two year , the Ministry of Defence have put servicewoman at the heart of develop and deliver a range of initiative , from uniform policy to the provision of accessible sanitary product , mentor , the introduction of flexible service , wraparound childcare , parental leave , and zero tolerance of unacceptable behaviour . there will be further measure in response to the Wigston review , the Gray review and my hon . friend ' s report . I pay tribute to those who have be drive change , but it be far from job do . the armed force , include the 14th Signal Regiment base in Pembrokeshire , continue to provide fabulous career opportunity for young people . do my right hon . friend agree that , now more than ever , we need to encourage Army visit to school , and that the long campaign by nationalist in Wales to stop those visit damage social mobility and aspiration ? I share my right hon . friend ' s enthusiasm entirely . the armed force be a huge engine for social mobility . in the last year , the Army achieve over 5 , 000 school engagement visit across the United Kingdom , each at the school ' s request . the british Army be the public ' s Army . it be important it engage with the people it serve , despite the good effort of some on the left and the nationalists , to whom he refer . the London Borough of Bexley be home to several excellent cadet and reserve unit that teach vital life skill . will the Minister update the House on progress on the cadet expansion programme and what work be be undertake to strengthen the pathway into his Majesty ' s armed force ? I be grateful for the opportunity to do so . the joint Ministry of Defence and Department for Education cadet expansion programme be progress extremely well , with over 54 , 000 cadet in school cadet unit . the cadet expansion programme have focus on growth in the state sector . since its introduction in 2012 , the number of cadet unit in state school have grow by over 400 % to 268 school . some new unit have also open in independent school , where there have be a 12 % increase . I be sure my hon . friend will join I in welcome that transformation . local service personnel routinely cite issue in service accommodation as a barrier to recruitment and retention , so I be disappointed to hear that the Government have no plan to improve the quality of the nearly 900 single - live accommodation bed space in my constituency at Chicksands that currently fall into the low grade . will the Minister commit to revisit that decision to ensure we do right by all service personnel serve on the base before it close ? the hon . Gentleman be right to highlight the importance of service accommodation . he will be aware of the huge Government investment to improve the quality of both service - family accommodation and single - living accommodation . our people deserve the good . it be public knowledge that they have not have the good for some considerable time , but we be commit to remedy that for his constituent . do the Minister not wake up in the morning sometimes and want to check in on reality ? we have have seven secretary of State for Defence since 2010 and absolute turmoil in our armed force . why would people join the British Army when this Government have run we down to 72 , 000 serve personnel ? I campaign when the number go below 100 , 000 ! the Minister should wake up and invest in the defence of our country in a troubled world . those be interesting reflection . I suggest the hon . Gentleman have a word with the shadow Ministers on his Front Bench , particularly the shadow Chancellor who , to date , have fail to commit to the level of spending on the defence of this country to which the Government be completely committed . the rise of so - call " woke " culture have be infect our society for many year and it should be unsurprise that it be now infect our military . do the Minister think that the rise of " woke " make it easy or more difficult to recruit the right sort of people into our armed force ? I completely reject the premise of the hon . Gentleman ' s question . if he be talk about increase the number of woman in our armed force , Lord Etherton ' s review into LGBT personnel in our armed force historically , or our ambition to make our armed force more reflective of the society from which they be draw and that they serve , then I be guilty as charge . the Minister and other will be aware that recruitment across Northern Ireland to the Army , the Royal Air Force and the Royal Navy have always be exceptional . however , the number of personnel in Territorial Army regiment be set at a figure that those regiment can not go above . will the Minister look at increase the number of TA soldier to ensure that recruitment in Northern Ireland can exceed the current number ? I pay tribute to the people of Northern Ireland who , as the hon . Gentleman say , have disproportionately contribute to the defence of our country . he will know that we be committed to grow our reserve force across the United Kingdom . I call the shadow Minister . we have 24 , 000 few troop , 4 , 000 few sailor , 200 few aircraft and the removal of one in five ship . the Conservatives have fail our armed force over the past 14 year , miss their recruitment target every year since take power in 2010 and hollow out our military . do the Minister honestly believe that he can look the public in the eye and claim that five more year will fix the mess that they have create , or be it time for a fresh start ? oh , I think the hon . Gentleman know what I be go to say in response to his question , and that be to invite he to have a conversation with the shadow Chancellor to see whether she will commit to the same level of spending on defence that this Government be commit to and , indeed , be spend right now . will he make a spending commitment here and now in the House of Commons ? if so , I be all ear . order . may I also suggest that it be not for the Government to be ask the question ? Rotary Wing Enterprise what plan he have for the future of the rotary wing enterprise . the rotary wing enterprise programme seek to improve aircraft availability across support solution for Apache , Chinook , Merlin and Wildcat from within exist budget . it will do so by drive synergy between platform , modernise support solution and pursue delivery - focus commercial mechanism . Mr Speaker , as you know , Fleetlands in Gosport have be the home of military helicopter maintenance for more than 65 year . this highly skilled engineering work be really key to level up the area , provide much - need job and opportunity . do the Minister agree that the MOD ' s rotary wing enterprise and new medium helicopter programme would benefit greatly from these generation of expertise and skill right there in Gosport ? I know from my recent visit that my right hon . friend be a champion not only for defence in her constituency , but for defence job in particular . she be right about StandardAero Fleetlands , which be a value actor in the maintenance of our rotary wing platform . the rotary wing enterprise be due to enter its detailed design this year . as part of that , it will consider wide social value , include the extent to which economic prosperity be support . but as this be a specific potential procurement , I can not comment any far . I also can not comment on the role of particular company in the new medium helicopter programme , but we hope to say more on that very soon . I call the shadow Minister . the Government have delay produce the information require for the invitation to negotiate for the new medium - lift helicopter four time since September 2022 . can the Minister explain what have cause this 18 - month delay ? give the report last week about his Department freeze capital spending until at least the new financial year , when will the Government get their act together to get this competition under way ? can he promise that the delay will not push back the delivery date for this vital capability for our force ? I be pleased to say two thing to the hon . Lady . first , we will have the announcement on the next stage of the new medium helicopter very soon . I be also pleased to confirm that we have be clear on our spending position . to echo my right hon . friend the Minister for Defence People and Families , if the hon . Lady want to talk about stuff that be rumour in the press — we do not have those sort of capital spending control — can she confirm whether the shadow Chancellor will honour our defence spending commitment ? aukus what recent progress his Department have make on the AUKUS partnership . aukus partner continue to make good progress on the optimal pathway to deliver conventionally armed nuclear - power submarine to Australia and to develop the advanced capability require . I thank my right hon . friend for his answer . aukus be a bold project that rightfully identify the great need for co - operation in the Pacific between our great nation . however , I do not think that it should be limit just to defence . in my own report for the 1922 foreign affair policy committee , we find that there be not only a need , but an appetite for wide scope — the inclusion of Canada , for example . do my right hon . friend agree that AUKUS can not just be about defence policy . will we be reap the maximum benefit for Britain by consign this to be just a defence procurement exercise ? where be the Foreign , Commonwealth and Development Office in all of this ? my hon . friend be right to say that AUKUS can and should be a programme that extend beyond the three core nation — the UK , the US , and Australia — but that be very much a matter for pillar 2 arrangement rather than pillar 1 , which the House will know be about the nuclear - power submarine for Australia and the joint procurement . he will be pleased to hear that , in November , I be in the US sign up to a programme of pillar 2 work , which could ultimately extend to other , include Canada and New Zealand . Royal Navy Capabilities what assessment he have make of the adequacy of the Royal Navy ' s capability to engage land - base target . the Royal Navy have a range of capability to support the engagement of land - base target . specific threat planning be consider for every deployment or contingency , and measure be take to reduce or mitigate those expect threat as dictate by operational priority . what urgency be attach to the upgrading of HMS Diamond ' s defence system ? my right hon . Friend ask an excellent question . I know that there have be a lot of interest , follow the deployment in the Red sea , in what the lesson be . I can confirm that the Sea Viper capability have be at the forefront of this , be the Navy ' s weapon of choice in the first shooting down of an aerial threat in more than 30 year . it be a cut - edge weapon system , and I can confirm that Sea Viper will be upgrade , to far enhance this capability against the more complex and evolve threat that we face , include the ability to intercept missile in their terminal phase . Defence Manufacturing : Employment what assessment he have make of trend in level of employment in the defence manufacturing sector in the next 12 month . in 2022 - 23 , the Ministry of Defence spend £ 25 billion with UK industry . the most recent estimate show that that support 209 , 000 job across the country , of which 47 , 000 be in manufacturing . my Tewkesbury constituency contain a lot of aerospace manufacturing , particularly for the defence sector , but those company have long complain to I that they can not attract enough young people , particularly to take engineering job . the all - party parliamentary group on aerospace , which I co - chair , have the objective of entice young people to go into engineering or at least consider it as a career . will the Government do anything more to persuade young people to consider take up the engineering opportunity that be there ? my hon . Friend ask an excellent question . it help that we have lot of school group and young people in the Gallery today , it be half term . I can confirm that last year ' s defence Command Paper identify skill as a priority , include the shortage of engineering , digital , cyber , STEM , nuclear , and space - base skill . the defence head of profession for engineering , who also support the Government science and engineering head of profession , have a defence youth engagement strategy that drive STEM outreach activity and the encouragement of engineering uptake in individual age four to 14 . Ukraine : Military Support what recent discussion he have have with international partner on future military support for Ukraine . everything that I have intend to say in response to the hon . Gentleman be cover in response to the supplementarie to question 2 . why be it not group then ? Lord Ismay say of NATO that it exist , among other thing , " to keep the Soviet Union out " and " the Americans in " . the Foreign Secretary be misunderstood on a recent visit to the United States when he propose that Congress should pass a new military aid package for Ukraine , and he be rebuff by some Republicans in the House of Representatives . what can the Defence Secretary do to encourage the US to maintain its commitment to Ukraine and to NATO ? again , we cover this early , but it be an important issue . the Secretary of State and I , and other Ministers from the MOD and across Government , put our shoulder to the wheel whenever we be in Washington , to impress on the US not only the importance of its continue commitment to ukrainian security , but that Euro - atlantic security be integral to US security . the US can not simply look towards the Pacific ; it need to remain engaged in the Euro - Atlantic , in its own interest as well as those of NATO ally . on my last visit to Ukraine a couple of week ago , I have several meeting with Ukrainian Ministers , who voice their frustration and concern about the delay in set up joint operation with UK defence manufacturer . will my right hon . Friend assure the House that he be do everything possible to speed the process up to allow the Ukrainians to produce their own kit , with our help , to help win the war ? the Secretary of State and the Minister for Defence Procurement have both be heavily engage in this ; indeed , the Minister for Defence Procurement lead a delegation to Kyiv to catalyse exactly the idea that my hon . friend mention . emission : Armed Forces what step he be take to reduce armed force emission . the MOD have already start its decarbonisation journey in support of the UK ' s net zero commitment . at the Royal International Air tattoo last year , I be pleased to sign the defence aviation net zero charter on behalf of the MOD . work closely with our industrial partner , we be move to clean and more efficient technology . the Army be build solar farm , and have invest £ 14 million in battlefield electrification . the Royal Navy ' s cut - edge catalytic system be reduce emission of greenhouse gas in its patrol vessel by up to 97 % . finally , the RAF be pioneer the use of sustainable aviation fuel . it be a pleasure to attend the Global Charge dinner last October , and to see so many member of the armed force , from all rank , commit to tackle the climate crisis . however , the Defence Committee have describe the MOD ' s current reduction target as " insufficiently demand " under the green government commitment — they be the low across all Departments . will the Minister ensure that the next round of cc commitment will contain more demanding target , not least to reflect the real ambition and for member of the armed force on the ground to see the devastation of climate change ? I know the hon . Lady be very passionate about this issue . I have just list the way in which the individual service be take step to reduce their emission , but we always have to balance that against our overwhelming priority as a Department , which be to support the ability of our armed force to defend these island . Innovative Defence Technologies what step his Department be take to support innovative defence technology . defence be invest over £ 6 . 6 billion in advanced research and development . we be work with UK industry and academia to identify and invest in innovative technology , ensure that we have the capability we need to defeat our adversary . the RAF have traditionally have a very poor record when it close basis in Lincolnshire — just walk away , leave they to go to rack and ruin — but at RAF Scampton we have wonderful scheme for innovative defence technology , such as a spaceport . will the Minister now work with the Home Office and I to try to release the bulk of that base so that we can get all these exciting technology go ? the MOD can not just wash its hand of the base , now that it have be pass to the Home Office . we be suppose to have join - up government . my right hon . friend make an important point . as he know , RAF Scampton be no long part of the defence estate , which mean we do not have formal responsibility for it . what I would stress to he be that we be invest in innovation in Lincolnshire , include the significant investment into RAF Waddington associate with our Protector capability . Trident Renewal what recent estimate he have make of the lifetime cost of Trident renewal . the Dreadnought submarine programme remain within overall budget and on track for the first of class , HMS Dreadnought , to enter service in the early 2030 . inflation have remain high than expect for an extended period and have have an adverse impact on the cost forecast for the programme compare with the forecast from a year early . as the programme be in its preliminary phase , it be too early to provide cost estimate for the replacement warhead programme . I think that mean the Minister do not know what the total lifetime cost of Trident replacement be go to be . budget in Government Departments and household alike be under immense pressure because of rampant inflation . why do everybody else ' s budget have to be under pressure but there seem to be a blank - cheque approach to the renewal of Trident ? that be an extraordinary thing for the hon . gentleman to say . he know that we will shortly be publish , before the end of the financial year , our supplementary estimate for the defence nuclear enterprise for the financial year . but as he know , there be a cost in not have a deterrent . that be his policy : to do away with the deterrent on a unilateral basis , despite all the terrible threat we can see in the world and the nuclear sabre - rattle from Russia . his policy would be abject folly . we will invest in provide that ultimate guarantee to the people of the United Kingdom . I know that the Minister and most of the House , leave aside those on the Scottish National Benches , will agree that the continuous at - sea deterrent be absolutely central to the defence of the realm — there be no question about that at all . do he agree that we must find a way of replace Trident within budget , and that the bad possible thing that could happen to Trident would be an SNP Government in Scotland ? I agree 100 % with my hon . friend . Topical Questions if he will make a statement on his departmental responsibility . this year I visit the United States — the White House and Capitol Hill — to lobby on behalf of Ukraine , as discuss today ; Saudi Arabia and Egypt , give the crisis in the middle east ; HMS Diamond , to thank the ship ' s crew ; and our sovereign base at Akrotiri , to thank the Typhoon pilot . Cyprus itself be also visit . last week I be in Brussels for the NATO meeting and in Munich for the security conference . the whole House will know that defence never sleep and will wish to join I in thank the brave man and woman who make that possible . will my right hon . friend update the House on progress make at the NATO Defence Ministers meeting , particularly with regard to support for Ukraine ? alongside the NATO meeting , there be the Ukraine defence contact group — a group of 52 country , all of which support Ukraine . the big concern , of course , be ensure that Ukraine have the thing that it need now and the planning to ensure that it can sustain the fight and push back against the enemy in 2024 . that be why I have announce £ 200 million for drone , and why we have a 15 - nation coalition for MPI — the multinational procurement initiative . at my request , we have also welcome Australia to the international fund for Ukraine , with its commitment of 50 million australian dollar to a fund that be now worth £ 900 million . I call the shadow Secretary of State . the agony of the palestinian people be extreme . we all want the fighting to stop now , for hostage to be return now , for aid to be ramp up now , and a ceasefire that last permanently . what be the Defence Secretary do to help his israeli counterpart to accept that their threaten offensive against Rafah just can not happen ? I agree with the right hon . Gentleman about the seriousness of the situation . as he have just hear , I visit Israel before the new year and have those conversation directly . I believe that it be in Israel ' s interest , obviously in Gaza ' s interest , and in the world ' s interest to see that immediate cessation follow by a permanent ceasefire . we be do everything we can to persuade the Israelis of that necessity and to put pressure on Hamas , who still hold hostage — if they be to release they , this thing could finish very quickly . we be also help by ensure that we work on plan for what happen in the north of the country and in southern Lebanon . Carshalton and Wallington be home to more than 1 , 700 veteran who have provide , and continue to provide , amazing service to our great nation . what step be we take as a Government to provide well support for veteran in our country ? since 2011 , the armed force covenant and its consequential have be the absolute lynchpin of public commitment to those who have serve , and they have materially improve the live experience of the service community . the Ministry of Defence be responsible for a number of service for veteran . the Veterans Welfare Service , for example , support around 50 , 000 veteran every year , and the Office for Veterans ’ Affairs co - ordinate across Government to advance support for veteran and their family . I call the shadow Minister . the number of veteran claim welfare benefit be rise steadily , and more than 52 , 000 be now in receipt of universal credit . do the Minister find that a cause for celebration or concern ? I be a veteran , and I talk to veteran all the time , as do my right hon . friend the Minister for Veterans ' Affairs . I do not recognise the picture that the shadow Minister describe . since 2011 , we have materially improve the live experience of our veteran community and their family , and we will continue to do so — of that , he can be absolutely sure . when defence contract be award , a 10 % to 20 % weighting be give to social value , which be the benefit that the contract would have for the local and wide community . do that community benefit apply entirely for the UK , or be overseas company and their community consider equally ? that be a very good question . the distinction be between the Cabinet Office social value rule , which be apply across Government and be irrespective , and the rule that the Ministry of Defence apply to our procurement . there be discussion of the new medium helicopter early , for example . when that come out , as I hope it will soon , we will be clear that we be look to incentivise a strong commitment to the UK industrial base . the MOD recently publish the finding of the inquiry into the fatal accident involve a Scimitar fighting vehicle on Salisbury plain , in which a young soldier tragically lose his life . one of my constituent be a witness to the accident , which have inevitably have a profound impact on he . the Government have say that they do not plan to make a formal response to the inquiry report , which be a harrowing read , but they have accept all 52 recommendation . do the Minister not think that the report require a full and formal response from the Government , with a detailed action plan for adopt the 52 recommendation , give the seriousness of the incident and the wide implication — order . please , just remember that this be topical question and I have to get other member in . very simply , I read that report and , as the hon . Lady have rightly point out , accept all of its finding . we do not usually take it far , but I will certainly be happy to take a look at the case she have raise . on the subject of recruitment and retention , on 7 November the Chief of the General Staff , Patrick Sanders — arguably the good general of his generation — tell the Defence Committee : " we be take 400 soldier out of the field army to put they alongside recruiter , because — guess what ? — it take a soldier to recruit a soldier . " never be a truer word speak . so when be we finally go to sack Capita ? I thank my right hon . friend for his question — I know he would get Capita in there somewhere . he will be familiar with the Engage to Recruit programme , which be currently underway and have some success in get soldier to recruit soldier . that be probably why , as I touch on in my early answer , we be now see some extremely promising recruiting figure , include in January — the good figure for six year . so far , Israel have ignore international appeal to not indiscriminately attack civilian and not take step that be basically raze Gaza to the ground . it now look as though it be go to ignore international opinion about enter Rafah , so have the time not now come for we to consider not sell to Israel arm that can be use in those totally unacceptable way ? arm deal and export licence be deal with in the normal way , but the hon . Member will be interested to hear that actually , not many arm sale take place in the direction of Israel at all . off the top of my head , I think it be just £ 42 million last year , and that be mostly for protective equipment . late last year , diesel get into the water supply at the Trenchard Lines camp near Upavon in my constituency . I commend the resilience of the family who live there , and also of the MOD , which act very quickly to ensure that there be a temporary supply of water . those family be still live on that temporary supply , so can the Minister assure I that attention be be give to sort out this problem and ensure a permanent supply of clean water ? I be very grateful to my hon . friend for raise this matter — he be a champion of the defence community in his constituency , and I thank he for his early engagement on it . I understand that the local authority regulator , follow the completion of rigorous testing , have confirm that the water quality at Trenchard Lines be acceptable , and it be now safe for personnel work and live there to use the main supply . I will double - check that and write to he , but I be grateful for his comment on the performance of the Defence Infrastructure Organisation in that regard . today we have see news of another serious attack by the Houthis on a commercial vessel in the gulf of Aden . do minister think that more Royal Navy ship will need to be deploy to the region , give the ongoing threat to merchant shipping ? the hon . Gentleman will be familiar with answer I give last week or the week before at the Dispatch Box , when I say that we will always look at what be happen in the Red sea . I have be there to meet the crew myself , and will make a judgment base on the reality on the ground . there be now also input from a conglomeration of EU country that be come to join Prosperity Guardian , and we welcome that input . in the debate on the Red sea on 24 January , I ask for confirmation that HMS Albion and HMS Bulwark would not only not be scrap , but would not be mothball . the deputy Foreign Secretary , my right hon . friend the Member for Sutton Coldfield ( Mr Mitchell ) , with the Secretary of State for Defence alongside he , say in response that I be " absolutely right to detect the supportive view of the Secretary of State for Defence . " — [ Official Report , 24 January 2024 ; Vol . 744 , c . 402 . ] however , a journalist be subsequently tell by the Ministry of Defence that nothing have change , so be those ship go to be mothball or not ? my right hon . friend can rest easy : I have be down to visit HMS Albion since those question , and I can confirm that one of those ship will always be be make ready to sail . he can therefore be very relieved . suicide rate among veteran under the age of 24 be two to four time high than in the civilian population , but figure show that this group be less likely to be in touch with mental health service . how will the Minister ensure that young veteran can access the support they need ? I be grateful to the hon . Lady for her question — she have be consistent in her inquiry into this matter . she will be reassure to know that across the service community , the rate of suicide be low than we would expect in the civilian population . there be a subset of young man within the serve population for whom there be an excess , and we be look very closely at that . I very much commend to the hon . Lady the suicide action plan that we have publish , which lay out what Defence be do to drive down the suicide rate in our armed force . whichever figure it be , it be too high . the whole House would like to see a large Army , Navy and Air Force — there be unanimity on that point . central to that must be not only the armed force recruitment programme , but the Army centralise training scheme . will my right hon . friend confirm that the pause in capital spending by the MOD , which be announce last week in the press , will not affect those two scheme , and that they will continue in as full - blooded a way as they be at the moment ? my hon . friend will be pleased to know that there be no pause . the approval be flow . the Royal Navy carrier HMS Queen Elizabeth and HMS Prince of Wales enter service six and seven year late respectively , with their cost rocket to over £ 8 , 000 million — more than 20 time that of Scotland ' s ferry — while be plague with problem and a lack of aircraft . what assurance can we have that these hugely expensive carrier will provide the defence capability for which they be design ? the whole House recognise the irony of an SNP Member talk about ship be deliver late . the whole House will want to welcome the extraordinary work do by those on HMS Prince of Wales who get the ship ready to leave not at 30 day ' readiness , which be what they be rank for , but in eight day . I would have think that congratulate the ship ' s company would be the right thing to do . do the Secretary of State remember that the british Army use to be the big trainer of young man and woman in the country and that we produce so many skilled people ? when can he take we back to those balmy day ? since 2014 , we have be train 60 , 000 ukrainian troop , prove that we know how to get troop train . we still train extraordinary number . I think I be right that , on all form of training more broadly , we be break some of those record . we will ensure that we have armed force that be fit for the 21st century . UK Economy ( Urgent Question ) : to ask the Chancellor of the Exchequer if he will make a statement on the UK economy enter recession . high inflation remain the big barrier to growth , which be why halve it be still our top priority . thank to decisive action support by the Government , inflation have fall from over 11 % to 4 % . the Bank of England be forecast that it will fall to around 2 % by early summer , in only a matter of month , which be much fast than previously think . it be important to put all this in context . just over a year ago , the Bank of England be forecast the long recession in 100 year . that have not happen , and the british economy have prove resilient in the face of unprecedented shock . forecaster , include the Bank of England and the International Monetary Fund , agree that growth will strengthen over the next few year , with the IMF forecasting that we will grow fast than Japan , Germany , France , Italy and many other , on average , over the next five year . wage have be high than inflation for six month in a row , unemployment remain very low , and we be back british business by deliver the big business tax cut in modern british history and rewarding work by cut taxis for work people . these be all reason to be positive about the economy turn a corner . if we stick to our plan , we can be confident of see pressure reduce for family and of achieve healthy economic growth . at the autumn statement , we unveil 110 growth measure , include unlock £ 20 billion of business investment . this include a substantial labour market package , deliver a tax cut to national insurance for 27 million people , as well as reform pension and extend investment zone . the real risk to economic growth and prosperity in this country be the fact that the Labour party have no plan for growth — no plan at all . while they may pretend that they have abandon their £ 28 billion pledge , they be still committed to their damaging 2030 energy policy , which , as the Leader of the Opposition have say , cost £ 28 billion . all of we across this House know what that mean : high taxis and low growth with Labour . the Chancellor should be here explain why Britain have fall into recession . will the Minister explain why he have be leave to answer these question , and where exactly the Chancellor be ? the Chancellor should be accountable to MPs and to our constituent , and answer for his failure in the House . what an insult to all those people who go to work every day and experience the reality of 14 year of conservative economic failure that he have simply fail to turn up . do the Minister accept that the Prime Minister ' s promise to grow the economy be now in tatter ? will the Minister explain why the economy be now small than when the current Prime Minister enter 10 Downing Street ? do the Minister accept the misery that this Government have cause homeowner with their kamikaze Budget , leave a typical family renew their mortgage pay an additional £ 240 every single month ? the Chief Secretary be also notable for her absence today , and be last see refuse or simply fail to recognise that their target measure of debt as a share of GDP be rise , not fall . follow her rebuke this morning from the chair of the UK Statistics Authority about mislead the public , can the Minister inform the House whether the Chief Secretary will again be rely on incompetence as her good defence ? it be not good enough . the whole country know that the economy be not work for work people under the Conservatives . it be time for change . if the Government seriously think everything be fine , why do they not take their record of failure and let the british people decide ? I thank the shadow Chancellor for her question . answer they . I be come to that . the right hon . Lady start by talk about the Chancellor ; as Economic Secretary , I be perfectly entitle to answer on behalf of the Department and I will do so today . the main thrust of her remark be on growth ; let I deal with that in detail . the first point to recognise be the international context that we all find ourselves in . [ interruption . ] it happen to be true . for example — to describe that international context — 10 EU country be in recession in 2023 . in relation to forecast , the Office for Budget Responsibility ' s original forecast be that there would be a contraction of 1 . 5 % in the economy ; we have significantly outperform that . as I have say , the Bank of England forecast the long recession in 100 year ; we have significantly outperform that . on wage , I think this be the sixth month in a row when wage have be high than inflation , which , as I have say , we have more than halve . on the Chief Secretary , what she be explain be that we be and be meet our fiscal rule , which be that debt will be fall in the fifth year of the forecast exclude the Bank of England . that be what she explain , and that be what I be reiterate for the House . [ interruption . ] Labour member do not like hear this , but they have absolutely no plan on the economy . we have be clear about our plan , and it be start to bear fruit with wage , with cut taxis for work people start in January , with high business investment as a result of our full expensing in the autumn statement . the shadow Chancellor do not have to take it from I ; the Office for Budget Responsibility say that the two fiscal event in 2023 — the Budget and the autumn statement — would represent the large increase to GDP that it have ever score . what I say to she and the House be this : our plan be work ; stick with the plan and do not throw it away with the Opposition . it be good news that unemployment have stay low by european standard , and the economy be still generate plenty of job vacancy . will the Government take more step to help more people into those job , so that we can get fast growth , bring down the benefit bill and boost their income ? the whole House know that my right hon . friend be somewhat of an expert on matter relate to the economy . to answer his point specifically , the national insurance tax cut be score at the last fiscal event — the autumn statement — as significantly increase the number of people in work . although I will not speculate on fiscal event , that point have be very much note by I and the whole Treasury . I call the Scottish National party spokesperson . the Minister speak about resilience , but the fourth quarter contraction in the economy be the big quarterly fall since early 2021 at the height of the covid pandemic , so I be not sure he be quite right about resilience . he also speak about growth , but the Government tell we in November that growth be not forecast to exceed 2 % in any year in the forecast period . how modest the Minister ' s ambition be . national debt be still approach 100 % of gdp — £ 3 trillion . the consequence of Brexit be suppress growth , and that pose a challenge to the UK Government ' s fiscal target . although it be welcome that inflation have fall , price remain high . price be not fall ; they be simply go up slightly less steeply than they be a month or two ago . it be obvious that what the economy need be growth , and the investment to generate that growth , but give that business investment , accord to the government , be forecast down this year by 5 . 6 % , private dwelling investment be forecast down this year by 6 % , and flat at 0 % next year , and general Government investment be forecast down in ' 25 , ' 26 , ' 27 and ' 28 , where will the investment for growth come from ? I deeply respect the right hon . Gentleman , and I will take his point one by one . on resilience , the way we get resilience for ordinary people and for household be to ensure that real household income increase . since 2010 , they be up 12 % . we be try to increase business resilience with our full expense regime , which be revolutionary in the advanced world . full expensing will enable more business to invest and will deal with the chronic weakness of the british economy , which be weak investment . that be why we be do that . the right hon . Gentleman mention growth . growth be not as high as we would like , and that be the case across the whole of Europe and the whole of the industrialise world . that be why the Chancellor in the last fiscal event put in place 110 growth measure . we have a plan for growth over the long term , and we will deliver it . the right hon . Gentleman mention debt . to repeat the point I make to the shadow Chancellor , debt be fall in the fifth year of the forecast accord to our fiscal rule , which exclude the Bank of England . that be not just the fiscal rule now ; it have always be the fiscal rule . the right hon . Gentleman make the fair point that low inflation do not mean that price be fall . indeed , low inflation be a low rate of increase . we all know that in this House . that be why bring down inflation be so important , and the Opposition , with their plan to recklessly jack up borrowing and taxis to the extent of £ 28 billion , will increase inflation . I repeat that investment have be a long - term weakness of the british economy . we be take long - term measure to deal with it , and I hope that in the next fiscal event — the Budget — we will continue in that vein . may I thank my hon . friend for his distinguished service as a voice of his Majesty ' s Government ? I refer he to what the former chief economist of the Bank of England , Andrew Haldane , say today , refer to a " double blow " to the credibility of the Bank of England , which be late to put interest rate up and miss inflation , and have be slow to reduce they , hammer the economy . do my hon . friend agree that the Bank of England be no long show itself to be competent and that its independence must be question ? I do not think that I will quite agree with my right hon . friend . it be very important that we leave the Bank of England to do its work and respect its independent mandate , but that , from the Treasury , we do what we can to bring inflation down and support it in that mandate . as I say , the Labour party ' s plan — whether it claim to have drop they or not — will lead to an increase in borrowing or an increase in taxis , which will significantly damage that aim . I think the Minister be fail the audition . labour will not take lecture from he about borrowing , which be at 67 % of gdp when we leave office and be now nearly 100 % . he be claim that somehow growth be happen , but we be actually in a recession , which mean that there be no growth ; in fact , there be negative growth . GDP per capita fall in every quarter of last year , mean that everybody be get bad off under his appalling stewardship of the economy . be it not time that the junior Minister go back to his boss and tell he , " it ' s all over . time ' s up . call the general election . " ? it be definitely above my pay grade to call election . in relation to GDP per capita statistic , which be important — the point of they be to try to get a sense of what be happen to individual or to individual household and family — I would say — [ interruption . ] let I — [ interruption . ] I wish the shadow Chancellor would allow I to respond . real household income , which be as good a measure as any to see what be happen to individual and family in our economy , be up 12 % since 2010 . if we be look at people at the bottom of the income scale , the rise in the national living wage that come in in April will mean a rise since 2010 of about 30 % in real term for people on full - time minimum wage . those two statistic be example of what have happen to real people on the ground . I thank the Minister for update the House . do he agree that people in Redditch and elsewhere be concerned about negative economic news — although it almost always turn out to be wrong ? Most of all , do he agree that the great risk to my constituent in Redditch and those across the country be a Labour Government ? Labour have say it can somehow magically get £ 28 billion of green growth benefit without pay for they . we all know that my constituent will be pay for that through extra borrowing and high taxis . order . the Minister have no responsibility for the Labour party . let we move on . the Minister say the Government ' s priority be back british business , cut inflation and reduce the pressure on british family . when the Government admit this measure will increase inflation , when british business be tear its hair out at the chaos cause by not know what the charge will be and who will pay it — with less than 10 week to go — and when british consumer will find that it cause food shortage and an increase in food price , why on earth be the Government go ahead with the Brexit border tax ? will the Minister commit here and now to cancel it , so that we can stop this inflationary measure — yes or no ? I thank the hon . Lady for focus on inflation . she be right that it be critical , and bring it down be a focus for the Government . the House have hear her point about the European Union , but I would add that we have a clear plan for bring down inflation , which we will continue to carry out . she have to ask those on her Front Bench why they do not have one . for too long , too many people in the Treasury — not my hon . friend , who be an excellent Minister — have think that the good way to grow the economy be to fill the country with more and more people . will the Government recommit to insist that anyone who come here to work should earn the average UK earning of around £ 33 , 000 a year ? that mean no shortage scheme and no exemption for care worker or the NHS , but that in those sector we pay proper wage , we get people off benefit — too many people be on they , drag down our economy — and we seriously cut mass legal migration ; and , by the way , if there be a general election , let we give our people something to vote for . my right hon . friend make an important point about migration . I completely agree that we need high earning for british people , not an economy where we import too many people and keep earning down . that be why we have be focus on raise the national living wage and ensure that ordinary household income will go up as a result of this Government ' s policy , as I have explain . it be worth point out that certain thing happen last year , such as people flee Ukraine and Hong Kong , which mean that the immigration number be particularly high . the broad thrust of what my right hon . friend say be correct : we want a high - skill , high - wage economy . I do not know whether the Minister realise quite how infuriate people find watch his Government tell they , " everything be fine " , " it be all go really well " and " there ' s nothing to see here " , when every day they feel poor and small business be close . if the Prime Minister and the Chancellor can not face reality , how on earth can anyone trust they to solve the economic crisis that their government create ? let I be clear with the hon . Lady , whom I have a huge amount of time for as a very good Member of Parliament : it be not our position that everything be okay . there have be a challenging international context : a once - in - 100 - year pandemic , and an energy crisis cause by Putin ' s war in Ukraine . this government have do everything we possibly can to build an economy for growth , and I hope we have her support . what distinguish this recession be the 800 job that have be create every day since this government come to power in 2010 — the very antithesis of anything ever achieve by a Labour Government , who have always leave unemployment high than they find it — be it not ? it be — and I would add something else : the figure for home repossession be much high when there be a recession under the Labour Government in 2008 - 09 , in comparison with our record now , and unemployment now be much low than it be then . though we be in challenge time , the economy be turn a corner . our record compare very favourably Labour ' s . the Chancellor say last May that he be comfortable with the prospect of a recession . now that my constituent in Selby and Ainsty be suffer under that recession ' s effect , would the Minister chalk it up as a job well do ? the hon . Gentleman will do well . there be nobody on the Government Benches who welcome adverse economic situation for anybody . that be why we be do everything we can — strain every sinew — to grow the economy . all the measure I have lay out will continue , but they would be put at risk by those on his Front Bench be in office . before I come to this House , I be a director of quite a large retail group in North Norfolk . no one have make the point that in the last quarter of the year the country see Babet , Ciaran , Debi , Elin , Fergus and Gerrit — six major storm and flood . how many be there in the previous year ? absolutely none at all . will the Economic Secretary tell everybody that of course the economy will not function properly in the grip of storm and flood every fortnight ? we be not in recession , but the more we talk it up , the more we will be . I thank my hon . friend for that question — I would say that the loss of large retail group in Norfolk be the House ' s gain . his point about the international context be serious and important . although Labour member do not like to hear it , face a once - in - 100 - year pandemic and Putin ' s illegal war in Ukraine , which cause energy price to skyrocket , will have adverse impact on the economy . the country understand that and the House understand that ; the Labour Front Bench should also understand it . this recession be a direct result of the choice that this Government have make . year of potential growth have be miss , and the Government have fail particularly to capitalise on the green transition . green investment will be worth £ 1 trillion globally by 2030 , include half a million job in this country . when will the Government bring forward a green investment programme to match the one in the US or in Europe ? first , our record on decarbonisation beat anywhere else in the G7 , so we do not take lesson from the United States or any other country in that regard . in relation to the green investment plan by 2030 , the hon . Lady should direct she ire at those on the Labour Front Bench for not be clear as to what their plan be . the Leader of the Opposition say — [ interruption . ] well , it be important because politic be a contest of idea , as indeed it be a contest between two party . if Labour member believe they can spend an extra £ 28 billion without that have an impact on taxis and borrowing , they be try to pull the wool over the eye of the british people . the past couple of year have be very difficult economically , and I certainly do not treat the state of our economy as the giggle - f that Labour Members seem to be have today . over the past few week , I have meet many business in my constituency — large and small — and a number have tell I that they feel condition be get well , demand be grow and order be come back . constituent have also tell I that they have notice food price drop in our supermarket . do the Minister agree that the most damaging thing that could happen to our economy now would be for those on the Labour Benches to continue to talk our economy down ? my right hon . friend be correct that thing be start to get well for many people across the country , include small business . we have more than halve inflation , which be now down below 4 % ; we think that in the come month it will go to 2 % , which be the target . of course , once it hit that target , we hope that interest rate will also start come down , which will make a big difference to ordinary people up and down the country . I applaud the Minister ' s willingness to take on this unenviable assignment , unlike his right hon . friend . the international context that he refer to be that Japan and the UK be the only G7 country in recession . inflation in the UK , which he have refer to , be the high in the whole g7 . why be the UK economy do so much bad than comparable economy elsewhere ? the right hon . Gentleman make an interesting point , but I would say that our economy enter difficult time at a different point in the cycle from certain other economy . to fully assess the performance of all economy , we have to wait for the end of this whole period , so I would not prejudge exactly at this stage . I simply say that the difficulty we be face have affect every single economy , although the nature of different economy mean that they be affect at different time . we be put in place comprehensive growth measure and comprehensive measure to bring inflation down . I also note that UK interest rate be roughly middle - of - the - pack compare with other country of comparable size . we will keep all this under review and , at the next fiscal event , will take further measure to increase our potential growth rate over the long term . do the Minister welcome the news that the South Yorkshire Mayor have finally recognise the economic importance of Doncaster - Sheffield Airport and be at last start to use the power give to he to begin the process of get it up and run again ? do he agree that that have take far too long — it be year since the airport close — and that the South Yorkshire Mayor should have use his power year ago , rather than wait until nine week before he be re - elect ? I thank my hon . friend for point out once again what a brilliant champion he be for his constituency . I be sure his constituent have hear that comment , and that he will continue to make that point . lordy , lordy ! it be like listen to the Red Queen in " Alice through the Looking Glass " , who invent six impossible thing before breakfast ! how on earth can we have confidence in what the Minister say when the UK Statistics Authority have to tell off the Chief Secretary to the Treasury , the right hon . member for Sevenoaks ( Laura Trott ) , for make false claim about tax cut ; when Evan Davis have to school she at length and she refuse even to understand how wrong she be about debt fall as a percentage of gdp , when it be go up ; and when the Minister himself actually say that the NHS account for 42 % to 43 % of everything the Government spend , when it be only 15 % ? can he confirm one fact : these two year will see the big fall in living standard since record begin ? that be why people be go to vote the Government out , isn ' t it ? I have already explain the Chief Secretary ' s comment . in relation to my own , I be refer to current spending and not overall spending . I clarify that as well . look , there have be difficulty for so many million of people across the country and , as the hon . Gentleman know , I have never seek to minimise that from this position or from any other position in the House . we have face once - in - a - hundred - year challenge . the Government have face they and take the right action to deal with they . the cost of live support package be worth over £ 100 billion , to the tune of more than £ 3 , 700 per person . we have deal with those challenge and we have a plan now to grow the economy to grow our way out of they . I be afraid that Labour Members and the Labour Front Bench do not have that sort of plan , which be why I would not make the assumption that he make about the election . the number of those who be on long - term sickness benefit in Blackpool have increase fourfold over the last few decade . that represent an enormous loss of potential , and it be also hurt economic growth and productivity . the Government ' s propose reform in this area be to be welcome , but rather than delay they until next year , what be prevent the Government from bring they in this year ? I will take that point away . I think the hon . Gentleman be refer to the next financial year . at the next fiscal event , the Budget , the Chancellor will bear what he have say in mind . fourteen year of conservative mismanagement of the economy be have disastrous impact on work people . for example , musician be wait month to be pay because HMRC be fail to process A1 form on time for musician tour in Europe . the trade body live — live music , Industry Venues and Entertainment — tell I that in one case 26 musician , performer and sound engineer be not pay for more than three month after their tour to Spain , due to delay in process A1 form . even worse , in response to write question , I have be tell that service standard for those form will not be meet by HMRC until at least April 2024 . do the Minister agree that those delay be totally unacceptable , particularly when our musician be already have to cope with a challenging financial landscape , make bad now by the news of a recession ? I agree that we need to speed up the processing of A1 form , as the hon . Lady describe . I be sure the Treasury hear that point and I will ensure my ministerial colleague take what she say very seriously indeed . whatever spin the Government may put on it , forecast show that the economy have officially enter a recession . however , people out there have be suffer grind economic pressure for year . average energy bill be 59 % high than they be in 2022 , and more than 600 , 000 Welsh household be in fuel poverty . meanwhile , the profit of energy company such as British Gas have increase tenfold to £ 750 million . this be the Minister ' s chance to make a difference to every household . he have refer to the next fiscal event . will he act to extend and backdate the windfall tax on energy company that be currently profiteer from household everywhere ? the right hon . Lady be right that many people have have very challenging time over the last couple of year . let I correct something that I previously say to the House : the increase in real household income since 2010 be actually 8 % , while the increase in GDP per capita be 12 % . I want to put that on the record . as for taxis , I can not speculate about what will happen at the next fiscal event . accord to the forecast , in five year ' time debt will be high than it be now . be this a reasonable time to be talk about tax cut , and do their do so not suggest that the Government have learn nothing from the Budget of September 2022 ? I assure the hon . Gentleman that this Chancellor and this Government be very different from those in September 2022 to which he refer . as for debt , I repeat that we be keep to our fiscal rule , which be and have always be that debt will be fall in the fifth year of the forecast — fall , once we exclude the Bank of England . that have always be our position , and it will continue to be the case . the Minister have make no mention of the importance to the UK Treasury of North sea oil , and indeed the danger to the scottish economy of the closure of Grangemouth Refinery . give that the UK Treasury receive £ 8 billion in revenue from the North sea last year and be expect to receive £ 6 . 1 billion this year , can it not find the ten of million — not the ten of billion that it will receive in revenue — to ensure that the HydroCracker can be restart and the profitability of the refinery increase threefold ? I will take away the hon . Gentleman ' s specific point and ensure that the Treasury get back to he , but his broad point about offshore oil and gas in the North sea be very important . it be critical that we support the oil and gas sector , not just for the tax revenue but for the livelihood and prosperity of the United Kingdom , and this Government stand four - square behind it . there be overwhelming evidence that the low the economic inequality , the high economic growth will be . we know from the Office for National Statistics that between 2021 and 2022 the disposable income of the poor fifth of household shrink by 3 . 4 % while those of the rich fifth increase by 3 . 3 % , and that reflect the position in the precede 10 year . what assessment have the Minister , or the Chancellor , undertake to estimate the impact of these increase inequality on our shrink growth ? when we be talk about people at the bottom end of the income scale , it be important to note that those on the full - time national living wage — which we will be increase by the large ever amount in April this year — will be 30 % well off than they be in 2010 . news that the UK be officially in recession come as no surprise to my constituent , who have be batter by this Tory cost of living crisis . food inflation be still double the headline rate of inflation , and that be not only affect the price of the weekly shop but have a hugely negative effect on my local pub and hospitality sector , with many business on the brink . instead of their fantasyland spinning that everything be go fine , what measure will the Government introduce to bring food inflation down ? as I have say many time this afternoon , inflation be a target for this government : we aim to ensure that we continue to bring it down , and indeed we expect it to get to 2 % in the come month . in relation to food inflation specifically , at the last fiscal event we introduce full expensing , which will enable food manufacturer , supermarket and other to increase their investment hugely , because it completely net off against their tax — 100 % of the cost of their investment be net off . the impact will be increase investment that will reduce their cost and reduce the cost of food in our shop . that be one of many measure that we be introduce to reduce food inflation . the Prime Minister say he be go to grow the economy and he have obviously fail : we be now in recession . in my constituency , family and small business be under severe pressure . can the Minister possibly explain how he be go to address these very serious problem ? all I would say to the hon . Gentleman be that we be in a very challenging international context and we have perform well than the international forecast . we have high inflation , which really bedevil this economy a couple of year ago , but we have more than halve it . we have a plan to grow our way out of this , as be show by the last fiscal event , where we unveil , I think , 110 growth measure . that be our plan . the Labour Opposition do not have a plan . if this country stick with our plan , we will grow our economy significantly over the come month and year . the Minister keep try to hide behind the war in Ukraine and the impact of the pandemic , but the reality be that those be affect every country in the world . would he not admit that the exacerbate factor — the thing that have lead most to economic decline , to massive labour shortage and to rampant inflation here in the UK — be Brexit ? no , I would not . the economy be in recession and the consequence for the public finance be not the fault of those people infect and affect through the contaminated blood scandal , the large treatment disaster in the NHS . I be hope to ask the Chancellor this question , but can the Minister confirm whether money have already be ringfence to pay compensation to those people , as set out in the final recommendation on compensation by Sir Brian Langstaff in April 2023 ? I believe that the right hon . Lady ask a similar question of the Chancellor at the last Treasury question , and the Chancellor respond by say that he be absolutely clear about the need to compensate people in the way that she have describe . he will update the House in due course and indeed update she with further detail in response to her question . the Prime Minister have fail to get growth and industry have completely lose confidence in this Government . with project cancel , HS2 cancel , Building Schools for the future cancel , hospital never build and an absolute failure to bring down high energy price , it be no wonder that business investment forecast be down . with the US and the EU incentivising investment , what be the Minister now go to do to get the investment we need in the green manufacturing industry of the future ? to increase investment we bring in full expensing at the last fiscal event , which should represent an increase over the forecast period of £ 14 billion of investment and deal with the chronic weakness of our economy over generation . that be what we be do to increase investment . in relation to green investment in particular , what we be not do be have a huge unfunded £ 28 billion plan — or maybe now it be not Labour ' s plan ; maybe it be a secret plan or maybe the Labour Front Benchers have stop their plan . we have a responsible cost plan to increase investment ; the opposition do not have one . let ' s try this again . public sector net debt be set to rise from 89 % of gdp this year to 92 . 8 % of gdp in 2028 - 29 , accord to the most recent Office for Budget Responsibility forecast . in case the Minister do not understand , that number be high than today ' s . the Prime Minister promise to reduce debt , but it be increase . the plan isn ' t working , be it ? the Prime Minister and the whole Government be commit to reduce debt as we get to the end of this economic forecast period , which be what we be do . the Minister ' s rosy picture of the economy show a complete lack of awareness of what be actually go on in this country . he claim that the Labour party be somehow a risk to growth , but it be his party that have take the country into recession . that show a complete lack of self - awareness , too . that be the nub of the matter . we be in a recession , yet the Chancellor be nowhere to be see . I would have think this be important enough for he to be here to answer question . give that grow the economy be yet another of the Prime Minister ' s pledge that have not be meet , who do the Minister think should carry the can for this failure : the Prime Minister or the Chancellor ? I will have to take the hon . Gentleman ' s criticism of my self - awareness on the chin , but his broad point be serious . he be ask whether the Government and I be light - hearted or think that everything in the economy be absolutely fantastic , but it be not . that be why we have take the measure that we have . it be why we cut tax for work people , begin in January . it be why we be increase business investment . it be why we have a more than £ 100 - billion package of cost of live support , because we know how much many ordinary people in this country be suffer . and it be why we be try to grow our economy overall , because that will result in great prosperity for the country and more money for our public service . the Labour party put all that at risk . the Government be fail . an 81 - year - old constituent tell I that he can not remember the economy and living standard ever be this bad . can the Minister not see that , under his government , Britain be bad off ? I do not agree with the hon . Lady . I will not repeat everything I just say to the hon . member for Ellesmere Port and Neston ( Justin Madders ) , but this Government and this Treasury be stick to our plan for growth . that be all put at risk by the Labour party . the Office for Budget Responsibility assess Boris Johnson ' s trade and co - operation agreement , which set out the trading relationship between the UK and the EU , at the beginning of last year , and it say that the TCA have reduce long - run productivity by 4 % . why do the Minister think that be ? we build on the trade and co - operation agreement through the Windsor framework , and the opposition do not propose to change it . indeed , the TCA be fundamental to the stability of our relationship with the European Union , and I do not think the country would benefit from unpick it once again . I thank the Minister for all his answer . the question have not be easy . the Office for National Statistics have reveal that there be a 0 . 3 % decline in GDP between October and December 2023 . give that the strength of the economy be , and still be , the subject of one of the Prime Minister ' s pledge , what step be the Minister take to reverse this decline , and to re - instil confidence in the Government ' s economic plan ? I have already lay out the step that we be take , and there be a critical need to make sure that all the region of our country benefit from those step . that be one of the reason why we put so much effort and focus into investment zone over the last couple of year . we hope that these investment zone will continue to increase growth in the economy , not only at a macro level , but for people in every region of this country — particularly in Northern Ireland and the other region that perhaps do not benefit from this country ' s previous growth . we be committed to strengthen that regionally . Post Office Governance and Horizon Compensation Schemes with permission , Mr Speaker , I shall make a statement about Post office governance and the Horizon compensation scheme . over the weekend , several serious allegation be make against the Government , my Department and its official by Henry Staunton , the former chair of the Post Office . the allegation be completely false , and I would like to make a statement to the House so that hon . member and the british public know the truth about exactly what have happen . I would like to address three specific claim that Mr Staunton make in his Sunday Times interview — claim that be patently untrue . first , Mr Staunton allege that I refuse to apologise to he after he learn of his dismissal from Sky News . that be not the case . in the call he reference , I make it abundantly clear that I disapprove of the medium break any aspect of the story . out of respect for Henry Staunton ' s reputation , I go to great pain to make my concern about his conduct private . in fact , in my interview with the press , I repeatedly say that I refuse to carry out hr in public . that be why it be so disappointing that he have choose to spread a series of falsehood , provide make - up anecdote to journalist and leak discussion hold in confidence . all that merely confirm in my mind that I make the correct decision in dismiss he . secondly , Mr Staunton claim that I tell he that " someone ' s get to take the rap " for the Horizon scandal , and that be the reason for his dismissal . that be not the reason at all . I dismiss he because there be serious concern about his behaviour as chair , include those raise by other director on the board . my Department find significant governance issue . for example , a public appointment process be under way for a new senior independent director to the Post Office board , but Mr Staunton apparently want to bypass it and appoint someone from the board without due process . he fail to properly consult the Post Office board on the proposal ; he fail to hold the require nomination committee ; and , most importantly , he fail to consult the government , as a shareholder , which the company be require to do . I know that hon . member will agree with I that such a cavalier approach to governance be the last thing we need in the Post Office , give its historical failing . I should also inform the House that while Mr Staunton be in post , a formal investigation be launch into allegation make regard his conduct , include serious matter such as bully . concern be bring to my Department ' s attention about Mr Staunton ' s willingness to co - operate with that investigation . it be right that the british public should know the fact behind the case , and what be say in the phone call in which I dismiss Mr Staunton . official from my Department be on the line ; the call be minuted , and a read - out be send after it take place . today , I be deposit a copy of that read - out in both Libraries of the House , so that hon . member and the public can see the truth . in those minute , personal information relate to other Post Office employee have be redact . for all those reason , an interim chair will be appoint shortly , and I will , of course , update the House when we have further detail . finally , Mr Staunton claim that when he be first appoint as chair of the Post Office , he be tell by a senior civil servant to stall on pay compensation . there be no evidence whatsoever that that be true . in fact , on become Post Office chair , Mr Staunton receive a letter from the permanent secretary of the Department for Business , Energy and Industrial Strategy , Sarah Munby , on 9 December 2022 , welcome he to his role and make it crystal clear that successfully reach settlement with victim of the Post Office scandal should be one of his high priority . that letter be in the public domain . the word be there in black and white , and copy of the correspondence will be place in the Libraries of both Houses . the reality be that my Department have do everything it can to speed up compensation payment for victim . we have already make payment total £ 160 million across all three compensation scheme . that include our announcement last autumn of the optional £ 600 , 000 fix - sum award for those who have be wrongfully convict . it be the strong refutation of those in this House who would claim that we act only after the ITV drama , " Mr Bates vs the Post Office " , be show . british people should know that a dedicated team of Ministers and civil servant have be work around the clock for many month to hasten the pursuit of justice , and bring swift , fair redress to all those affect . to that end , I be pleased that all 2 , 417 postmaster who claim through the original Horizon shortfall scheme have now have offer of compensation . the Post Office be deal promptly with late application and case where the initial offer have not be accept . my Department have also establish the Horizon compensation unit to ensure that money get to the right people without a moment ' s delay . last autumn , we announce an additional £ 150 million to the Post Office , specifically to help it meet the cost of participate in the Post Office - Horizon inquiry and deliver compensation to postmaster . in all , we have commit around £ 1 billion to ensure that wrong postmaster can be fully and fairly compensate , and through forthcoming legislation , we be take unprecedented step to quash the conviction of postmaster affect by the Horizon scandal . in short , we be put our money where our mouth be , and our shoulder to the wheel to ensure that justice be do . it be not fair on the victim of this scandal , which have already ruin so many life and livelihood , to claim , as Mr Staunton have do , that thing be be drag out a second long than they ought to be . for Henry Staunton to suggest otherwise , for whatever personal motive , be a disgrace , and it risk damage confidence in the compensation scheme that Ministers and civil servant be work so hard to deliver . I would hope that most people read the interview in yesterday ' s Sunday Times would see it for what it be : a blatant attempt to seek revenge follow dismissal . I must say that I regret the way in which these event have unfold . we do everything that we could to manage this dismissal in a dignified way for Mr Staunton and other . however , I will not hesitate to defend myself and , more importantly , my official , who can not respond directly to these baseless attack . right now , the Post Office ' s no . 1 priority must be deliver compensation to postmaster who have not already be compensate . there be those who fall victim to a faulty it system that the Post Office implement , and that it turn a blind eye to when brave whistleblower such as Alan Bates sound the alarm . we say that the Government would leave no stone unturned in uncover the truth behind the Horizon scandal , and in pursue justice for the victim and their family . we be deliver on that promise , while look for any further possible step that we can take to ensure the full and final settlement of claim as quickly as possible . it be right that we reflect , too , on the cultural practice at the Post Office that allow the Horizon scandal to happen in the first place . it be a culture that let those in the high rank of the organisation arbitrarily dismiss the very real concern of the sub - postmaster who be the lifeblood of their business and pillar of the local community . although the Post Office may have fail to stand by its postmaster in the past , we be ensure that it do everything that it can to champion they today , and to foster an environment that respect their employee and their customer . that be how we will rebuild trust and ensure that the british public can have confidence in our Post Office , now and in the future . I commend this statement to the House . I firmly agree that the revelation in the Sunday Times at the weekend could not be more serious . in particular , if true , the claim that the Post Office be instruct to deliberately go slow on compensation payment to sub - postmaster in order to push the financial liability into the next Parliament would be a far outrageous insult in a scandal that have already rock faith in the fairness of the british state . if that be the case , it can not be allow to stand , and if it be not , it must be show to be false in no uncertain term . we have two completely contrast account : one from the former chair of the Post Office , and one from the Secretary of State . only one of they can be the truth . I hope that we be all in agreement that Parliament be the correct place for these matter to be raise and clarify . what we need now be transparency and scrutiny . will the Secretary of State categorically state that the Post Office be at no point tell to delay compensation payment by either an official or a Minister from any Government Department , and that at no point be it suggest that a delay would be of benefit to the Treasury ? will there be a Cabinet Office investigation to ensure that no such instruction or inference be give at any point ? crucially , be the £ 1 billion figure for compensation , which the Secretary of State helpfully just repeat , already allocate , and sit in the account of the Department for Business and Trade , ready to be pay ? if it be not , will compensation payment be specifically itemise in the upcoming Budget ? the Secretary of State will also understand that follow the story at the weekend , victim of other scandal — especially of the contaminated blood scandal — feel that they need to ask whether they have be the victim of deliberate inaction . will the Government provide assurance that no such obstruction have be place on any payment of this kind ? if so , can they explain what the delay be in some case ? in the full interest of transparency , and to fully ascertain the veracity of any allegation for sub - postmaster and the general public , will she publish all relevant correspondence , and minute of meeting between the Department , the Treasury , UK Government Investments and the Post Office during this time ? finally , when can we expect the legislation on exoneration that be promise by the Prime Minister ? I can not stress enough that the last thing that be need in this scandal be any further allegation of cover - up or obfuscation at the very top of Government . People ' s faith in Government , already damage by scandal such as Hillsborough , Bloody Sunday and Windrush , be hang by a thread . this miscarriage of justice have show the devastation that can occur when institution be allow to operate without oversight or be shroud in secrecy . we should all agree that that secrecy must end , and that the full sunlight of public scrutiny should be bring to bear . if everything the Secretary of State have tell we today be correct , surely there will be no objection to that happen fully . I welcome the tone that the shadow Front - Bench spokesman have take . there be often a tendency for political point scoring , but I think we both agree that this be very much about the postmaster . that be why I ensure that I be at the Dispatch Box : so that people would know the truth . that be what build trust . the shadow Minister ask whether I would categorically state that no instruction be give to delay payment . yes , I can . we have no evidence whatever that any official say that . if such a thing be say , it be for Mr Staunton to bring the evidence . it be very hard to refute a negative . People make wild , baseless accusation and then demand proof that they do not happen be make mischief , in my view . as far as I have see , all the evidence point to the fact that no one give that instruction . it be also important to look at whether it would even make sense to do so . there would be no benefit whatever to our delay the compensation , which have no significant impact on revenue . it would be a mad thing even to suggest . the compensation scheme , which Mr Staunton oversaw , have be complete . my understanding be that 100 % of payment have be make , so clearly no such instruction be give . the hon . Gentleman mention the infected blood inquiry . this be a good example of how people lose faith in the system because of misinformation . that be why I be here to correct the record . the hon . Gentleman ask about the £ 1 billion allocation . we give monthly report that show exactly what payment be be make . he also ask whether we will publish correspondence . no , we will not publish in full all correspondence between Departments , UKGI and the Post Office . that be because we set up the statutory inquiry , which will examine the important issue relate to the Horizon scandal , as well as current governance arrangement . we be fully co - operate with the inquiry , but the inquiry be set up by Parliament specifically to look at that . in addition to the read - out of the true content of my telephone call with Mr Staunton , we will consider publish correspondence between Departments and Mr Staunton in accordance with freedom of information rule , so that people will know exactly what happen , contrary to his account . the hon . Gentleman ask about legislation . that be something that we be actively work on . I expect that we will be able to deliver on that imminently . when I be the postal affair Minister , the official in my team not only share my drive to get the money out of the door — life - change money for postmaster — but be energise and empower to do so . I can not believe for a minute that just a few month later they would be do and think the polar opposite . clearly , they can not defend themselves in public , so will my right hon . friend confirm that conversation about collude to slow down the compensation do not happen ? it be important that we double down and get more money out of the door as soon as possible . I pay tribute to my hon . friend for all his fantastic work as the postal affair Minister , and I can confirm that . my official have look through all the correspondence , and all the minute of the conversation that Mr Staunton have with the Department . they find absolutely nothing , and he do not raise the matter in his call with I . if it be something that official have say to he , surely he would have mention it to Ministers — either myself or the postal affair Minister , my hon . friend the Member for Thirsk and Malton ( Kevin Hollinrake ) . the fact that Mr Staunton do not do so show that it be quite likely something that he be make up . I call the SNP spokesperson . I be at a loss today : another Monday , another Post Office scandal . I have try very hard to pull together my thought on the statement , what be say in the Sunday Times , and what be say in this place less than two week ago when I lead a Backbench Business debate on the culture of Post Office management . I will ask the Secretary of State a few question . will she place on the record whether Nick Read write to the Justice Secretary last month defend the conviction , say that some postmaster be guilty ? that be a serious allegation , and I would really like to have an answer . there have be talk all morning about damage confidence in the compensation scheme . if there be confidence in they , can the Secretary of State explain why so many lead sub - postmaster affect by the scandal be give such derisory offer , month and month late ? that be just not on . the Secretary of State can not say that Henry Staunton damage the compensation scheme ; it be down to the Government and Post Office Ltd . be the Secretary of State aware that Post Office Ltd still employ 40 investigator who secure conviction ? I agree with what the hon . member for Stalybridge and Hyde ( Jonathan Reynolds ) say : exoneration must be hurry up and compensation must be pay soon rather than later . I have say that every month for the last nine month . the hon . Lady ask multiple question . the first be about a letter write by Nick Read , Post Office ' s chief executive , to the Justice Secretary . what I can say be that UKGI and Post Office Ltd have both vehemently deny that Nick Read be put under any pressure to write the letter she refer to . on the risk of make a decision on blanket exoneration , the postal affair Minister , my hon . friend the Member for Thirsk and Malton ( Kevin Hollinrake ) , have say repeatedly that we have be face with a dilemma : either to accept the present problem of many people carry the unjustified slur of conviction , or to accept that an unknown number of people who have genuinely steal from their post office will be exonerate and perhaps even compensate . that be the case , and it be certainly what the Government believe . what she say about people be put under pressure to write a letter be something that ukgi and Post Office Ltd have both vehemently deny . the hon . Lady repeat Mr Staunton ' s allegation , but I have already give a statement say that they be completely false . she ask about individual case of people who have be pay . I can not comment on individual case , but I would like to clarify that the main scheme in place under Henry Staunton ' s watch be the Horizon shortfall scheme . some 2 , 417 people be make offer within the original deadline . one hundred per cent have receive offer , but 84 % have accept offer . I just want to clarify my previous comment . on the 40 prosecutor still work for Post Office , I have have multiple people give different bit of information . the inquiry be look at that and will get to the bottom of it . will the Secretary of State review the governance of ukgi ? how do it manage to preside over the Post Office with its dreadful treatment of sub - postmaster ? how do UKGI allow senior Post Office manager to rack up and accumulate loss of £ 1 , 390 million , effectively bankrupt the Post Office so that it can now trade only if it have the reassurance of massive cash infusion from the Treasury on a continue basis ? surely this body have do very badly , and we need a well answer . that be one of the reason why we have be make personnel change in this area . it go back to the point I be make in the statement : Post Office need an effective chair . until the day I have the conversation dismiss he , I never have any correspondence from Mr Staunton about difficulty that he be have with UKGI . if he be have difficulty , he should have tell I , rather than give an interview to the Sunday Times effectively state that he have no control over the organisation that he have be appoint to run . the Secretary of State say we have to accept that Henry Staunton ' s accusation be completely false . the letter that Nick Read write to the Lord Chancellor about overturn conviction mention that about 300 people be possibly go to be " guilty " . she have just tell the House that the investment body do not instruct he to do that . Henry Staunton say he do not tell Post Office to write the letter , and the board do not know about it , so who do ? for the sake of openness and transparency , she should produce all correspondence between UKGI and Post Office . the Secretary of State have accuse Henry Staunton of lie in public . the only way we can judge whether she be tell the truth be if we have all the information out there . can I just say to the Secretary of State , in relation to her obsession with tweeting , that although she say that people be jump " on the bandwagon " , some of we have be involve in this for many year on a cross - party basis , include through work with her colleague the Under - Secretary of State for Business and Trade , the hon . member for Thirsk and Malton ( Kevin Hollinrake ) , so that be quite insulting . what message will the Secretary of State ' s tone today send to sub - postmaster ? I will tell she : more cover - up and obfuscation . get the information out there and explain what be go on . otherwise , she will not have their trust . it will just be more of the same that we have see over many , many year . I completely reject the right hon . Gentleman ' s assertion . this be the political point scoring that I talk about early , which we just need to stop . rather than focus on the issue , he be talk about my tweeting . maybe he should get off Twitter and actually listen to what I be say at the Dispatch Box . he be talk about a letter that UKGI say it do not ask Nick Read to write . the only possible answer be that Nick Read himself decide to write that letter . I do not ask he to write it , the Post Office say that it do not , and UKGI do not . these be the sort of thing I be talk about — continue to make aspersion about Ministers . we have make the Post Office an independent body , we have an independent inquiry , and the information will come out in due course . there be no doubt that there be a bad culture in the Post Office for a very long time . it mislead a significant number of Ministers , who , to put it gently , could have be more inquire over the year . have my right hon . friend have time to reflect on the word of the non - executive member of the board represent the postmaster , who say that only day before she sack the chairman , there be still a culture in which they be view as guilty and on the take ? if that sack have bring compensation to those people , who be traumatise and mislead by the Post Office , and who have their life destroy , her decision will go down as a very welcome one . I agree with my right hon . friend . the comment by the member of the board who be former postmaster be very interesting . they be say exactly what I be say : that Henry Staunton be not do a good job as Post Office chair . that lead I back to the point make by the right hon . member for North Durham ( Mr Jones ) , who be more interested in attack the Government than in look at what even the member of the board be say . it be important that we continue to give confidence to people that those organisation be run properly . that be the reason for the dismissal . have support constituent in negotiation in relation to the historical shortfall scheme , I can tell the Secretary of State that , whatever the reason for it , the conduct of the Post Office and its agent be characterise by delay and obstruction . that , in turn , lead to the view take hold among sub - postmaster that there be no point in make claim . since the ITV drama air , I have hear of several constituent make belate claim . what more be the Government do to ensure that everybody out there who may have a claim be able to receive compensation ? the right hon . Gentleman ' s question be a good one . the fix - sum award show that we be take the matter very seriously . I become Business Secretary in February last year , and my one priority be to ensure that people get their compensation as quickly as possible . I do everything that I possibly could , with the Minister with responsibility for the Post Office , my hon . friend the Member for Thirsk and Malton ( Kevin Hollinrake ) , whom I thank for his tireless effort . he have be look at the portfolio before I get the job as Business Secretary , and I know that the work be in safe hand . we have work together as a team , fight cross - departmentally to ensure that people get the compensation that they deserve , and bring in legislation just before December — well before the ITV drama . the case that the right hon . Gentleman raise be important , as they show that there be still a lot of work to do , and we will continue do it . give the Post Office ' s track record with accuracy , I be very glad that we have hear from the Secretary of State — I would rather take her assurance at the Dispatch Box than anything from a disgruntled , sack former employee of the Post Office . even during last week ' s recess , I still have constituent come to I say that they be affect by the Horizon scandal , so can the Secretary of State assure the people watch that the process be very quick and simple ? People who still feel that they lose money during that horrendous period need to keep come forward , because there be an easy process : they can fill in a form to make sure their voice be hear and that they get compensation . my hon . friend be quite right . I thank he for raise this issue , and also for the work he have do — as a former postmaster , he know quite a lot about what have be go on . I reassure all of the people who have be affect by this scandal that it be something we take very seriously . when I become Business Secretary , I be absolutely horrify by the sheer scale of trauma that people have be go through . we want people to continue come forwards ; where they be not happy with the process , we will look at it again , but there be a formal process in place to ensure that all postmaster can be treat fairly , equally and equitably . the allegation of limp towards the general election in relation to delay compensation payment to postmaster mirror the Government ' s behaviour towards the infected blood scandal . they have have the final recommendation for that compensation since April 2023 , with no action have be take , so it seem to I that there be a pattern of behaviour : the Government act only when they be force or shame into do so . with the infected blood scandal , we have be tell repeatedly by Ministers that the Government be work at pace . what that really mean be that they be limp at pace , be they not ? no , no , and no . it be a shame that the right hon . Lady stand up in the Chamber and say that the Government act only when we be force to do so , because she know that we bring legislation to this House well before the ITV drama . she know about the Horizon shortfall scheme , the group litigation order payment and the overturned conviction . she be try to mix this issue up with the infected blood inquiry , know that I have just prove that the allegation make by Mr Staunton be completely false . I have say that minute will be put on the record showing that this be not an issue that Labour want to look at beyond political point scoring . I will not stand at this Dispatch Box and allow that to happen . at the weekend , leak to newspaper appear to show really poor embed practice at the Post Office board , use language about our postmaster be " on the take " or " guilty " . what be my right hon . friend do to clean up the act ? my hon . friend make a very good point . that be why we need effective leadership at the Post Office ; and it be why I take the decision to dismiss Mr Staunton , among the other issue I have cover in this statement . we need people who care , and one of the thing that worry I be that because Mr Staunton have decide to have revenge in the paper , it be go to be even hard for we to find people who will come in and do this very difficult job . I hope they will not be put off by the misinformation that have be in the paper . I thank the Secretary of State for her prompt statement , and for lay out her version of event about the dismissal of Mr Staunton , the Post Office chairman . we have to accept her statement from the Dispatch Box , but I take exception to one point she make . she say that there be no evidence of stall on compensation , but that evidence come from the experience of my own constituent , Mr and Mrs Rudkin — their evidence to I be fundamental in unravel this whole Post Office Horizon scandal . Susan Rudkin ' s criminal conviction be overturn in December 2020 — she be one of the first nine . when I speak to Mr and Mrs Rudkin only a few week ago , over three year after that conviction be overturn , they still have not receive their compensation . if that be not evidence of stall , what be ? I can not comment on that specific case , because I do not have the detail , but a fix sum award be available should Mr and Mrs Rudkin wish to take it . there be a process and we will move as quickly as we can . I can not speak specifically about why there have be that delay , but we be do everything we can to get the money out to the postmaster as quickly as possible . I have a once - proud former postmaster in my constituency , who run the post office in Swanage . he fall foul of this scandal and be sack , not prosecute . his life be utterly ruin and he repay the money that be owe . that be many year ago , but his wife be now very ill and he have still not have compensation . may I make two point ? first , his lawyer tell I that the compensation scheme be take too long . secondly , may I ask the Secretary of State for an assurance that he will not be brush off financially simply because he be not prosecute ? the life of this man and his wife have be utterly ruin . I know exactly the sort of people my hon . friend be talk about , and it be really awful to hear about everything they have be through . I have a constituent who have talk to I about how this scandal have ruin her life . we owe it to they to do everything we can to ensure that they be fully compensate , and I can assure he that Ministers and official be work on this every day . I know it be not always as quick as people would like , but we want to ensure that it be do properly and that there be no issue follow that . I do not have the specific detail of that case , but they can apply to the Horizon shortfall scheme , and if my hon . friend bring it to the attention of the postal affair Minister , we will look at it specifically . minister have promise that the Government will bring in a new law to swiftly exonerate and compensate victim , so can the Secretary of State tell I why my constituent Chris Head have be offer only 13 % of his compensation claim ? how can sub - postmaster trust the Government or the Post Office to deliver full and fair compensation when they be still face so much pushback on their compensation claim and receive offer that go nowhere near financial restoration , let alone compensation for the injustice ? can I quickly add that the Secretary of State ' s suggestion that the Government would have act in the same way have the ITV drama not be show be think to be completely unbelievable by most , and none more so than by the sub - postmaster themselves ? the fact be that when we take the legislation through the House in December , the Opposition Benches be empty . opposition Members be the one who decide to take a more keen interest after the drama ; we have be work flat out . I do not have the specific detail of her constituent ' s case , as she know , but I will continue to repeat what I have say , which be that where people have not receive compensation , we can look at that . there be a process , and there be also an independent panel they can appeal to , but the vast majority of people who have be get offer be take they . too often , quango boss be reward for failure and can walk away with big payout , and it would be a disgrace for the man who have do so little to get compensation for postmaster to get any himself . can the Secretary of State confirm that she will block any such payment ? there will be no payment to Henry Staunton . I think the public squabble at the weekend far undermine people ' s confidence in what be go to happen and in the Government ' s assurance about compensate the people affect by the Post Office scandal . I tend to believe the view of the Secretary of State , simply because the record of Post Office official try to cover up , pass the buck and cause confusion be on the record , and we know what they be do . however , the fact remain that there be still people who have not have any offer of compensation , there be still £ 1 billion that have not be spend in compensation , and there be still people whose case have not even be consider . be not the good way of answer Henry Staunton for the Government to get on with the job and ensure that compensation be pay quickly , and for people to get the compensation they deserve ? the right hon . Gentleman be quite right . as I say early , 64 % of people have receive compensation , and we want to get that to 100 % as quickly as possible . however , we want to ensure that people get the right amount and be compensate fairly , and that be why we have the process , include a point of appeal if they be unhappy with the offer . the point the right hon . Gentleman make right at the beginning of his question be correct . the point make in the newspaper do undermine the work that we be do . it be very disappointing to read those statement . it be also disappointing because I have do everything I could to try and keep this out of the news and do it behind closed door , properly . I make sure when I give public statement that I say I would not do hr in public . when I find out that it have be leak to Sky News , I even call Sky News and ask — one of my assistant ask — for that not to be put out in the public domain before I have have a chance to speak to Henry Staunton . I do the same with the Daily Mail , which thankfully do listen . we also need the medium to help we in this and not publish false allegation . I be absolutely stagger that the Labour party now seem to be come out in support of the disgrace Post Office management team — the same management team that oversee the wrongful imprisonment of postmaster across the country , with hundred of conviction . do my right hon . friend agree that , when push come to shove , that lot over there would take the side of the grifter , not the grafter ? as my hon . Friend say , the Post Office leadership oversee wrongful conviction . that be one of the reason why we have have multiple change , and this be just the late to ensure that we get the right leadership in place . [ interruption . ] I know that some Opposition Members be deal with this properly , but we can see from the heckling that many of they come here think that they could score political point , and I be not allow that to happen . many member be of course angry and impatient about try to get compensation and exoneration for all of the postmaster as soon as possible . if we be all honest , we as a whole Parliament should have be much more impatient much early . there be some rare exception to that , include my right hon . friend the Member for North Durham ( Mr Jones ) , who speak early , and obviously member on the Government side of the House as well . may I just clarify something about the process of Mr Staunton ' s dismissal ? as I understand it , he find out about it from Sky News . I think the Secretary of State just add a piece of information , which be that she then rang Sky News , before ring he I think , to try and get they to stop run it . so she know that this have already be leak to Sky News , presumably from somebody in her Department . what investigation do she go through to find out who leak it , and be that person still in post , because otherwise one might just worry that it might have be she herself who leak it ? I know that someone would ask that question . I in fact have evidence to show that I ask Sky News not to run the story . of course I do not leak it — because if I have , that would have create legal risk if Mr Staunton have find out on the news before I have have a chance to speak to he . we have no idea how Sky News find out the information — several thousand people work in the Department for Business and Trade , and many more work at the Post Office and UK Government Investments . [ interruption . ] the hon . member for Rhondda ( Sir Chris Bryant ) be heckle , but the point I be make be that leak be incredibly damaging and harmful ; they create legal risk for the Department . I do not do so ; I make multiple effort with at least two medium outlet to make sure that they do not create problem for Mr Staunton , and it be one of the reason why it be very disappointing to see what he do in the Sunday Times at the weekend . to be honest , I be afraid I do not think that the Business Secretary and her statement have help we to get close to the truth in this situation ; it be a question of the Secretary of State ' s version of event and the former chairman ' s version of event . for clarity , and to try to draw a line under this and get to the truth , be the Secretary of State willing to refer herself to the ethic adviser ? I think that be a ridiculous assertion , and from someone who clearly do not listen to the statement . the difference between what I be say and what Mr Staunton be say be that I have official who will back I up , I have member of the Post Office board who will back I up , and I have newspaper and medium outlet that know that I try to stop the story . the fact be that the hon . Lady just want to believe Mr Staunton ' s allegation because that help Labour politically , but they be not true . they need to listen to the truth and stop hope for lie ; that be not what our job be in this House . if Henry Staunton be guilty of what the Secretary of State have accuse he , it beggar belief that he be appoint only two year ago by this Government . may I ask she about Post Office investigation ? I have yet another constituent who have come forward who be force to sign a non - disclosure agreement by the Post Office and who have not be fully compensate for what they lose when they lose their business . be it acceptable for the Post Office still to be involve with investigation , give how discredit those be ? how can the victim of this scandal have any confidence whatever in the process that the Post Office be involve with ? the way we have be deal with this issue at the Dispatch Box , the work that the inquiry have carry out and our commitment to look at individual case and ensure that the process be work out properly be how the postmaster will have confidence in the system . in recent week , I have meet with a number of constituent who be former sub - postmaster and who have explain the terrible impact that this scandal have have on their life . although they be not convict by the Post Office , they have to pay large sum of money for shortfall that frankly do not exist . can the Secretary of State confirm that the Government ' s expectation be that those people will be compensate not only for the money they pay , but the financial and personal harm that this scandal cause in their life ? that be definitely what we be try to do . no one should be in a bad position than they be in before the scandal happen . where we can provide additional compensation , we will be able to do so , and that be what the process be set up to do . many of we will be concern about the Department that oversee employment right be one where thousand of people know that somebody be about to be sack before they do . we would agree with the Secretary of State that the process be about give the public confidence that when wrong come to light , they will be right . the challenge she face be that the track record of recent decade be not good . it be not just about the Horizon scandal , but the nuclear veteran , Windrush , the Women against State Pension Inequality Campaign , the infected blood scandal and Grenfell . time and again , it be the compensation scheme that become the story and a source of injustice . rather than take to Twitter , would it not be the right rejoinder for she to become the first Secretary of State to say , " we should put the management of compensation scheme involve Government out to an independent body so that everyone can have confidence " ? I be sure she would find support from Opposition Members for that . first , I have not say that thousand of people know that Henry Staunton be be sack ; I say that there be thousand of people who work in the Department , and it could have be anybody who put that out there . it be important that we stick to what have be say on the record . the hon . Lady mention that these scandal go over decade , and I remind she that the Horizon scandal start under a Labour Government ; it be this Government who be begin to fix it . on the shortcoming of the Horizon scheme , I raise with the Secretary of State the case of my constituent Mr Pennington , a sub - postmaster for 20 year , who go through 10 year of financial distress pay back shortfall amount generate by error in the Horizon system . the poorly design Horizon scheme have pay back only part of the shortfall of possibly £ 100 , 000 — and only a paltry £ 1 , 500 for 10 year of financial stress and worry . I write to the postal affair Minister four week ago and have not have a response . when will the shortcoming of the Horizon scheme be review , so that sub - postmaster such as Mr Pennington receive full — not part — compensation for all those year of distress ? the hon . Lady be right to raise that matter . we be aware of the problem . we be work with the advisory board to see how we can fix it and ensure that people get proper compensation . I have just be tell by the postal affair Minister that the letter she be expect should be with she shortly . I thank the Secretary of State for her statement . she will be aware that many post office branch have close in recent year , include the Clapham Common post office in my constituency , which be due to close on 6 March . in her statement , she say : " right now , the Post Office ' s no . 1 priority must be deliver compensation to postmaster " . do she agree that million of pound spend on the Post Office try to pay innocent sub - postmaster would have be well spend on ensure that we keep our vital post office up and down the country ? I thank the hon . Lady for her tireless work campaign to save Clapham post office ; I know she have have many meeting with the postal affair Minister . we should be able both to keep post office open and to compensate . as this be a genuine national scandal , the exoneration of sub - postmaster with criminal conviction require that they be treat equally , with a share speedy and common approach , across the UK . both I and the recently reappointe Justice Minister in Northern Ireland have write to Ministers ask for Northern Ireland to be include in the forthcoming legislation . however , I understand that the Government be currently not minded to do that with the devolved administration . will the Secretary of State confirm that Northern Ireland will be part of that legislation , which I hope will be bring forward soon ? the hon . Gentleman will know that Stormont be now up and run , and that we will be have conversation with devolved government on the good way to resolve this . we do not have an answer now , but we be aware of the issue and be work on it . the report on the weekend be extremely alarming , give how sub - postmaster have be treat in recent year . on the obvious question , can the Secretary of State give any assurance or guarantee that the compensation will be pay and take forward before the general election be call ? that surely be what sub - postmaster would ask for , and it be the least that they deserve . that be absolutely the right thing to do . I thank the hon . gentleman for his question , because it give I another opportunity to restate that the very idea that compensation would be delay until after the election be complete nonsense . it do not even make political sense . we want to ensure that people get their money as quickly as possible . I thank the Secretary of State for her positive answer . across the United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland , hundred of postmaster and postmistress be still await compensation for these wrongdoing . while it be understand that this be a sensitive subject for many , will she provide an update on the expect timescale for compensation of everyone who be entitle across the United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland ? the fact of the matter be , some people have wait two year , three year and long , and it really can not go on . the hon . Gentleman be right : it can not go on . I want to see everyone get their money as quickly as possible . by the end of this year , everybody should have receive it . that be certainly what I be work towards . death of Alexei Navalny with permission , I would like to update the House on the death of Alexei Navalny . I be sure that I speak for the whole House in send our deep condolence to Mr Navalny ' s family , friend and supporter . we be appal at the news of his death . Mr Navalny dedicate his life , with great bravery , to expose corruption . he call for free and fair politic and hold the Kremlin to account . he be an inspiration to million , and many Russians feel that he give they a voice . the russian authority see he as a threat . President Putin fear even to speak his name . Putin ' s Russia imprison he on fabricate charge , poison he and send he to an arctic penal colony . Mr Navalny be a man of huge courage and iron will . even from his remote prison cell , he persist in advocate for the right of the russian people . no one should doubt the dreadful nature of the russian system . year of mistreatment at the hand of the state have a serious effect on Mr Navalny ' s health . his death must be investigate fully and transparently . the russian authority must urgently confirm the location of Mr Navalny ' s body to his family and allow they access to it . on Friday , the Foreign , Commonwealth and Development Office summon the russian ambassador to express our outrage at Mr Navalny ' s death . we make it clear that we hold the russian authority fully responsible . as the Foreign Secretary say over the weekend , those responsible must be " hold to account " . I assure the House that we be work at pace to explore all option . as a mark of respect , the Foreign Secretary and his G7 counterpart begin their meeting on Saturday with a minute ' s silence in honour of Mr Navalny . our ambassador in Moscow lay flower at the memorial to victim of political repression on Saturday . the ideal for which Mr Navalny stand and die will live forever . I call the shadow Minister . I be grateful to the Minister for advance sight of his statement . this weekend , my right hon . friend the Leader of the Opposition and the shadow Foreign Secretary attend the Munich Security Conference and hear Yulia Navalnaya , Alex Navalny ' s wife , speak with remarkable courage and conviction in a moment of utter personal grief . I share the Minister ' s comment , and I be sure that the whole House will join we in send our deep condolence to she and her family . the death of Alexei Navalny be shocking yet cruelly predictable . let we be crystal clear : one person above all other bear the overwhelming responsibility for his death and should be hold accountable . Alexei Navalny be yet another victim of the oppressive system that Putin have build , of which he be such a potent critic . he be not a saint but he fight relentlessly , optimistically and with good humour against the corruption and kleptocracy of modern Russia . the last few year of his life be a profile of courage . after an assassination attempt with a chemical weapon , there would have be no shame at all in seek a quiet life . instead , he choose to return not just to the fray but to Russia . he know exactly what he would face , but Alexei Navalny believe relentlessly and indefatigably in a different Russia that could be , in his word , not only free but happy . he once write from prison : " everything will be all right . and , even if it isn ' t , we ' ll have the consolation of have live honest life . " Alexei Navalny ' s courage , his campaign against corruption and his dream of a democratic Russia will live on in those brave Russians who continue to speak up . Russia ' s invasion of Ukraine be an illegal act of aggression . Navalny call it a stupid war build on lie . it have be devastating for Ukraine , but also for Russia , which edge far into darkness , propaganda and paranoia . Alexei Navalny challenge not just russian autocracy and kleptocracy but past western hypocrisy and enablement . his campaign be about not just Moscow but London . we must deliver the change that he campaign for . the reality be that we have still much furth to go , and it be therefore disappointing that the Minister have show up with nothing new to say in response to last week ' s appal news . will the Government review further sanction on Russia , include an assessment of the full Navalny list ? will the Minister launch a new effort to target those network responsible for facilitate and enable international corruption ? there have be little or no action against breach of new russian sanction bring in since the full - scale invasion of Ukraine , so will he strengthen not just our sanction regime but how those sanction be enforce ? will he support call to establish an international anti - corruption court ? will he turn rhetoric on frozen russian state asset into tangible action ? when will the Government get on with it ? it be a source of shame that under successive Tory Governments , Britain become the money launder capital of the world . our tribute to Alexei Navalny must be more than just rhetorical and include tangible action at home to clean up the financial crime fuel autocrat abroad . finally , I want to ask the Minister about Vladimir Kara - Murza . I have meet his brave wife and mother and hear directly from they . Vladimir be another brave and vocal opponent of Putin , languish in prison for his belief . he be also a british citizen . we know what Putin be capable of . what be the Foreign , Commonwealth and Development Office ' s current assessment of his welfare , and what step be be take to support he and his family ? the tragic death of Alexei Navalny have reverberate across the world . it must serve as a reminder of Putin ' s menace and underscore our responsibility to oppose he in Ukraine , on the world stage and here in London . I hope that the Minister can provide the House with some assurance that today ' s statement will be accompany with commensurate , bold and urgent action . we will act . I thank the hon . gentleman for the tone of his response . I endorse everything that he say about the heroically brave Mrs Navalnaya . those in this House who watch her video early this morning will have be extremely move by her fortitude and courage at this difficult time . he use the word " courage " with regard to Mr Navalny , which be absolutely appropriate . those of we who watch the footage of Mr Navalny return to Russia subsequent to the Novichok attack be humble by his audacity and his bravery . his hope for a free and happy Russia must remain in the heart of the many Russians who , despite extraordinary press censorship and repression , deserve to have the opportunity to live up to that promise . it would be premature for I to comment on the prospect of future sanction in addition to those that have already be put in place with regard to Mr Navalny ' s poisoning , but I can assure the hon . member for Cardiff South and Penarth ( Stephen Doughty ) and the House that we be work at pace and look at all option in that regard . of course , we will continue our active diplomatic work to crack down on the network of corruption surround the russian state and its kleptocracy . sanction evasion be a particularly important component of that and be something that our diplomatic team around the world , in concert with our ally , be focus on . the hon . Gentleman ask a relevant question about seize versus freeze asset . we continue to work with G7 ally to look at all legal route to ensure that frozen asset might be use to help the reconstruction effort by those who deserve they . we will keep the House update as and when we make progress on that . we do seek to act in that regard , and that be how we can honour Mr Navalny ' s memory and his legacy — by act , not just make rhetorical statement . the hon . Gentleman ask about Mr Vladimir Kara - Murza . through our ambassador in Moscow , we continue to make representation inquire after his health and wellbeing and seek consular access to he . I can confirm that the Foreign Secretary remain in contact with Mrs Kara - Murza and continue to support the family . I call the Chair of the Foreign Affairs Committee . Alexei Navalny be murder . it be important that we in this House call it out for what it be , because that be what he deserve . follow his murder , I be also in Munich , where I hear his wife , Yulia , ask for we to stand by she . that be what we must now do . the US threaten more than a year ago that there would be significant repercussion if Navalny be murder ; Biden must now deliver on that threat , or we will see more life take , such as that of Vladimir Kara - Murza . I reiterate the call for the seizing of central bank asset . that have be do before : the UN Security Council froze and seize iraqi asset . we have a precedent ; there be no reason for we to find new legislation or other way to do so . beyond that , we need to pursue a special tribunal on the crime of aggression . will we consider also sanction Russia ' s Deposit Insurance Agency ? finally , to hit the heart of Putin ' s economy , will we urge the US to release more oil and therefore drive down price ? my hon . friend speak with authority , and I be grateful for her reflection on her meeting in Munich . she be right to use the word " murder " . we seek to hold the russian state and leadership to account . of course , I can not comment on the american position , but on our policy with regard to russian state asset , we will continue to look at the appropriate legal path to ensure that that which be frozen might be utilise to bring benefit to those affect by this outrageous and illegal war in Ukraine . on accountability , a special tribunal be one of the thing we be consider , together with our ukrainian ally and Sir Howard Morrison . there have be a large degree of institutional work together with the Ukrainians and the G7 on that . we will continue to work to find the good mechanism possible that might sit alongside the International Criminal Court . of course , the ICC have already indict Putin , and that indictment for crime relate to traffic child have an impact on his travel plan . sometimes the cog of justice can turn slowly , but they do turn surely . my hon . Friend make a good point about the insurance agency , which I can not comment on now . she also ask about the flow of oil ; again , I can not comment on that . we do have a laser - like focus on the economic impact of our sanction in the round . the House should have confidence that the economic impact of our action — take as part of the G7 response and wide international action on sanction — on Putin ' s ability to fund his war have be very significant : to the tune of billion . I call the SNP spokesperson . we be , all of we , appal at this murder and the timing of it . it be design to send a message and it need a serious response . I be grateful for sight of the statement , as far as it go . I think the Minister would acknowledge that it do not go very far , so I would press for further action . the Minister will be aware that the EU Foreign Affairs Council be meet in Brussels as we speak . it be look at a range of measure . can he assure we that the UK will be part of those effort , in particular with regard to the implementation of Magnitsky sanction ? I be look not for an announcement now , but to ensure we be co - ordinated with that . I reiterate my own call for the sequestration of the russian asset that have be seize . this death — this murder — be design to send a message . a serious message must be the response to it ; if there be one , it will have SNP support . I be grateful , as ever , to the SNP spokesperson for his tone and his support . of course , it would be premature for I to comment . by convention , we never comment on sanction from the Dispatch Box , but of course we be look at pace at all option in response to this outrageous event . in that context , we will continue to liaise with US and EU ally — that be a matter of course . the hon . Gentleman ask a good question about sequestration . again , I can not comment , other than to say that we continue to look at the most viable legal route to bring about that good . will my hon . Friend tell the House what advantage remain in maintain diplomatic relation with this murderous and barbarous regime ? the benefit be to deliver message of condemnation and outrage , and to continue to advocate for consular access for those hold by the russian regime . I want to turn to the economic impact of the sanction , which the Minister allude to . a loophole in our sanction regime mean that country such as China and India import russian crude oil , process it and then sell it into the UK as refined oil . in 2023 , we import 5 . 2 million barrel of this oil . that mean that we send something like £ 141 million in tax revenue to the Kremlin ' s war chest . Britain be also the big insurer of russian oil move by sea , most of which be sell at price well above the price cap — again , violate sanction . do the Minister agree that tough word be no substitute for tough action , especially after the shocking murder of the heroic Alexei Navalny ? will he agree to report back to Parliament before Easter with proposal to stop the sanction - bust ? we should have confidence that the economic impact of sanction have be very significant . Putin have be deny hundred of billion of dollar because of the collective action of the G7 nation . be it perfect ? no , it be not . be we look at way of make it more effective ? yes , we be . will we keep the House update ? of course . Yulia Navalnaya ' s speech at the Munich security conference change the tone of that entire summit . she call for the west to act . do the Minister agree with I that Alexei Navalny ' s death underline Putin ' s determination to emulate Stalin in quash free speech in Russia and extend Russia ' s influence beyond its border ? when we speak of sanction , might we also consider press the Americans to expedite the $ 60 billion that Ukraine need ? one way we can honour Navalny ' s life be by make sure Ukraine win and Russia lose . to that extent , can I also suggest that while diplomatic back channel need to remain open , maybe it be time to dismiss the russian ambassador ? we will continue to lead by example in term of our provision of lethal aid and humanitarian aid , and we hope and expect that our close ally will do the same . the impact of our provision have be very , very significant . my right hon . Friend make a good point about Putin ' s leadership . what this event actually show be the fact that Putin be fearful : fearful of those , like Mr Navalny , who have the courage to challenge he and speak truth to power . that be the most potent action in the face of a cruel , repressive tyrannical regime like Mr Putin ' s , which ultimately be quite brittle . at the end of February last year , Alexei Navalny clarify his position on Crimea . he talk about how the border of Ukraine and Russia be internationally recognise , and have be define in 1991 . do the Minister agree that while it be not our place to choose the government of Russia , we long for a time when Russia will be govern by a Government who respect sovereignty and territorial integrity ? I do agree with the hon . Gentleman , and there be no inevitability about the russian people be rule by a tyrannical latter - day Tsar . Mr Navalny know that , and his message and brilliantly produce and humorous video be watch by million of people in Russia because many million of russian people seek that alternative . it be clear that domestically the Putin regime be a criminal racket , and that internationally it have bring war against Ukraine and threaten many other . what discussion be the UK Government have , and what diplomatic effort be they make , with other NATO member that do not pay the minimum 2 % of gdp towards our common defence ? my hon . friend have ask a very good question , and we continue to make that point to our NATO ally in a full - throate way . as he know , NATO be a grow organisation with a grow potency and capability , but collectively we must and will put our money where our mouth be . I declare an interest , in that I be the director of the British Council in St Petersburg from 2005 until 2008 . I be also honour to call Vladimir Kara - Murza my friend . I meet he shortly before he insist on fly back to Russia although many of we urge he not to . it be a measure of the man that he do that — and , indeed , we be talk about somebody who the russian authority have try to poison twice . with heroism similar to that of Navalny , Kara - Murza have stand up against the mafia state that be represent by Vladmir Putin . it be good to hear the Minister say that our ambassador in Moscow be do his good to gain access to Kara - Murza , but may I press he on the issue of Kara - Murza ' s medical condition ? he be weaken by the two attempt to poison he , and we be desperately worried that he may well be on the list in term of what the Kremlin may be want to do next . his medical health be of the utmost importance , so can the Minister please say what step be be take specifically to ensure that it be be look after ? the hon . Gentleman know from his own experience the system that we be deal with . the direct answer to his question be that we continue to make representation at the very high level to the senior membership , or leadership , of the russian state , say that we expect Mr Kara - Murza ' s health to be attend to , that we expect he to receive medical care , and that we expect no threat to be make to his life . that message be carry by our ambassador directly to russian Government Ministers , and , in addition , UK Ministers include the Foreign Secretary continue to engage with Mrs Kara - Murza to offer the family full support . do my hon . friend agree that the murder of Alexei Navalny , follow the early murder of Boris Nemtsov , show the absolute refusal of Putin to tolerate any kind of genuine democratic opposition ? will the Government therefore give absolutely no credibility or recognition to the sham pretence that the co - call presidential election take place next month in Russia will undoubtedly be ? my right hon . friend speak on the basis of knowledge , and he be entirely right about the sham election that will take place on 12 March . the murder of which he have speak do show a terrible pattern , but as I say early , we should not feel that repressive government be an inevitability in Russia . the russian people have a hope that there can be a different government , and that be why Mr Navalny ' s message be receive so well . all those who care about democracy and free speech should condemn the murder of Alexei Navalny , but one of the most meaningful thing the United Kingdom Government could do to honour his memory be to take step to deal effectively with the dirty russian money be launder in this country , particularly as be make through nefarious mean by ally of Putin . what be the Government go to do to deal more effectively with the dirty russian money be launder in the United Kingdom ? the House should have confidence and should be proud of the fact that we have sanction more than 1 , 900 individual and entity . there be no space or place for dirty russian money in the United Kingdom . I just want to reinforce the point about Vladimir Kara - Murza . he be a british citizen , and he be now the most high - profile political prisoner in Russia . in my conversation with the Minister and his official , when I have talk about prisoner swap , which I be do at the behest of the Navalny team , it be make quite clear that do that encourage state hostage taking . I accept that argument , difficult think it be , but unfortunately it come at a price . in my conversation with Evgenia Kara - Murza , she be adamant that she now want everything possible do to get Vladimir out , despite the fact that he go back of his own accord , because his health be in a fragile condition , and if Putin can kill Navalny , he can kill Kara - Murza . there be some criticism that the Government have not do everything possible in the past . will the Minister reassure I that every option and every conceivable course of action to get Kara - Murza out — potentially include negotiate swap with russian spy in Sweden or wherever — will be look at ? otherwise , he will be next . as my hon . Friend say , we do not and would not countenance a policy of prisoner swap , but of course we continue to make every effort to support Mrs Kara - Murza and to seek the release of Vladimir . hold political prisoner be not a sign of strength ; it be a sign of weakness , and Mr Navalny ' s murder should be rightly condemn . however , right now in the UK the journalist Julian Assange be in Belmarsh prison for blow the whistle on atrocity in Iraq . do the Minister agree that it be important for the UK Government to measure themselves against the same standard if they be go to criticise other ? [ interruption . ] I think the hon . Gentleman can sense that the House know there be no equivalence . in 2020 , Alexei Navalny be treat in hospital in Berlin , have be poison in Russia with a toxin subsequently identify as Novichok , also use in the attempt murder of Sergei Skripal in Salisbury in 2018 . give the use of the same toxin in such similar circumstance , do my hon . friend not agree that it be overwhelmingly likely that agent of the russian state be responsible for the attempt murder of Navalny in 2020 and that the current protestation by the russian state that it be not responsible for his death last week be entirely risible ? how be the Government ensure that those who be responsible be bring to book and try before a court ? my right hon . friend be correct . that be why we demand a full and transparent investigation , because those individual involve must be hold to account . the whole House should be worried about development such as those at the weekend with the murder of Navalny because the russian state , now run by a bunch of criminal , seem arrogant enough to assassinate opposition people outside its own boundary , invade nation , threaten other nation and now suppress democracy in its own country . it be disappointing that the Minister be say today only that he will look at all the option . will he come to this House very soon with a list of additional sanction that we can impose on the regime and with idea about how we can isolate it diplomatically ? we be work at pace on work up all option , but I can confirm that as and when action be take , we will keep this House inform . I can assure the right hon . gentleman that work be under way at pace . this appalling murder be not really about the prison guard . it be about who give the order , and that can only be Putin . do the Minister agree that we need to intensify the sanction against he personally and against his regime , and that we need to pursue all measure to hold he to account for this murder ? I agree . apart from anything else , it be a matter of justice and international law . the cog turn slowly , but we should have confidence that they do turn . the gruesome treatment and appalling murder of Alexei Navalny be a stark reminder , if one be need , of the evil of Putin ' s regime . time and again , we have ask what progress the Government be make on overcome the legal concern about repurpose frozen russian asset to support the recovery and reconstruction of Ukraine , as country like Canada and Estonia be already do . yet again , we have have an empty response this afternoon . will the Minister now prioritise this issue and come back to the House as soon as possible with a real plan for how the UK can use those asset to help Ukraine ? we be work at pace . it be urgently important and , of course , we will keep the House update . it take an extraordinary person to go back to a country where he know he will be imprison , torture and then murder . all our thought be with Alexei Navalny ' s wife , and our good wish go to she . the good way to commemorate Alexei Navalny ' s tragic death be to ensure that Ukraine do not fall . will my hon . Friend assure the House that he be strain every diplomatic sinew to ensure that our ally , both in NATO and the EU , give Ukraine what it need to keep these russian thug at bay and to regain its country ? I entirely endorse my hon . friend ' s comment about Mr Navalny ' s courage , and about the sense of hope that he give to people in Russia because of that courage . my hon . friend ask about Ukraine . of course , we seek to lead by example by increase our contribution of both lethal aid and humanitarian support . our collective response through NATO show that Putin be quite wrong if he think he could walk into Ukraine and conquer the entire country . let we call this what it be : state - sponsor terror by Putin and his regime . we know that Putin and his regime attempt to murder Navalny three year ago with the same Novichok that be use against Sergei Skripal in the street of the United Kingdom . the difference between today ' s response and the response we see from the then Prime Minister , the right hon . member for Maidenhead ( Mrs May ) , be that we take action immediately — not just we but our ally in Europe and North America — by expel russian diplomat . my hon . friend the Member for Stirling ( Alyn Smith ) mention Magnitsky sanction , and we need to act now . Putin need to get the message that we will stand up to russian terror . why be Russia participate in this week ' s G20 summit ? we need to send a very clear message to Putin , and the only message this international thug will understand be that we will take the swift action against he . I agree with the right hon . Gentleman ' s sentiment , and we be act . sanction have deprive Putin of billion of dollar of revenue to fund his war machine . we would never comment prematurely from the Dispatch Box about future sanction , but we will continue to do everything we can to ensure that he be deprive of the ability to wage his illegal and evil war . I strongly support what member have say about the Minister need to come back in , say , a week ' s time to tell we more about what action can be take . the Minister speak about work with the opposition to Putin . when I go out with the Westminster Foundation for Democracy some year ago to try to find ally that we could work with , it be incredibly depressing how few we find in organise political party . I also go out for the Pussy Riot trial , and I feel the strength of feeling , but they be clearly not people we could work with on that level . what can we do ? Navalny and Nemtsov be go . who can we work with to try to support the people who oppose Putin ? the hon . Lady be right , and she make a good point . Putin ' s tyrannical regime leave absolutely no civic or political space for any kind of freedom of expression or political engagement , no matter how moderate . what we can do be ensure that russian people have more access to the truth and to well information , which be why a lot of our energy go into work against russian disinformation across the region . the House and the whole country be easily and instinctively unite in condemnation of this late evidence of Vladimir Putin ' s brutality , but be the Minister not a little uncomfortable that he make his statement on the same day that his colleague in the Home Office have announce restriction on visa access for those from Ukraine flee the war against Russia ? do he not understand that we diminish the effect of our outrage unless we be see to be do absolutely everything , at home and abroad , to support our ukrainian ally ? I know from my own constituency , as all member will know , that our collective response , whether from the Government , local government or at an individual level , have be consistently generous and open hearted . I express my condolence to Alexei Navalny ' s friend and family , and to the russian people as a whole . what have happen to Navalny be an indictment on any freedom - love people , as I believe the majority of Russians to be . as colleague have say , we be keen to understand the effectiveness of the sanction and I hope the Minister will come back to the House about that , because currently Putin seem to be able to do what he want with impunity . in the powerful documentary about he , one of Navalny ' s last statement be that it only take good people to do nothing for people like Putin to survive . we must make sure that do not happen . the hon . Lady put her finger on the good point that Navalny essentially give people hope . that be why his message will resonate and why , despite his murder , he leave a powerful legacy , which will continue to inspire the russian people . the murder of Alexei Navalny remind we of the scale of the threat from Russia , not least to Ukraine — it be , of course , the second anniversary of the russian invasion this week . follow the early question about the change to the Ukraine family scheme , how can those change be justify give the ongoing threat to ukrainian family ? the announcement be sneak out today and come into immediate effect this afternoon . how can that be justify give that there be ukrainian family who want to be reunite with relative in the UK ? the hon . Gentleman will know he should address that question to the Home Office . he mention the second anniversary of the illegal invasion of Ukraine . early today , I have a good meeting with the ukrainian charg é d ' affaire at which we look at image of the Ukrainian Red Cross deliver aid in some of the bad afflicted city in Ukraine . each Member of the House will choose how to remember and commemorate the second anniversary , but I be grateful to he for raise it . I express my condolence to the friend and family of Alexei Navalny , but can the Minister explain why we can have a statement on the untimely death of one foreign national but we can not have a statement on the ongoing excess death of 100 , 000 of our own citizen , many of whom have die suddenly ? [ interruption . ] be it because this death fit the Government ' s narrative , but the death of our own citizen do not ? or be it a parody of Stalin , whereby one death be a tragedy but 100 , 000 death be merely a statistic ? the hon . Gentleman have answer his own question . I thank the Minister for his answer . my thought be with the family , wife , child and friend of Alexei Navalny at this difficult time . the fear of the disappear will resonate with some citizen in Northern Ireland , where so many family have not be able to lay their love one to rest . that be apparent in news story today about Navalny ' s mother try to get access to her son . do the Minister agree that all effort must be make to ensure Navalny ' s body be return to the family so that they can understand , have a full investigation and lie their loved one to rest ? the hon . Gentleman be right . our ambassador have today make a representation directly to the russian Government to release Mr Navalny ' s body back to the family . we will keep make representation until that take place . antisemitism in the UK with permission , I will make a statement on antisemitism in the United Kingdom . last week , the Community Security Trust publish its late report on antisemitic incident . it make for deeply disturbing reading . it show that there be 4 , 103 instance of anti - jewish racist hatred record across the UK in 2023 . that be the high annual total ever report to the Community Security Trust . it be a 147 % rise from the 1 , 662 antisemitic incident the previous year , and 81 % high than the previous yearly record of 2 , 261 incident , report in 2021 . most shockingly , more than two third of the incident report last year occur on or after 7 October , when Hamas perpetrate its barbaric terrorist attack on Israel . the report also indicate that antisemitism begin spike before Israel ' s military response have begin : the week immediately follow 7 October see 416 antisemitic incident report to the CST , which be high than any subsequent week . the CST ' s finding , which tally with increase in offending report by the police , be nothing short of a disgrace and an outrage . example highlight in the report be shocking and reprehensible . I urge all member to read the report because it shine a light on the scale and character of this disgraceful problem . the only reasonable conclusion to draw be that member of Britain ' s jewish community be suffer a level of hatred and abuse which be frankly shameful . there be no excuse for the behaviour outline in the CST report or see in some of the shocking incident that have occur recently . the situation in the middle east do not and will never give anyone the right to harass or intimidate other . I repeat , no one ever have that right . this government will not stand for antisemitism of any kind . it be important to note that the police have comprehensive power to deal with abhorrent conduct of this nature . for example , in the case of public order offence , where there be proof of racial or religious hostility on the part of the offender , offender will be charge with racially or religiously aggravate version of those offence , which will result in an uplift to their sentence . furthermore , incite racial hatred be an offence under the Public Order Act 1986 , and anyone engage in that appalling behaviour should expect to be arrest . whenever and wherever criminality involve antisemitism occur , this Government expect the police to investigate the incident fully and work with the Crown Prosecution Service to bring the perpetrator to justice . we have be clear both before and since the 7 October attack that we will do whatever it take to keep Britain ' s jewish community safe . we have take strong step to confront the poison of antisemitism head on . we have increase funding to bolster security at jewish school , synagogue and other site . a total of £ 36 million will be make available for these crucial protective measure across 2023 - 24 and the follow financial year . the Community Security Trust be an essential partner in our effort to keep the jewish community safe , and I pay tribute to it for the brilliant work that it do . the Home Office meet regularly with CST staff and co - operate closely with they . we keep dialogue open constantly , and both the Home Secretary and the Prime Minister have regular meeting with they . none the less , it should sadden we that these kind of precaution be necessary in the UK , in 2024 . the work of organisation such as the CST be more important than ever , and we must remain vigilant . that include send the message loud and clear from this House — I hope from the whole House — that any instance of criminal behaviour will be identify , and those responsible catch and punish . we be work closely with the police to ensure that hate crime and expression of support for terrorist organisation be meet with the full force of the law . the idea that anyone could celebrate or valorise Hamas for the appalling terrorist atrocity that it perpetrate on 7 October be beyond comprehension . it go completely against the value of this country . last month , we proscribe Hizb ut - Tahrir , an organisation that actively promote and encourage terrorism and be responsible for spread antisemitism . Hamas itself , of course , be already a proscribe organisation . anyone who belong to , or invite or express support for , a proscribe organisation be commit an offence . the penalty upon conviction be a maximum term of 14 year in prison and / or an unlimited fine . the right to protest be of course a fundamental part of our democracy , but that right can not be exercise in a way that intimidate other or invoke fear in they . it be totally unacceptable for a small minority to incite hatred and commit crime . the police have power to deal with that , and we expect they to act . where further power be need , we will not hesitate to act , which be why we recently announce a new package of measure to crack down on dangerous disorder — in particular , that commit at protest . the CST ' s finding on incident within the sphere of high education be especially disturbing . no one should be subject to antisemitic abuse while at university . every effort must be take to prevent hatred from flourish in school , university and college . that be why we announce a furth £ 7 million of funding to help to tackle antisemitism in education . we be equally unwavering in our stance towards hatred and abuse direct at british Muslims . the Government have be in regular contact with representative of the muslim community , and we be aware of an increase number of report of anti - muslim hatred as well . that be of course unacceptable , and we have make additional funding available for protective security measure at mosque and muslim faith school . last month , we mark Holocaust Memorial Day . just as we remember the horror of the past , we must remain alert to present - day danger . antisemitism be an ancient hatred , which have rear its ugly head in the most abhorrent and evil way throughout history . the CST ' s finding show that we have much more to do if we be to rid our society of this poison , but the Government will never stop try . we will never give up on this fight . it matter too much . of course , that extend to ensure that Members of Parliament be protect from act of similar hatred , which some have suffer . I be think particularly of my hon . friend the Member for Finchley and Golders Green ( Mike Freer ) , who be in the Chamber , whose office suffer a terrible arson attack just a few week ago . to the antisemite , we say this : " you will not win . you will be show up for the despicable racist you be . " to our jewish friend and colleague , I say this : " we stand with you . we understand your fear and we share your pain . we will protect you — today , tomorrow and always . " I commend this statement to the House . I welcome the Minister ' s statement , and advance sight of it . the appalling and intolerable rise in antisemitism in Britain in recent month , as set out in the report of the Community Security Trust last week , be a stain on our society . we must never relent in our work to root it out — something that I know the whole House will want to affirm . the more than 4 , 000 incident in 2023 alone be an urgent reminder of the responsibility that we all have to stamp out the scourge of antisemitism wherever it be find . I join the Minister in thank the CST for the remarkable and tireless work that it do each day , alongside the police , to keep our jewish community safe . have support and work with it over many year , I know the incredible forensic work that it do in monitor antisemitism , and the physical protection that it provide for jewish school , synagogue and other community event . we owe it our thank . we welcome and support the Government ' s commitment of additional funding for the CST . the incident that it report include a violent , abusive attack on a jewish man on his way home from synagogue , the desecration of jewish cemetery , and a 200 % increase in antisemitic incident at university . just 10 day ago , a jewish student residence in Leeds , Hillel House , be vandalise with antisemitic graffiti . for the year they be study , university be student ' home . no one should ever feel unsafe in their home , or wherever they be . everybody have the right to live in freedom from fear . the CST ' s report also find the number of online incident of antisemitism rise by 257 % — an ancient hatred be resuscitate through modern mean , to proliferate and promote extremism . I agree with the Minister that it be unconscionable that one of the steep surge in antisemitism come in the week follow Hamas ' s barbaric terrorist attack on Israel on 7 October — the deadly day for Jews since the holocaust — with individual in this country celebrate those scene of unimaginable horror . there must be zero tolerance for the glorification of proscribe terrorist group on Britain ' s street . we support the proscribing of Hizb ut - Tahrir , and ensure that those who commit antisemitic hate crime always face the full force of the law . in the week follow 7 October , I meet the CST together with Tell MAMA , which monitor Islamophobia and have also identify a huge increase in Islamophobic incident and hate . they be unite in their call for an end to hatred and prejudice , to antisemitism , and to Islamophobia . we must never allow the terrible event and conflict in the middle east , which cause deep distress across our community , to lead to increase tension , hatred , prejudice , abuse or crime in our community at home . I welcome the point that the Minister make about ensure that extremist incident on marche be also address with the full force of the law , but I press he to go far in a few key area . first , the counter - extremism strategy be now eight year out of date . there be report that the work have be delay again . when will the Government come forward with an update strategy ? the Metropolitan Police Commissioner and the Government ' s own expert have warn that there be a gap in the law around hateful extremism that be allow toxic antisemitic view and conspiracy theory to be spread , and make it hard to police they . I have ask this of Ministers before : will the Minister update we on what action be be take ? will the Government also urgently look again at the decision that Ministers take around a year ago to downgrade the reporting of non - crime hate incident , particularly around Islamophobia and antisemitism , to ensure that those who engage in vile and vitriolic religious hatred can always be properly monitor and identify by the police ? finally , I ask particularly about online antisemitism , which have increase . we have see a huge increase on x , formerly Twitter , at the same time as some of its monitoring and standard have be downgrade . have the Government raise that directly with Elon Musk and X ? I urge they to do so , and to set out how the Online Harms Bill will address that , because there be real concern that it will not go far enough to address the change . we stand ready to work with the Government on this . those on both side of the House will want we to stand together with jewish community across the country , in solidarity against hatred , prejudice and antisemitism in all its form . all of we must stand together and say that antisemitism must never have any place in the United Kingdom . I thank the shadow Home Secretary for her comment and question . she ask about protest . I agree that it be completely unacceptable for people to seek to intimidate other , to incite racial hatred or to glorify terrorism . in fact , it be illegal . the police have make 600 arrest at protest since 7 October , and we in Government be urge the police to use all their power to ensure that hatred be not incite in the course of the marche that have happen . the shadow Home Secretary rightly ask about online safety , where a great deal of hatred be foment . we be engage with online platform on a regular basis ; I think the Home Secretary be due to travel to California next week to discuss these issue , among other . from memory , schedule 7 to the Online Safety Act 2023 contain a list of priority offence , one of which be incite hatred . when that part of the Act come into force , large social medium platform will be under an obligation to take proactive step in advance , not retrospective step after the event , in order to prevent priority offence from take place . that will include hate crime of the kind she mention . the right hon . Lady ask about non - crime hate incident . the change to the guidance be design to ensure that minor spat between neighbour , or expression of essentially legitimate political view , do not end up waste police time by get record . where thing do not meet the criminal threshold but might be useful in pursue a criminal investigation later , they will still be record . to be clear , incite racial hatred be a criminal offence under section 17 and 18 of the Public Order Act 1986 ; cause harassment , alarm and distress through threaten and abusive language , or cause fear of violence , be an offence under section 4 , 4A and 5 of that Act ; and there be various other criminal offence as well . those thing meet the criminal threshold and be therefore not affect by any change to non - crime hate incident recording rule in any event . update the law and the approach to extremism be keep under continual review . my right hon . friend the Secretary of State for Levelling up , Housing and Communities spend a great deal of time consider the question of extremism . in relation to criminal law , just a week or two ago we announce various change for which we intend to legislate via Government amendment to the Criminal Justice Bill when it come back to the House on Report in a few week ' time . those measure will tighten up a number of area relate to protest , include remove the " reasonable and lawful excuse " defence to various public order offence , make it easy for the police to have a blanket prohibition on face covering , which be often menacing but also make it difficult to identify people commit criminal offence at protest . we will make it an offence to climb on key war memorial , which be grossly disrespectful , and introduce other measure as well . we keep thing under continual review , so if further change to the law be need , the right hon . Lady can be assure that we will make they . it be this Government ' s view that antisemitism be a scourge that must be fight online , on the street , through the law and through the court . I be sure the whole House will be unite in that fight . I thank my right hon . friend for his hard work and genuine commitment to seriously tackle this issue , and I be pleased to work with he and CST last year . the reality be that the jewish community have be demonise and target , be scared and have be let down by the authority . the jewish community need its champion and friend to speak in its defence without fear or favour . Lord Ian Austin , who sit in the other place , be one such courageous advocate who have campaign for decade against antisemitism and Islamism . do my right hon . friend share my deep concern about organisation such as Midland Heart , which have suspend Lord Austin as its chair merely for his speak against Islamism , terrorism and antisemitism ? let I first pay tribute to my right hon . and learn Friend for her work during her time as Home Secretary . we work closely together , and I can tell the House that the jewish community have no strong advocate in the Government on these issue , particularly during the event of the autumn . I agree with what she say about Lord Austin . I have read the tweet that he send , and it strike I that there be nothing unreasonable about they . he be criticise Islamism , which be a form of extremism . that be obviously not the same as the muslim community more widely , as everybody know . I do not think that the action propose by Midland Heart be in the slight bit reasonable . I join my right hon . friend the DLUHC Secretary in urge Midland Heart to urgently reconsider what it have do . Lord Austin be a tireless campaigner against racism , be a great servant of this House when he be here , and do not deserve the treatment he have recently receive . I call the SNP spokesperson . I thank the Minister for advance sight of his statement . the sharp rise in antisemitism and Islamophobia in the UK be extremely concerning , and the SNP extend our heartfelt sympathy to victim of antisemitism and all form of hate crime . in today ' s statement , I see reference to " funding to bolster security " , " catch and punish " , " the full force of the law " , and " a maximum of 14 year in prison and / or an unlimited fine " , none of which I disagree with in any way , shape or form . we need to implement the law robustly . however , I be a bit concerned that there be only one line in the statement that talk about education . it say that £ 7 million of funding will be deliver " in education " , but I would like it to say " through education " , because surely we can eradicate antisemitism through education . through incarceration , it become a lot hard . part of Scotland ' s strength be our diversity . we value Scotland ' s jewish community and other faith and belief community . we recognise the important role that they play in make Scotland a safe , strong and more inclusive society in which everyone can live in peace and work to realise their potential . in June 2017 , the Scottish Government formally adopt the international Holocaust Remembrance Alliance ' s definition of antisemitism . formally adopt the IHRA definition demonstrate the Scottish Government ' s determination that there should be no place in Scotland for any form of antisemitism or religious hatred that make our community feel insecure or threaten in their daily life . the Scottish Government ' s recently publish hate crime strategy set out their strategic priority for tackle hate crime , include antisemitism . it be inform by the community with live experience of hate crime . it make a number of commitment , include ensure improve support for victim , improve datum and evidence , and develop effective approach to prevent hate crime . if I have one ask of the Minister , it be to reconsider how much money we be put into educate people , so that we can all eradicate this heinous crime . the hon . Gentleman ask about education . I make it clear in my early remark that , in the autumn statement on 22 November , the Government announce a furth £ 7 million of funding to help tackle antisemitism in education and ensure that support be in place for school and college . in addition to that — since he ask about education — on 5 November the Department for Education announce a five - point plan to protect jewish student on university campus , which include a call for visa to be withdraw from international student who incite racial hatred , ask vice - chancellor to act decisively against staff and student involve in antisemitism , and meet the Office for Students , the independent regulator , to find out what more it can do to make it clear that antisemitism and racial hatred incite on campus should be refer to the police , and to explore an antisemitism charter in high education . I accept the point that education at school and university be important , but that be an area where the Department for Education be take a lot of action in England . I would certainly urge the devolved Administrations in Wales and Scotland to do the same . vicious campaign of antisemitism be occur in many university in this country . jewish student have visit I to tell I about it , and some of the account be bone chilling . the failure of the Metropolitan police to deal with some of the fascist - style racist in the London marche have be a historic disgrace that have unleash more attack . the aggressive hounding by protester of mp , especially labour mps out campaigning and a conservative colleague at his home , be a real threat to the democratic process . I be concern about report of a magistrate court judge like an antisemitic post on social medium , have pass an extremely lenient sentence on protester convict of terrorism offence . this judge apparently train junior member of the judiciary and be involve in judicial appointment of other judge . should that not result in a full , deep investigation , with a past docket of case be check for bias and a potential suspension , pende the interim report ? I thank my right hon . and learn Friend for his question . minister be very clear that where behaviour on marche crosse the criminal threshold — incite racial hatred , cause fear of harassment , alarm and distress , terrorism offence or glorify proscribe organisation — we expect the police to take robust action and to make arrest . they have make about 600 arrest so far . in fact , some brave police officer be injure in the course of try to make an arrest in London on Saturday . I echo and strongly endorse my right hon . and learn Friend ' s point about member of Parliament . no Member of Parliament , as a democratically elect representative of the people , should be subject to harassment or intimidation . as he say , some Labour mp have be , which be completely unacceptable . we have see the incident at the office of my hon . friend the Member for Finchley and Golders Green ( Mike Freer ) , which be completely unacceptable — in that case , I believe arrest have be make . and , of course , my right hon . friend the Member for Bournemouth East ( Mr Ellwood ) suffer a terrible incident at his home address just a few day ago . all that be unacceptable and illegal , and I expect the police not only to protect mps , but to identify and arrest the culprit afterwards . in relation to the judge , the judiciary be of course independent . matter of judicial conduct be subject to investigation by the Judicial Conduct Investigations Office . from the account of the incident that I have hear , and which my right hon . and learn Friend give , that be the kind of thing that I would expect the JCIO to investigate . I call the Chair of the Home Affairs Committee . as the Minister know , the Home Affairs Committee have be carry out an inquiry into the policing of protest . we have be particularly appal to hear evidence of the huge increase in incident of antisemitism perpetrate in the wake of the 7 October terrorist attack . the CST have record that 43 % of antisemitism incident last year explicitly reference the Israel - Palestine 7 October attack and the conflict in Gaza . attack on jewish and muslim community here in Britain in response to overseas conflict be never acceptable . what more can be do to stop the exploitation of such overseas conflict and the effect that it have on community cohesion in this country ? the Chair of the Home Affairs Committee ask a very good question . it disturb I deeply , as I be sure it do many member , to see conflict occur elsewhere in the world play out on our own street and lead to tension , to put it politely , and to a lot more — often hatred — be incite domestically . as I say , there be no excuse whatsoever for the event in the middle east , in Gaza , to lead to antisemitic hatred on the street of the United Kingdom . that be completely unacceptable , and I be disturb to see people engage in that kind of behaviour . across the House , we as political leader need to make it clear to our community that that behaviour be not acceptable and not consistent with british value , and that our law will be rigorously and robustly enforce . we have value here of tolerance and mutual respect ; we abhor terrorism , violence and intimidation . I be sure that I speak for the whole House when I say that we do not want to see that anywhere on our street , and no one — no matter how strongly they feel about what be happen in Gaza — should behave in a way that be intimidate or incite racial hatred . if we all , across this House , speak unanimously with one voice on that topic , it will be hear by all community in this country . when british Jews wake up on 7 October to the pogrom and the associate rape , butchery of child and hostage - taking , we expect sympathy from people on the street of Britain . instead , we have see people attack for speak Hebrew , jewish business attack , Jews assault , and hate marche on our street . as we see again this weekend , the fellow hold the sign to remind marcher that Hamas be a terrorist organisation be the one who be drag off and have his collar feel by the police , while people continue to march through the street with cry for jihad and intifadas and in support of the Houthis . what everyone say in this place be all fine , but the reality be that the demonisation of the world ' s only jewish state be play out in the demonisation of Jews in this country . in our university , the embedding of antizionism — in and of itself pure Jew hate in many case — be be work on jewish student . so although the measure that have be outline be fine , there be a deep problem in our society : Jews do not feel safe in this country . More must be do to tackle the real root cause of Jew hate . I be as appal as my hon . friend when some people — a small but none the less significant minority — react to what happen on 7 October with a deeply disturbing jubilation . that be sick , it be unacceptable and , depend on how it be express , it be frankly illegal , because encourage act of terrorism or act by a proscribe organisation , which Hamas be , be a criminal offence . as I have say , there be no excuse whatsoever for that kind of behaviour . I be as sicken as he be , and as I be sure the whole House be , to see that some people — some of our fellow citizen — react to what happen on 7 October with apparent jubilation instead of with horror and sympathy . in relation to the police response , 600 arrest have be make at the various protest that have follow 7 October . we have repeatedly meet police — I have lose count of the number of meeting that we have have in the past three or four month — to urge they to use the full extent of the law and to show zero tolerance to people who break the law and incite racial hatred . as I say , 600 arrest have be make . in relation to individual incident , there be sometimes more to they than meet the eye , but I will ask for an account of the incident that my hon . Friend refer to . he be absolutely right to say that no member of the jewish community , whether on the street of central London , at university or at school , should suffer fear and intimidation . the truth be that , in the past few month in particular , they have suffer fear and intimidation , and that be unacceptable . we expect the police to use the full force of the law to stop that , and I know that the House will speak with one voice in condemn it unreservedly . do the Minister agree that the attack on the constituency office of my constituency neighbour , my hon . friend the Member for Finchley and Golders Green ( Mike Freer ) , be an utterly unacceptable attack on democracy ? it be a matter of great sadness that this Parliament will lose a fantastic MP because of the intimidation associate with his be prepared to stand up for his jewish constituent and for Israel . I be pleased to report to the House that arrest have be make in relation to the appalling attack on the office of my hon . friend the Member for Finchley and Golders Green , and I understand that the perpetrator be currently on remand in prison . it be a tragedy that someone with his exemplary track record of public service feel that he be unable to stand for Parliament again , partly as a result of the intimidation that he have suffer , particularly the arson attack on his office . as I be sure member from across the House will acknowledge , he have be a fearless advocate on behalf of his many jewish constituent . it be a loss to they and to Parliament that he will not contest the next election . it be incumbent on we all to ensure that no other Members end up feel that way . I do not want — I be sure that none of we do — to live in a country where democratically elect representative feel any form of fear or intimidation . that be not how democracy work . in this country , we settle matter at the ballot box , not through intimidation tactic or violence on the street . that be a principle that each and every one of we must defend to our last breath . I do apologise ; I call two member from the Government Benches , so I will now call two from the Opposition Benches . I welcome the strong statement make by the Minister and the shadow Home Secretary . I hope that , in tackle the deep - seat antisemitism to which the hon . member for Brigg and Goole ( Andrew Percy ) refer , we can work in a united way across the House , and not seek to make cheap political point on any individual case . we have have attack on Jews in theatre in London ; we have have attack on Jews in campus , particularly in Leeds and Birmingham , as other hon . member have say ; and , as the right hon . and learn Member for Northampton North ( Sir Michael Ellis ) say , a judge have fail to penalise three people for glorify terrorism in London . People in all sort of sector , location and area across our country be worried that antisemitism be spread . the Government ' s response need to be co - ordinated . when will a new hate crime action plan be publish ? the last one , despite consultation in the interim , be publish five year ago . I share the right hon . Lady ' s horror at the various event highlight in the Community Security Trust ' s report , include an incident at a theatre where a jewish man be essentially hound out — a disgraceful and despicable act that have no place in a civilised society such as ours . she mention the case that the former Attorney General , my right hon . and learn Friend the Member for Northampton North ( Sir Michael Ellis ) , raise . I speak to the current Attorney General early today , and I understand that the Crown Prosecution Service be review that case as well ; it deeply concern I , as I know it concern the right hon . Lady . our strategy in relation to extremism be something that the Communities Secretary continue to consider , but the approach the Government have take be one of action , rather than word . for example , we have legislate via the Online Safety Act , which contain some very strong measure , as I say to the shadow Home Secretary a few minute ago . when I be technology Minister , she and I discuss at some length the measure need in that Act to combat hate — measure base , in fact , on some of the terrible experience of antisemitism that the right hon . member for Barking ( Dame Margaret Hodge ) have herself suffer . I have talk about the increase funding for the Community Security Trust , the Department for Education ' s plan in university and school , and the extra money for the Holocaust Educational Trust , so the Government be take action rather than simply expend more word . however , as I say , this be an issue that the Communities Secretary be extremely alive to . sadly , we have see a trebling of antisemitic incident on university campus between 2022 and 2023 : the CST record 67 incident on campus in the month follow the horrendous attack of 7 October , compare with just 12 in the same period the previous year , and we have hear from other right hon . and hon . member about the terrible report of antisemitic graffiti and harassment of jewish student come out of Leeds and Birmingham university early this month . that be why my Liberal Democrat colleague and I very much welcome the £ 7 million to tackle antisemitism in school and university that the Government announce in November , which the Minister have refer to . however , since then , we have have no update on how many application have be make to that fund and how the money have be allocate . when will we get an update on some of the many action the Minister have outline , and particularly on how that £ 7 million have be allocate so far ? I would be very happy to come back to the hon . Lady and other Members with an update on that question . it be an evolve situation , but I echo her comment . it be particularly concern when university — the training ground for the next generation — appear to have be hijack in some place by antisemite : when jewish student be be intimidate and harass and jewish society have their meeting picket , with people stand outside shout abuse and bad . that be completely unacceptable , and we should all support the Department for Education ' s work in this area and call on university vice - chancellor to show absolutely zero tolerance for that kind of behaviour — to stamp on it hard wherever they find it . I thank my right hon . friend for his statement , and join he in pay tribute to the work of the Community Security Trust . today , however , the most senior liberal Democrat councillor in Harrogate and Knaresborough have be expose for tweet horrendous antisemitic comment for the past five week . she have hundred of follower , include many senior local Liberal Democrats ; she tweet over 500 time on the subject , and those tweet be read over 10 , 000 time , so it beggar belief that no Liberal Democrat know what she be say . they must have know , but in the five week she have be tweet , they do nothing until it be expose in the medium today . in our politic , we have see antisemitism in meeting ; we have see it online ; we have see it in Rochdale ; and now we have see it in Harrogate . do my right hon . friend agree that political leader — indeed , everyone in every political party — must act immediately if they encounter antisemitism in their midst , not wait to see whether anyone notice ? yes . my hon . friend be quite right : it be incumbent on political leader , from whom many other member of the community take their lead , to act immediately , not just when antisemitism get expose in the medium or when pressure build , and not because it be convenient but because it be right . whether it be the example in Harrogate that my hon . Friend give or , indeed , the recent example in Rochdale , act immediately from principle be what count , not just react to public pressure a few day later . jewish people in my Greater Manchester constituency have have to endure a 163 % increase in antisemitic hate crime , as detail in the CST ' s annual incident report . some of that be blatant targeting of Jews ; in other case , it be much more sinister , target zionist . when we see a banner say " zionist not welcome " , we know what it mean : " Jews not welcome " . let we call it out for what it be : anti - zionism be antisemitism . the jewish community in my Bury South constituency have benefit from the Government ' s additional £ 3 million to increase the already extensive security provision . I thank the Government again for that temporary funding , but would they be prepared to continue that funding , and — give the extensive threat to the jewish community — consider make it permanent ? I completely agree with the hon . Gentleman . very often , anti - Zionism be nothing more than anti - jewish sentiment ; it be antisemitism , and we should call it out where it happen , as he have quite rightly do . the extra money for the Community Security Trust will apply in the current financial year ; it will be a £ 3 million increase to £ 18 million in total . it will also apply next year , in financial year 2024 - 25 , and it will be keep under review thereafter . as one of the two Members of Parliament for the Metropolitan Borough of Bury , I support exactly what my colleague , the hon . member for Bury South ( Christian Wakeford ) , have say . it be important not to cheapen this debate , and we do not want to do so , but how political party deal with antisemitism within their rank be crucial and send an important signal to the country about how this Parliament treat the issue . do my right hon . friend share , therefore , my genuine disappointment about the weak , flip - flop and change position of the Labour leader , the right hon . and learn Member for Holborn and St Pancras ( Keir Starmer ) , concern the remark of Labour ' s now ex - candidate for the Rochdale by - election ? Martin Forde KC , who compile a report for the Labour party on bullying , sexism and racism within its rank , have describe those remark as " clearly antisemitic " . as I say in response to my hon . friend the Member for Harrogate and Knaresborough ( Andrew Jones ) a few minute ago , it be incumbent on political leader — particularly those who aspire to the high office in the land — to act quickly and from principle . I be disappointed that after the comment of Labour ' s former rochdale candidate become public , it take a number of day for the Leader of the Opposition to act . I would suggest that he reflect soberly on that ; I be disappointed that it take so long , and on reflection , he be probably disappoint with himself as well . it might be useful if he say so publicly . the figure from the CST be absolutely horrific . antisemitism be absolutely unacceptable ; hate crime , include Islamophobia , be absolutely unacceptable ; but do the Minister think there be sufficient capacity within the police to investigate the full range of issue that be be raise ? what be the role of the Equality and Human Rights Commission in prevent the discrimination that can contribute to this hate ? I think there be enough resource in police . as I may have say once or twice before , we have record police officer number — a total of 149 , 500 or so be reach in March last year — so we do have sufficient resource . the police be prioritise this issue , and of course , they can work with the ehrc to take criminal action where the ehrc identify example of antisemitism . follow the battle of Cable Street against Mosley ' s blackshirt , the Public Order Act 1936 introduce measure that severely restrict the ability of Nazi - type movement to march in predominantly jewish area . be the Minister satisfied that the police of today be sufficiently aware of the power they have to stop marche take route that go through area that be predominantly associate with a threatened community ? yes , I be , and the police do it . for example , on Saturday , a convoy be plan from the north of England to north London , many part of which have jewish community . the police stop that convoy because they be concerned that it would inflame tension and that the convoy would engage in intimidatory behaviour . under section 12 and 14 of the Public Order Act 1986 , the police also have power to place condition on both procession and assembly where they feel they will lead to disorder , and they use those condition ; in fact , they use they at the weekend . the marcher originally plan to go right up to the israeli embassy in Kensington , but condition be impose to prevent their getting within undue proximity of that embassy . in fact , my hon . friend the Member for Kensington ( Felicity Buchan ) , who be sit next to I on the Front Bench , make direct representation to the police on behalf of her constituent , raise concern about the marcher ' plan . the police have those power , and have use they more than once , as recently as this weekend . the Minister will be aware that the large jewish school in Europe — JFS — be in my constituency , and I want to thank the CST for its vigilance and service on behalf of all the student and their family . sadly , only last month a student be physically attack by a group of youth outside the school , and those youth goad the student about the situation in Palestine . would the Minister agree that nothing can justify such an attack on an innocent schoolchild , and do he accept that , whatever one believe about the action of the israeli Government , racism and anti - jewish hatred must not be allow to hide behind any political mask ? the hon . Gentleman be quite right . the event in Gaza , or indeed anywhere else in the world , provide no basis , reason or excuse at all to inflict racist abuse on citizen in this country . there be no justification whatsoever for antisemitic attack on jewish people in this country because of what be happen elsewhere in the world . what happen to that boy outside the jewish free school , JFS , in his constituency and what have happen — sadly , tragically — to thousand of member of the jewish community in recent month be totally unacceptable and totally without excuse , and the police should act to make arrest where that happen . I pay tribute to the Community Security Trust , which be base in the Hendon constituency , for the work it do — not only the full - time staff , but the volunteer . sadly , the number of offence we have see do not surprise I . the continue protest on the street of London be simply normalise antisemitism in the United Kingdom , but what bother I the most be offence on university campus ; and more and more of my constituent be tell I that their child will not be go to university as a result . some 245 university have adopt the international Holocaust Remembrance Alliance definition of antisemitism , but other continue to refuse to do so . do the Minister agree that there be no logical reason why any vice - chancellor would not do so ? I join my hon . friend in pay tribute to the work of the Community Security Trust , as well as to Mark Gardner — its chief executive — and all its staff and volunteer , and the people who fundraise for it . the trust ' s work have never be more important than it be now . I agree with what my hon . friend have say about university . I can see no reason at all why every vice - chancellor and every university should not adopt the IHRA definition of antisemitism , and I call on they today to do so . there be no excuse whatsoever for fail to act . I endorse and echo the five - point plan set out by the Department for Education to get this issue on campus tackle . it be deeply disturbing , and I want to see vice - chancellor and other university leader do a lot more to stamp out the scourge of antisemitism , which be all too present on our country ' s campus . this weekend , my heart break to see some 20 officer and multiple police van station outside my synagogue , and that this be deem necessary for our protection . the conflict in the middle east be be use to radicalise people against british Jews online , in our school and university , and on our street . additional security funding be welcome , as be the funding for education setting , but what financial support and resource will be provide to local authority for project work across our faith and community setting at a local grassroot level to bring community together , rather than allow they to be drive far apart ? the hon . member be right to say that grassroots work be need . the £ 7 million I refer to early be part of that , and organisation such as the CST , which the Government substantially fund or provide with quite a lot of money — £ 18 million a year — do good work in this area as well . I echo her sentiment and that of other : there be no excuse , no reason and no possible justification for target jewish people in this country , and the full force of the law must come down on anyone who do so . I can not have be the only one , the weekend before last , to have watch with a mixture of horror and incredulity as several Labour Front Benchers be send out to justify retain their rochdale candidate , only for their leader to reverse his position 48 hour later base on the comment at a meeting and to praise himself for his decisive action . then they have to suspend their candidate for Hyndburn for comment at the same meeting . if the right hon . and learn Gentleman the Leader of the opposition be serious about have change his party , as he repeatedly claim , do my right hon . friend agree that he should publish a full list of the attendee of that meeting and a full transcript of what be say by whom , so that voter in the north - west can know who they be vote for and what they actually believe ? my hon . friend be quite right ; I agree with what he have say . the labour leader — the Leader of the opposition — should publish a full list of who be at that meeting and a full transcript to show that he be serious about tackle antisemitism , and I call on he now to do that . he should have react much soon . it should not have take 48 hour to suspend a candidate who have say obviously antisemitic thing . I be deeply disappointed by that inexcusable 48 - hour delay , but he now have a chance to make at least partial amend by publish that list and transcript . I welcome the comment today from the Government in clamp down on the astonishing and worrying spike we have see in antisemitic incident since 7 October . antisemitism be vile and disgusting , and it infect every area of society — include , sadly , politic — and where we see it , we need to root it out and remove people from the process . to that end , I have write to the Minister for Women and Equalities , the right hon . member for Saffron Walden ( Kemi Badenoch ) , ask if we can have a cross - party discussion about how we deal with the problem in politic — because we can not pretend that it do not exist ; it do . I write to she in November and again last week , so can the Minister please take forward that suggestion , and see if the Minister for Women and Equalities will convene a cross - party discussion on the issue ? of course , there be many all - party parliamentary group and other cross - party group take an active interest in this area , and I be sure that the Home Affairs Committee will consider it as well . I think I be go to see my right hon . friend the Member for Saffron Walden ( Kemi Badenoch ) at some point later this evening , so I will happily remind she about the hon . Lady ' s letter . I thank the Minister for come to the House and make this important statement . do he agree that even more alarming than the sheer number of antisemitic incident now be report on a daily basis be creep tolerance across so much of our national life and so many of our institution — university be just one example — of an acceptable level of antisemitism , so long as it be dress up in a bit of Israel hatred ? do he agree that that be what we need to be focus on tackle , because at the moment , as the CST report demonstrate , this country be move in a very serious and dark direction ? yes , I agree completely with my right hon . friend . we need to show zero tolerance to all form of antisemitism . it be incumbent on everybody — particularly Members of Parliament , but everyone in civil society , include university vice - chancellor , teacher and lecturer , as well as people in the workplace — and every single member of our society have an obligation to call out antisemitism when they see it , and indeed any racism when they see it ; unless people be willing to do that , there be a danger that it creep in , as my right hon . friend have just say . I think it start with member of Parliament call it out in their own constituency , and do so publicly . that be what zero tolerance mean : never turn a blind eye , never turn the other cheek , and never cross the road and pass by on the other side . it mean always call out antisemitism and racism wherever we see it . that be an extremely important message . as have already be say , the CST report include shocking figure about the rise in antisemitism in university setting . the Union of jewish Students have warn repeatedly about a climate of fear for jewish student on campus , and the incident in recent week will only have deepen that fear . can the Minister say a little more about what he and his Government colleague will do , work with our university , to ensure that jewish student can feel safe and secure during their time study ? as we have discuss already , member across the House be particularly concerned about what be happen on university campus . as I have say a couple of time , the Department for Education have a five - point plan , which it set out just a few week ago and which include withdraw visa from international student who be incite racial hatred . anyone who be not a british citizen who incite racial hatred or commit criminal offence in this area should be remove from the United Kingdom . People who come to this country need to respect our law , and our citizen and their right and dignity , and people who be not british citizen should be remove either under the Immigration Act 1971 or section 32 of the UK Borders Act 2007 if they incite racial hatred ; I know the immigration Ministers will take action there . we want vice - chancellor to do more and have write to they ask they to do so . we have have meeting with the Office for student — the regulator — to make sure it be do more to clean up what be happen on campus ; we be do more to make sure that criminal referral — from university to the police — be make when antisemitism happen ; and , as I have say , I think and the Department for Education think that every single university should sign up to the IHRA definition of antisemitism . do my right hon . friend know that synagogue in the west end of London be be target by these so - call protester , and that this have happen not only once or twice but now on multiple occasion — to the extent that they be even look to see what time the service finish so that old people , the young , parent and so forth be be terrorise ? this be not support Palestine ; this be antisemitism — this be attack jewish people . I hope my right hon . friend will call in the commissioner and sort it out . my hon . friend be right to raise that issue . gather outside a synagogue with the purpose of intimidate people come out be completely unacceptable . that be not protest ; it be deliberate intimidation , and it have no place on our street whatsoever . the police have substantial power to act in this area ; I will not recite all the various section and act , but the police have numerous power to act . we have regular meeting with police leader — one be come up in just a few day — and I will certainly be raise this point . if my hon . friend could send I a couple of example , I would be very happy to raise they with the Metropolitan police in the come day . I thank the Minister for his statement , for his robust answer and for his strength of purpose in support jewish people across the United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland ; he be very clearly do that . have discussion take place with the devolved Administrations , in particular the Northern Ireland Assembly , regard a support fund for those who feel unsafe in their current home and need help to move to a safe place , bear in mind that we be now in a scenario where jewish family be stay indoor — afraid to go out unless it be essential — due to so - call peace protester who be make our street feel unsafe for a section of our community ? there be nothing peaceful about deliberately intimidate jewish people go to synagogue , as we discuss just a moment ago , and I would be happy to look into the question of the funding available for devolved administration to do work in this area . the shocking rise in antisemitic attack report by the CST be bad enough , but the trouble be that that be last year and the escalation have continue into this year . People in London suffer the hate marche literally every Saturday — with ban organisation display their flag , placard that be clearly antisemitic and vile slogan utter — and after those so - call peaceful protest disperse , some protestor go and intimidate people in the restaurant , bar and theatre throughout London , so much so now that my jewish constituent be afraid to go into central London on a Saturday for fear of what they will suffer . there be a solution to this , and that be that anyone who be break the law should be arrest by the police . we do that in 2011 , when there be the problem of the riot . those people should be arrest , put through court — overnight if necessary — with clear police evidence , and then jail for their crime . it be not acceptable that such intimidation can take place on our street , when our people feel unsafe . my hon . friend be quite right ; member of the jewish community do feel intimidate go into central London , particularly when the marche be happen , and that be not right and be not acceptable . no one should feel that intimidation when simply come into the centre of our capital city . he be quite right in what he say about apply the law . there be numerous relevant law . he mention display banner of proscribe organisation such as Hamas and now Hizb ut - Tahrir . display those flag and emblem be a criminal offence and we expect the police to make arrest . incite racial hatred be a criminal offence . cause someone to suffer harassment , alarm or intimidation through threaten or abusive language be a criminal offence . cause someone to fear violence be a criminal offence . we expect the police to apply those law not sometimes but always . they have make 600 arrest so far already , and we be meet they on a highly regular basis , include later this week , to make sure that those law continue to be robustly apply , not just sometimes but always , for all of the reason my hon . friend have just eloquently lay out . let we be clear : antisemitism , like other form of racism , have no place in the UK or elsewhere and the perpetrator of antisemitism should face the full force of the law . do the Minister agree that , because an accusation of antisemitism be so serious , it must not be make either lightly or casually ? we must have cool head and not label group or community as antisemitic , because that merely cause more division and more problem . we have to be very careful how we use this word if we want to maintain the public ' s trust that people be not be falsely accuse of antisemitism . no one today in this House , on either side , have label any group collectively as antisemitic . this be about individual and their behaviour , and where individual harass or intimidate member of the jewish community , where they engage in antisemitism and where anyone engage in racism , we will call it out , and where it be illegal , the police will make arrest and prosecute it . this be about individual act , which all of we I hope collectively condemn . no one be tar an entire community at all ; no one have do that on either side . this be about call out , tackle and where appropriate prosecute individual act of antisemitism . they have sadly become only too frequent in recent month , and the whole House should unite in stand against that . there be a grow and deeply unpleasant trend of personalise protest . my right hon . friend the Member for Bournemouth East ( Mr Ellwood ) have be subject to that recently , as have other member of the House . just to raise his particular case , 80 or so protester be scream right outside his door , with a police car between they and his house , for over two hour . the police do nothing . I personally think that be wrong , and that the police need to get a grip and start arrest these people for be intimidate . that be all it be : intimidation . it be not a lawful protest in my view . do my right hon . friend the Minister agree that the police be not do enough to crack down on such appalling behaviour ? what happen to my right hon . friend the Member for Bournemouth East ( Mr Ellwood ) at his house be completely unacceptable . it be intimidation ; it be an attempt , I would suggest , to coerce a Member of Parliament and inhibit he from do his democratically elect duty . I be sure everyone in the House would unreservedly condemn the behaviour of that mob outside my right hon . friend ' s house . various legal power be relevant , include section 42 of the Criminal Justice and Police Act 2001 , which give the police the power to direct people outside a person ' s house to move if they be behave in a way that cause harassment , alarm or distress . that would clearly have apply in this case . my right hon . friend the Minister for Security , who be in his place , and I write to chief constable on precisely that point on 16 February , just a few day ago , raise concern and call for robust action . I believe we be have a discussion on that topic in just a few day ' time . member of Parliament at their home address , constituency office and surgery need to be protect because they be do their democratic duty . where people seek to intimidate they , the police need to take extremely strong action , because aggression against member of Parliament be an act of aggression against democracy itself and in my view that make it particularly serious . I welcome everything my right hon . friend have set out today and that the Government be try to tighten the law where necessary , but evidence suggest it be not yet work . every week we see protest and people march through London with placard with antisemitic , conspiratorial trope — the same thing we see in October , November , December and January . we know that antisemitism be still run rife on university campus , in school and in our community . I urge my right hon . friend to look not just at how we deal with prosecution and crime , but at how we tackle the root cause and how we get into our school , educate people and try to rid society of this evil scourge once and for all . my hon . friend be right . where the law be break , whether that be incite racial hatred , intimidation or harassment , the police must act and make arrest , and they have arrest 600 people already . that be necessary as a law enforcement response , but he be right that we need to tackle the ideology at source . we need to make sure that school be teach young people the right thing and explain what british value of tolerance actually mean . the Department for Education be do work in that area , as be my right hon . friend the Secretary of State for Levelling up , Housing and Communities , who be in the Chamber . we need to make clear to every member of our society that antisemitism and anti - jewish racist hatred have no place in these island of our . we must eradicate it wherever we find it . this report from the Community Security Trust be deeply troubling and depressing , as I think in some respect be aspect of our politic . there be the fact that today a well respected Member of this place be leave because of anti - jewish hatred . at the same time , we have a by - election that have effectively become a competition for who can be the big antisemite . that be deeply chilling . do the Minister agree that it be incumbent on all political leader and all political party to show moral strength , stand up for what be right , take on hatred and not allow any element of their party to be capture by hatred , whatever the short - term electoral or political temptation ? yes , my hon . friend be absolutely right . political leader in particular have a special responsibility to act quickly , to act decisively , and to act not when it be expedient but when it be right . I be disappoint , as I have say , that the Leader of the opposition take 48 hour or long to act in the case of the rochdale candidate . there be no excuse for that sort of delay . we all have an obligation to do the right thing and to do it quickly , whatever the circumstance . I thank those on the Government Front Bench and the Opposition for their attention to a very serious issue . point of order on a point of order , Mr Deputy Speaker , in the past hour or so , the charity campaign Against Antisemitism have report that a member of the public send off a birth certificate application to the Home Office for his six - month - old baby girl and today the certificate be return rip , with the word " Israel " as the place of birth scribble out . the Home Office be responsible for the security of the jewish community , and the pointer be that this would have be do by a Home Office employee . how can I alert the Secretary of State for the Home Department and the permanent secretary to this appalling incident ? first , the right hon . and learn Member will appreciate that that be not a point of order for the Chair . however , if he have something he wish to raise directly with the Home Office , he should most certainly do so . he have already place his case on the record in the presence of the Home Secretary . on a point of order , Mr Deputy Speaker , I would be grateful if you could advise those of we in this House who wish to pay tribute to the amazing Saxby - bear Tony Roe , who be the BBC ' s east midland political editor . he have look after our local democracy and our community for more than 40 year , and this be his last week . we from the east midland be very grateful to he for all he have do in serve local democracy and our community . I would be grateful to know how you , Mr Deputy Speaker , can help I to make sure that be well know . the hon . Lady will be fully aware that that be also not a point of order for the Chair , but it might just be the subject of an early - day motion . I leave that to her judgment . Bill present Family Visas ( Minimum Income ) Presentation and First Reading ( Standing Order no . 57 ) Mr Alistair Carmichael present a Bill to prohibit any increase in the minimum income requirement for family visa ; and for connected purpose . Bill read the first time ; to be read a second time on Friday 21 June , and to be print ( Bill 165 ) . Investigatory Powers ( Amendment ) Bill [ Lords ] second reading I beg to move , that the Bill be now read a second time . the first duty of Government be to keep our citizen safe . the United Kingdom face an endure threat from terrorist , hostile actor and organise criminal group , and that threat be evolve and become more sophisticated . it be not enough for we to keep pace with those who would do we harm ; we must endeavour to get and then stay ahead of they . the investigatory power be the legal power available to law enforcement , the intelligence service , MI5 , the Secret Intelligence Service , GCHQ and other public authority where appropriate to obtain communication and datum about communication . the Investigatory Powers Act 2016 provide a clear legal framework for the use of those power , combine world - lead safeguard and oversight with give agency the tool they need to protect we . there be a double lock for the most sensitive IPA power , mean that an independent judicial commissioner must approve a decision by the Secretary of State to issue a warrant under the IPA . the use of any of these power must be assess as necessary and proportionate , with strong independent oversight by the Investigatory Powers Commissioner . the Investigatory Powers Tribunal provide a robust mechanism for provide redress in respect of any unlawful use of those power . the Home Secretary will be as aware as I be that very occasionally those in charge of our intelligence and security service do not act in the good tradition of this country in their office , and I be think of case such as Belhaj and Boudchar . where people have be the victim of mistreatment — as a consequence of UK complicity with foreign power , for example — should there not be a right for those people to have access to the information about that ? I listen carefully to the right hon . Gentleman ' s point . I be not sure it be directly relevant to this matter , but I take on board the point that he make . he will forgive I if I do not address they directly at this point ; I want to consider they properly . the IPA be sound legislation , but the nature of these threat have evolve since 2016 , and we be confront by great global instability and technological advance , and they demand that we act . terrorist , child abuser , organised criminal and malign actor from hostile state have exploit technological advance . our job be to ensure that the UK ' s investigatory power framework remain fit for purpose . the change that this Bill propose be inform by the independent review of the IPA publish by Lord Anderson of Ipswich in June 2023 . the Bill receive cross - party and Cross - Bench support as it pass through the other place . every Government amendment be accept , and I thank the member of the Intelligence and Security Committee of Parliament for the productive way they engage with and help to shape the Bill . in particular , we have agree to tighten the drafting of clause 22 and 23 in line with amendment propose by the Intelligence and Security Committee . those change put beyond doubt that the Prime Minister may delegate warrant for the purpose of obtain communication of parliamentarian in two , and only two , exceptional circumstance : the personal incapacity of the Prime Minister and a lack of access to secure communication . there be also a limit of five secretary of State to whom this responsibility could be delegate in those circumstance . far to that , in respect of new part 7a , parliamentary scrutiny will be enhance through a statutory requirement for the Secretary of State annually to inform the Intelligence and Security Committee about the new regime for bulk personal dataset . my right hon . Friend mention the ISC ' s scrutiny of these matter . he will understand the concern about widen the number of people who can play the role previously play exclusively by the Prime Minister . I understand the reason for that , but have he consider limit that to those Secretaries of State who have warrant power ? we look at that . there be a balance to be strike , and actually the bulk of those Secretaries of State to whom the function could be delegate in those two exceptional circumstance do have warrant power — I think the Secretary of State for Defence be the only one who do not . my right hon . friend ' s point be a fair one , but the scope of the Bill be not much great than that . as a member of the ISC , I welcome the Government ' s acceptance of our recommendation . however , I would like to understand why they be not accept our other , simple proposal : that when a delegation take place , the Prime Minister would be inform about that afterwards . I think it be inconceivable that the Prime Minister of the day would not be inform of the use of a delegate authority . it be not about the Prime Minister not be inform about the delegation ; it be about the Prime Minister look at the case afterwards — they would not be second - guess it , obviously , because it would already have be agree . we suggest that , as a matter of course , the Prime Minister should be inform afterwards of the content of that warrant . for some reason , the Government be resist that . I can not understand why . I understand the point that the right hon . Gentleman be make — perhaps my answer be not clear — but I suggest that it be inconceivable that the Prime Minister would not routinely be inform of the exercise of this power . ultimately , that be a level of granularity that would add complexity to the Bill without utility . but , as I have say , through the passage of the Bill thus far , we have listen carefully to the Committee ' s suggestion , and although we may not always agree , I can reassure he , other member of the Committee and Members of the House that we will continue to act in listen mode in relation to the Committee ' s suggestion . on that point , will the Home Secretary give way ? I will , but I do want to make some progress . I thank the Home Secretary for give way . he mention listen to scrutiny by the ISC . the Joint Committee on Human Rights have issue a call for write evidence on the Bill , and as he will know from the human right memorandum , the Bill raise important human right issue relate to the right to privacy and to freedom of expression , and possibly the right to an effective remedy . will he therefore undertake to look closely at any correspondence that the Joint Committee might send he when we have complete our scrutiny of the Bill ? I reassure the hon . and learn Lady that we will do exactly that . I turn to the measure in the Bill . we be create a new regime for bulk personal dataset that have low or no expectation of privacy : for example , certain dataset that be widely publicly or commercially available . bulk personal dataset be an essential tool to support our intelligence service in identify fragment of intelligence within a large quantum of datum , in order to disrupt threat such as terrorism and hostile state actor . the Bill seek to create a new statutory oversight regime for how the intelligence service access and examine bulk personal dataset hold by third party . it will place that oversight on a statutory footing , increase the transparency of the regime . the regime will be subject to strong safeguard , include the double lock . we be also make change to the notice regime that will help the UK anticipate and address the risk to public safety of company roll out technology that preclude lawful access to datum . we want to work with those company to achieve common goal , but we must have the tool available when collaboration fall short . I know that the Home Secretary want to make progress , but I be grateful for the opportunity to comment . these reform to the IPA be necessary to upgrade our world - class regime and ensure that our framework be keep up to date with evolve threat and , importantly , technology . we know that the terrorist , the serious organise criminal , the fraudster and the online paedophile all take advantage of the dark web and encrypt space : to plan their terror , to carry out their fraudulent activity and to cause devastating harm to innocent people such as child , in the field of online paedophilia . do he share my concern and indeed frustration with company such as Meta and Apple ? the former have choose to roll out end - to - end encryption without safeguard and the latter have roll out advanced data protection , which will allow these bad actor to go dark , which will severely disable agency and law enforcement from identify they and take action , and will enable — indeed it will facilitate — some of the bad atrocity that our brave man and woman in law - enforcement agency deal with every day . my right hon . and learn Friend — and immediate predecessor — make incredibly important point . Digital technology and online technology have be a liberator in so many way , but , sadly , as have be the case with technology throughout time , it have also be use by those who would do people harm . indeed , she mention in particular the harm do to child . we take that incredibly seriously . we value the important role of investigatory power and will continue to work with technology company — both those well establish at the moment and those of the future — to maintain the balance between privacy and security , as we have always do , and ensure that these technology platform do not provide a hiding place for terrorist , for serious criminal and those people take part in child sexual exploitation . the three type of notice under the exist ipa be datum retention notice , technical capability notice and national security notice . those notice must be both necessary and proportionate , and they be of course subject to the double lock . the Bill do not introduce any new power for the acquisition of datum . the change be about ensure that the system be up to date and remain robust . the Bill will create a notification notice allow the Secretary of State to place specific company under an obligation to inform he or she of propose change to their telecommunications service or system that could have an impact on lawful access . this be not a blanket obligation , and it will be use only where necessary and proportionate , and then only on a case - by - case basis . the notice do not give the Secretary of State any power to veto or intervene in the roll - out of a product or service . it be intend to ensure that there be sufficient time for appropriate consideration of the operational impact of the propose change , and potentially for discussion with the company in question about they . the public , rightly , would want their representative to know in advance if company be propose to do something that would put public safety at risk , and responsible company will work with government to avoid endanger people , who be of course also their customer . the Bill will also amend the IPA to require the company to ensure that exist lawful access be maintain . that mean the company can not legally take any action that would negatively affect the level of lawful access for our operational partner during the review period . in the other place , the Government table an amendment to allow a timeline for review of a notice to be specify in regulation . we also give the judicial commissioner further power for manage the review process . take together , they ensure that company be clear on the length of time that a review can take , which reduce uncertainty for their business as well as provide great clarity for the review process . in the other place , my noble colleague Lord Sharpe of Epsom also commit to a full public consultation before amend the exist regulation on the review of notice , and lay new regulation relate to the notification notice . the Bill also clarify the definition of a telecommun - ication operator , to make it clear that company with complex corporate structure that provide or control telecommunication service and system in the UK fall within the remit of the IPA . these change do not directly relate to any particular technology , include end - to - end encryption , but be design to ensure that company be not able to unilaterally make design change that compromise exceptional lawful access . the Bill make change to the power of public authority to acquire communication datum . section 11 of the IPA make it an offence for a relevant person in a relevant public authority to knowingly or recklessly obtain communication datum from a telecom operator or a postal operator without lawful authority . the Bill will set out example of the acquisition route that amount to lawful authority outside the IPA , give great clarity to public authority that they be not inadvertently commit an offence . far target amendment will ensure that public sector organisation be not unintentionally prevent or discourage from share datum . further change will allow body with regulatory function to acquire communication datum . the Bill also create a new condition for the use of internet connection record — icr — by the intelligence service and the National Crime Agency . the IPA currently require certain threshold to be meet on the know element of an investigation , such as exactly when a website have be access . that limit the ability of operational partner to use the icr to detect previously unknown criminal , terrorist or state threat actor who be act online . the propose measure will allow great detection of high - impact offender by remove the requirement to unequivocally know a specific time or time of access and service in use , and instead will allow these factor to be specify within the application . I understand the use of the measure for the security service , but the Bill broaden the scope of how many people could be drag into it . there be no judicial oversight of the Security Service or whoever be use it . the Bill state that the measure be for national security and economic wellbeing — that be a catch - all for quite a lot of thing . although the intent be right , there need to be some safeguard to prevent innocent people be drag into that potentially broad measure . I understand the right hon . Gentleman ' s point . innocent people ' s data be often acquire in dataset capture , and it be always delete . economic wellbeing merely reflect the language that be use in other part , for consistency across our various strand of work . I think we be here today to scrutinise the Bill . it should not be a chore for the Home Secretary to be ask question . the definition of wellbee could be quite broad . I understand the meaning of national security , as I think he do , and the House , but wellbeing could have quite a broad definition and I be not convinced that I have see what it be . I be not sure that consistency with other legislation be a great argument for include it in this Bill . the simple truth of the matter be that I disagree . in legislation of this nature , maintain consistency of language with previous relevant legislation , include the Intelligence Services Act 1994 , be incredibly important to clarity of intent . I recognise that the right hon . Gentleman have give thought to this , and we do not disregard his point , but we have think through the importance of consistency of language , which be why we have maintain it . a general listener to our proceeding might worry that the new power could be use for fishing expedition , rather than the very specific power that they replace . could the Home Secretary give some word of reassurance from the Dispatch Box that the broadening of bulk datum collection without specific date will not be use for fishing expedition , which might affect the privacy of ordinary citizen who have do nothing wrong ? the hon . Lady make an important point , but the power could be apply to any bulk dataset collection , of which she know there be many across Government . provision be in place to ensure that innocent people ' s data be not hold but delete , and that our security service and other organisation that will utilise these power always do so carefully and cautiously . there be relevant safeguard in place , as I have make reference to — the Investigatory Powers Commissioner and the tribunal — if there be wrongdoing . the proposal be put forward for a very specific reason . the Government have give thought to mission creep and broad expansion , and we feel that this be a modest extension that will give significantly great protection to the british people . as my hon . friend the Member for Wallasey ( Dame Angela Eagle ) just say , we need to give confidence to the public that what we be rightly do to protect ourselves have that level of security in it . there be no judicial oversight of internet connection record . if we be to give these power to the Security Service — which I approve of — we should be able to say to the public that they be proportionate and that there be an independent process to ensure that they can not be abuse . surely , judicial oversight throughout should be important . the right hon . Gentleman specifically speak about judicial oversight , but there be oversight — there isn ' t . there be oversight by the Secretary of State through the warrant process , and oversight of the whole process by the Investigatory Powers Commissioner . through the Committee on which the right hon . Gentleman sit , there be oversight of the Secretary of State ' s function . I agree , and I support that oversight , even though this Government have not make our job on the ISC easy . unless I be miss something , there be no judicial oversight of internet connection record in the Bill . if we want to give people confidence , that backstop of judicial oversight should be important . as I say , I notice that the right hon . Gentleman specifically say that there be no judicial oversight — there isn ' t . I be not disagree , but there be oversight . the Committee on which the right hon . Gentleman sit be part of that oversight process . the Home Secretary have just touch on the importance of the oversight role of the ISC , particularly in relation to these additional provision . I wonder whether he remember the passing of the National Security Act 2023 . during the final stage of that important piece of legislation , the Government table an amendment in lieu promise that they would progress a review of the memorandum of understanding within six month of the Act come into force to ensure there be an update and robust relationship between the ISC and the Government , and the Prime Minister in particular , the ISC have be unable to secure a meeting with the Prime Minister since 2014 , remarkably . give the nature of the ISC ' s important role in these provision , I wonder whether the Home Secretary could update we on that review . that be not an element of this Bill . on a commitment for the Prime Minister to meet with the Committee , I will look at the detail . will the Home Secretary give way ? I want to make progress to ensure that everyone who wish to speak in this debate be able to do so , but I will give way to the right hon . Lady . on that point , will the Home Secretary encourage the Prime Minister to go before the Intelligence and Security Committee at the soon opportunity ? my understanding be that that have not happen for 10 year . I can not make a commitment on the Prime Minister ' s behalf . member of the Committee will know that I appear before the Committee in my previous role , and I think it be important that Government do make themselves available for this scrutiny . as I say , it would be inappropriate for I to demand of the Prime Minister attendance anywhere , but I will pass on the right hon . Lady ' s point . I will assist the Home Secretary with a little context . when I be a ranking member of the Intelligence and Security Committee between 2010 and 2015 , it be a matter of routine that the Committee go to see the Prime Minister once a year , usually in the Cabinet Room . that stop in 2014 . successive Prime Ministers have fail to reinstate it , although it must be say that the shortest - live of they do offer to meet with the Committee , but sadly cease to be Prime Minister before that become possible . the length that some people will go to to avoid Committee scrutiny . I be try to remember where I be ; it have be such a long time since I look down the page of this speech . all such application must be necessary and proportionate and subject to independent authorisation or inspection . the Bill will also strengthen safeguard for journalistic material within the Investigatory Powers Act ' s bulk equipment interference regime , align it with change to the bulk interception regime that be under way to ensure compliance with obligation under the Human Rights Act 1998 . prior judicial authorisation will be need before material obtain through bulk equipment interference can be select for examination use criterion where the purpose be to identify , or be highly likely to identify , confidential journalistic material or confirm a source of journalistic material . prior judicial approval be also necessary before such material may be retain for purpose other than its destruction . the other measure in part 5 of the Bill will ensure that the resilience and protection of the regime be maintain and enhance . the Bill will also make improvement to support the Investigatory Powers Commissioner in effectively carry out their role , ensure that the world - lead oversight regime remain resilient , include power to enable the IPC to appoint deputy , delegate some of their function to judicial commissioner and the newly create deputy , and put certain function on a statutory basis . the Bill will ensure there be a clear statutory basis for report error to the IPC . I sense that the Home Secretary be come to the end of his speech . we have mention parliamentarian and journalist , but I want to talk about another important group : trade union . some people fear that the Bill will open the door even far than its parent Bill on the surveillance of trade union . do the Home Secretary agree that there should be no place for the surveillance of trade union in a democracy ? if so , will he consider amendment to the Bill to ensure that that do not happen , include a redraft of clause 5 ? I take the point that the hon . and learn Lady put forward . there be a number of organisation not explicitly mention in the Bill where that argument could be make , and I be not sure it would necessarily be useful or right to list they all , but I will take on board the point she make in good faith — genuinely . the Bill will bring the Investigatory Powers Act up to date with the modern age , provide great clarity , make the system more resilient and retain the world - lead safeguard of civil liberty and commercial integrity . above all , the Bill will mean that the man and woman who work so incredibly hard to keep we safe , often without recognition , have the tool they need to do so in the modern era . I therefore commend the Bill to the House . I call the Opposition Front - Bench spokesperson . the first duty of any Government be to keep their citizen safe — to defend our national security and defend our citizen against terrorism , extremism and serious crime . labour always stand ready to work cross - party on national security to keep our country safe . it be why we be support this Bill today , why we will work with the Government to get the detail right , and why we look forward to pursue some of these issue in further detail in Committee . we recognise the important work that the Intelligence and Security Committee have do on this and that Lord Anderson have do in review these area ; I pay tribute to his work , and to his previous work as independent reviewer . we also recognise the detailed consideration that have already take place in the House of Lords . it be vital that our intelligence and law enforcement agency have the power and capability they need to pursue terrorist and dangerous criminal , such as child abuser , and to keep the public safe . I pay tribute to the work of the intelligence and security agency and to our counter - terror police for the immense work that they do . we be all indebted to they for their tireless and , by necessity , often hide work to protect our country and defend our democracy and our freedom from those who would seek to do we harm . it be significant in the context of the Bill that the work of those agency be about not just protect our security , but defend our democracy . that be why it be so important that the power they possess operate within a clear and strong legal framework with proper oversight and robust safeguard to prevent abuse or misuse . it be why the agency themselves support have a strong legal framework in place . it be how we ensure there be consent and support for the essential work that they do . it be why this framework have to both protect privacy and protect we against serious threat , and why it have to defend both security and liberty — in a democracy , those go hand in hand . strong power always need to be accompany by strong oversight and strong safeguard . that be why it be important we get the detail right . just as we work in a constructive cross - party manner on previous investigatory power legislation and on the National Security Act , we will continue to do so on this legislation . the reality that we all face be that threat to our national security be now more complex than ever : fast - change challenge from home - grow extremism and radicalisation ; a steep rise in state - sponsor threat from hostile foreign actor ; the exponential growth in new technology ; the proliferation of serious crime ; and national security threat such as child abuse be perpetrate and spread online , put young child and young people at terrible risk . within that rapidly evolve landscape , we obviously can not allow our security service to be outpace . we must ensure that the interception power that our security service and police have to fight crime be update to cope with rapid technological change and change threat . we must also ensure that the safeguard and oversight keep pace with change power , so that we continue to ensure , as be embed in the legislation , that all measure be appropriate and proportionate when action be take . that be why we rightly have , in the exist Investigatory Powers Act 2016 , measure such as the double lock on some provision relate to judicial commissioner ' approval and oversight ; those , too , need to be update in response to change technology . the Bill be necessary because technology be move so fast . we now see serious crime such as : child abuser use new and very different method to share vile image of sexual assault on child ; extremist and terrorist use different and change internet forum and encrypt message to find new way to radicalise and organise ; and serious and organised criminal use new application to launder money and drug , and to facilitate organise immigration crime that can put life at risk . clearly , that mean the legislation need to be update . that be why we recognise the need for measure and the main provision in the Bill — for example , on bulk dataset . we recognise the need for the Government to make change to the exist framework , because agency that be work at pace to intercept threat should not have to go through the same lengthy process to use dataset that be widely available to the public and other commercial organisation . in the other place , member debate the importance of get the threshold right and how the phrase " low or no expectation of privacy " should be interpret . those discussion will rightly continue in Committee . we will also continue to seek further clarification on the interaction of these reform with some of the measure in the Data Protection Act 2018 . on internet connection record , the Bill reflect some of the recommendation make by Lord Anderson . this be a sensitive area and , rightly , there be a high test for important agency to meet to access vital record , but there be also particular concern around child abuser and terrorist be able to use new forum and communication channel where there should be the further ability to pursue action and intelligence lead . we recognise the importance of the issue , but also of ensure that we get it right and frame the detail in the right way to ensure that we can protect vulnerable young people and child . minister be right to ensure that Government Departments be not inadvertently prevent from the kind of normal and routine legitimate exchange of basic information by inadvertent coverage of previous legislation , and to ensure that appropriate safeguard be in place . we agree it be important that there be process to ensure that security and intelligence agency can anticipate technological change that be come down the track from major telecommunications company and major commercial organisation that might potentially make their work more difficult or inadvertently put national security at risk . rather than have everyone simply try to play catch - up in retrospect , include with criminal and terrorist who may exploit those change , it be sensible to have in place in advance a process for constructive dialogue between company and intelligence agency to mitigate any adverse consequence for tackle serious crime , such as child sexual exploitation . I hope Ministers will look at how far they can ensure that regulation to govern change to the notice regime be properly consult on , scrutinise and therefore set at the appropriate level , and that they continue to engage with technology company on how they should be implement . we welcome the additional safeguard and the introduction of strong oversight , include as a result of the discussion in the other place — for example , ensure that more of the commissioner ’ function be put on a statutory footing ; ensure there be proper oversight of the use of third - party bulk personal dataset by intelligence service ; and include additional protection , through Government amendment 45 in the other place , relate to confidential journalistic material and source . we hope that that issue will be look at far in Committee . in the context of what the oversight arrangement should be , I ask the Government to look again at the role of the Intelligence and Security Committee . as a former member of the ISC — although that be now more than two decade ago — I can testify to the importance of the Committee and the seriousness with which all its member take their work . the Committee provide a level of oversight and scrutiny that can not be provide in the normal way by other parliamentary Select Committees , due to the nature of the secret work our intelligence agency need to do . it also perform an important role for Government . there should be the reassurance for Ministers that the work of the intelligence and security agency be be appropriately scrutinise . the Government therefore need to look again at update the memorandum of understanding for the ISC to ensure that it , too , can fit with the evolve landscape under the change that be take place , and to make sure that its remit can do so as well . I will press the Home Secretary again on this issue . I understand that he can not answer for Prime Ministers in a simple way , but I press he to take back to the Prime Minister the importance of recognise the serious role play by the ISC . it be not simply about the role of the Foreign Secretary or the Home Secretary ; it be also about the role of the Prime Minister . there be power that only a Prime Minister have and have to execute , as be reflect in the Bill . therefore , recognition from the Prime Minister of the role of the ISC be important . finally , there be the complicated issue that Lord Anderson raise regard the circumstance in which the Prime Minister ' s unique power can be delegate in the context of intercept warrant target at member of relevant legislature . there be a detailed discussion . those warrant be rightly subject to a triple lock process which require the authorisation of the Prime Minister . we recognise that the experience of covid and the hospitalisation of the then Prime Minister in 2020 give rise to question about what should happen in such circumstance and make sure there be proper procedure in place to ensure that there be no national security gap . member in the other place be right to press for a tightening of those arrangement . that raise wide issue that the Bill can not address : around what happen if there be a conflict of interest for a Prime Minister or circumstance in which a Prime Minister be accuse of be careless on issue around national security . I do not think that that can be address by the Bill or perhaps by any legislation , but it be a salutary reminder to we all about the importance of Prime Ministers take immensely seriously their responsibility towards our national security and always behave in a way that mean that that can never be in doubt . this should be a cross - party issue — a matter on which we all work together . I know that member who be present this evening and have great expertise in this area will want to raise further question about the detailed application of the Bill , and I hope that those will be consider in the same spirit that we see in the House of Lords . often in this place , the Government simply maintain their position and the detailed amendment be table in the Lords , but I hope that on this issue we will see the same spirit of cross - party discussion that we see in the other place . this be about ensure that there be proper oversight and there be proper safeguard , but it be also , vitally , about defend our national security at a time of rapidly change technology , when we all have grave concern about the potential for terrorist , extremist and serious criminal to exploit that new technology to do we harm . we must all be vigilant , and ensure that the intelligence and security agency be support so that they can do the work we need they to do , on our behalf , to keep our country safe . let I say first of all that I be in favour of the Bill , which I think constitute a sensible updating of the intelligence community ' s power in the way that the Home Secretary and , indeed , the shadow Home Secretary have describe . I be also in favour of the principle , mention by the shadow Home Secretary , that great power for the intelligence agency should come with great oversight of those power . I know that my colleague in the Intelligence and Security Committee will want to focus on certain area cover by the Bill . I want to focus my remark on internet connection record , which be , of course , important piece of intelligence . we be talk here about which internet site be access and when , not about precisely what be view or what activity be carry out , but none the less this datum can be of significant intelligence value . the Investigatory Powers Act 2016 allow for the obtaining of internet connection record datum in certain circumstance . the circumstance on which I want to concentrate be those in which an intelligence agency be focus on the use of a particular internet service at a particular time and be keen to know the identity of the person or person who have be use it at that time . this be cover by section 62 of the Act , which give authority for an intelligence agency to obtain that information . the Bill seek to broaden an agency ' s power to act in those circumstance . the law currently require the agency to know specifically which service have be use , and specifically at which time it be use . clause 15 seek to extend that to allow the collection of ICR datum to identify individual use " one or more " specify internet service " in a specified period " . what that mean , at least as the Bill be currently draft , be that there be no apparent limit on the number of internet service that can be specify or on the length of the specify period , so the clause could allow an intelligence agency to collect ICR datum on a large number of different internet service , and over a long period . that would inevitably involve datum on the activity of a potentially large number of people , whereas the current law permit only examination of a specific service at a specific time , which carry much less risk of other wholly innocent and uninvolved individual be catch in the net . I do not suggest — and neither , I think , do the Intelligence and Security Committee — that the intelligence agency do not need these wide power . we do say , however , that this be a significant widening of their power , and that it should therefore come with additional scrutiny from a judicial commissioner . I think we can deduce , not just from the debate in the other place , but from what the Home Secretary have say in this House and what other Ministers have say at other time , that the Government essentially have two argument in response to that . the first be that this new power be not intrusive enough to merit extra oversight , as ICR datum relate to those not subject to agency interest be not retain , and the second be that the power be propose be no more intrusive than current power to collect internet connection datum . on the first of those argument , the fact that data be not retain do not mean that it be not intrusive to collect it . many of our constituent would be concern about their internet activity be scrutinise , even if no action be take thereafter — and we should bear in mind that the Bill ' s language do not limit that scrutiny to site visit which be inherently suspicious . even everyday online activity may be of interest in the case of individual of concern , but this provision would mean that the everyday online activity of many who be not of concern will also be examine . that , we say , make the provision worthy of additional oversight . the second argument the Government might advance be that this be no more intrusive than current power . that , I think , be true in term of the depth of the intrusion — it be still the " when " and " where " of internet activity rather than the " what " that we be talk about — but it be not true in term of its breadth . many more people will be catch by it , and that be a significant and material increase in intrusion for the population at large . we therefore believe that the Government should think again , not about whether intelligence agency should have these wide power , but about whether there should be the involvement of external scrutiny to ensure that they be use properly . there be only one other matter that I want to touch on briefly , and it have be mention already : the ground on which power such as these can be use . there be , essentially , three . first , they can be use in the interest of national security , and I have no argument with that . secondly , they can be use in urgent case to combat some form of criminality . thirdly , they can be use in the interest of the economic wellbeing of the UK , in so far as those interest be also relevant to national security . as the House know , the last of those have long be controversial as an appropriate ground for action — and , of course , the more intrusive the power that can be use with that justification , the more controversial it be . I think it fair to say that the ISC be concerned about its use in that regard , and I be sure the House will want to consider , as the Bill proceed , whether its application to these power and more generally be still appropriate . let I start with two thank yous . first , let I put on record my party ' s gratitude to the intelligence service and law enforcement organisation that work so incredibly hard to keep all our citizen safe in the face of constantly change and develop threat . secondly , I thank all those who take part in the review of the 2016 Act that have inform the Bill . however , as Lord Anderson say in his own review , they should be a starting point for parliamentary scrutiny and debate rather than a finishing point . although any opportunity to revisit and improve the 2016 Act would generally be welcome , my party have serious concern about certain provision in this amendment Bill . in short , while it be constantly present as " update " , and as protect and make efficient pre - exist power , we fear that the reality be a very significant expansion of what be , we must remember , already extraordinarily wide power by international standard . there be significant privacy and human right risk , and the danger of increasingly widespread suspicionless surveillance . we fear that we may be hand invasive power to intelligence and law enforcement agency not because the power be necessary or essential to their work but because they be convenient , and that be not strike the right balance . all this be consistent with the very detailed and principled privacy and human right concern that my party raise in relation to the 2016 Act itself — particularly in the speech make by my hon . and learn Friend the Member for Edinburgh South West ( Joanna Cherry ) , who be here to take part in the debate again today . as will be the case today , we do not oppose the second reading of that Bill , but in the absence of important amendment , or concession and reassurance — again , as with the 2016 legislation — we keep open the option to oppose the current Bill at a later stage . today I will focus on concern relate to bulk personal dataset , and on notice relate to change in telecommunication service . I will also briefly flag up our concern about internet connection record and change to the offence of unlawfully obtain communication datum . my party also believe that this Bill provide an opportunity to revisit the whole issue of snoop on parliamentarian , if we be bold enough to take it . I shall turn first to bulk personal dataset and part 7 of the 2016 Act . in short , we struggle to see that the propose change have be show to be necessary . we fear that they will instead create even large gap in the oversight regime in relation to these capability . a whole host of concern arise in relation to the provision of clause 2 and the concept of datum in relation to which there can be " low or no reasonable expectation of privacy " . bluntly , I struggle to see how a decision maker be suppose to assess people ' s reasonable expectation of privacy , and when we say " people " we can be talk about hundred or thousand of people or potentially several million people . within that group of individual there will be many vary attitude to further privacy , and the datum relate to individual could vary hugely from the mundane to the deeply personal . it may be that there be suppose to be some type of " reasonable person " test apply , but be that reasonable person black , gay , jewish or indeed a trade unionist ? how be potentially very different subjective attitude to be account for ? these might seem like odd question , but the experience in the United States of America , where a similar test be involve , prove that these question be very real indeed . be it a general question of privacy in relation to the datum or a more specific question of expectation of the use of that datum by intelligence service ? what precisely be low expectation ? this seem to be an impossible assessment to undertake in any realistic or meaningful sense . I thank my hon . friend for his kind comment early . as usual , he be make a very forensic speech . on this issue of a reasonable expectation of privacy , do he agree that clause 2 and clause 11 ( 3 ) seem to be base on a legal misunderstanding that people lose their right to privacy when they happen to share certain information with someone else ? he will be as aware as I be that that run contrary to the jurisprudence of the European Court of Human Rights and that , by contrast , the Court have actually say that privacy include " the right to establish and develop relationship with other human being " . do he agree that it be important to ensure that this Bill be commensurate with our obligation under the european convention on human right ? my hon . and learn Friend will not be surprised to hear that I completely agree with she . in fact , that bring I to the next point I want to raise in relation to clause 2 . as well as put in place what I struggle to see as be a reasonably operate assessment , the clause raise concern in relation to consistency with data protection legislation and with human right obligation . the factor to be take into account when undertake that really difficult assessment do not even expressly include the sensitivity of the datum in question , which surely should be central to any question of processing . that be an inconsistency with exist datum protection principle and law , and I agree that the compatibility of such provision with our human right obligation be also surely highly dubious . just because someone have share personal datum do not mean that they automatically lose their right to further protection around how that datum be share and process , especially when it be sensitive personal datum , as my hon . and learn Friend have just say . the role of judicial commissioner in this area be even far dilute , reduce to review by judicial review standard whether dataset do indeed relate to datum where there can be low or no expectation of privacy . frankly , that be not a safeguard at all . at the very least , their role need to be strengthen when the Bill be consider in Committee . we also need to seek assurance around how the Bill will impact on the reporting of the retention and use of bulk personal dataset . if large number be retain under category authorisation , we may not know how many dataset be actually be gather . let I turn to various aspect of part 4 , on notice . again there be some controversial provision , particularly in clause 21 and the requirement on select telecommunication operator to inform the Secretary of State if they propose to make change to their product or service that would negatively affect exist lawful access capability . that seem like an extraordinarily broad power , without anything remotely appropriate in term of oversight and limitation . these power be go to make the UK a real outlier . essentially , the Secretary of State will be empower to say to tech company , " you be not allow to improve your product without consult we , so that we can still break in to access the datum that we need and when we want it " . despite what the Secretary of State say , take together with other change to review process , such power could easily be use to significantly delay , or de facto veto , update to security , render everybody ' s datum more vulnerable to hack by third - party actor . that be simply incorrect , and I know that the hon . Gentleman would not wish to continue down a road that he know to be incorrect . let I just be very clear : this be a continuation of a power that be grant in 2016 . the notice do not extend that power ; it merely enable a conversation to begin with company before any action be take , to maintain an exist standard and not in fact to change it . I be grateful for that clarification from the Minister , and we will of course engage far in this debate in Committee . these concern have be raise not just by I but by significant tech company ; this be not something that have come to I simply through peruse the Bill . the key question remain : why be there to be no proper oversight of these notice and notice power by independent advance authorisation ? why be there not even the double lock that apply to other notice that can be serve on communication provider under that Act ? surely that scrutiny should be carry out in advance . there be also lot of question mark around the expand claim of international jurisdiction . how will potential conflict of law be resolve , especially if a company subject to one of these notice that be contrary to its domestic law can not even say anything about it because it be bind to secrecy by this legislation ? what be the prospect of other government copy what our government be do and seek to replicate such provision , and what would the impact of that be on UK company ? turn to internet connection record , the starting point be that we should remember that no other European Union or five Eyes country permit the requiring of ICR generation or retention in relation to its own resident , so this be a hugely controversial development in the 2016 Act . as we have hear , icr can reveal huge amount of deeply sensitive information about a person . for now , secret service can seek icr only when certain fact that be already know , such as the identity of a person connect or the time and use of the connection , so that the retention be at least target in some way . the risk in this Bill be that reasonable suspicion will no long precede targeted surveillance . instead , the Bill would seek to use icr for the discovery of new target , which be a really significant jump and development . I can genuinely understand some of the reason be offer for this change , and I be not unsympathetic to the case be make , but if these power be not carefully circumscribe , they risk create a big step towards mass surveillance and fishing exercise . we need to ask whether there be less invasive alternative and whether these power be therefore really necessary . alternatively , we need to look again at the oversight mechanism for the use of these power . we also have concern about the Bill ' s proposal in relation to the offence create by the 2016 Act , where relevant person in a relevant public body knowingly or recklessly obtain communication datum from a telecom or postal operator without lawful authority . this Bill seek to set out example of what would amount to lawful authority , which be a laudable aim . however , there be real question about whether some of the example in clause 12 be not in fact redefine the concept of lawful authority . in particular , the assertion that there would be lawful authority simply because " the communication datum have be publish before the relevant person obtain it " be controversial . that be particularly so when " ' publish ' mean make available to the public or a section of the public ( whether or not on a commercial basis ) . " as I say in relation to bulk personal dataset , limited publication be not authority for intrusive surveillance . could a simple private message not amount to publication of comms datum ? the implication of this definition of lawful authority need very careful scrutiny indeed . finally , on the interception and hacking of parliamentarian , make provision for circumstance where the Prime Minister be unavailable to play his part in a triple lock seem sensible , but the fact that the issue of snoop on mps and other be be revisit should trigger we all to rethink the whole scheme . our role of represent our constituent , interrogate legislation and hold the Government to account should not be interfere with lightly . we should take the chance to consider post - surveillance notification of mps who have be spy upon , by judicial commissioner , once investigation be complete . as matter stand at the moment , redress be almost impossible to obtain . we should also require that the investigatory power commissioner be inform every time these power be use , so that there be transparency about how often this be happen . all other option should be on the table as well . I start by thank intelligence and law enforcement authority and I be happy to do so again in closing , but our respect for they do not mean we should ever consider write blank cheque or hand they whatever power they ask for . they be not perfect . from time to time they exceed their power and certain individual abuse their lawful capability . the power that they seek through this Bill be extremely invasive and broad in scope . there be a real danger that key provision of the Bill will go beyond what be necessary and get the balance with privacy and human right wrong . these provision will need serious scrutiny and revision in Committee , and that be what we in the SNP will seek to secure . Hegel say , " what be reasonable be real , and what be real be reasonable . " in face the very real threat that pervade , it be certainly reasonable that we equip those missione to keep we safe with the power they need to do so . that be partly about put in place a legislative framework that allow they to counter those threat , for we know what will happen otherwise . we sit in this Chamber grace by the coat of arm of our former colleague Jo Cox and David Amess . we in this place know what it mean when those missione to keep we safe be unable to do so . on that basis , I be proud and pleased to take the original Investigatory Powers Bill through this House — some veteran of its passage be in the Chamber tonight — and , in do so , we be conscious of the need to strike a balance between , on the one hand , provide the power and equip the police and the security service with the necessary mechanism to do their job and , on the other hand , retain both the privacy of individual and put in place the necessary safeguard mention by the shadow Home Secretary , the right hon . member for Normanton , Pontefract and Castleford ( Yvette Cooper ) . that balance be at the heart of our consideration then . I be conscious that I say in that debate : " it be important to understand that privacy be at the very core of the Bill … the protection of private interest and the protection of the public be at the heart of all we seek to do " . – – [ Official Report , Investigatory Powers Public Bill Committee , 12 April 2016 ; c . 90 . ] that remain so , but it be also important to recognise that we always anticipate that the legislative arena be bind to require a dynamic approach , of the kind we be discuss this evening , and that we would need to update the legislation to deal with the change character of the threat I describe . it come as no surprise that the Government have introduce legislation to do just that , to add to what be already on the statute book and to make it more appropriate . the right hon . Gentleman and I often cross sword during the passage of the 2016 Act , but we have since reach a point of rapprochement on discover our mutual passion for the importance of freedom of expression . from what he be say this evening , I think we can also agree on the importance of privacy . of course , that come from the right to a private and family life under article 8 of the european convention on human right . do he agree that it be unfortunate , give this Bill ' s huge implication for our constituent ' privacy , that the Government have decide not to conduct a privacy impact assessment ? surely such an assessment be vital , and it be perhaps something upon which he and I can again , rather unusually , agree . our agreement be become rather less unusual . I do not know whether that give the hon . and learn Lady any pleasure , or whether it cause her pain . none the less , she be right that , when we consider such legislation , it be important that it be scrutinise to an even great degree than we would normally expect in this place . the 2016 Act be consider by three Committees of this House . it be subject to pre - legislative scrutiny by a Joint Committee of both Houses of Parliament and , indeed , the bulk power , which have be mention , be subject to an independent review by David Anderson , who have since be elevate to become Lord Anderson . the hon . and learn Lady be right that the need for scrutiny be profound , particularly when we equip organisation with extensive authority to invade private space . of course , we will not know much of what they do . many of the individual involve in the security service and the police , and the work they do , be rightly unknown to all but a few , so it be all the more important that , in give they such authority , we behave in the way that the hon . and learn Lady describe — I be now add to the small , two - person coalition form between we . it be right that the legislation be update to make it fit for purpose . the ISC , of which I be also proud to be a member , have be tell of the need for urgent , targeted and necessary change . when we consider this Bill , we should test whether its provision be indeed urgent , targeted and necessary . I be not absolutely convinced that all we see before we pass that test , and I will say a little more about that when I come to clause 14 and its associated schedule . there be more expertise in the Chamber tonight than I could possibly imagine but , by way of background for the wide audience , I will say a word about what the 2016 Act do and why this Bill therefore matter . the Act provide the law - enforcement and security service with the vital power they need to keep we safe , and it do so in a way that be clear and transparent . when we pass the Act into law , we ensure that the safeguard mechanism be radically overhaul . the innovative double lock that we put in place be , at the time , unprecedented . as the shadow Home Secretary say , it do two thing : it provide the necessary protection that she describe , but it also give the security service confidence that what they be do be not only authorised but thoroughly check . it be also good for minister to know that the process have judicial oversight as well as political oversight . there have be a number of change since the Act be pass , both in the job do by the security and intelligence service and the police and in the reason they have to do that job , for the people who seek to do we harm be dynamic , too ; they change what they do , and technology have also change . all of that explain why this Bill be , in broad term , welcome and necessary . but the power I describe be not give solely to the people I mention . they be also give to a number of other public body . this be debate at great length when the 2016 Act be consider in this place . these public body — range from local authority to the Environment Agency , the Health and Safety Executive and all kind of other — have proper legal function . I be not debate that , but they be not quite of a kind with the security service and the police . to grant these body such intrusive power be always controversial and , to put it mildly , be bind to give rise to some scepticism . when Parliament consider the Act , we deliberate on that provision in great detail and take a very considered and cautious decision to restrict the use of the power , which we consider to be intrusive . as a result , the public body that I have describe , include the Environment Agency , the Health and Safety Executive and local authority , be require to take far procedural step in order to compel the disclosure of communication datum from telecommunication operator . they must obtain either an authorisation under the current IPA , a court order or other judicial authorisation , or regulatory power in relation to telecommunication or postal operator , or they must obtain the communication datum as secondary datum as part of a valid interception or equipment interference warrant . so their ability to take advantage of the power within the exist Act be both limited , particular and subject to those safeguard . the Bill before we seek to remove that requirement for those further procedural step in relation to a wide range of public regulatory authority . worse still — I hope the Minister will correct this in his summation — we have yet to learn which those body be , as we have not see a list of the authority . I hope we will get that list , if not tonight — as it be a big ask for the Minister to read they all out in his 10 - minute summation , I hope he will write to the House , and put a copy of the letter in the Library , explain which body will enjoy those power . the Government ' s argument for remove the restriction I have set out be that a broad array of communication now fall into the category of communication datum — the definition of communication datum have broaden — and that a wide number of organisation now constitute telecommunications operator . as a result , it be say that the current restriction prevent some regulatory authority from acquire the information necessary to carry out their statutory responsibility . the problem with that argument be that unless we know what those regulatory function be and unless we understand which body be involve in the supervisory function , it be hard to know whether the change before the House can be legitimise . I have no doubt that will be explore in Committee — I would be amazed if it be not — but it would be helpful if the Minister could be ahead of that further consideration and clarify which specific body will fall into this category . as I say , the issue be highly scrutinise when we last debate these matter . at that time , the power be tie to national security and serious crime circumstance only , to avoid impinge on the very privacy mention by the hon . and learn Member for Edinburgh South West ( Joanna Cherry ) . for that reason too , Parliament grant the power to a limited range of organisation . we should not brush that aside lightly . colleague will be aware of various report of the intrusive use of investigatory power by local authority and other public body . the House would not be content to introduce sweeping power for an unknown and potentially unlimited number of public body , when a previous Parliament decide that be too intrusive . I would like the Minister to satisfy the House about the necessity of the change , to specify to whom the change will apply , and to reassure we that there be no weakening of the core connection between the privacy of the individual and the necessary power available to do what be legally right . as I say early , in broad term the Bill be welcome . it be important to understand that we need to update the legal framework in which those missione to keep we safe operate , but the Bill can be improve during its scrutiny . I simply point out that when we debate the Act in its original form , we recognise that through scrutiny that Bill could be improve . as we continue consideration of this important measure , I hope that this Minister — one of my successor as Security Minister — will recognise the same . in common with all the speaker who have make their contribution thus far on Second Reading of the Investigatory Powers ( Amendment ) Bill , I will not say that I oppose the Bill or that these power should not exist or be update in this rapidly develop area of technology . as other have observe , the rapidly evolve technology be create threat about which we could not have dream when the original Act be introduce after an ISC report on privacy and security in 2015 . although the issue be evolve , some thing stay the same , namely that in a democracy it be important that the security service and all the agency , whether they relate to police or security , can be hold to account by the democratic structure that be create to make our democracy real . I emphasise a point that have not be stress by other : we be live through an era during which authoritarian government across the world be begin to challenge the openness of democratic structure and test whether those who live in a democracy have the political will to maintain their democracy , keep it vibrant and protect it from threat . against that background of be challenge — we do not have to look much far than Europe and the border of Ukraine to see how some of those challenge be begin to develop — we be be ask whether we rate the health and strength of our democracy enough to protect it . we be also be ask , which be the nature of this debate , to justify the power we be give to the security and police service to our constituent and those citizen of our country who wish to see their democracy protect , as well as have a proper balance between democratic oversight safety and the power we give our security service to do their job . as other have mention , there be a balance between the effectiveness and speed of those power and the safeguard that this Parliament put in place in order to ensure that there be proper oversight and use of they . we have hear how that balance and safeguarding have be develop in law . we be look now at amendment to the exist law in order to update and modernise those power to make they more effective , efficient and easy to use , and to ensure protect our security , be it from criminality , terrorism , paedophilia or state actor who wish to our country harm , be balance correctly with safeguard , openness and transparency oversight . then we can protect our society and value , while respect the privacy of every individual citizen who enjoy the freedom of live in our democracy . the Bill seek an expansion in investigatory power and some of those power available to agency to deal with the evolution of this area . our job , not only in the debate tonight , but in the scrutiny of this Bill in Committee , be to test and ask the appropriate question about whether the right balance have be strike by Ministers and the relevant agency in the extra power that they want to introduce . as the new member of the ISC , I believe that , as the investigatory power evolve , it be also important that the power of the Intelligence and Security Committee to do its job in these new area be properly develop and resource . I shall just leave that on the record . it be not a surprise to those who have read the Lords debate that this be an issue . I draw attention to an area of the Bill where amendment be agree in the Lords : what be know as the triple lock , rather than the double lock . that be the mechanism that protect the communication of member of this Parliament and other relevant legislature from be arbitrarily intercept by agency for no reason . in fact , it be part of the protection that one would expect in a robust democracy for those people who be elect to represent their constituent . they have a reasonable expectation , I think , to be allow to go about their business without be subject to that kind of intrusive power , unless there be an extremely good reason for it . member will know that the underlie principle be that the communication of member of this Parliament and other relevant legislator should be intercept and read only where it be absolutely essential to do so — in the most serious of circumstance . in the Investigatory Powers Act 2016 , which this Bill will change , Parliament recognise that that be an issue by add a third layer of safeguard to the approval process for warrant for target interception and targeted examination of communication . those warrant be issue only by a Secretary of State and review by a judicial commissioner , which be the double lock , but they be also approve by the Prime Minister personally . as my right hon . Friend say from the Dispatch Box , there be an issue if the Prime Minister be unavailable to do that . it be important that there be not a gap in security protection , which would happen if the Prime Minister be unable to be the third part of that triple lock . nobody disagree with the idea that that process should be make more robust , but there be also an issue about how wide the power to issue that final approval — currently , that final approval rest only with the Prime Minister — should go . there be debate about that when the Bill go through its stage in the other place . the question of balance be how the new Bill deal with ensure that the triple lock be robust while not create a lacuna should the Prime Minister be indispose and unable to issue warrant without that power go too wide . the ISC support the intention behind this , which be to provide resilience around the current arrangement . it be important that the Prime Minister be the person who approve these thing , but this may affect the operation of the intelligence agency when they be seek a target interference or a time - sensitive warrant . none the less , there be agreement that , in truly exceptional circumstance , it may be appropriate for a Secretary of State to temporarily deputise for the Prime Minister . the Committee consider that it be important that decision in this area should be delegate only in the most exceptional circumstance , and delegate only to a limited number of Secretaries of State who be already responsible for authorise relevant warrant . we want the Prime Minister to retain sight of all warrant relate to member of a relevant legislature . Most of that be agree in the other place , although there be an issue about whether the relevant Secretaries of State — there can be up to five of those — be one that already issue warrant . I be a little take aback that the Home Secretary just assume that , once these have be agree by a substitute , they would automatically be review by the Prime Minister . clearly , that be a big assumption . do my hon . friend not think that it would be well if we put it in the Bill that the Prime Minister have full oversight of this warrant ? clearly , put such thing in the Bill be often an important safeguard . certainly , I do not understand why the delegation of these power should not be limit to Secretaries of State who also issue warrant . I do not quite understand why there be an obsession with five secretary of State . we could have four and still have robust oversight . be the hon . Lady aware that the Wilson doctrine be still in operation ? this come about in the ' 60 and ' 70 when Harold Wilson , the Prime Minister of the day , give an undertaking to this House that the mail of member of Parliament would not be routinely tap ; it would happen only in exceptional circumstance . all this triple lock be do be put that doctrine on to a statutory footing . I thank the hon . gentleman for his comment . obviously , the Wilson doctrine be in the previous Investigatory Powers Act . however , give what happen with the incapacity of the Prime Minister during the covid pandemic , we be seek to tweak it . it seem sensible to do so , but we need to tweak it in a way that be as narrow as possible to ensure that there be no lacuna in protection . I wonder why this idea of five secretary of State be so important . I also wonder why we can not restrict the Secretaries of State who could operate in place of the Prime Minister in this very particular circumstance to those Secretaries of State who also issue warrant , and why that can not be on the face of the Bill . I hope that , in his response , the Minister might have some contribution to make about why the Government be stick on this particular issue , give that everyone understand how important it be to have resilience . but the resilience that the ISC be seek be slightly strict than that which the Government seem to wish to grant . it would be helpful for Committee stage if the Minister explain why that be . it be important that our discussion on particular bit of the Bill , which we will have in Committee , be see in the context of a widespread acknowledgement that we need to ensure that the investigatory power to which the Bill relate be update , and continue to evolve , to make they relevant , and efficient and effective to use . at the same time , any expansion in investigatory power must have particular safeguard and oversight in a democratic country , so that we can assure our constituent that it be be do in the interest of preserve our democracy and ensure that we can protect the population from grow and ever - evolve threat , be they of terrorism , state actor or crime , and that their human right and right to privacy be still appropriately protect with proper oversight , which of course the ISC be an important part of . it be a pleasure to follow the hon . member for Wallasey ( Dame Angela Eagle ) . as she mention , she be the new member of the Intelligence and Security Committee , but that have not prevent she , as we have see this evening , from already make a valuable contribution to our work . as Chairman of the ISC , I will set out the Committee ' s view of the Bill as a whole , base on the engagement that we have have with the intelligence community , and with the Government more broadly , on the legislation . in do so , I pay particular tribute to our member in the other place , the noble Lord West of Spithead , who have already clearly set out our Committee ' s position there , and have success , in at least one respect , in obtain an improvement to the Bill . in look at the Bill as a whole , I will also touch on one other specific matter in addition to those that my colleague have tackle individually . as right hon . and hon . member on both side of the House will be aware , the original Investigatory Powers Act be introduce as a result of the Intelligence and Security Committee ' s 2015 report on privacy and security . the report recommend the creation of a new Act to set out clearly : the intrusive power that be available to intelligence agency ; the purpose for which they may be use ; and the authorisation and , crucially , the oversight that should be require . there have , however , be a number of development since the Act be introduce . as the Home Secretary say in open the debate , we now face a different threat picture , with great danger from state actor , a significant rise in internet - enable crime , and an ever - accelerate pace of technological change . the ISC have therefore make time to consider and scrutinise the case for change put forward by the intelligence agency and the Government , and to take classified evidence on the Bill . I can tell the House that , broadly , the Committee welcome the Bill as a means of address those development that have the potential to undermine the ability of the intelligence agency to detect threat and protect our country . however , as we have hear , there be several area in which the Committee consider that the Bill go too far . in particular , it do not yet provide the safeguard and oversight that be so essential when it come to secretive action that have the potential to intrude on a great many people . the Bill seek an expansion of the investigatory power available to various public body . the Committee be in agreement that , at least in the case of the intelligence service , that be justify , but we be still sceptical — this be eloquently present in more detail by my right hon . friend the Member for South Holland and the Deepings ( Sir John Hayes ) , who take the original legislation through when he be Security Minister — of the broad way in which some power have be restore to an unknown number of as yet unidentified public body through clause 14 . any increase in investigatory power ought to — indeed , must — be accompany by a concomitant increase in oversight . that be a very basic principle that Parliament have always expect to be follow . by oversight , I do not just mean parliamentary oversight as exercise by my Committee , but robust ministerial , judicial and regulatory oversight too . during the passage of the Bill , Members of the Intelligence and Security Committee will seek to ensure the inclusion of necessary safeguard and sufficient detail on those safeguard . the Bill deal with a number of technical area , where it be right that the necessary guidance be provide in code of practice . however , matter that deal with procedural safeguard or external oversight must be on the face of the Bill to ensure that they be adhere to and can not be change or water down without Parliament be consult . I be sorry to say that in recent year the Government have be reluctant to ensure that democratic oversight keep pace with intelligence power , particularly where it be relate to the remit and resource of the ISC , which have be increasingly undermine in a way that I believe Parliament never intend . it be therefore imperative that Parliament ensure that the safeguard and scrutiny provide by the ISC and other external oversight body , such as the Investigatory Powers Commissioner , be clearly set out and can not be discard on a political whim . that mean put they in the legislation itself . fine word in a code of practice be , I be afraid , not worth the paper they be write on ; the statute must include everything that be need to provide Parliament and the public with the necessary assurance that investigatory power be tightly draw and robustly scrutinise . the Committee therefore expect the Government to take this opportunity to bolster the effective oversight that they keep say they value . action speak louder than word , as be often say , so I look forward to hear the Minister ' s assurance in his response to our intervention . I hope that he will be able to find a solution both to the individual aspect of the Bill that continue to be raise , and to our overarching concern about the diminution of parliamentary power in respect of national security . I would like to highlight one particular issue , which concern my colleague on the ISC and myself , relate to the oversight requirement for the retention and examination of bulk personal dataset . the Bill will insert new section 226DA into the Investigatory Powers Act 2016 to require each intelligence service to provide the Secretary of State with an annual report detail the individual bulk personal dataset that they retain and examine under either a " category authorisation " or an " individual authorisation " during the period in question . in the upper House , Lord West , on behalf of the Committee , table an amendment that be design to ensure that there be independent parliamentary and judicial scrutiny , too — I emphasise that — of this information , rather than just political oversight . the amendment would have achieve that by provide that the annual report that the Government propose be send to the Secretary of State should also be send both to the ISC and the Investigatory Powers Commissioner . one would think that that be a pretty reasonable request . such a measure would rectify the current gap in parliamentary oversight of these authorisation and complement the commissioner ' s exist power of inspection to provide oversight at all level . unfortunately , the Government do not accept the amendment . however , they do at least acknowledge that the gap exist and that some level of parliamentary oversight of the new regime be need . the Government therefore introduce their own amendment , which , rather than provide the ISC with the same report that they be provide to the Secretary of State , place an additional duty on the Secretary of State to provide a separate report to the ISC . notably , even this secondary report would not be provide to IPCO . that Government amendment be now propose new section 226DB . although we be reassure that the Committee ' s strength of feeling , which be match by the feeling of noble Lords in the upper House , have be recognise by the Government , what concern the Committee be why the Government have choose to craft a separate amendment require a separate report to be draw up . there be three key difference of which the House will wish to be aware between the proposal of the Committee and those of the Government . the first be that the Government ' s proposal will actually create more work for the intelligence community because , instead of simply send the exist annual report to the ISC , it will have to produce an additional report . that seem entirely at odd with the Government ' s general approach to the Bill . the Minister in the upper House be keen to emphasise the need to minimise the burden on the agency when it come to other element in the Bill , so it be most peculiar that the Government be deliberately choose to increase the burden unnecessarily . the second difference be that the Government proposal exclude the Investigatory Powers Commissioner completely , and it be not clear why . oversight by the commissioner should be regard as essential , because that be what it be . the third and most important difference be that the Government amendment be less specific on the information to be provide to the Intelligence and Security Committee , and do not include individual authorisation within its scope , only category authorisation . it therefore do not provide the same level of assurance to Parliament and the public that the ISC will be fully sight on the operation of this new regime . it be that final point that be cause we most concern . I therefore seek assurance from the Minister that the Government proposal will not limit the information receive by the ISC to category authorisation , and that all the information contain in the report to the Minister will be contain in the report to the ISC , unless it be material that fall strictly within the definition of current operation at the time at which the report be provide , which we accept be the one thing that we do not generally see . that definition should be strictly as set out in the Justice and Security Act 2013 . any excision beyond that would undermine what we presume be the intent to provide assurance to Parliament and the public that the regime have robust democratic oversight . finally , I simply reiterate the key point : the Bill seek an expansion in the investigatory power available to the intelligence service . although that expansion may be justify , any increase in investigatory power must be accompany by a concomitant increase in oversight , and the Government have not yet fulfil that requirement . let I start by thank our security service . I think I be now the long - serve member of the ISC , and it be a privilege to work with they and scrutinise their work , as our Committee do . they do not get a great deal of publicity — for the right reason — but when they do , it be sometimes not factual by any stretch of the imagination . they do an invaluable job , and in protect our democracy , the threat that they face — that we all face — be change , so the Investigatory Powers Act 2016 need revise . as my hon . friend the Member for Wallasey ( Dame Angela Eagle ) say , the important point be that any new power that we give the security service to act on our behalf should come with an equally balanced level of scrutiny and oversight . I see the scrutiny of our security as like a three - legged stool , with the Investigatory Powers Commissioner , the Investigatory Powers Tribunal , and the ISC . well , actually , I would say that it be more like a two - and - a - half - legged stool , because the Home Secretary have do what most minister do ; they say how wonderful the ISC be , how much they value our work , and that they want we fully involve — in pass this legislation , for example — but since 2017 , when I first sit on the ISC , there have be a marked increase in lip service pay to it , as I think we see again in the Bill . as my right hon . friend the Member for Normanton , Pontefract and Castleford ( Yvette Cooper ) say , we have not meet the Prime Minister for 10 year — any of they ; I think we have one who offer to come in the die day of her Administration . we have take evidence from the security service on the Bill , and I have to say that they be not the problem : it be the Government who be the problem all the time . that be the case with the National Security and Investment Act 2021 . frankly , it be an uphill struggle to get thing change in this Bill — change that would not only improve the Bill , but make sense . one have just be highlight by the Chairman of the ISC , the right hon . member for New Forest East ( Sir Julian Lewis ) . on occasion , it be a bit like go round in circle . I will give an example . we have actually make one little advance in the other place , in term of acceptance of the change to do with the triple lock . now , though , the sensible thing we be ask for — that it should be in the Bill that the Prime Minister should actually see those warrant — be be resist as though it would somehow stop the world . I be sorry , but I do not think it would . I think the Government believe that they have to be see to be resist any change . I like the Minister , but the passage of the National Security and Investment Act be a pretty dark day for the Government ' s relationship with the ISC , because we have to fight tooth and nail to try to get anything change in that Bill . I be not in the Government then . I think the Minister be , actually . I think he pick up the tail end of that Bill . the ISC have look at this issue in detail . we have take evidence from the head of the security service , and we want to be supportive of change , but we also want that important role of scrutiny and ensure the public be protect from the occasion when thing might go wrong . the other thing that strike I today be that , although the Home Secretary can read a good speech , I be not sure he have a great grasp of some of the detail of the Bill . all I ask of the Minister be to please take on board some of the thing we be say , so that we can make progress in Committee . they be not radical thing that be go to upturn the Bill ; they be thing that will improve it . I suspect that in certain part of the Government there be a hatred of the ISC , and the belief that we have to be resist at all cost . that will lead to a poor Bill , because the amendment we will be tabling would actually improve the Bill . Lord West also do a great job in the other place . I now turn to clause 2 of the Bill , which introduce the bulk personal datum regime . there be a worrying gap : oversight of what be deem low or no privacy dataset add to category authorisation . at the moment , the system do not work , because thing like the electoral register have to get special permission . that be silly , frankly , but we need to ensure that these provision be scrutinise . new part 7a of the Investigatory Powers Act 2016 , introduce by clause 2 , provide for a light - touch regime for the retention and examination of bulk personal dataset by the intelligence service where the subject of that datum be deem to have low or no reasonable expectation of privacy . as the hon . member for Cumbernauld , Kilsyth and Kirkintilloch East ( Stuart C . McDonald ) say , people be increasingly give their personal datum with little thought to how it be go to be use — not just by the intelligence service , but for commercial purpose . that need look at . approval of such a dataset will be seek either under a category authorisation , which encompass a number of individual dataset that have a similar content and may be use for a similar purpose , or by individual authorisation , which cover a single dataset that do not fall neatly into a category authorisation or be subject to a complicate factor . for a category authorisation , a judicial commissioner will approve the overall description of the category authorisation before it can be use . a judicial commissioner will approve renewal of the authorisation after 12 month , and the relevant Secretary of State will receive retrospective annual report on the use of category and individual authorisation . however , as the Bill be currently draft , this oversight be all retrospective . the problem be that what be miss be real - time or even near real - time oversight of change . under the present regime , once a category authorisation have be approve , the intelligence service have the ability to add individual dataset to that authorisation through internal process alone . they examine the dataset without be subject to any political or judicial oversight , and they would be able to use those dataset for potentially a year without anybody be any the wiser . we do not question why the security service need these power , but there be potential for mission creep without any oversight of what be be authorise . we be not say that these power be not require ; they be require . what we be really be ask to do be rely on the good faith of the intelligence service to use the power in a certain way . I do not think that be strong enough , and no legislation should be solely dependent on good will . we also have to guard against — there be such occasion — situation when mistake happen or people use power for purpose that be not in the public interest . it be important that we fill this 12 - month gap , and the ISC think that the easy and simple way to change this process would be for the Investigatory Powers Commissioner to be notify when an individual bulk personal dataset be add by an agency to an exist authorisation . I understand that Lord Anderson of Ipswich , in his review of 2023 , recommend a similar proposal . the argument from the government — it be similar to what they have use throughout this Bill , as the Committee Chairman have remark — be that that will be onerous in add to the work of the intelligence service . well , it would not , because it would simply mean send a one - line email to the Investigatory Powers Commissioner contain the name and description of the bulk personal dataset as soon as reasonably practicable . the decision would be approve internally and then send to the Investigatory Powers Commissioner , so it be not actually ask for approval . it be just make sure that the Investigatory Powers Commissioner be aware of what be be add , and that the individual take such a decision realise that they must inform the Investigatory Powers Commissioner . that would obviously allow the Investigatory Powers Commissioner to look at trend in what be happen . clearly , after the 12 month , they could look back , but they could also intervene if they think something be not in touch . an argument the Government use quite often about this Bill be that it be to have a light - touch approach , and I think this suggestion be for a light - touch approach . I do not know what be onerous about the security service send an email to the Investigatory Powers Commissioner . I think it would ensure the oversight that be need . real - time oversight be what we be suggest , and I do not think it would add to the administration of the security service , but it would lead to the Investigatory Powers Commissioner at least have some visibility on another layer at which decision be take . the proposal would be a very simple thing to do , and I do not understand why the Government be resist it . I suggest they be resist it for the many reason they have resist some of the other sensible thing we have put forward : just because they want to do that . I do not know how we go forward with the relationship between this present Government and the ISC . drag information out of they scream and kicking be take a long time , even though we have a legal duty to get information , and the critical point now be the starvation of resource from the Committee which be create real problem in the way that it can operate . I hope that thing change and that when we table amendment we will not get the usual response that amendment to this type of legislation should only be do in the Lords . be we here to cause trouble for the security service ? no , we be not ; we want to ensure we do our job , which be set out in statute , to supervise the security service and improve the power , but to ensure that the public have the recognise safeguard we should expect in a democracy such as ours . unlike most member present , I be not an expert on security . we in this House often have to be generalist . we be here to participate in debate , to understand legislation and to raise concern where we see they . like all member who have speak before I , I would like to put on the record my deep gratitude to our security service ; I regard they with the high respect . we all regard they with the high respect and within that there be a slight danger : we respect they and admire their work so much that we be almost always go to grant they what they want . that be a danger , because our duty be to scrutinise what people want and , as the right hon . member for North Durham ( Mr Jones ) have just say , not to create trouble but to raise question of concern . I know these question of concern will be well receive by the Minister on the Front Bench , who think deeply about these matter and be also a good friend of mine . I will be brief because we be come to the end of the evening , but I want to look at clause 15 and internet connection record . the general rule of investigation be that suspicion precede surveillance , so if there be good reason to believe that someone be up to mischief , we can start to look at they more closely ; we can conduct surveillance to see if our concern be factually base . the problem with the recommendation in clause 15 be that it allow for target discovery as oppose to target development . if I have get this wrong , I be happy to take an intervention , but what target discovery mean to this layman of security matter be possibly go on fishing expedition — just look out there to see what be go on and process enough datum on enough people . as my right hon . and learn Friend the Member for Kenilworth and Southam ( Sir Jeremy Wright ) say , people who be perfectly innocently go about their business will get catch up in this data - process machine just to make sure they be not up to anything nefarious , dangerous or unpleasant . that cause I some concern . I do want bad people to be catch — I benefit from the capture of bad people ; my constituent benefit from the capture of bad people — but surveillance always need to be proportionate and risk - base , as the hon . member for Wallasey ( Dame Angela Eagle ) say in her speech . freedom be important . one of the most ridiculous construct in the english language be " nothing to hide , nothing to fear " , because if people say that genuinely believe it , they would not have any curtain in their home . the truth be that we like to think that we have private space in which to operate and go about our legitimate business without the state take a view that we be up to mischief or might be up to mischief . I know that point be touch on in previous speech . I think the Chairman of the Committee , my right hon . friend the Member for New Forest East ( Sir Julian Lewis ) , who be also a good friend , touch on it . sometimes it be difficult to keep up with expert , but he make it clear that the Committee have concern about these new power . I say I would speak briefly , so I will just close on this point . there be people in this country who like to protest and , frankly , often get in the way of other people , but what they be do be not illegal . I would hate to think that people within those organisation might end up have their internet record check out , just to make sure that they be be good citizen . I remember that during the debate on covid - 19 perfectly respectable , hugely respected scientist and respected member of this House be raise concern about Government policy on lockdown . I be not say that the security service be keep tab on their intervention , but we know from subject access request that people in Government be keep tab on these people , as if what they be do be against the interest of the state . that be why I raise my concern about the clause . I hope the Government will bring forward amendment , but if they do not , I hope they will not be too offended if I perhaps bring forward some amendment on Report . first , I thank all right hon . and hon member for their contribution . this be a complex issue , and that be clear from the level of scrutiny and debate we have see thus far . the Bill seek to find a balance — the shadow Home Secretary refer to that very word , " balance " — between necessary investigatory power and not have a Big Brother , nanny state . I thank , as other have do , the security force and those involve in the intelligence sector for all that they do , their work and their commitment and dedication to the job , which have make all our life safe . many in this House — I know a few , anyway — could say that they owe their life to they , and I would be one of they . I thank they very much for all they have do . I be keen to see work on international terrorism . I be talk to my friend , the right hon . member for North Durham ( Mr Jones ) , about how international terrorism work . the real IRA have contact in the middle east and eastern Europe . it have contact where all evil organisation come together , because their ultimate intention be to create havoc and murder innocent people . this Bill be important , because it can address terrorism in Northern Ireland and its contact with international terrorism . I hope and pray that the work will be successful . as someone who have live through year of terrorism , I be well use to curtail freedom , with checkpoint and stop and search . I have understand the necessity for that and have be thankful for those protection . let I be clear : I have no issue whatever with this Bill in principle , but I have some question for the Minister . various constituent have contact I to express concern , and I want to put those on record , ever mindful of support the Government on this issue as measure come forward . I will take a few moment to seek some clarification . first , a concern have be outline to I about have a notification requirement to require operator to inform the Secretary of State if they propose to make change to their product or service , and I be sure that other member have receive that briefing . Open Rights Group state : " while this objective may appear to be reasonable , it would allow the Home Office to prevent secure service from launch in the UK , even where they be roll out elsewhere . this provision would allow the Home Office to place itself in a position of power over the provider as soon as it hear about the possibility of datum be less accessible than it be currently . this situation would take place without reference to an independent authority to assess the rationale or proportionality . such a move might not be proportionate , for instance , if the security technology have already be introduce safely and with demonstrable benefit to user in other part of the world . Open Rights Group be concern that these power could deny people the access to technological development upon which people ' s free expression and right to privacy rely . for example , major tech provider such as Apple have state that they would pull certain service from the UK rather than compromise their security if this power be use to prevent they from roll out security update . " I gently ask the Minister to be clear about why the presumption should not be make in the manner I outline and what discussion have take place to ensure that provider such as Apple can work securely in the UK . the right hon . and learn Member for Fareham ( Suella Braverman ) refer to the dark web and all the thing that can happen in it . it be really important that the dark web be take care of in this legislation . also highlight to I be end - to - end encryption issue and the inability of service provider to see service user ' content in their app and system . I be not a technical whizz kid ; I be the very opposite . I be of that old generation who can just about do text message on their phone and turn on Zoom meeting , but if something go wrong , I be lose . when it come to technology , I be not au fait with it , but I do know this . I understand the need for people with no question mark above they whatsoever to know that their message be private and that the Government be not store information — that could be access by other — on they for no reason . it be important that that never happen . datum breach affect staff in my office when my account in the House be hack in the last fortnight . we let the security people know , and I understand that it be not unusual for it to happen , but when it do and people ' s content be access , it be important that such breach be take care of . we have also have the breach of datum on police officer in Northern Ireland . those be both testament to the fact that breach occur . therefore , only what be essential should ever be gather and store . reference be make to the need to have robust monitoring and regulation . if that have be in place , the Police Service of Northern Ireland data breach , which I think disadvantage more than 3 , 500 people , would never have happen . while I can not browse and shop online — I have no interest in do so — watch tv programme online or do any of those other thing , I do believe that there be a need for privacy . my concern be that the Bill be encroach too far on those whom the Government have no reason to hold datum on . I ask the Minister again to make it clear why any online search history should be store . these be gentle question — they be not mean to be intrusive or aggressive — but it be important that I put these matter on the record on behalf of the constituent who have contact I . I highlight the concern of my constituent that the Bill ' s propose measure be poise to " profoundly impact political dissident and opposition figure reside in the UK . refugee , political exile and human right advocate who have seek refuge in the UK deserve the assurance of digital safety and security . " I seek that assurance for those who have flee offensive and oppressive regime and seek refuge in this great United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland . I would far appreciate an insight into how we can ensure that there be freedom to express opposition , yet not see harmful rhetoric . that balance be clearly difficult to reach . I seek the necessary clarification that we have strike that balance . I very much look forward to hear from the Minister , because I believe that his response will encapsulate the question we have ask and give we the answer that we desire . we come now to the wind - up . the Investigatory Powers ( Amendment ) Bill be a technical but important piece of legislation that , as my right hon . friend the shadow Home Secretary say in her opening remark , we support . we support the Bill , which update aspect of the Investigatory Powers Act 2016 , because it be imperative that legal framework be update to ensure that our security and law enforcement service keep up with change to communication technology in an increasingly challenging and complex landscape of threat to our safety and our national security . at the outset , let I pay tribute to the exceptional man and woman who serve in our law enforcement and security service , often in the shadow and without recognition , to keep our country safe . we owe they all a deep debt of gratitude . I also thank official at the Home Office , who have provide very helpful briefing on the Bill to the shadow Home Office team . I hope that the Minister will join I in pay tribute to our noble colleague in the other place , especially Lord Anderson , Lord Sharpe , Lord Coaker , Lord Ponsonby and Lord West , among many other . they have already do a lot of the intellectual heavy lifting , dig into the technical detail of the Bill to improve it ahead of its Second reading today . those contribution be most welcome , but the Bill still need to be scrutinise in more depth to probe any remain ambiguity and ensure that safeguard be strengthen . I will say a little more about that later . as the shadow Home Secretary say , the Opposition will work in the national interest with the Government on national security because , as legislator , we all have a duty to ensure that the law be one step ahead of those who seek to harm we . as lawmaker , we have a duty to ensure that when technical Bills be before we on matter relate to national security , we scrutinise they carefully and get into the detail . member on both side of the House have fulfil that important duty with a number of thoughtful and consider contribution in this debate , include the right hon . and learn Member for Kenilworth and Southam ( Sir Jeremy Wright ) , who speak , as always , with great authority and make important point about oversight and the interest of economic wellbeing . I be certain that we will return to those in Committee . the right hon . member for South Holland and the Deepings ( Sir John Hayes ) , a former Security Minister , helpfully reflect on his experience of take the original legislation through the House back in 2016 , and make some important point about the role of public body . my hon . friend the Member for Wallasey ( Dame Angela Eagle ) , the new member of the ISC , make an important point about the context in which we be have this debate , with authoritarian regime around the world constantly seek to test the will of democracy . she also make an important point about the balance between safeguard our security and oversight and transparency . the chair of the ISC , the right hon . member for New Forest East ( Sir Julian Lewis ) , speak with his long - stand experience of these matter , and express clearly the view of the Committee . he make a number of important point , include about the safeguard that he will seek to include in the Bill . I be sure that we will return to that . he also make the important point about any increase in power come with an increase in oversight — a point reiterate by my right hon . friend the Member for North Durham ( Mr Jones ) , who I think be the long serve member of the ISC . he speak about the two - and - a - half legged stool , make a number of important point and provide a constructive challenge to Government . I hope that he will work with we , the other Committee member and the Minister in Committee to make some improvement to the Bill . the hon . member for Broxbourne ( Sir Charles Walker ) make a typically carefully consider speech . for someone who claim not to be an expert , he make a number of important point , not least about surveillance need to be proportionate . the hon . member for Strangford ( Jim Shannon ) reflect , as he often do , on his own experience of deal with terrorism in Northern Ireland , and rightly pay tribute to all those who serve to keep our country safe . I will now turn to aspect of the Bill that could be improve . the measure outline in the Bill continue to provide our law enforcement and security service with some of the most powerful measure that our state have at its disposal to keep we safe , intercept private communication and retain information where necessary . with those strong power there must also be strong , robust safeguard , to guarantee their appropriate and proportionate use . when the Minister respond , I would be grateful if he provide further assurance that the notice regime will be keep under constant review . such assurance be important as the power to access telecommunications datum through bulk personal dataset unlock an individual ' s digital footprint of their online activity . for those of a certain age — I do not have anybody in particular in mind — investigatory power can conjure image of wiretappe telephone line , and , for those of a very certain age , even steam open letter . however , the modern reality be that the huge amount of datum produce every second could be sift through and use by law enforcement and crime agency when there be a lawful basis to do so . the Bill must therefore clearly establish a precedent of proportionality , such as far define what be mean by low or no reasonable expectation of privacy , in clause 2 , in relation to certain bulk personal dataset . I would be grateful if the Minister outline how the Government intend to do that . the UK ' s use of investigatory power should be clearly understand by our international partner . vast amount of telecommunications datum , such as WhatsApps , be now store in server across many jurisdiction by multinational company with sometimes complex corporate structure . I understand that Meta , for example , have stringent measure to protect those server from cyber - attack , prevent WhatsApp message from be interfere with or accidentally delete . if only the same stringent measure exist for some member on the Government Benches — and the SNP Benches , for that matter . move swiftly on , a warrant to intercept message between two UK national in the UK could be store on a server in another jurisdiction , lead to potential conflict of law arise from clause 17 , which would strengthen extraterritorial enforcement of retention notice . I would therefore be grateful if the Minister say something about the feedback the Home Office have have from international partner about potential conflict of law that could arise from clause 17 , and what action have be take to avoid potential conflict . can the Minister also say what recent feedback the Home Office have receive from company provide message service in the UK that use server store communication datum in other country ? ensure the utmost clarity in the measure outline in the Bill must also include where they be apply in the most exceptional circumstance , such as when the Prime Minister can not make a decision to sign off an interception warrant . the shadow Home Secretary rightly mention the importance of Prime Ministers treat these matter with the utmost seriousness . this be also discuss and debate in detail when the Bill be progress through the other place , with the term " unable " be use if a Prime Minister can not make a decision , compare with other term such as " unavailable " . I expect the Minister will be relieve that I do not plan to spend too much time on this , but that be not to underplay its importance . the debate between noble colleague on whether " unable " or " unavailable " be the most appropriate term may in part have be generate by the activity of two former senior figure in Government , neither of whom be still a serve Member of Parliament . for the benefit of the House , I will just say that one of they might have be a Foreign Secretary who become Prime Minister , and the other might have be a Prime Minister who become Foreign Secretary . the Prime Minister play a crucial role in make decision on national security . may I remind the Minister , as other hon . member have seek to do during this debate , that since 2014 , successive Prime Ministers have fail to meet with the Intelligence and Security Committee ? as we all know , the ISC be a senior Committee of Parliament that provide absolutely vital oversight on these crucial matter . we hear from the Chair , the right hon . member for New Forest East ( Sir Julian Lewis ) , who make some important point . can I again ask the Minister why he think no Prime Ministers have make themselves available to the Committee for a decade now ? furthermore , recent update to the IPA 2016 after the ruling of the European Court of Human Rights in the case of Big Brother Watch and other v . the United Kingdom provide further safeguard to protect sensitive information relate to freedom of expression , such as journalistic material , from the usual interception and retention regime . other element of freedom of expression should have similar safeguard . do the Minister think there should be similar exemption in the Bill for communication relate to the vital work of trade union ? that be a point also make by the hon . and learn Member for Edinburgh South West ( Joanna Cherry ) . to conclude , this be an important bill that demand strong and careful scrutiny . our personal liberty and our national security depend on it . it be in the national interest to get the legislation right : to make sure it be both appropriate and proportionate in its scope . it must also be effective in maintain the current power our law enforcement and security service already have to disrupt and defeat criminal and malign actor who seek to harm we and undermine our way of life . on the Labour Benches , we will work with the Government as much as we possibly can in the national interest to get it right . I look forward to work with the Minister and other colleague on that important endeavour as the Bill progress through the House . I thank hon . and right hon . member from across the House for their contribution not just today , but throughout the many different stage of the Bill . I pay huge tribute to the Members of the other place who have contribute enormously , in particular Lord Anderson , who have be an exceptional asset to the passage of the Bill and the condition it be in , and Lord West who , as a member of the Intelligence and Security Committee , not only shepherd some extremely important amendment into the Bill , but be kind enough to say that it be the first time in 14 year that he have ever have an amendment accept by the Government . I be delighted to say that it be to this Bill . it be because we be so committed to work with all part of both Houses and with the ISC that we get so much through in the other place . [ interruption . ] that say , many comment will no doubt be raise in this House . I can assure hon . member , especially the right hon . member for North Durham ( Mr Jones ) , that I will approach all suggestion in the way that I have do to date . where we may not agree — it may not be that he be right , or that I be right — it will be for good reason and I will set out my reason in the appropriate way . the Bill be about one fundamental thing : the security of the british people . we rightly hear from my hon . friend the Member for Broxbourne ( Sir Charles Walker ) about the nature of freedom , but the truth be that freedom without security be impossible . it be a chimera . the Bill be about ensure that the british people have the security to enable that freedom . that be an absolutely vital responsibility not just of this government , but of this House and the other place . I be grateful for the work that the hon . member for Barnsley Central ( Dan Jarvis ) and the shadow Home Secretary , the right hon . member for Normanton , Pontefract and Castleford ( Yvette Cooper ) have put in to ensure the co - operative , bipartisan and open approach to the Bill , as be merit by the work of our fantastic intelligence service to provide security for our whole country . as the british public would expect , we keep our approach to national security under constant review . where we identify the need for change or improvement , we will not hesitate to act . that be why we have bring forward the Bill , which act on the finding of the Home Secretary ' s report and Lord Anderson ' s independent review into the Investigatory Powers Act 2016 . hon . and right hon . member will not need I to rehearse the argument , but we have see an extraordinary , rapid evolution in the nature of the threat since the 2016 Act : Russia ' s threat to the whole of Europe and not just to Ukraine ; the violence that Iran be try to bring not just in the middle east but even on to our own shore ; and the way technology have enable hostile state not only to steal our technology but to introduce intelligence - gather platform into our country through the guise of car sale . we have see a change in the way technology work and a change in the nature of the threat , and we must keep up to date with those change . that be why this work be so important . it be essential that the United Kingdom ' s investigatory power framework remain fit for purpose to help our intelligence agency detect and stop some of the most serious threat pose to the UK and its citizen , include threat from terrorism , state threat , and child sexual abuse and exploitation . because these be exceptional power , member have rightly point out that they require appropriate , robust and , in this case , world - lead safeguard , and that be what we have seek to set out . the change in the Bill be relatively narrow in scope , but unless we make they now , the ability of our agency to tackle evolve threat will be increasingly constrain in the face of global instability , technological advance and state hostility , so now be the time to act . let I now deal with some of the point that have be raise . the hon . member for Cumbernauld , Kilsyth and Kirkintilloch East ( Stuart C . McDonald ) raise a rather interesting point about the change to " lawful authority " in clause 12 in respect of publish datum . the purpose of new subsection ( 3A ) be for material that have already be publish not to require additional authority for its disclosure by a telecommunications operator to a relevant public authority . the definition of " publish " and reference to " a section of the public " would not include private message unless they have be make public in some other way — just as our sitting room could not be consider a public place unless we open it up to the public . it would be our choice , and nothing to do with the nature of the building . the hon . and learn Member for Edinburgh South West ( Joanna Cherry ) , who have make important contribution through her chairmanship of the Joint Committee on Human Rights , raise question about the transparency safeguard in the 2016 Act . those extremely robust safeguard be centre on consideration relate to intrusion into privacy , and that will remain the case in the Bill . they include a requirement for investigatory power to be use in a " necessary and proportionate " way , with independent oversight by the Investigatory Powers Commissioner and redress through the Investigatory Powers Tribunal . my right hon . friend the Member for South Holland and the Deepings ( Sir John Hayes ) contribute in his usual robust fashion to the debate — and , I should add , to the session that I be fortunate enough to have with the Intelligence and Security Committee , in which he be enormously helpful in assist I with some change to the Bill . he speak about the five individual who could be designate by the Prime Minister , and ask why we have not refer specifically to " those with warrant power " . it be possible that a Minister with warrant power who have that experience would then be move to another Department , or indeed that the machinery of government change would alter the nature of the oversight . while we feel that it be right to limit the number to as few as possible , we also feel that it be right to have a relevant selection , which be why we leave the number at five — after some very good consultation with the ISC , for which I be extremely grateful to my right hon . friend the Member for New Forest East ( Sir Julian Lewis ) . my right hon . friend have be immensely generous both in give way and in his early comment about my role . will he briefly deal with the issue of the other body with the regulatory function who can compel the release of communication datum ? as he will remember , the point I make be that the exist law oblige they to take far procedural step before they do so . why be that no long deem appropriate ? as my right hon . friend will know , several power in the early Bill — the one that he take through the House — be indeed oversee in various different way . the Bill do not seek to undermine any of that oversight ; what it seek to do be clarify , in certain area , where it be necessary . my right hon . friend have highlight individual agency or body , and I should be happy to write to he to ensure he be aware of exactly where that be be cover . the right hon . member for North Durham speak about prior judicial authorisation for icr . the purpose of the Bill be to try to streamline operation for the intelligence service in area where the risk be of , as we be call it , low or no expectation of privacy . he will have see in the Bill what the expectation mean , include area where information have already be readily make public . I accept his commentary and I would be happy to enter into further conversation with he , but the reason we be not currently go down that route be simply that the exist law , the IPA 2016 , allow the collection of bulk datum with prior authorisation . this be intend to speed the process up . if we put in the measure he be refer to , we would effectively remain in the same place that we be now . that would make it hard for the volume of datum that be now come to be consider by the intelligence agency . that be why we have make the provision for a subsequent approval rather than a prior approval . he be right to say that it involve a maximum of a year , although I think it unlikely that it would go to that maximum . that will be in case where this be low or no expectation of privacy — after it have already be agree by a judge to be in the correct category . I think the right hon . Gentleman might be look at this through the other end of the telescope . what the Minister have to realise be that the big concern from the public — although let ' s be honest , the public be not look at the detail of this — be that somehow the security service will be get access to huge amount of bulk datum and just have a free run at it . all that I and the Committee be suggest be that an email should be send when there be change to the Investigatory Powers Commissioner . that would be a simple thing . it would not be onerous , and it would reinforce the point that there be at least some potential oversight of the process . I think we may be conflate different aspect of the Bill . I do believe that this already have oversight . let I answer the point raise by my hon . friend the Member for Broxbourne , which touch on a similar area . where people have the right to and expectation of privacy and freedom , this provision do not remove that right . what it do be allow the intelligence agency to use bulk datum to target an individual at a particular point , and the excess collect information will not be able to be use for target an individual without the warrant process that would be expect for any initial search . in that sense , this be not undermine anybody ' s privacy ; it be allow for the fact that information be now largely in bulk format . the hon . member for Barnsley Central be talk about steam open envelope . it be impossible to steam open a single envelope today ; one have to steam open thousand because that be how datum come . without an amendment such as that set out in the Bill , we would simply be interrupt the work of the intelligence service to the degree that it would hold they back and make the process hard , but I would be happy to take this up with my hon . friend the Member for Broxbourne later if he wish . I thank the hon . member for Halifax ( Holly Lynch ) , who be here early and make an interesting point about the various way in which the memorandum of understanding should be look at through the National Security Act 2023 . friend of mine will know my thought on that and know that I give the conservative party the chance to allow I to change that 10 - year absence , but the conservative party choose somebody else to make that decision so I have sadly lose the ability to have that influence . my right hon . and learn Friend the Member for Kenilworth and Southam ( Sir Jeremy Wright ) make a typically insightful speech and typically sensible comment on the way in which we must consider how the authorisation must not be use to mount general surveillance . condition d will be use only when an applicant make a clear and compelling case , base on tangible , reliable intelligence lead , information and analysis , that the result datum will identify party involve in a relevant serious crime or national security - relate specified operation or investigation . the applicant must explain any anticipated collateral intrusion , and how this will be manage to ensure that the application be necessary and proportionate to the outcome of the investigation . I accept what my right hon . friend say but , in the context I describe , the case be be make to someone else within the intelligence agency . there be , of course , two type of authorisation — d1 and D2 — and we be worried about D2 , under which the application be make from inside the intelligence agency to inside the intelligence agency . that do not present the sort of external scrutiny that we suggest be necessary . my right hon . and learn Friend be right , but he also know that IPCO have retrospective oversight of these area . where it come under a category allocation through " low or no " , there be an automatic review period within a year . although he be correct that the application be make within the service , it be within the service subject to a pre - agree condition and with follow - up oversight , so as to enable that speedy response . on a different but not unrelated point , the Minister will recall that I refer to the annual report give to the Secretary of State detail the individual bulk personal dataset that have be retain and examine . there be no extra work involve in let the ISC and IPCO see that report . the only possible justifiable exclusion would be something that , at the time of the report , be still current . be there any reason at all why IPCO and the ISC should not be send that report , rather than a severely water - down version ? my right hon . friend answer his own question . the reason for the difference be the currency element . in that case , we can reach agreement if the Minister would like to give we an assurance that the only difference between the two report will be the exclusion of matter that be current at the time of draw up the report , but I suspect that there will be many other difference between the two report . I will be very happy to talk to my right hon . friend about that to make sure that he be satisfied . it be important that we make sure that the report that go to the House — through the ISC , because of the nature of the report — be relevant and allow appropriate scrutiny . I think we can all agree with that . I have cover the point raise by my hon . friend the Member for Broxbourne , so I will turn to the hon . member for Strangford ( Jim Shannon ) , who make an extremely important point : that his constituent , like any other citizen of the United Kingdom , should expect the right to privacy . he also make a compelling point about the need for security , and I think the Bill strike that balance extremely carefully . he be right to say that people will be concern , and he be not alone . I be also concerned that we maintain the right to privacy within our legislative framework , which be why we check very carefully that the Bill be fully compliant with the ECHR right to a private life . it be also why we look at the various exception . the hon . member for Barnsley Central mention the notice regime , and he be right that we will keep it under review . we maintain a regular conversation with company that have an interest in this area , and he be right to say that there be an overseas element . I merely point out that it be the role of this House to legislate for the security of the british people and , in particular , for the safety of our child and family . such security be not something we can outsource to tech firm on the west coast . we sometimes have a responsibility to pass extraterritorial law — as he know very well , we have do that in the past — so although this measure add to that ability , it be not detrimental because it ask people to maintain their current position before make any change and to talk to we during that period . there be no requirement to break any policy , change product or introduce new product ; it be merely to maintain the status quo , so that we have the same ability to keep the british people safe until we have have a conversation about how that status quo should change . finally , the hon . member for Barnsley Central raise a question about trade union . he be right that there be many different profession where protect characteristic could come into play , include lawyer , doctor and psychiatrist , and where any such intrusive power should be use with exceptional caution . I would just say that , due to the nature of this place and Parliaments around the United Kingdom , the position of parliamentarian be particular , which be why it be set out specifically and separately in the Bill . that do not mean that any attitude against any other individual should be use cavalierly . it be not a question of the role or the post the person hold , but their right as a british citizen . those right should be absolutely guard from intrusion or aggression by the state without exceptionally good reason . this amendment , which the hon . Gentleman be kindly support , set out that balance between british citizen ' right to privacy and their right to security . with that , I commend the Bill to the House . question put and agree to . Bill accordingly read a second time . Investigatory Powers ( Amendment ) Bill [ Lords ] ( Programme ) Motion make , and question put forthwith ( Standing Order no . 83A ( 7 ) ) , that the follow provision shall apply to the Investigatory Powers ( Amendment ) Bill [ Lords ] : committal ( 1 ) the Bill shall be commit to a Public Bill Committee . proceeding in Public Bill Committee ( 2 ) proceeding in the Public Bill Committee shall ( so far as not previously conclude ) be bring to a conclusion on Tuesday 12 March 2024 . ( 3 ) the Public Bill Committee shall have leave to sit twice on the first day on which it meet . consideration and Third Reading ( 4 ) proceeding on consideration shall ( so far as not previously conclude ) be bring to a conclusion one hour before the moment of interruption on the day on which those proceeding be commence . ( 5 ) proceeding on Third read shall ( so far as not previously conclude ) be bring to a conclusion at the moment of interruption on that day . ( 6 ) Standing Order no . 83b ( programming committee ) shall not apply to proceeding on consideration and Third Reading . other proceeding ( 7 ) any other proceeding on the Bill may be program . — ( Mark Fletcher . ) question agree to . Investigatory Powers ( Amendment ) Bill [ Lords ] ( money ) king ' s recommendation signify . motion make , and question put forthwith ( Standing Order no . 52 ( 1 ) ( a ) ) , that , for the purpose of any Act result from the Investigatory Powers ( Amendment ) Bill [ Lords ] , it be expedient to authorise the payment out of money provide by Parliament of : ( a ) any expenditure incur under or by virtue of the Act by the Secretary of State or a government department , and ( b ) any increase attributable to the Act in the sum payable under or by virtue of any other Act out of money so provide . — ( Mark Fletcher . ) question agree to . business without Debate Delegated Legislation Motion make , and question put forthwith ( Standing Order no . 118 ( 6 ) ) , Local Government that the draft East Midlands Combined County Authority Regulations 2024 , which be lay before this House on 18 December 2023 , be approve . — ( Mark Fletcher . ) question agree to . motion make , and question put forthwith ( Standing Order no . 118 ( 6 ) ) , Social Security that the draft Social Security ( Contributions ) ( limit and Thresholds , National Insurance Funds Payments and Extension of Veterans Relief ) Regulations 2024 , which be lay before this House on 15 January , be approve . question agree to . motion make , and question put forthwith ( Standing Order no . 118 ( 6 ) ) , that the draft Tax Credits , Child Benefit and Guardian ' s allowance up - rate Regulations 2024 , which be lay before this House on 15 January , be approve . — ( Mark Fletcher . ) question agree to . Petition Petition - Blackpool ' s Waterloo Road and Bond Street region follow my recent Adjournment debate on this issue , I rise to present a petition sign by over 500 Blackpool resident call for the need for regeneration in the Bond Street , Waterloo Road and Revoe area of Blackpool . the petition state : the petition of resident of the constituency of Blackpool South , declare that the Government and Blackpool Council should consider the need for regeneration funding to be provide for the area surround Waterloo Road and Bond Street in Blackpool . the petitioner therefore request that the House of Commons urge the Government to take into account the concern of the petitioner and take immediate action to ensure that resident and business be adequately support through relevant regeneration fund , and to ensure the Government work with Blackpool Council to ensure comprehensive plan to develop plan be prepare in conjunction with local stakeholder . and the petitioner remain , etc . [ p002912 ] Infrastructure Procurement Motion make , and question propose , that this House do now adjourn . — ( Mark Fletcher . ) before I call Alan Brown , I wish to forewarn everybody that whoever be on their foot at 10 pm will have to resume their seat while the Adjournment motion be move again by the Whip . thank you , Mr Deputy Speaker . I think you be forewarn member in this Chamber that they would have to listen to I . clearly , infrastructure investment and procurement be a critical Government function . do correctly , it give we improve transport connectivity , new housing , vital service such as water and sewerage , telecom and the correct energy infrastructure need to keep the light on . infrastructure investment can deliver regeneration , additional inward investment , construction job and long - term job . but do poorly , we pay more , face interminable delay and have less money to invest in other project . I intend to cover a few of the project that UK government have have responsibility for and fail to deliver properly , and illustrate just how much that have cost the taxpayer . first , I should probably address a possible elephant in the room . Mr Deputy Speaker , you may well have hear that the Scottish Government have have issue over the delivery of two new ferry . this story seem to have be in the news every single day in Scotland . there be clear lesson to be learn , and I shall return to they . without be flippant , let I explain to the House that the ferry be currently expect to cost £ 300 million — three time the original contractual agreement . Mr Deputy Speaker , let I put this in card parlance : I will give you the £ 200 million ferry overspend , then I will raise you the £ 45 billion on the HS2 phase 1 overspend , the £ 30 billion overspend on Hinkley Point C , the £ 10 billion overspend in the Shared Services network replacement , a very modest £ 3 billion overspend in Crossrail , and a couple of billion extra spend on the great western electrification project . therefore , very quickly , we have a £ 90 billion overspend before we even get to the black hole that be Ministry of Defence procurement , whose current procurement plan have a £ 17 billion shortfall — or , in other word , a £ 17 billion overspend . some £ 15 billion be spend on unusable personal protective equipment over two year . we have well over £ 100 billion of overspend in infrastructure project without even dig too deeply . that be before we consider the £ 37 billion spend on the track and trace system . the hon . Gentleman make some very good point and have open his speech well by mention transport connectivity . I be sure that he be aware that the tiny Faroe Islands have open a 10 . 7 km tunnel which connect the island of Sandoy with the main island , at a price of around £ 90 million to £ 100 million . give the sort of cost that he have cite , for the price of the first phase of hs2 the Faroese could build a tunnel from the Faroe Islands to South Africa . be there not something particularly wrong with UK procurement ? perhaps that might lie in the Treasury Green Book . he have show that such waste of money be not get we anywhere at all . I agree with the hon . member wholeheartedly . the Faroese have to be commend for the work that they have do on transport connectivity . there be certainly some lesson that Transport Scotland can learn from that . perhaps we need to be bolder go forward in term of what transport connectivity look like in Scotland . I shall briefly return to the ferry . it be quite clear from what I have outline that there have be well over £ 100 billion in overspend across a few UK project . the overspend on the ferry in Scotland suddenly become loose change down the back of the couch in comparison . indeed , the overspend in capital cost of the ferry be equivalent to the money give to PPE Medpro , for which Baroness Mone receive a healthy £ 20 million dividend . indeed , it be the UK Government who award a ferry contract to a company with no ferry for £ 33 million . that put a lot of thing in perspective . the reality be that the ferry in Scotland be a microcosm of the failure of so many UK Government major programme . in Scotland , there be the political intervention to rightly save commercial non - military shipbuilding on the Clyde . however , the actual procurement process seem to have be too rush . it be inadequately specify by Caledonian Maritime Assets Limited and then all the numerous change to design increase the cost . that be what happen time and again in major infrastructure project . we really must look at some of those in more detail , study what go wrong and see what need to change go forward . let we start with hs2 . the original business case and proposal be for it to extend to Scotland to help with a modal shift away from fly . this be to improve business productivity , which be base on assumption that get to London quick limit down time , without consider the fact that many people now work on the move anyway . through time , the argument be then advanced that HS2 be need to free up capacity on exist line , particularly the west coast main line , thereby create more capacity for both passenger and freight service . that principle be fine , and get more freight deliver by train be good for decarbonisation , but what the different argument and analysis mean be that there be never an establish rationale for the key outcome for HS2 . that have make it easy , as part of the inherent north - south bias of a London Government , to make phase 1 of the project the London to Birmingham link , and to make that the most important aspect . my hon . friend touch on HS2 . I know that he will speak about many more project , but this be a gusting £ 100 billion project that be design to connect the whole length of Great Britain . we know that we be get nothing out of it in Scotland . Manchester be disappoint , because it think that it be get something out of it . Birmingham be the well connect city to London anyway ; it now have another railway line , but one that do not quite make it to London . my constituent in Angus will be foot £ 92 million of the £ 100 billion . we could do with a link to Laurencekirk . we could do with fix the erosion on the Montrose link . we could do with get well flood defence in Brechin . we do not know where that money will come from , but we still have to fund £ 92 million of HS2 . do my hon . friend think that that be right ? I wholeheartedly agree with my hon . friend . it be almost like , when we look back historically , the oil and gas revenue pay for HS1 and the channel tunnel , but at the time we be assure that there would be a spur up the east coast and a spur up the west coast of high - speed rail . now , all these decade later , we still do not have the promise spine , but as he rightly say London and Birmingham be get well connectivity , even though there be some ambiguity about where the line will terminate in London . we be tell not to worry , and that the Birmingham upgrade would still mean much quick journey time from Scotland to London . we be assure several time that train will run from London to Scotland on day one of hs2 service , even though they will be go from Birmingham . sure , train to Edinburgh and Glasgow will run , but they be intend to run as one service stop and decouple at Carstairs . that be just deem a minor inconvenience for those of we travel to and from Scotland . when HS2 look at the purchase of roll stock , the key decision be make that they have to be the quick high - speed train . that mean that when that roll stock access the exist track on the west coast main line , the train will go slow than exist Avanti west coast service . not only will we not get high - speed rail to Scotland , we will get a poor service from the new high - speed rail once it be run on the west coast main line . how can that be a logical proposal for the most expensive infrastructure project ever undertake by a UK Government ? my hon . friend make a point about the slow speed . this be not news . a report that have a foreword by Philip Hammond , who be the Transport Secretary at the time — 13 and a half year ago — suggest that the roll stock could indeed decrease speed , state that " journey time between North West England and Scotland could be potentially long than at present " , result in long journey time between Scotland and London . just a few week ago , we hear evidence in the Transport Committee that that be still the case , with time increase by between five and 25 minute . do my hon . friend not think that it be absolutely absurd that we have end up with a gold - plate commuter line between Birmingham and London and slow journey time for the rest of we north of Manchester , and that that sum up Westminster ' s attitude to transport infrastructure spending since time immemorial ? I wholeheartedly agree . I go back to my opening remark about HS2 : the whole premise of it go to Scotland be to encourage people not to fly and to get the train . now the competition be go the other way ; they will be incentivise to fly because the journey time will be long . it be absolutely crazy . my hon . friend the Member for Angus ( Dave Doogan ) touch on the fact that the cost of HS2 spiral to over £ 100 billion . what happen then ? the eastern leg be remove . next to go be the Golborne link , remove the link to the west coast main line and train run to Scotland . then the northern spur to Manchester be remove . hs2 do not know whether to terminate at Old Oak Common or Euston , despite upgrade already commence at Euston Station . clearly , there be no overall strategic thinking other than a continual form of panicked cost control . unfortunately , HS2 be a monument to a poorly develop concept of not know what the key strategic objective would be , unrealistic budget , politician meddle in route alignment and increase the amount of tunnelling , politician panic as cost increase , continual stop - start review all cost money , over - specification , unrealistic risk allocation , and clearly not enough up - front design and site investigation work or proper planning with regard to project delivery and discussion with contractor . but hey , as we have hear , passenger from Birmingham might now be able to get to London 20 minute quick than they can at present , which be not a bad outcome overall for a £ 66 billion project that do nothing strategically outside the midland . that leg be originally estimate to cost £ 20 billion , so there have be a £ 46 billion project overspend . there be another major infrastructure project that be very similar in its overspend , delay and cost spiral out of control : Hinkley Point C nuclear power station . it be a testament to political determination and aspiration over the reality of nuclear power . it be estimate to cost £ 18 billion , include contingency , in 2016 , when the UK Government give the go - ahead after a review . just a couple week ago , however , EDF estimate that it would cost £ 46 billion in today ' s price . by last week , it have already increase to £ 48 billion . that be a mere £ 30 billion overspend on what be already the world ' s most expensive power station . instead of generate power in 2025 , it will now be as late as 2031 . as cost have continue to spiral , the Government ' s attitude be , " it ' s okay , the risk lie entirely with EDF , " which be completely head - in - the - sand stuff . China General Nuclear , one of the partner in the project , have already reach its cap on the amount of capital it will put into the project , so clearly EDF be have to fund a lot more borrowing . it beggar belief that the Government claim not to be speak to EDF about this issue , especially when chief executive Luc R é mont state last week : " we ' re confident we can find a pathway with british authority on Hinkley Point C and Sizewell . " in other word , there will be another taxpayer bailout . one lesson that the UK Government appear to have learn be that a contract for difference model be not the good way to deliver a nuclear project , but they be now dive head first into the regulated asset base model , which transfer risk from the contractor to the billpayer . that be what the Government want to do for Sizewell C , despite the evidence of failure of the RAB model for a project in South Carolina , in the United States , where ratepayer continue to pay high rate for a nuclear power station that be actually abandon during construction . how will the UK Government make sure that this do not happen at Sizewell ? be my hon . friend concern , as I be , that the UK Government — specifically , the Treasury — seem not to have any concern for nuclear overspend ? when it come to nuclear , regardless of whether it be civil or military , there be no shortage of UK Government funding , yet all across GB there be plan for massive pylon line go through community . the pylon line could be offshore but have to be do at the low possible cost , which mean overhead line . there be no parity between nuclear and anything else . everything else be bargain - basement , Treasury Green Book " let ' s screw the contractor down to the very low price " , except for nuclear . again — no surprise — I wholeheartedly agree with my hon . friend . it be classic " penny wise , pound foolish " all the time , particularly when it come to nuclear . the Government be kid themselves about nuclear , because they still estimate that Sizewell C will cost only £ 20 billion . we already know that Hinkley , which be the model for Sizewell C , be cost nearly £ 50 billion , so why pretend that it will cost only £ 20 billion ? they be set their stall out wrongly and have a blinker approach that suggest we somehow need nuclear , when clearly we do not actually need it . what they should be invest in be renewable energy , storage system and , as my hon . Friend say , much well grid infrastructure as well . I commend the hon . gentleman for bring this issue forward . do he agree that there seem to be a disparity between those who live in town and those who live in rural area , where cost be , more often than not , much large ? do he feel that it be time for the Government to have a centralised access point for infrastructure material , as a way of ensure that each council area and constituency can access the same material for the same cost and begin to build what be break in the way that it should be do in each area ? that be a fair point . there be always a rural premium , and people live in rural area suffer disproportionately when it come to infrastructure , upgrade , energy efficiency and heat their home . I have long argue , particularly in relation to the roll - out of energy efficiency scheme such as ECO4 , that the Government really need to consider a rural programme . otherwise , all that happen be that urban home get upgrade and — Motion lapse ( Standing Order no . 9 ( 3 ) ) . motion make , and question propose , that this House do now adjourn . — ( Joy Morrissey . ) you do warn I , Mr Deputy Speaker , but I still get catch out . back to my favourite topic : nuclear and nuclear overspend . I have highlight the failure of big nuclear project , as well as the Government ' s blinker approach to nuclear . they need to reconsider the proposal for so - call small modular reactor . first , they be not small , and no proven design be operational anywhere in the world , but it seem that the british exceptionalism that the Government believe in mean that Britain will somehow lead the way in all sort of nuclear power generation . just recently , the Environmental Audit Committee have pose serious question about that to the UK Government . let we look at the evidence and the fact before we . NuScale , which be suppose to lead the way for smr , have already abandon its propose SMR in Utah after cost balloon to more than £ 7 billion . but the Government , true to form , believe that they will be able to deliver smr for about £ 2 billion a go . that defy all logic and inevitably mean yet more future infrastructure delay and overspend . compare with nuclear and hs2 , the overspend on Crossrail be relatively modest , at just £ 3 billion . however , Crossrail be another example of bad news be bury until it could no long be hide . year of delay suddenly emerge right at the end when the project be suppose to be at the stage of commission new train . those delay should have be highlight much early . we need a culture in which delay and potential overspend be flag up early enough to allow informed decision to be make about the project and to enable an understanding of what need to be address in the budget and programme . another project that should generate regular headline be the share service network . that be the new communication network for the emergency service in Great Britain , so its delivery be presumably critical . accord to a write answer I receive , the original cost of the project be go to be just £ 1 . 6 billion , and the old system , Airwave , be intend to be shut down by 2026 . now the shutdown date be not know as procurement be ongoing , and the total expenditure be estimate to be £ 11 . 3 billion , so on the face of it , the cost of the project be up tenfold — nearly £ 10 billion over — yet it fly under the radar , for want of a pun . it be astonishing . on a positive note of successful infrastructure delivery , it be worth highlight that the Scottish Government have deliver the long stretch of new railway since victorian time with the reopening of the Borders railway in 2015 . that be a real success story — one that the Tories say would never happen . be it ever praise or use by the Tories as a good example ? no . instead , their immediate messaging be about the need to extend the railway far , an aspiration that the Scottish Government share . it seem to I that , at some point , politician must be gracious about successful project , and take learning from they for other project . equally , on rail electrification , Scotland have always have a clear and steady programme , unlike the continual chopping and change of programme in England . it generate contractor expertise and a steady supply chain , and contractor be confident that there will be a future pipeline of work . the cost of deliver electrification in Scotland be £ 2 million per km , compare with £ 3 million per km in England , so the UK Government ' s procurement rate be 50 % high than that of the Scottish Government . the hon . Member be make a fascinating point . ally to that point be the fact that when it come to transport , the UK Government make decision for England and there be Barnett consequential for Scotland and Northern Ireland , but when Scotland need something , there be never Barnett consequential run the other way . we have to hope that the UK Government be overspend or inefficient in their spending so that we in Scotland have money to do something ; there be never a point where the magic money tree be shake for Scotland and then the Barnett consequential come to England . the hon . member be absolutely right . a proper budget - set process should mean look at need , and then decide what funding be require to suit those need and what the aspiration be . instead , at every Budget , we be suppose to doff our cap and be grateful that increase spend in England give some crumb to Scotland . that be not proper planning . again , an independent country that have proper borrowing power would be able to plan strategically for the future , instead of this haphazard measure that be reliant on the Barnett formula . I see the Minister laugh on the Government Front Bench , but the serious point be that Portugal ' s spending do not depend on what Spain be do , or vice versa . it spend what it need , and it do not need the magic money tree shake in the country next door before it get what it need — it do it itself . I absolutely agree . it go back to the fact that an independent country make its own decision would plan strategically and be able to borrow money accordingly . quite often , borrow for infrastructure lead to the kind of circular reinvestment in job creation that be a win - win . if we look at road , we see that it be the SNP that finally deliver a continuous motorway between Edinburgh and Glasgow . the M74 and the M80 have be complete , as have the Queensferry crossing . yes , if we listen to the headline , the a9 have clearly be delay : a much more realistic programme for the a9 should have be develop before now , and Transport Scotland should also have heed industry concern about its bespoke contract model make it difficult for contractor to bid . however , the reality be that the SNP Government have deliver on a limited budget , and while the Tories demand more and more , they be also content with the capital allocation be cut over the next two year . I be glad that my hon . friend have mention the a9 . under the Scotland Office , prior to devolution , it come to an abrupt halt at Luncarty , with sporadic dual carriageway between there and Inverness . like the Borders railway , when the SNP say that we be go to dual it , the Tory Opposition in the Scottish Parliament — have do nothing about it themselves — immediately insist that we be not do it quick enough . do my hon . friend agree that the problem be that there be such a lack of capital infrastructure investment across these island that , when it come to major project such as the dualling of the a9 , it be so difficult to mobilise the expertise , skill , contractor , and plant and machinery ? there just be not the culture of investment in the United Kingdom that other european nation demonstrate . absolutely . I have long say that when oil be discover in the north - east of Scotland and the Port of Nigg be develop as a strategic port , any normal country would then have invest in the infrastructure in between . that be when the a9 should have be dualle — when the oil and gas revenue be pile in , and we be use the north - east of Scotland to facilitate that . there should have be a motorway build to Aberdeen , the oil capital of Europe , but the UK Government do not think of upgrade the road or train network to Aberdeen . it be utterly bonker . that " bonker " bring I to the fact that the UK Government be now suppose to be deliver a levelling - up agenda . as we have just hear , that agenda have certainly bypass Scotland for long enough , but it be another example of political aspiration and a desire to be see throw some money about , instead of actually have a coherent strategy base on need . the UK Government ' s levelling - up strategy have impose strict spending timetable and budget cap that do not allow for inflation , mean that council that have be allocate money now have to come up with additional money themselves or cut back on those so - call levelling - up project , which kind of defeat the purpose of allocate money for those project . when we look at project in the round , it be also critical that the correct funding mechanism be in place . labour give we the private finance initiative model , which prove to be a boon for hedge fund but a complete rip - off for the taxpayer . again , the SNP Scottish Government learn the lesson from that model and implement the non - profit distribute public - private partnership model , limit profit and allow much great expenditure on capital project while not tie hand with revenue budget . the hon . Member mention a vital point about level up . I be on a call today with a colleague on my council , Na h - Eileanan Siar , who say that under european structural fund , it be get roughly £ 3 . 5 million a year , and under the levelling - up money — when it come — it will be £ 2 . 25 million a year , so it be actually level down in comparison with what happen before Brexit . absolutely . I do not need to tell anybody from the highland and island here that so much european money be actually use for transport upgrade for road and causeway . again , that be reliant on european money , because it simply be not come north from Westminster . to touch briefly on defence procurement , we have the ongoing shamble with Ajax , with a £ 5 . 5 billion fix price contract for approximately 600 armoured vehicle to be deliver by 2025 . so far , £ 4 billion have be pay out , out of that £ 5 . 5 billion , for just 44 vehicle deliver , and testing be still ongoing after they be originally deem undriveable due to the excessive vibration . on defence , we also have the farce of the carrier procurement , and the Trident replacement be suck the life out of the rest of the defence programme . there be really so many lesson that the UK Government need to learn , and they do not seem to be do so . on improvement in infrastructure assessment delivery , I do welcome the setting up of the National Infrastructure Commission and the national need assessment process . again , however , the Government do not necessarily seem to listen , especially give what the National Infrastructure Commission have say about nuclear deployment , which the Government just do not listen to at all . the creation of the Infrastructure and Projects Authority do seem to have be welcome by business . I thank my hon . friend for give way one last time . when it come to transport infrastructure , he will be aware from his previous role as the SNP transport spokesperson that Scotland have an overarch transport strategy . in fact , we be on to transport strategy 2 , and we have the strategic transport project review 2 , which support the delivery of that strategy . in England , there be no such overarching transport infrastructure strategy whatsoever . we have hear evidence in the Transport Committee recently that the Government should put that in place , because that avoid all the problem we be now see within this procurement . it be just a complete muddle and a mess , because there be no overarching strategy at all . absolutely . an overarching strategy again go back to link need and outcome , and to identify budget . it also send a clear signal to investor and contractor of what be in the pipeline of work , and people can actually gear up and plan ahead accordingly . one other thing about Scotland be have , through all this work , a strategic transport development plan , and then the Tories call for the UK Government in Westminster to bypass that for a pet project , which again completely undermine our strategic thinking . all these project I have speak about show that risk need to be correctly allocate . the lesson learn mean that sufficient up - front design work need to be undertake . we need early contractor involvement and a clear pipeline of project . these be all matter that the construction industry have actually be call for for year . we also need politician to take responsibility , where require , and for politician to understand that undue interference and the chopping and changing of project mean an increase in cost and programme delay . somehow in today ' s political world , we do need to have cross - party work as much as possible . one thing be for sure : we can not continue to have flagship project that be handle as badly as hs2 , Hinkley and the rest . it be quite clear that some politician down here really do need to look in before they look out when it come to infrastructure delivery and talk about that . it be a very great pleasure to be give the opportunity to speak in this Adjournment debate on infrastructure procurement this evening . the hon . member for Kilmarnock and Loudoun ( Alan Brown ) and SNP Members — and the many score of hon . friend behind I — will be delighted to hear that the Government recently publish the national infrastructure and construction pipeline , reflect our commitment to economic growth and productivity . over the next decade , the pipeline estimate a plan and project £ 700 billion to £ 775 billion overall investment in infrastructure project across the country . this be go to provide great certainty to industry , and it make clear the need to invest in new skill and new talent to the sector . the new Procurement Act 2023 , which I have the pleasure of take through this House , will create a simple and more transparent system that deliver well value for money and reduce cost for business and the public sector , and learn the lesson of recent year . specifically , in the infrastructure procurement space , the construction playbook set out how contracting authority can now ensure that this ambitious programme of public investment be deliver in a way that maximise value for money . the playbook provide guidance and good practice on a range of topic include early supply chain involvement , risk , effective contracting , modern method of construction , bid evaluation , and create successful relationship with our supplier base . one in every £ 3 of public money — some £ 300 billion a year — be spend on public procurement . by improve the way public procurement be regulate , the Government will save the taxpayer money and drive benefit across every region of our country . follow the UK ' s exit from the EU , we have seize the opportunity to develop and implement a new procurement regime in a way that simply be not possible while we be member of the EU . the Act help deliver the Prime Minister ' s promise to grow the economy by create a simple and more transparent system that will deliver well value for money and reduce cost to business and the public sector . crucially , it will provide new opportunity to small and medium - sized enterprise to get a big share of that £ 300 billion a year prize , a great achievement . what procurement process be the Government do now that they be not able to do when they be part of the EU and what difference be that make ? I be extremely sorry that the hon . Gentleman miss every single stage of the Procurement Act 2023 . we have create a brand - new regime in consultation with business of all size , who absolutely welcome the decision that we have make that will reduce bureaucracy and make it easy , remove the hurdle to small and medium - sized enterprise . that be why when we do our consultation it be very warmly welcome , because people could see it would reduce the cost of enter procurement and reduce the barrier to those business get a share of that public money . I have to say it be welcome on both side of the House , by both — [ interruption . ] the hon . member for Kilmarnock and Loudoun ( Alan Brown ) can refer back to Hansard in his own time , but , have explain how it improve — will the Minister give way ? I be still answer the previous intervention so the hon . Gentleman will have to wait . [ interruption . ] I have get all night ; I have have my supper and I can talk about this . the hon . member for Kilmarnock and Loudoun would like we to rehearse everything we go through in the Procurement Act ; if he want to go back and look at it , he will discover that the Act make it possible for — [ interruption . ] the Act make it possible for — you have already say that . that be because I have be interrupt many time , but I be happy to repeat the first clause of my sentence over and over again until the good gentleman be ready to put a sock in it , but if they be not , I be not hungry and I be not tired and I be happy to fill up column inch after column inch of Hansard with this rubbish . if the hon . member for Kilmarnock and Loudoun want to go back and look at the debate that we have in Committee and on Report he will understand that it be possible for both contracting authority and supplier to work through pipeline and framework arrangement that make it easy for supplier to see what business be come forward and make it easy for they to prepare , with the result that the conversation that he allude to between contracting authority and supplier happen early and contract be more appropriate and less likely to break down . that be one reason why the legislation we bring through the House be so widely welcome by business and by contracting authority . I be very pleased to say that we be make great progress towards introduce this new regime in October . we have a huge plan of learning and development that will be go on across the country . we have a new digital online platform for procurement which be be build and which be eagerly anticipate . we be also construct the new national security unit for procurement , which will make sure that it be much hard for hostile actor to enter sensitive part of our supply chain . it be a really great achievement . in addition to this fantastic new legislation that be bring in follow wide - range public consultation and stakeholder engagement , we have bring forward legislative proposal to establish the new regime . these measure and the training we will roll out to support they will deliver great value for the public purse not just in infrastructure , with huge road and rail construction project , but across public procurement from IT software by the NHS to service by local council . will the Minister give way ? in a moment . on value for money , the Procurement Act 2023 provide great flexibility to contracting authority to design efficient , commercial and market - focus competition , and remove overly prescriptive rule contain in the exist regulation in a way that simply could not have be do while we be in the EU . the 2023 Act also embed transparency throughout the commercial lifecycle , and we will ensure that the spending of taxpayer ' money can be properly scrutinise . with more consistent commercial datum , we will see increase competition , collaboration and accountability . the 2023 Act confirm that value for money remain paramount during contracting , while also encourage buyer to take account of relevant wide social and environmental consideration that the supplier may bring . that go alongside the construction playbook , which be one of four sector - specific commercial playbook produce by the Government and design to improve how we assess , procure and manage Government contract to maximise value for money and deliver well outcome . those playbook be systematically change how we approach risk , sustainability and innovation across portfolio , project and programme , with the goal of create productive , profitable , sustainable and resilient sector . the construction sector face unique challenge , and the Government be commit to update the construction playbook annually in collaboration with Departments , arm ' s length body and , critically , industry . the Infrastructure and Projects Authority also apply oversight , scrutiny and support to the most important major project be deliver by Government . as well as track performance datum on project on the Government ' s major project portfolio , it provide independent gateway assurance review , expert advice and support on the project delivery , commercial , financial and sector - specific aspect of major project . the IPA ' s standard , tool and training for the Government ' s project help ensure that project be set up for success , include deliver to cost . the IPA ' s expert advice , cost estimation guidance , transform infrastructure programme and the development of the benchmarke hub be already help to reduce the cost of project . you would think , Mr Deputy Speaker , that hon . gentleman on the Opposition Benches who profess to care about procurement , value for money and timeliness would be chomp at the bit to be involve in this work . alas , no . when the moment come , when they be give the opportunity to sign up to the new procurement regime that deliver all those thing , what do they do ? they slunk away . they snuck back to their dark corner . they be frit of change and frit of opportunity . instead , they stick with the old way — the bad way that have lead previous government into failure . they do not want success ; they want to stick with failure . that be to the loss of the scottish people . the good people of Northern Ireland join our regime . the great people of Wales do the same , and the poor small and medium - sized enterprise in Scotland will be deprive of access to our brand - new regime . that be why we know that the hon . gentleman do not take this issue seriously . there we go . just for the record , I have not eat and I be tired . question put and agree to . House adjourn .