Oral Answers to Questions Housing , Communities and Local Government the Secretary of State be ask — Leasehold Reform what step she be take to reform the leasehold system . what step she be take to reform the leasehold system . what step she be take to reform the leasehold system . what step she be take to reform the leasehold system . may I start by send my thought and prayer to everyone involve in yesterday ' s incident at Southend airport ? we remain committed to give leaseholder great right , power and protection in respect of their home , and bring the feudal leasehold system to an end . we have make significant progress , implement the Leasehold and Freehold Reform Act 2024 and , this month , launch a consultation to strengthen leaseholder protection when it come to charge and service . we be deliver , but we will go far ; we will publish a draft leasehold and commonhold Bill later this year . this week , the High Court will hear challenge to some of the enfranchisement reform in the 2024 Act ; we will defend those challenge robustly , and will await the Court ' s judgment . I have be contact by more than 300 resident in Peterborough about problem relate to FirstPort ' s leasehold and management service charge . they face unfair charge , a lack of transparency , bad communication and poor service . resident in , for example , Hammonds Drive and Manor Drive be feed up with get a second - class service . what be my right hon . friend do to help resident in place like Peterborough get the peace of mind and justice that they so deserve ? my hon . friend be absolutely right to raise this issue . many member from across the House have find that too many leaseholder suffer as a result of poor - quality service from manage agent . we be consult on proposal to strengthen the regulation of manage agent , include a proposal to make minimum professional qualification mandatory . my constituent Ed , a leaseholder in Monument Court , Stevenage , have be trap for year in an unsellable flat after the building fail its EWS1 assessment because Higgins Homes have not follow its own architectural plan . he have face uncapped and unregulated service charge and utility billing , and the threat of disconnection , while see the saleable value of his property decrease by more than £ 70 , 000 . will the Secretary of State consider introduce a statutory route through which people like Ed can pursue legal action against a developer without bear the full cost burden ? I be very sorry to hear about Ed ' s situation . the Building Safety Act 2022 protect qualify leaseholder from uncapped cost relate to non - clad remediation . when remediation be not progress , leaseholder can apply to the tribunal for remediation order , which can compel relevant landlord to fix relevant defect in their building , as well as for remediation contribution order , which require developer to pay towards the cost of the remediation . at Fletton Quays in my constituency , manage by Gateway Properties , leasehold resident be report that service charge have increase by as much as 150 % in the last two year . flat be under warranty and fault should be fix by Weston Homes , which build the property , but instead be be fix by Gateway , which have increase the service charge and , I understand , have even be send separate bill on top . I know that the Government have be keen to address issue relate to high service charge and the need for financial transparency for leaseholder ; can the Secretary of State provide an update on that work ? unjustified service charge be wholly unacceptable , and I strongly recommend that the homeowner obtain legal advice . the Leasehold Advisory Service , for instance , give free legal advice to leaseholder . developer be typically responsible for rectify defect within the first two year of the warranty period ; even if no warranty claim be make , developer be still liable , and should not pass charge on to leaseholder . unreasonable service charge may be challenge at the first - tier tribunal . through the Government ' s landmark Renters ' Rights Bill , we be do much to address the inequity of the rental sector for constituent in Bracknell and across the country — for instance , we be extend the right to request a pet . now the Government be turn our attention to reform leasehold . my right hon . friend will know that many leaseholder be also block from have a pet by a clause in their head lease . what can we do to deal with that ? I know that my hon . friend have already speak to the Minister for Housing and Planning about this issue , and that those discussion will continue . as you well know , Mr Speaker , pet bring joy , happiness and comfort to their owner , while also support their mental and physical wellbeing . we have strengthen the right of private tenant to keep pet in the Renters ' Rights Bill , and we will of course keep the position of leaseholder with pet under review . leasehold resident of Marlborough House in Maidenhead find that their developer have enter liquidation , leave £ 250 , 000 in section 106 payment outstanding , as well as massive defect in the development . leaseholder fear that the authority will ask they for the section 106 money , and that the cost of finish the development will fall on their shoulder . give that some developer have poor track record , with dozen of company go into liquidation , how can we strengthen leasehold legislation to ensure that future leaseholder do not have the same problem as those in Marlborough House ? it be frustrating when we hear of situation like this , which be why it be our intention to publish the draft leasehold and commonhold reform Bill in the second half of this year . I hope the hon . Member will contribute his view on it , so that we can build on the proposal that the previous Government bring forward . they need extra work , as I mention in my opening answer , but hopefully we can start to deal with this issue , so that leaseholder get the protection that they deserve . at a recent surgery , a constituent bring to I the leasehold problem that she be experience with her housing association . despite pay a considerable amount in service charge , leaseholder have be whack with a £ 7 , 000 bill for improvement to the property ' s roof , with the expectation that they will pay within 30 day of completion . there be limited consultation , and leaseholder have no choice in who carry out the work . what do the Secretary of State advise my constituent to do ? again , the consultation exercise that we be undertake be about how we deal with such matter . I hope the hon . Member will work with we during the consultation period , so that we can bring forward the draft legislation and get this matter right . we hear these story time and again , and we need to fix this problem and protect leaseholder . I thank the Secretary of State for her answer . the issue with the leasehold system , and the need for legal protection for everyone , have be set out in debate in Westminster Hall and this Chamber , and I very much welcome the Government ' s commitment to change . the leasehold system here be slightly different from that in Northern Ireland , but the legal protection need to be the same . I have a very simple question for the Secretary of State : will she have discussion with the relevant Minister in Northern Ireland to ensure that what happen here can happen for we in Northern Ireland , and that we will be give the same protection ? the hon . Gentleman be absolutely right . we do work with the devolved nation , not just to show they what we be do , but to learn from they . we have see that the housing situation be not an England - only situation ; the issue affect the whole of the UK , and we all need to learn from each other . hopefully , the reform that we be bring through will be inform by the devolved nation , but we will also have some learning for they . we need to work together in lockstep to protect people , wherever they be in the United Kingdom . Housing Associations : repair what step her Department be take to help support housing association in the timely remediation of unsafe property . in June , we announce over £ 1 billion of investment to accelerate clad remediation by give social landlord the same access to Government remediation scheme as that afford to private building owner . we will shortly publish revised guideline on how to access the funding , and a joint plan with social landlord and regulator , in order to accelerate remediation and improve resident experience . may I thank the Minister and his Department for push forward Awaab ' s law ? it can not come soon enough , especially the 24 - hour deadline for deal with mould and damp , and especially for my constituent Yasmin , who have be live in an unacceptable situation with very young child for four year . however , I have real concern about how ready housing association be to implement the regulation , which be come in very soon , in October . I have raise this issue with the National Housing Federation , but what assessment have the Minister make of housing association ' ability to fully comply with all the regulation under Awaab ' s law by October , so that we can ensure that all my constituent can live in a safe and healthy environment ? first of all , may I say how sorry I be to hear that my hon . friend ' s constituent Yasmin have be live in those condition for so long ? we have publish draft guidance for social landlord to make sure that they understand the requirement under Awaab ' s law . as my hon . friend would expect , we be work very closely with they to support their operational readiness . we take a phased approach , but we be encourage social landlord to act now . they should raise any concern with we now , so that we can consider how to well support they . in the meantime , they must meet their exist legal obligation . on the importance of enforce Awaab ' s law , there be home in my constituency that be damp , mouldy and publicly own , but not by housing association ; they be own by the hospital trust , and include accommodation for nurse and their family . can the Minister clarify the remit of this law , and the extent of his power and control in this area ? will he urge all public sector landlord to make sure that they comply with Awaab ' s law , so that our nurse can bring up their family in place that be safe , clean and decent ? I do not think it be any secret that I , the Deputy Prime Minister and the Housing Minister be very hard on all our partner , include the public sector , in order to make sure that they do their job . the hon . Gentleman raise a very important concern , and the Housing Minister will write to he on it . Housing Delivery what step her Department be take to increase housing delivery . the Government ' s plan for change include a hugely ambitious target of building 1 . 5 million new home in England in this Parliament . in the 12 month we have be in office , we have take decisive step to boost housing supply , include overhaul the national planning policy framework and introduce the Planning and Infrastructure Bill , which will far streamline the delivery of new home , as well as critical infrastructure . it be welcome to once again have a Government who believe in house building . I thank the Minister for his comment . when I speak to house builder , one of the issue they raise with I be the performance of the Building Safety Regulator . shovel - ready project that have planning permission be delay at gateway 2 , and check that should take a matter of week be take month , if not year . what be the Department do to manage the performance of the regulator , ensure it have the resource it need , and hold it to account , so that we get spade in the ground as soon as possible ? my hon . friend be absolutely right to draw attention to the operation of the Building Safety Regulator , which , while essential to uphold building safety standard , be cause delay in handle application for building project , and be have an impact on new supply in London . I hope he will take comfort not only from the £ 2 million the Government allocate to the BSR in February , but from the target package of reform we announce last month , include the establishment of a new fast - track process to reduce delay and strengthen leadership and governance . the Government promise to increase housing delivery through grey - belt , not green - belt , development . Grey belt be describe as " poor quality land , car park and wasteland . " however , since the new guidance be publish , Hertsmere have be inundate with application that simply seek to rebrand green belt as grey belt . the lack of clarity and the inconsistent application of the rule mean that such application be hard to resist . will the Minister provide great clarity and tighten the rule before large swathe of Radlett , Bushey , Shenley , Potters Bar and Borehamwood succumb to urban sprawl ? I thank the right hon . gentleman for that question . he cite the planning practice guidance we have issue , which have a very clear definition of the grey belt and the rule for it . when it come to plan making , local authority must take a sequential approach . on decision making for application outside of local plan , he will know that we have impose very strict law to ensure viability assessment be not use on those site . where development come forward and be judge to be appropriate by decision maker — and by the Planning Inspectorate in appeal — those golden rule will also ensure high level of affordable housing , infrastructure and access to green space . I welcome the Government ' s bold and ambitious plan to deliver more housing , especially affordable and social home , in Wandsworth . the council be already deliver home , but of the 800 home in its plan , only 50 be accessible for wheelchair . how will the Government deliver more accessible home , and will the Minister agree to raise the default standard to the M4 ( 2 ) standard of accessibility and adaptation , so that everybody have the opportunity to live in a safe and accessible home ? I thank my hon . friend for raise that point . I have a vague memory of certain parliamentary question ask much the same , and I refer she to those answer . we want to ensure that all people have accessible home . we be consider the M4 ( 2 ) standard , and we will make announcement in due course about the accessibility of new home in general . when the Minister have meet major house builder , what have they tell he about the chance of hit the Government ' s target of building 1 . 5 million new house in this Parliament ? those house builder have express their confidence , and their gratitude for the reform that the Government have carry out . it be slightly peevish of the right hon . Lady , who stand for election on a manifesto that commit her party to 1 . 6 million home , to say that our 1 . 5 million home target be unachievable . we quite regularly hear from Conservative Members that we be concrete over every inch of England , but at the same time that we can not meet our target . we will meet that target of 1 . 5 million home . I call the shadow Minister . Lord know who the Housing Minister be talk to , because time and again , developer have say that he can not achieve his target of 1 . 5 million home . as he know , I have severe doubt about his ability to meet such unrealistic housing target , and I suspect the opposition will be prove right . however , if he do succeed , the quality of new home must be maintain . will he do what the New Homes Quality Board be call for , and ensure mandatory board membership for developer of all shape and size , and an empower ombudsman , so that home occupier be protect ? I thank the shadow Minister for that question . he be absolutely right that our target of 1 . 5 million new home , which be extremely stretch — we have never say anything other than that — do not entail unit at any cost . the design and quality of new home and new place be incredibly important . he rightly cite the new home code of practice , and we be give consideration in the round to whether that can be strengthen — for example , whether it need to be put on a statutory footing . in general , we want to drive up the quality of new home in the place and community we be create . I call the liberal Democrat spokesperson . the Competition and Markets Authority recently find that major house builder be prevent and distort competition , include by match price and incentive to buyer . that further damage public confidence in house buying , and will have push home ownership out of the reach of many people . house builder have agree to pay £ 100 million towards affordable housing scheme , but what redress be available for homeowner who have be mislead ? how will the Government achieve oversight of that funding to ensure that builder be hold accountable , the additional home be deliver , and there be effective disincentive to stop this happen again ? the hon . Lady draw the attention of the House to an incredibly important point . the Government be clear that the house building sector can thrive only when there be fair and open competition . where that be find not to be the case , it be right that the CMA act decisively , as it have do in this instance by extract £ 100 million for social and affordable housing from the seven house builder investigate . we be take action to fix our broken housing system , as I have say , by overhaul the planning system , address our dysfunctional land market , and end our over - reliance on a speculative model of development that produce sub - optimal outcome and constrain housing supply . if she have evidence of any individual be directly affect in the purchase of their home , I would be very grateful if she could bring it to my attention . Council Tax Revenue : student Accommodation what assessment she have make of the potential impact of reduction in council tax revenue from student house in multiple occupation on local authority . the Government believe it be right that student be disregard for council tax . if the only resident of a household be full - time student , the dwelling will be exempt . in the recently publish fair funding review 2 . 0 , the Government propose to fully account for the impact of student exemption in the distribution of the settlement . in 2013 , my Bath council receive £ 31 million through the revenue support grant . this year , it be just around £ 1 million . student , who be exempt from council tax , be not be count . will the Minister ensure that , through the fair funding review , the issue be urgently address , and that council such as Bath and North East Somerset be not miss out entirely on central Government support ? the fair funding review will do what it say on the tin : it will make sure that , for the first time ever , all component pressure that council face in deliver public service , and in raise money locally , be take into account . it be wrong that while this Parliament can decide on national exemption that council have to apply , which limit their ability to raise council tax locally , we do not account for that in the distribution of funding that follow . for the first time , we will do that . Liverpool be a university city , and I have three university in my constituency . Liverpool city council be estimate to lose £ 9 million in council tax revenue each year due to student exemption . will the Minister explain when and how those anomaly will be deal with , so that the council do not lose that amount of funding every year ? the fair funding review 2 . 0 be out to consultation . we welcome contribution to the consultation from member , local authority and other . at heart , we want to fully account for the ability of an area to raise income locally . nationally , there be 245 , 000 student exempt dwelling and 77 , 000 hall of residence . it be quite right that we take that into account when we assess how much council tax can be raise locally . in some city and town , that will make quite a material difference . Homelessness Prevention what step her Department be take to increase funding for homelessness prevention service . what step her Department be take with local council to prevent homelessness . the Government have increase funding for homelessness service by £ 233 million , bring the total to nearly £ 1 billion . the 2025 spending review protect that level of investment until 2028 - 29 , and provide £ 100 million of additional funding from the transformation fund . the number of people in the UK who have no recourse to public fund have increase significantly in recent year . lot of those people end up fall through the crack in the system — some of they perhaps end up rough sleeping , and some engage in antisocial behaviour — but the one thing they all have in common be that they do not have the support need to regularise their lifestyle , and there be not the enforcement that be need to remove they from their situation . will the Minister outline the step be take to ensure that people with no recourse to public fund be not leave in a bureaucratic limbo , which help nobody ? it be important that migrant come to the UK should be able to maintain and accommodate themselves without recourse to public fund . we encourage council to exhaust all option when work with people with restricted eligibility for public fund . the funding for the rough sleeping prevention and recovery grant can be use to help anyone , provide action be within the law . London borough now spend £ 4 million a day on temporary accommodation . while cost and rough sleeping have soar , central Government subsidy have be freeze for 14 year , push council to the brink of bankruptcy . do my hon . friend on the Front Bench agree that it be time to lift the 2011 Tory cap , so that London council can get the support they need to make homelessness history ? the Department for Work and Pensions keep the level of housing benefit subsidy for temporary accommodation under review , and any future decision will be inform by the Government ' s wide housing ambition , include tackle homelessness , and the broad fiscal context . our fair funding review 2 . 0 consultation set out our proposal to target money where it be most need and will account for temporary accommodation cost . Homelessness be a huge issue in my constituency , where housing cost be among the high in the country and people can not find social and affordable housing . the business rate reset propose under the fair funding review would potentially lead to a 42 % decrease in the net resource available to the council . can the Minister assure those live in the Cherwell district council area that the fair funding review will include protect support for tackle homelessness ? the hon . Gentleman will be aware that we inherit a homelessness crisis , with record level of people in temporary accommodation . rough sleeping have go up by 164 % since 2010 . the previous Labour Government cut homelessness and rough sleeping dramatically . we be invest to tackle the root cause of homelessness , and I look forward to work with the hon . gentleman on those issue . I call the shadow Minister . recent figure provide by CHAIN report a record 13 , 231 people sleep rough in London — a 19 % increase in the year since this Government take office , and a 63 % increase since Sadiq Khan take office as Mayor of London . what conversation have the Minister have with the Mayor of London to tackle this failure in leadership , and will she commit to eliminate rough sleeping by the end of this Parliament ? after a year of this Government , it have go up . I gently remind the shadow Minister that rough sleeping have go up by 164 % since 2010 , and that it be cut by two third by the previous Labour Government . what about this one ? why do the hon . Gentleman not apologise for his party ' s record of 14 year of failure ? we be take action to tackle the root cause of rough sleeping and homelessness . he should apologise for the failure of his government . election : participation what step she plan to take to help to increase participation in UK election . this Government be commit to increase participation in our democracy . we will give 16 and 17 - year - old the right to vote in all election , give they a say in shape their future . where we find barrier to participation , we will work with the electoral sector and other stakeholder to tackle they . I recently have the pleasure of get a robust grilling from some 16 and 17 - year - old from Aquinas sixth - form college in my constituency , which leave I fill with optimism and a real sense that our democracy be in good hand . my worry , though , be that these sixth - former and young people like they might lose their enthusiasm for our democracy and for voting because they feel that our first - past - the - post voting system lead to politician take a majority of power on a minority of vote . with more than 40 % of mp elect with under 40 % of the vote cast in their constituency , do the Minister agree with her own Government ' s statement on why they be scrap first past the post for mayoral and police and crime commissioner election , and should we expect a different voting system when the Aquinas sixth - former vote at the next general election ? I be grateful to the hon . Lady for her question . her party have the opportunity when in government to introduce electoral reform . this Government be focus on ensure that young people be enfranchised . I look forward to work with she to deliver vote at 16 for young people in our country . I recently visit some wonderfully politically engage sixth - former at Sir Frederick Gibberd college in Harlow , include Luka and Finlay , who shadow some of my office staff last week . do the Minister agree that give 16 and 17 - year old the vote will help to build a lifelong habit of democratic engagement and participation ? my hon . friend be absolutely right . the evidence show that when young people participate in politic , it positively affect they through their lifetime and increase participation . young people can pay tax and join the Army at 16 , so it be right that they should have a say in how our country be govern . deprive area : fund what step her Department be take to ensure that area with high level of deprivation receive adequate funding . what step her Department be take to ensure that area with high level of deprivation receive adequate funding . we be committed to improve how we assess need to ensure that central government funding be distribute fairly to the place that need it most . we begin at the last settlement with the £ 600 million recovery grant , and subject to the fair funding review 2 . 0 consultation , our propose reform mean that the most relatively deprive place will see large increase in income than the least deprive place . Newcastle - under - Lyme be at the heart of our industrial heartland . in community such as Silverdale , Knutton and Cross Heath , we see high level of health inequality and low level of life expectancy than in many wealthy area . these community be let down by those who go before we and be leave behind . will the Minister meet I to discuss how good to support industrial community like mine in Newcastle - under - Lyme , so that we can finally tackle this entrenched inequality ? my hon . friend make a very fair point . there be two aspect to this . first , we must make sure that place get the investment they need to realise their full potential . we be work on that with our plan for community , which the Under - Secretary of State for Housing , Communities and Local Government , my hon . friend the Member for Nottingham North and Kimberley ( Alex Norris ) be engage in . but that have to be build on fair funding at the base of what the local authority do . there be nothing fair at all about the previous Government impoverish council in the most deprived community , send many to the wire . we be put that right . I be grateful to the Minister , who have name Barnsley ' s local authority in the £ 1 . 5 billion plan for neighbourhood . the spending review have confirm neighbourhood - level investment for 350 deprive community . however , Chapeltown and High Green in my constituency have community in the bottom 10 % nationally in the index of multiple deprivation , while Dodworth have a community within the bottom 20 % nationally . these area would benefit significantly from neighbourhood - level investment to build a sense of pride in place for my constituent . will the Minister consider include these three community among the 275 area that be yet to be announce ? I be sure that the Under - Secretary of State for Housing , Communities and Local Government , my hon . friend the Member for Nottingham North and Kimberley have hear those diligent representation . it be true that many part of our country have talent and potential that be not be meet by opportunity . this fund be about make sure that every area have seed investment to begin to rebuild , support by fair funding for the local authority . we can not underestimate the effect of the 14 year of constant hit and attack from the previous Government . there be a reason why many community have the resilience to stand up for themselves regardless of all that : the power of their unity . finally , they now have a Government on their side . it be often hard to see because it be more sparsely spread across large rural area , but I remind the Minister of what I know he know : deprivation exist in our rural area . can I urge he to ensure that this do not become an issue of north versus south or urban versus rural , but that the Government use taxis to address deprivation wherever and whenever it arise , include in my constituency ? I thank the former Minister for those representation . on the point about fair funding and unpicking where money be need , there be a lot of commonality on this issue in the Chamber . we absolutely accept that in rural area the cost of service delivery be high in some case , such as for refuse collection and adult social care . it be common sense that if people have to travel far to pick up bin or make a home care visit , it will cost more money as a result . however , that be not the only thing we need to take into account . we must take into account deprivation and the ability of a council to raise money at a local level . daytime visitor number be also a factor , where a council be not get a tax take from those visitor but there be a public service take on the other side . importantly , we must consider the ability of a local authority to raise tax at a local level to meet the demand . it be the Government ' s job to act as an equaliser in the system . it be absolutely right that funding follow need , but may I gently urge the Minister to look at how the propose new funding formula for local authority affect borough across London , give that it do not consider housing cost , which we know be the big driver of poverty and deprivation in London ? we be in a consultation now , so we be willing and ready to hear representation , but many people — I be not accuse the hon . member of this — have jump to conclusion base on headline that be not support by the evidence when we track where money ultimately go . all the matter that she rightly say need to be take into account be take into account . in the consultation , we have include the cost of temporary accommodation in the base formula for the first time ever , so she will find that outer - London borough in particular will benefit from that . so far , they have be underappreciated for the cost of that pressure . planning system : community Involvement what plan she have to increase community involvement in the planning process . what plan she have to increase community involvement in the planning process . the Government strongly encourage broad community engagement in the planning process , and we want to see great public participation in the development of local plan in particular . we be currently explore new way to increase and enhance community engagement in the planning process , include by improve access to planning datum through its digitisation . I be sure the Minister agree it be vital that local resident ' concern be properly listen to , especially on major planning decision . have listen to many constituent in place such as New Deer , Kintore and Rothienorman who be face huge amount of energy infrastructure , I table an amendment to the Planning and Infrastructure Bill that would have create a statutory duty of consultation for infrastructure in Scotland . in Committee , the Minister argue against it and say that the Scottish Government ' s discretionary power be satisfactory . will he please explain why the Government believe that a discretionary power , which my constituent fear will simply be ignore , provide meaningful engagement while the statutory right that I propose would not ? I can do no well than to draw the hon . Lady ' s attention to the extensive remark that I make in the Bill Committee . in Towcester , when the DHL development be go through planning , more than 1 , 100 resident submit objection to the council , thousand sign petition , I speak on their behalf as their MP against the plan and locally elect councillor vote 11 to one against it at the strategic planning committee meeting , but it be ultimately approve on appeal . resident , naturally , be lose faith in engage in the system . the Minister refer in a write question to there be a more democratic plan - lead system take in large number of voice . in our case , how many more resident would need to be involve to have an impact ? I think that the hon . Lady — if I follow her argument — be speak about objection lodge to an individual planning application . we be make no change to that process . resident all over the country will still be able to object to any planning application that come forward . we be make sensible change to improve the certainty and speed at which planning decision will be take , with a two - tier approach — a consultation be live at the moment to which she can offer input — but when it come to local plan , which be a slightly separate issue , we be look to encourage great participation upstream . local plan be the good mean by which local community can shape the development come forward in their area . in Hartlepool , the Tees Valley Mayor ' s development corporation have remove planning power for large swathe of the town from all democratic control . in turn , much of the planning function have be outsource to a private company with no connection to Hartlepool , which be rule out any community involvement . will the Minister look at curb the power of development corporation so that planning remain in the hand of democratically elect politician ? I note my hon . friend ' s concern in relation to the Tees Valley . in general , we be look to streamline the power give to development corporation — we take measure in the Planning and Infrastructure Bill to allow they , for example , to shape transport in area — but if he want to write to I or Ministers to raise more of the specific of that case , we would be more than happy to take a look . I call the shadow Minister . community support be always vital for development , and with 95 % of planning application already decide by official under delegate power , it be clear that that democratic voice can be miss . can the Minister tell the House why , take that in tandem with the devolution White Paper , which envisage abolish around 75 % of councillor who represent their local resident on plan committee in England , local community do not deserve more of a say , rather than less , in the planning process ? we do want local community to have more of a say , particularly when it come to the development of local plan , which be , as I have say , the good mean for local community to shape development in their area . when it come to the national scheme of delegation , which be the point the hon . Gentleman be really drive at , he know that as thing stand every local authority across the country have its own scheme of delegation . there be a huge amount of variation there . there be good practice and bad practice , and — as we debate at great length in the Bill Committee — we think there be a strong case for a national scheme of delegation to improve certainty and the speed of planning decision . he be more than welcome to respond to the consultation that be live at present . community Regeneration Funding : Scotland what discussion she have have with local authority in Scotland on community regeneration funding . we be commit to invest across all four nation and be deliver regeneration funding to many community across Scotland , include the hon . Gentleman ' s . I have meet representative of the Convention of Scottish Local Authorities , which speak for scottish authority , on a couple of occasion , and I really value its partnership and insight . the £ 20 million community regeneration partnership with Comhairle nan Eilean Siar , the Western Isles council , will help develop the marine economy of Vatersay and Barra , the cultural heritage of Eriskay and North Uist and the spinal route through the island . it put islander in the drive seat use the muscle of the UK Government . do the Minister agree that this be a template for other UK Government Departments and their relationship with scottish council , and do it not stand in contrast with the game of throne be play by the Scottish National party Government , who hoard decision making and money in Edinburgh ? I note the passion with which my hon . friend speak about this . his leadership be go to be crucial to the success of this project . it speak exactly to why we have take the approach we be take : we need local community in charge . they be the expert on their life and on what they need , and they should be in the drive seat . that be why we will work with they on this project , and through our plan set out in the spending review we will put that at the heart of everything we do . high Streets what step she be take to support high street . we be commit to rejuvenate our high street and town centre . that include tackle empty shop through high street rental auction and legislate for a community right to buy to protect precious asset . that be set out in the spending review , provide funding to up to 350 place to help community drive forward the change they want to see in their area . I hear what the Minister be say , but our high street be under enormous pressure because of labour ' s job tax and cut to business rate relief . as good tax - pay shop shut down , they be be replace by dodgy front business . to fight that in my constituency , Havering trading standard last week seize £ 17 , 000 - worth of illicit good from one shop in Upminster through a collaboration between the council , the public , the police and I as the MP . this vital work be at risk because the Government be plan to shift council grant money away from the capital and up to place in the north of England . can the Minister assure I that Labour be not , in the Mayor of London ' s word , plan to " level down " the capital by threaten resource for council here ? I can not accept the hon . Lady ' s characterisation . if we look at the history of the 2010 to 2024 government , we can see that the pressure on local authority , which we have hear about from across the House , be so great that we see trading standard wither on the vine across the country . in many place , they be down to single individual , never mind number in single figure . we be clear that we be rebuild local government , and hopefully we will see lot more brilliant enforcement like we have see in Havering . not far from here , on Whitehall and on Oxford Street , we have see the proliferation of Harry Potter shop . these be not welcome for our tourist and we do not believe that they be trade fairly . will the Minister support I in encourage his Majesty ' s Revenue and Customs to work with Westminster city council , which be do great work in shut these shop down , to ensure that we create space for thrive high street business ? I entirely share my hon . friend ' s view . we want to see thrive high street . we want to see full shop , but we want to see they trade fairly , properly and in a quality way , work well with their staff and be a good part of the community . when that be not happen , it be really important that action be take — she raise some high - profile example — and we of course stand ready to support local authority in whatever way we can . build Social and Affordable Homes what step she be take to build more social and affordable home . we announce a record £ 39 billion investment into the new social and affordable home programme at the spending review , which will create around 300 , 000 new home over 10 year . early this month , we publish a five step plan that set out how we will deliver the big increase in social housing in a generation to transform the safety and quality of social housing . my priority as Deputy Prime Minister be to get more social rent home build , and that be what this Labour Government be deliver . planning authority such as Rugby borough council be work hard to ensure that new housing development contain as much affordable and social housing as possible . they work in partnership with housing developer , Government body such as Homes England , and other to that end , though it be not always an easy process and it often take far too long . will my right hon . friend outline how the Planning and Infrastructure Bill will enhance their work , so that we can build as many high - quality affordable and social home as possible and ensure that more people , particularly young people , get the home they deserve ? my hon . friend be absolutely right that the Planning and Infrastructure Bill will unlock a new scale of housing and infrastructure delivery across all tenure to help build 1 . 5 million home in this Parliament . we be also take action in the Bill to improve local decision making by modernise planning committee and ensure that planning department be well resource by allow local planning authority to set their own planning fee . will the Deputy Prime Minister please explain why her government will not set a target for the provision of social housing ? while I welcome the investment in the social and affordable home programme that she set out , the reality be that it will meet only 10 % of the total number of new home anticipate and only 10 % of the current demand for social housing . if she believe that set national target like the 1 . 5 million home target be important to drive change , why will she not set a target for social housing ? the Government have not set an affordable housing target to date , but we continue to keep the matter under review . accurately try to forecast long - term delivery be inherently challenging , but we believe that our new social and affordable home programme could deliver around 300 , 000 social and affordable home over its lifetime , with around 180 , 000 for social rent . the measure we have take , alongside the commitment for rent so that there be this long - term programme , will hopefully help with the supply , and I have make it categorically clear to the sector that we want more social rent housing . I call the shadow Minister . there have be a 66 % reduction in new affordable housing start in London under Mayor Khan , and I note that Hillingdon Labour vigorously oppose the conservative council ' s plan for a new affordable housing site at Otterfield Road in Yiewsley . will the Secretary of State condemn the failing of these labour politician on housing , and will she acknowledge that whether someone be a homeless person , a rough sleeper or an aspirational first - time buyer , this Government be fail those in housing need ? I find that absolutely astonishing when the Conservatives fail to meet their housing target year after year . the Mayor of London have welcome the money through the affordable home programme . there be the amount of money we have give , and we be permit to increase rent by CPI plus 1 % . we be consult on rent conversion , when the Conservatives prevent social landlord from be able to raise the money to provide the social housing that we desperately need . we be make the change to get social housing where they fail miserably . Social Housing : right to buy what assessment she have make of the potential merit of allow local authority to end the right to buy in their area . the Government do not intend to abolish the right to buy , either nationally or by give local area discretion to do so . we want to ensure that council tenant who have live in and pay rent on their social home for many year can retain the opportunity to own their home . we be , however , progress fundamental reform of the scheme to well protect much - need social housing stock , boost council capacity and ensure that more social home be build than lose . my Somerset councillor colleague have for decade steadfastly protect and manage our stock of council house , which have decline through right to buy from ten of thousand a number of year ago to only 6 , 000 now . while I welcome the recent attention to this issue by the Deputy Prime Minister and the Minister , be it not time that community decide for themselves whether to sell off council house at all ? although I respect the hon . Gentleman and his view , we have a principled difference of opinion on this matter . as I have make clear , the Government ' s consider view be that long - stand council tenant should be able to buy the home that they have live in for many year . I hope , however , that the right - to - buy reform that we have make and announce today — reduce maximum cash discount , allow council to retain 100 % of receipt and exempt newly build social home from the right to buy for 35 year — will create a fair and more sustainable scheme . topical Questions if she will make a statement on her departmental responsibility . I be pleased that the English Devolution and Community Empowerment Bill have its First reading last Thursday . that landmark Bill will bring a radical reset to local government , deliver on our manifesto commitment to decentralise power , ignite regional growth with streamlined power for mayor , and speed up new home and infrastructure . it will empower community to take back control of their beloved pub and shop , help local leader to deliver a decade of national renewal , as promise in the plan for change . I and my liberal Democrat colleague welcome the provision in the English Devolution and Community Empowerment Bill , which recognise that first past the post be an unrepresentative electoral system . that be a welcome first step — although we would prefer alternative voting for mayoral election — but if the Government admit that first past the post be not suitable for mayoral election , why do they maintain that it be suitable for general election ? let I cover that point . mayor serve many million of people and manage multimillion - pound budget , yet can be elect by just a fraction of the vote under the previous Government ' s change — despite the fact that the supplementary vote system have work effectively for over a decade . give that the large population that mayor and police and crime commissioner represent far exceed those represent by parliamentarian , we think that this be the right approach . despite decade of hard work , not least by the Birnbeck Regeneration Trust , the restoration of Weston - super - Mare ' s nationally important Birnbeck pier be now at risk after the Royal National Lifeboat Institution pull out , leave a £ 5 million shortfall . will the Minister outline how the Government might support the project , and will he meet I urgently to discuss next step to restore that vital part of my town ' s soul ? I recognise the effort of the Birnbeck Regeneration Trust . my hon . friend be a doughty campaigner for his community . we announce support for 350 community at the spending review , and further detail will follow , but I would be delighted to meet he to speak about Birnbeck in particular . I call the shadow Secretary of State . the chair of the work group on anti - muslin hatred / Islamophobia , Dominic Grieve , who be appoint by the Secretary of State , have previously state a preference for a definition of Islamophobia that would shut down talk of religion in case like the grooming gang scandal . all other member of that committee — again , appoint by the Secretary of State — be adherent of the muslim faith . do the Secretary of State not share our concern that their report and recommendation will be see as predetermine and bias ? no , I do not . there be no blasphemy law in this country because the previous Labour Government get rid of it , whereas the conservative party have keep it on the statute book for year . we will always protect free speech , include the right to criticise religion . that kind of incendiary language be beneath the shadow Secretary of State . incendiary language ? I be merely state the fact ; that be the reality . the right hon . Lady be right in one regard : freedom of speech be on the line . the current position be that the report will be for Government eye only , and that the decision on a definition will be take in private . will she at least commit to make the full report publicly available so that it can be scrutinise in the House and elsewhere before a decision be take ? as set out in the term of reference , the independent working group will submit its finding to Ministers . we will then consider its recommendation and set out the next step . I urge member to let the independent group get on with its work . if the shadow Secretary of State have view , he should feed they in as part of the call for evidence . resident in part of East Cleveland be rightly sick of unscrupulous landlord dump individual with serious criminal history in our village . will the Department support my call for the council to introduce selective licensing in the area , and what further support can the Secretary of State offer to help we take back control of our village ? the Government support selective licensing as a tool to tackle the impact of poor housing management on local community . the general approval that we grant in December give council full power to introduce scheme , regardless of their size . my hon . friend ' s own authority will have hear loud and clear his call for it to consider do so . I call the liberal Democrat spokesperson . I refer the House to my entry in the register of interest . this weekend be a fantastic economic boost for many seaside town , but along with the visitor , town such as Poole and Bournemouth be blight with illegal parking on roundabout and across driveway and pavement . the Minister know exactly what I be about to say : with 1 , 700 ticket issue , with the most dangerous car tow away and with fine fix for 20 year , do he believe that it be reasonable that council tax payer should pick up the bill of up to £ 200 per tow - away car for an illegal driver ? it be incumbent on all of we to park with a degree of responsibility , particularly at peak time . I think parking - relate issue be the no . 1 feature of my mailbag . our consultation on private parking open last Friday . I be interested in work with the hon . Lady and all member to ensure that we get the balance right . many people , from the Women and Equalities Committee to the Miscarriage Association and Myleene Klass , have fight for miscarriage bereavement leave . similarly , can ' t buy my silence and my right hon . friend the Member for Sheffield Heeley ( Louise Haigh ) call for a ban on non - disclosure agreement . thank to the Deputy Prime Minister ' s cross - departmental role , these protection will be deliver by Labour . how and when will they come into force ? I be incredibly proud that the Government be introduce life - change measure that will make a real difference when people be at their most vulnerable . I personally thank my hon . friend for courageously tell her own story , and I thank my right hon . friend the Member for Sheffield Heeley ( Louise Haigh ) for her incredible and tenacious campaigning . their work will change the life of so many . we want to bring the benefit of these vital measure to people as soon as possible . we will be consult on they in the come month , prior to commencement . home ownership feel increasingly out of reach for many first - time buyer , particularly for young family who want to remain in the beautiful Scottish Borders . what can the Government do to ensure that house builder deliver more affordable family - sized home in all part of the United Kingdom so that local people have the chance to own their home in the community where they be bring up ? the hon . Gentleman will know that housing be a devolved matter . when it come to affordability , we be take step not only to boost housing supply significantly , as I have set out , but to ensure that more first - time buyer can get access , not least through the permanent mortgage guarantee scheme , on which the Chancellor will add more detail in her Mansion House speech this week . the late evidence show that the gap between average wage and rent in my constituency of Poole be one of the wide in the country . can the Minister explain how we will ensure that the new home that we build will be truly affordable and not subject to excessive rent increase ? my hon . friend will have note the £ 39 billion allocate at the spending review to our new 10 - year social and affordable home programme , which , as the Deputy Prime Minister have make clear , we think will deliver about 300 , 000 affordable home over its lifetime , with about 180 , 000 for social rent . he will also know that our Renters ' Rights Bill include provision that will empower tenant to challenge unreasonable rent increase . two major report — one from Shelter , which be come , and one last week from Heriot - Watt University — have expose something that I have observe myself in housing casework for many year , as a councillor and as an MP : people from some minority group , even beyond the structural racism in society , experience bad outcome and even direct discrimination from council in regard to their access to housing . will the Secretary of State commit to write a formal response to I on the recommendation in those report ? a " yes " will do . if the hon . Lady write to I about the issue , I will certainly respond to she . resident in Heather Gardens and Kett ' s Meadow in Hethersett have see a 60 % hike in fee from the residential management group , supposedly for playground that be fence off and just dust . what action will the Government be take to stop these rip - off practice and support my resident in South Norfolk ? my hon . friend raise a matter that I know be of concern to hon . member across the House . it be precisely to protect residential freeholder in Hethersett and other freehold estate across the country from unfair charge that we will consult in the near future on how we implement the consumer protection provision in the Leasehold and Freehold Reform Act 2024 relate to the payment of estate management charge . on that note , many of my constituent live on new freehold development such as Mortimer Park in Driffield would like to see resident be give the power to strip those unaccountable estate management firm of their responsibility for share space and let the local authority adopt that land . be it the Government ' s intention to legislate to make that possible ? the hon . Gentleman draw the House ' s attention to an important point about freehold estate , and I direct his attention to the report by the Competition and Markets Authority on the matter if he want to read far . there be a problem here : too many amenity and infrastructure be not be deliver to common adoptable standard , and therefore many local authority rightly say that they do not expect to pick up the tab for bring those amenity up to the relevant standard and then maintain they . we have get to tackle both issue as we look to end the prevalence of these freehold estate arrangement go forward . in Suffolk Coastal , the housing crisis be no less severe than in other rural area across the country , and my constituent be keen that future development build in for nature . will the Minister comment on what plan the Government have to ensure that we build in for nature , and specifically on the prospect of , and appetite for support for , swift brick ? although swift brick coverage be increase , we want to drive up swift brick installation . as I make clear on Report of the Planning and Infrastructure Bill , we be consider use a new sweep of national policy for decision making , to require swift brick to be incorporate into new building unless there be compelling reason that preclude their use or would make they ineffective . will the Minister outline what new planning power could be provide to local council to ensure that my local community in Broxbourne can say no to house in multiple occupation — HMOs — where they be not want ? the hon . Gentleman — who I have great affection for , as we go through our tenure — be a highly experienced former councillor , and he will know that local authority already have article 4 power . if he have evidence that those power be not prove effective , I would really like to have more information . in the light of the Government ' s determination to bring prosperity to coalfield community like Doncaster , do the Minister share my desire for the fast delivery of the Coalfields Regeneration Trust industrial project ? it be also important to transfer any potential fund directly to the CRT , so as not to delay any delivery with bureaucratic process and bidding . the Government be commit to invest in coalfield community , and I be pleased to meet my hon . friend and Mayor Ros Jones to talk about their exciting plan in Doncaster , which we be invest in . we be look very closely at what the Coalfields Regeneration Trust have send we ; the trust be , of course , a great legacy of the previous Labour Government , and we be commit to work with it . my constituent Ryan from Carpenders Park write I with concern about the lack of community space , especially alongside the Government ' s housing target . will the Minister reassure the House that the Government will ensure there be community space to support any new housing development ? I say two thing to the hon . gentleman . he will forgive I if he know this already , but we do strengthen the provision for infrastructure in our recent change to the national planning policy framework . beyond that , we want to strengthen the exist system for developer contribution — where infrastructure and affordable housing come through planning agreement — so that local authority can extract more public gain from that process . Cayton , a village in my constituency , could now become home to 2 , 500 new home through the Government ' s new home accelerator . to ensure the success of that project , it be essential that we deliver the appropriate infrastructure , such as GP service , proper drainage and road , all of which have not accompany previous development . what step be the Minister take to develop a coastal strategy to ensure that new development for coastal village like Cayton be deliver alongside infrastructure ? the Government take a similar interest in coastal community . as local Growth Minister , I work closely with coastal authority and have a significant eye on coastal community . we want to strengthen the system of developer contribution to make sure that the new development provide that infrastructure , with further detail to come . the change in the national planning policy framework , mention by the Minister for Housing and Planning , will support increase provision and modernisation of infrastructure . with regard to the south of Cayton , the new home accelerator be support the delivery of 2 , 500 home . hard - work trader at Stockton ' s historic Shambles shopping centre be shock to receive letter from Stockton ' s Labour council tell they that they be to be evict and invite they to a meeting with less than 24 hour ' notice . I have be along to meet they and they be devastate , fearful for their future and for their livelihood . do the Minister agree that council should be back small independent business , not make they homeless without alternative ? the hon . Gentleman will know that it be Labour council that be lead the charge at a local level to regenerate local community and invest in local business — the evidence be there . they be support by the plan for community and the community right to buy ; there be a real effort in this area . he do not give prior notice of his intention to raise the particular issue that he mention , but if he want to follow up in writing , we will certainly look into it . I call the Chair of the Housing , Communities and Local Government Committee . this afternoon , I visit Centrepoint , where I speak to young people live in self - contain flat and meet the staff who be work to support those young people . the Secretary of State will be aware that a coalition of 150 charity support young people be call for a specific youth - focus section in the end homelessness strategy ; estimate show that would save £ 8 . 5 billion a year . do the Minister agree that it be not only morally right but economically smart to have a youth - specific chapter in that new strategy ? I commend my hon . friend for her work on this really important agenda . I meet representative from the youth homelessness sector at a recent roundtable . we be determined to ensure that the concern and interest of young people experience homelessness be integrate into our report on end homelessness , and we be work with the sector to tackle the root cause of youth homelessness . Eastbourne ' s street be be blight by severely overgrow grass verge that attract litter , antisocial behaviour and crime . will the Minister join I in urge Conservative - run East Sussex county council to urgently get a grip on verge maintenance in Eastbourne in order to help make our grass great again ? the real issue for most council be that the Liberal Democrats do not make hay when the sun be shine in their coalition year . let nobody in local government forget that the seed of the erosion of local neighbourhood service start in those coalition year , when the Liberal Democrats more than ably abet the Conservative Government at the time . I call Perran Moon . Meur ra , Mr Speaker . Cornwall be desperate to access the high level of devolution , but because of our national minority status , Cornwall can not and will not join a mayoral combine authority . before this House be ask to vote on a devolution Bill that discriminate against the people of Cornwall , will the Secretary of State meet I and colleague to discuss a Cornwall - only devolution deal ? my hon . friend will know that , for the right reason , we have put a significant amount of energy and time into meet parliamentarian from across the House to discuss those local issue . absolutely , we will meet ; that will probably be the sixth meeting that we have have with cornish mps on this issue . we understand , respect and be invest in the cornish identity , but we also need to ensure that the devolution agenda move on at pace and that every part of England can realise its full potential . I be more than happy to meet on that basis . a new report by Crisis show that only 2 . 6 % of rental property in my area of Leicester South be affordable to those on local housing allowance . that be a real - term cut as rent soar , because the Government have freeze housing benefit until 2026 . will the Secretary of State explain how that freeze align with the Government ' s aim of reduce homelessness , and will the Government urgently review the cap so that people can afford to keep a roof over their head ? I refer the hon . gentleman to my early answer : this Government have invest nearly £ 1 billion to tackle homelessness and rough sleeping . as the Secretary of State have point out , we be deal with the root cause of homelessness . that mean invest billion of pound to ensure that some 300 , 000 social and affordable home be create over the decade , so that we can get people into the housing that be urgently need . last week , nearly 3 , 000 people across Stafford borough be tell at short notice that Homes Plus , one of our housing association , be effectively scrap the current housing waiting list . it also say that nearly 2 , 000 people no long have a housing need , but it have not explain how it have come to that conclusion . People be confused , angry and scared . do the Minister agree that this be unacceptable , and will he meet I to help I find a way forward for those who have be leave in limbo ? I will happily meet my hon . friend about that concern development . if she could write to I with the detail in advance , that would be extremely useful . it be my understanding that South Hams district council be in an arguably more sound fiscal position than the neighbour Plymouth city council . what can the Secretary of State say to reassure I that local government reorganisation will not mimic either a forced marriage or a bad marriage where the fiscally prudent one bail out the other ? we be now in a statutory process for local government reorganisation , and Devon will submit its final proposal to we by the end of November . we do not want to pre - empt those or say anything that will direct they , but I assure the hon . member that there will be a consultation on the proposal that meet the threshold , and we will hear from that what local people say . I know that reduce deprivation be a cause close to the heart of all Ministers . what view do they have on the extent to which high housing cost contribute to deprivation and should be take into account when we consider fund for our local council ? we be in the consultation period for the fair funding review 2 . 0 until 15 August . the issue of housing cost be take into account when we judge deprivation have be raise by member previously , but I encourage all member of the House and people beyond it to submit their response to the consultation . can the Deputy Prime Minister guarantee that no Muslim Brotherhood affiliate will participate in the consultation on the definition of Islamophobia ? we have the term of reference , and we have the consultation that be go on at the moment . I be not go to provide a running commentary on the work of the independent group . the Government have a non - engagement policy with the MCB , and that position have not change . City of York council be the lowest funded unitary authority , but under the fair funding review we do not fare any well . can the Minister extend the consultation guideline ? these be complex issue . will he meet our council to look at the impact of the review ? I thank my hon . friend for the work she have do to champion fair funding across local government , particularly for York . I absolutely understand the issue . the fair funding review be mean to do two thing . it take into account the need — the cost pressure drive local authority — set against the resource , which be how much local authority can raise in council tax at a local level . it be the Government ' s role to be the equaliser to ensure that every local authority can afford decent local service , but I absolutely take into account her representation . in reply to an early question , the Planning Minister say that he want to increase the number of people who engage in the preparation of local plan . he will know that even if that number be double , it would still be a small proportion of the local community . when application be be consider , local community want they to be decide and determine by local authority with minimal central input . will the Minister guarantee that local authority will continue to have that power ? under our proposal in the Planning and Infrastructure Bill for a national scheme of delegation , it will still be local planning authority that make recommendation and decision . as the hon . Gentleman will know if he look at the consultation , all we propose be a two - tier system in which a set of minor application go to expert local planning officer . a separate tier can go to a planning committee , where the chair of planning and the chief planning officer decide that that be the case . again , I encourage the hon . gentleman to respond to the consultation . we be see massive investment in the regeneration of Derby city centre , include the opening of a new entertainment venue and the reopening of our market hall , which be burst with small and independent business . Regeneration also mean ensure that our city feel safe , welcoming and inclusive . will the Minister tell we how the Department be work with the Home Office to ensure that our city and town be thrive and safe ? my hon . friend be tempt a Member of Parliament for Nottingham to say something nice about Derby , which be slightly challenging for my prospect when I go home on Thursday . I do recognise the characterisation of the exciting plan ahead for Derby , and I share exactly her point on police . we can have the most vibrant community possible , but people will not participate unless they feel safe . we be talk with the Home Office , and I would tell my hon . friend to watch this space . last week , Hurstpierpoint ' s former Methodist church receive permission to be convert into flat , despite the parish council register it as an asset of community value and express its sincere wish to purchase it . do the Minister think that the regulation for asset of community value be fit for purpose ? how can they be improve ? no , we do not think that the regulation be fit for purpose , which be why we be plan to amend they through the Bill that we publish last week . the " new life for city building " project in Truro be breathe new life into empty high street building and redevelop they . I would love for the Minister to be able to see this for himself , so will he consider come to Truro and attend our growth summit on 18 September ? I do not have my diary for 18 September in front of I , but I do owe my hon . friend a visit , and I will definitely make such a visit . state of Climate and Nature with permission , Mr Speaker , I would like to make a statement about the climate and nature crisis . on the day that the Met Office publish its " State of the UK Climate " report for 2024 , the Environment Secretary and I want to share with the british people what we know about the scale of the crisis and explain the action that we be take in response . we intend this to become an annual statement to Parliament . let I start by set out what we know from the science . accord to the World Meteorological Organisation , the past decade have see the 10 warm year on record globally . it say that long - term global warming , assess by a range of method , be estimate to be between 1 . 34 ° C and 1 . 41 ° C above pre - industrial level , and last year be the first time we see an individual year above 1 . 5 ° C . today ' s Met Office report show that , in line with what be happen globally , the UK ' s climate be get hotter and wetter , with more extreme event . the central England temperature series show that recent warmth have far exceed any temperature observe in at least 300 year . over the past 50 year , the number of day above 28 ° C have double , and the number of day above 30 ° C have treble . this spring be the UK ' s warm on record , beat the record break last year . meanwhile , warm ocean and melt ice sheet have contribute to sea level around the UK rise by 13 . 4 cm over the past three decade , and this be accelerate . the science be unequivocal about why this be happen . as the Met Office say this morning : " this … be not a natural variation in our climate … human emission of greenhouse gas be warm the atmosphere and change the weather we experience " . we know that climate change and nature loss be fundamentally link and contribute to each other . globally , we be lose specie at a much fast rate than at any other time in human history . here in Britain , a quarter of our mammal and nearly half of our bird specie be currently at risk of extinction , with bird such as starling , turtle dove and grey partridge under threat . the abundance of specie in England have fall by an estimate third since 1970 , and Britain have become one of the most nature - deplete country in the world . the impact of extreme weather and nature loss be not simply a future threat to our country ; they be already here and have impact on our way of life . we know that heavy rainfall make last year ' s harvest the second bad in at least four decade , cost farmer hundred of million of pound . accord to the Environment Agency , more than half of our good agricultural land and over 6 million property in England be already at risk of flooding . accord to the UK Health Security Agency , there be more than 10 , 000 excess death — 10 , 000 people lose their life — during english heatwave between 2020 and 2024 . as we know from recent event , rise temperature place pressure on every aspect of our national life . we have see this again over the past few day , with incident of wildfire from Surrey to Scotland , disruption due to train overheat , and hosepipe ban announce in Yorkshire , Kent and Sussex . the climate crisis be also a massive threat to our economy ; the Office for Budget Responsibility ' s " fiscal risk and sustainability " report , publish last week , say that the damage cause by climate impact in a near - 3 ° C world be forecast to cut our gdp by 8 % by the early 2070 . base on current gdp , that will be roughly £ 200 billion . these be uncomfortable , sober fact , and we should make no mistake : we must act on the climate and nature crisis to protect our british way of life , because no sector or part of our society be immune from those risk . unfortunately , all the evidence suggest that this be just the start of the threat we face . I want to acknowledge in particular the anxiety that many young people feel about these issue . my candid message to they be this : yes , there be real reason to worry about the world they will inherit , but we can do something about it . every fraction of a degree of warming that we prevent , and every step we take to preserve nature , help to limit the severity of impact and protect our country from irreparable harm . it be our generation today who have a unique opportunity to act , because unlike previous generation , we can see the evidence of the climate and nature crisis all around we , yet we still have time to limit the bad effect . the only answer be to reduce emission , protect and restore nature and adapt to the impact that be now inevitable . let I take those in turn . to those who doubt whether Britain can have any impact on the pathway of global emission , the lesson of history be that we can . before the Paris climate agreement be negotiate 10 year ago , the world be on course for 4 º C of global warming . now , national commitment imply 2 . 6 º C of global warming , or below 2 º c if country meet their full climate target . we remain way off track from where we need to be as a world , but we in this country have help make a difference across party . in 2008 , this House come together to pass the world ' s first Climate Change Act . that be under a Labour Government , support by Lord Cameron , the conservative party and party across the House . now , thank to the power of our example , nearly 60 country have similar legislation . in 2019 , under Baroness May , the UK become the first major economy to legislate for net zero by 2050 , support by the Labour party and party across this House . now , in part thank to the action at cop26 in Glasgow , include the leadership of Lord Sharma as COP president , some 80 % of global GDP be cover by net zero commitment . in 2021 , England become the first country to introduce a legal duty to halt specie decline by 2030 , lead by Boris Johnson and support by party across the House . now , 196 country be sign up to the global biodiversity framework to halt and reverse nature loss . the lesson be clear . the choice we make as a country influence the course of global action and , in do so , reduce the impact of the climate and nature crisis on future generation in Britain . to those who say that Britain can not make a difference , I say , " you be wrong . stop talk our country down . british leadership matter . " we also know that climate and nature action have huge potential upside , and not just for future generation . it have the potential for well life today in energy security , low bill , clean air , good job , well health and wellbeing , and improve access to nature . this government believe in stick to our tradition as a country of climate and nature leadership . indeed , turn away now , at this moment of all moment , when the threat and opportunity be clear than ever , would be the great dereliction of duty and betrayal of future generation . that be why one of the Government ' s five mission be to achieve clean power by 2030 and to accelerate to net zero across the economy . it be why at COP29 we announce a 1 . 5 º c - align target for 2035 , base on legislation pass under the last Conservative Government . it be why we be drive forward on our commitment to protect 30 % of our land and sea for nature and to halt specie loss by the end of the decade . it be why we make the most significant investment in clean energy , climate and nature in the UK ' s history at the spending review , which will drive job across the country . because the action we need be not just about Government , we be also determined to help community take climate and nature action in their own area , whether that be drive the expansion of local and community - own clean energy project through great British Energy or support mayor and local government to accelerate action . at COP30 and beyond , we be determined once again to use the power of our example to work with other to uphold the objective of the Paris agreement , include with ambitious climate target , action to accelerate the clean energy revolution and the protection of nature and forest . as I have say , action on emission be not enough on its own . we must also protect the british people from the impact that we already see , and sadly , the great impact that we be likely to see in the future . this work , lead by my right hon . friend the Environment Secretary , require action across society , from home and building to critical infrastructure and our natural environment . we be now deliver Britain ' s large ever flood defence programme , invest £ 7 . 9 billion over the next decade in flood barrier and nature - base solution such as wetland restoration . that come alongside pioneer local nature recovery strategy , with measure such as tree planting and peat restoration , which deliver adaptation and nature recovery together . in my Department , as we drive forward our plan to upgrade million of home , we have consult on expand the boiler upgrade scheme to include air - to - air heat pump , which can offer cooling as well as heating . however , I must be candid with the House : we know that this be just the beginning of the reckoning that we need on how our country need to adapt across all part of society in the year to come , and this Government be determined to put climate resilience at the heart of our decision - making . we have be at our good in the House when we have work across party on these issue . I want to thank the hon . member for South Cotswolds ( Dr Savage ) for introduce the Climate and Nature Bill , and my hon . friend the Members for Sheffield Hallam ( Olivia Blake ) and for Leeds Central and Headingley ( Alex Sobel ) for our discussion early this year in the run - up to that Bill , as well as the other co - sponsor , who highlight the need for today ' s statement . let I also take this opportunity to pay tribute to current and former member across the House for their tireless advocacy on climate and nature . the safety of our citizen , our natural world and the country that we pass on be not a labour cause , a conservative cause , or the cause of any other party ; it be a british cause , a cause of we all , and a cause that require all of we to consider our responsibility to the generation of today and the generation to come . I commend this statement to the House . it be a rare pleasure to see the Secretary of State at the Dispatch Box today , give that he turn down the opportunity to defend his plan for clean power by 2030 or the report from the National Energy System Operator that be publish early in the year . perhaps that be why we be be give a slightly long statement than usual , make up for miss opportunity . however , we welcome the Met Office ' s report , which make for interesting reading . I think we can all attest to the fact that Britain today be warm than it be before . we all agree that the challenge of the change climate be vast , and it be one of many challenge face the United Kingdom today , but I must tell the House and the right hon . Gentleman that ridiculous statement such as that make this morning by the Environment Secretary , label opponent of net zero " unpatriotic " , be as offensive as it be risible , and do nothing to advance the cause . I must also express my grow sense of unease , and that of many other , about the language emanating from those surround this Secretary of State , accuse anyone who dare to question the policy or plan be work on by his Department of be " denier " or be supportive of an " end to our british way of life " . we need to bring back a sense of rationality , or proportion , to this debate , because out there , language such as this be alienate more and more people from the important cause of ensure that the planet we pass on to our child and their child be in a well state than the one we have inherit . the Secretary of State call this " radical truth telling " , but I be afraid that he be not be honest with the british people about the impact of the Government ' s plan on the climate , bill and job , or about the sacrifice it demand . the Leader of the opposition have be very clear : chase " Net Zero by 2050 " be unachievable without make the country bad off . that be the truth . global warming be a global issue , which we can not face alone . the global climate challenge will not be solve by the UK alone , and it can not be solve on the back of british worker or british bill payer . order . we need to be careful about what we say . I think that the hon . Gentleman have suggest that the Secretary of State be not honest , and I think we be all honest member here . I completely agree , Mr Speaker , and I apologise if I insinuate the opposite in any way . the UK account for less than 1 % of global emission . that be also the truth . in fact , now that I come to think of it , it be rather shameful that the Secretary of State should be use this report from the Met Office as cover , while ratchet up the language and increase the shrill criticism of all who question the Department and its policy , all to distract from the fact that the plan mean that Britain will be poor and that no one look at how we be decarbonise could ever claim that this be a model to follow . we be proud to have be a world leader — will the hon . Gentleman give way ? member do not give way when make or respond to a statement . we be proud to have be a world leader , but it be not a race if no one else be run . if we be lead the way , we need to make sure that it be a path that other will follow . we must decarbonise in a way that create energy security and prosperity , rather than force industry abroad and impoverish british people . why be that so hard for the Labour party to understand ? we see in the Met Office ' s report that the demand for cooling have approximately double — a strong case for introduce more air conditioning into home , which would improve comfort and reduce the burden on the health system during heatwave . although I welcome the Secretary of State ' s commitment to expand the boiler upgrade scheme to include air - to - air heat pump , which , as he say , offer cooling as well as heating , may I urge he to speak to the Mayor of London and get the ridiculous restriction on air conditioning unit in newbuild in London remove ? we must move away from this poverty mindset on reduce energy usage . pay for solar panel to be switch off , while refuse to absorb the excess demand to cool home , be truly ridiculous . it be time to take the global scale and nature of this challenge seriously . offshore manufacturing , like ceramic , do not solve global warming , but it do make Britain poor and Brits unemployed . to build this Government ' s 1 . 5 million new home , we will use more brick that at any time since the second world war , but thank to this Government , few than ever before will be make here in Britain . while the Secretary of State admire the fast - pace build out of new renewable generation , new nuclear and low - carbon energy on an unseen scale on his recent visit to the People ' s Republic of China , perhaps he be able to reflect on the factor enable that : the opening of two new coal - fire power station every week , and the cost of industrial energy in China be less than a third of our domestic cost . we can not innovate , manufacture , and create growth and prosperity while our energy cost be kill manufacturing . I be afraid that this Government ' s plan will drive up the underlie cost of energy for industry , and Britain will pay the price . only a year ago , labour candidate be trot out line on how they would cut bill by £ 300 . since then , network charge , which account for 22 % of an energy bill , have rise by over £ 100 as a result of the rush to build out the grid for new renewable . Cornwall Insights , an independent energy analyst , have call for the Secretary of State to be " transparent about what the money be be spend on " . its principal consultant have urge the Secretary of State to be honest with the public about the impact of net zero policy cost on bill . of course , a clean , secure and reliable power source exist in the form of nuclear . we welcome the announcement of the commitment to Sizewell C and the small modular reactor programme , but the lack of ambition , the refusal to commit to a third gigawatt - scale reactor — preferably on Anglesey — the decision to decommission the UK ' s stockpile of plutonium , the selection of only one small modular reactor technology , and the refusal to repeat the 24 GW ambition that we set out for the nuclear industry be frustrating . we could do so much more . will the Secretary of State commit to protect Wylfa for a new gigawatt - scale reactor in the future ? it be indeed time for a policy of radical honesty . global warming be a global challenge , and I be afraid the Secretary of State ' s plan will have a negligible , or even negative , impact on global emission . sadly , he be drive by ideology , not by the practicality of face this challenge while grow the economy . we be tell the difficult truth ; the Government be run from reality . I will be honest , Mr Speaker : I just feel incredibly sad when I listen to the hon . gentleman — and not in a good way . the trouble be that we be now in a situation in which the shadow Secretary of State go into hiding when there be a statement about the climate crisis , because it be just too embarrassing to try to articulate the opposition ' s position . the central chasm at the heart of the hon . Gentleman ' s response be that he and his colleague have take the decision to abandon 20 year of bipartisanship on climate . Theresa May ' s promise to deliver net zero by 2050 be one of the great stride forward , but he be now trash that and say it be a disaster . let we be honest : it be grossly irresponsible . we be expect to believe that the Conservatives oppose net zero because they know , 25 year in advance of the target , that it can not be achieve , but they can not possibly know that . indeed , the Climate Change Committee say exactly the opposite in its late report . the hon . Gentleman say he be worried about cost , but all the evidence suggest that delay action cost more , not less . the CCC say net zero will cut energy bill and the cost of motoring . we do not even know whether the Conservatives want a net zero target at all , or no net zero target ever . the hon . Gentleman say something the other week — I read his interview with care in my spare time — about reach net zero by 2050 not be base on the science , but he be absolutely wrong . the Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change say : " in model pathway with no or limited overshoot of 1 . 5 ° C , global net anthropogenic co2 emission decline by about 45 % from 2010 level by 2030 … reach net zero around 2050 " . the point be that net zero be a target that Theresa May adopt , drive by the science . what be the Conservatives ? they be anti - science , anti - job , anti - energy security , and anti - future generation . I have to say that I can not put it well than Theresa May — [ interruption . ] the hon . member for West Suffolk ( Nick Timothy ) should be quiet , because he use to work for she . this be what Theresa May , the conservative Prime Minister just five or so year ago , have say : " those of we who advocate accelerate our progress towards net zero emission be label fanatic and zealot . ironically , the name - call often emanate from ideologue at the political extreme or from populist who offer only easy answer to complex question . " I could not put it well myself . I call the Chair of the Energy Security and Net Zero Committee . Select Committees look at the evidence , follow the evidence and make recommendation on the basis of the evidence . today , we have hear from the Secretary of State the evidence from the Met Office about the seriousness of the threat , the reality of the nature of the crisis and the fact that that will only grow . the shadow Minister miss something because he need to acknowledge not just the cost of take action but the cost of not do so . the Secretary of State read out those cost : £ 200 billion or 8 % of gdp if we get 3 ° of warm , accord to the OBR . those oppose climate action in this place can also see the evidence that cheap driving and home heating be already available to many people , and we should be make they available to as many people as possible . they also know that switch to low - carbon electricity as much and as fast as we can will make this country safe by get control of our energy generation and supply . do the Secretary of State agree that the patriotic approach be to work together to cut emission for financial , security , nature and climate reason ? my hon . friend put it very well . as I have experience over the last 20 year , we have not have a culture war on climate , because the Conservative party and the Labour party choose to say that this really matter . the conservative party have apparently abandon its belief in climate action at precisely the time , as the CCC have show — in carbon budget 7 , for example — that this be the way to reduce cost for people . I would make another point . I notice there be young people watch in the Public Gallery and elsewhere . what message do we send to they by say , " look , we just can ' t act on this " ? it be such a betrayal of future generation , who have genuine anxiety about what world they be go to inherit from we . I call the liberal Democrat spokesperson . I thank both the Energy Secretary and the Environment Secretary for today ' s momentous statement , which I trust will be the first of many annual climate and nature statement . I also thank they for recognise the role of Zero Hour and the campaigner behind the Climate and Nature Bill — the private Member ' s Bill that I be proud to have bring to this House , with cross - party support . I warmly welcome the move to more join - up thinking between the Department for Energy Security and Net Zero and the Department for Environment , Food and Rural Affairs , and applaud the willingness of the Government to work across the House , even if that willingness be not always reciprocate . however , this statement have miss a trick . the Secretary of State promise collaboration with campaigner , non - governmental organisation and community . in reality , engagement so far have be very limited . if stakeholder have be involve , he might have acknowledge call from the Wildlife Trusts and the Royal Society for the Protection of Birds to remove the threat to nature protection in the Planning and Infrastructure Bill , or the Nature Friendly Farming Network ' s concern over the suspension of the sustainable farming incentive . he tell the Environmental Audit Committee that this would be a " public participation issue " , yet there be no consultation of the Climate and Nature Bill campaigner ahead of this statement . if we want to bring community with we , we have to include they and listen to they . People across the country be already drive change in their community , school , farm and business , and to build a well , green future , the Government should be tap into that great british human energy — to coin a phrase . the Liberal Democrats be proud to be do exactly that , with policy such as an emergency home insulation programme , solar panel on every new build , investment in cheap renewable energy , support for community energy , local nature recovery strategy and an extra £ 1 billion for nature - friendly farming . People need hope and a role in shape the solution . despair be not a strategy and action be not optional . it be essential and urgent to protect our health , our economy and our national security . so I ask again : when will the Secretary of State meet I , my fellow Liberal Democrats , Zero Hour and the environmental non - governmental organisation to create an annual climate and nature Bill that be bold and ambitious , bring transparency and hope , and show that the Government be genuinely bridge the gap between policy and delivery ? let I start off in the spirit of continue generosity by reiterate my praise for the hon . Lady for bring forward the Bill , and for the Zero Hour campaigner whom I meet in a previous incarnation of mine . their role over a long period , in push forward the Bill , have be important . I be very happy to meet she and the campaigner . this will be a continue process , as I discuss with she , and I be happy to take forward those discussion . let I address the substantive point the hon . Lady make about climate and nature , because it be important . what the Government be strive to do be build the low - carbon energy infrastructure that we need in a way that be nature - positive . for example , the nature recovery fund that we be put in place be absolutely about do that . some people do not agree with that approach , but we be try to do two thing : build the clean energy infrastructure require to get we off fossil fuel , which I know she want to see ; and at the same time , protect and restore nature . I be convinced that we can do that . the point that I will end on be this . I just urge the hon . Lady to think . if we be to fulfil our net zero ambition — these be stretch target — we have to build the infrastructure . I say to all Members that the easy thing be to say no , but the right thing to do be very often to say yes to the energy infrastructure we need . I welcome the statement , in particular the importance and emphasis that my right hon . friend place on how climate change and nature loss be fundamentally link and contribute to each other . I also remind the House that after the national health service , the thing that this country love the most be its natural environment . understand the vital role that nature itself play in tackle climate change will be vital in the year ahead . I refer in particular to the importance of saltmarsh . I talk quite often with my hon . friend the Member for Na h - Eileanan an Iar ( Torcuil Crichton ) about the importance of peatland , but saltmarsh be also vital as a valuable habitat . will my right hon . friend confirm that in the light of what he have be talk about today , we will have a properly integrate spatial energy plan , national planning policy framework and land use framework , so that such climate - valuable habitat be properly protect ? my hon . friend speak with great authority and conviction on these subject , and she be absolutely right about the role of nature . I add — and I will come on to her question in a second — that the big threat to nature that we face be the climate crisis . the figure I read out from scientific authority show the scale of the threat that be already there to our countryside . as I say in my statement , the threat will only get bad . on the land use framework , we be currently consult and will come up with a final document later on this year . she make a crucial point about the need for co - ordination between the land use framework and the strategic spatial energy plan , which together mean that we use our land in a sensible way and that we build the energy infrastructure we need . I agree with the Secretary of state that it be very important that other country follow our example . of the five country that be the bad emitter of greenhouse gas , emit over 50 % in total — the USA , Russia , Brazil , India and of course China — can he tell we how many have adopt similar legislation ? what hope do he have that those five in particular will follow our example ? the right hon . Gentleman ask a good question . let I give he three example from those five . India have a target of 500 GW of renewable capacity by 2030 , and a target of reach net zero by 2070 . China have nearly half the world ' s renewable capacity , be commit to peak its emission by 2030 , and have a target to reach net zero by 2060 , but of course I want it to do more . Brazil have set out an ambitious nationally determine contribution . I think I be right in say that as of March 2025 , fossil fuel account for less than 50 % of electricity generation in the US . he be right to ask this question . not every country be go at the same pace , and there be country that be more sceptical , but there have be a decisive shift across the world on this matter ; when I be Climate Change Secretary from 2008 to 2010 , net zero be not even talk about . there have be a transformation in the extent to which country be take it seriously . rise — I really want to get everybody in — I be sure the Secretary of State want that — so I need a lot of help from those on the Front Bench to speed thing up . a good example will be set by Toby Perkins , the Chair of the Environmental Audit Committee . I share the Secretary of State ' s despair at the fact that the consensus on these matter appear to be dissipate . do he agree that this be incredibly damaging for investment in the sector ? investor really need to see that whoever be in government , and whatever happen in election , they have a Government who be committed to this agenda . do he agree that it be completely wrong to say that Britain be the only country take this issue seriously ? in fact , China be absolutely lead the way in invest in the necessary technology . we need to catch up and ensure that everyone know that Britain be open for business in this sector . my hon . friend , who speak with such expertise on these matter , be 100 % right . the big enemy of investment be uncertainty . that be why I appeal to all party to stick to what we have legislate for in this country , in order to give that certainty . I rise not to call the Secretary of State an eco - warrior , as member of this House be so keen on do from time to time ; in fact , I agree with he on the scale of the climate and nature emergency . I do not want to spoil the cross - party support here , but the fact be that when the Labour party be in opposition , it promise an investment of £ 28 billion in the just and green transition . will he apologise to the people of Scotland — no , to the voter in Scotland — for renege on that promise ? what I will say to the people of Scotland be that the Acorn carbon capture and storage project have be talk about for year , and it be happen because of a Labour Government . we have a publicly own energy company , great British Energy , and we have our clean industry bonus . this be a Government who be actually deliver for the people of Scotland , and those across the UK . I welcome the Secretary of State ' s statement , not least because I call for such a measure before I be elect to this House , under the previous Conservative Government . this be a really important thing to do , not least because it underscore the Government ' s approach to clean energy , and to wide climate action to tackle and mitigate the many climate impact that we already see ; we have just have three heatwave . this action will also lower bill , strengthen our economy and , in a patriotic way , ensure our national security . do he , like I , lament the loss of the cross - party consensus that he mention ? the leader of the Conservatives say that net zero be impossible , and the deputy leader of Reform say that climate science be garbage . one deny urgency , while the other deny reality , and both deny the evidence from the Met Office and climate scientist — and , indeed , the experience of their constituent . do the Secretary of State agree that when young people and future generation ask who stand in the way of their precious inheritance of clean air and local green space , it will be the Conservatives and Reform — order . please ! I need member to help I get colleague in . all colleague from all side of the House want to get in on this statement . without your help , that will not happen . that bit be great , though . my hon . friend be so right : that be not where the british people be on this issue . the british people want action on climate , not a culture war . frankly , wherever they live in the country , people want to pass on a liveable country to their kid and grandkid . those of we who advocate for the North sea oil and gas sector be not climate change denier . we be realist who understand that we will need oil and gas for year to come ; that we would be replace our domestic supply with import that have four time the carbon intensity ; that China emit in 10 day what we emit in a year ; and that we will not transition to clean energy if we make ourselves poor . I recognise what today ' s report say , but do the Secretary of State accept that increase our use of import gas will only make we more carbon intensive in the future ? we have to get our use of import gas down , and that be why we have to build clean energy infrastructure . this be what the Conservatives just do not seem to understand . if they go around the country oppose our clean energy infrastructure , it keep we stick on fossil fuel for long — and look where that take we : to the bad cost of live crisis in generation . the Secretary of State will know that my constituent know more than most what it mean to host clean energy infrastructure . however , the failure of the cross - party consensus be give rise to quite a lot of concern in my area , where we face job loss at Prax Lindsey oil refinery . can the Secretary of State reassure the hundred of worker who face a very uncertain time that this be the result not of a move towards clean energy , but of mismanagement by the company ' s owner ? my hon . friend speak about an important issue , and I be deeply concerned for those worker and their family . there be serious question to answer about the running of that company , and how it end up in this state . on the day that the insolvency happen , I write to the Insolvency Service to ask it to look into this matter , because those worker have be badly let down by the company . nobody know well than farmer the reality of climate change and the importance of tackle it immediately , so it be bizarre that their expertise be be ignore . we should stand with they . extreme weather condition be a threat to animal welfare , agricultural productivity and farming business survival . we desperately need a food security strategy . already , we produce only 55 % of the food that we eat in this country . how will the Secretary of State help our farmer to be resilient against the twin threat of drought and flooding ? the hon . Gentleman speak with great expertise on these matter , partly because of his constituency . he be right about the threat to farmer ’ livelihood from the climate crisis , which I talk about in my statement , and the need for food security , which my right hon . friend the Environment Secretary take incredibly seriously . indeed , the land use framework be partly about make sure that we have the land we need for our food security . I thank my right hon . friend for this statement ; I have wait 14 year for it , and I look forward to such a statement be give to the House in each of the next 14 year . one of the key driver of climate change be deforestation . one of the key driver of deforestation be cattle ranch and soy production . one of the key driver of cattle ranch and soy production be City of London finance , which be use to bankroll what be happen . what restriction can he place on the financial giant of the City to make sure that we stop this at source ? my hon . friend raise an important issue about the role of the City of London . there be also its potentially positive role . we be consult on a mandatory transition plan for large company and financial institution , include in the City of London , precisely so that we can make sure that investment go to the right place . I welcome the Secretary of State ' s statement , include what he say about the importance of Britain show leadership and rebuild cross - party consensus . even if we have not quite get cross - party consensus on the need for a transition to a green economy , do he agree that the fact that we have see hundred of death in London alone in the second heatwave of the year , that our farmer be face the dry start to a year in my lifetime , and that people around the country have suffer from flood in recent year mean that our need for resilience in the face of a change climate can not be a political football ? if so , would he support a sixth government mission — a mission to protect the british public from change in the climate ? on that last bit , that be very much part of our mission to tackle net zero . the first part of the hon . member ' s question be very important . we hear what some folk say in the House , but we see what be happen all around we . it be not like we be gaze into a crystal ball , because some boffin have tell we that something bad might happen in the future . this be happen now . if anyone have say 15 year ago that we would have wildfire in Surrey and in Scotland , people would have say , " you ' re mad . there ' s no way that ' s go to happen . we ' re not go to have wildfire in Britain . " the hon . Member speak well about something very important . we need to look with our own eye at what be happen . I very much welcome the Energy Secretary ' s statement . adequate electric vehicle charge infrastructure , depot charging and onshore power for shipping be all critical to the Government ' s net zero challenge , and business and provider across the transport sector who be make investment decision need a route map . what step be he take to prioritise grid connection ? will he commit to reform the grid queue system , so that project that be essential to decarbonise our transport sector be bring forward more quickly ? my hon . friend speak about an important subject . we be deal with the grid zombie and the zombie queue . the reordering of the queue be design to open it up to project like those she talk about . the energy Minister — the Under - Secretary of State for Energy Security and Net Zero , my hon . friend the Member for Rutherglen ( Michael Shanks ) — be have a series of roundtable with the Department for Transport on precisely that . the Secretary of State have say that he want to tell some hard truth , so can he tell the House directly — without spin and waffle , and without dodge the question — how much in cash term it would cost the UK to get to net zero , who would pay the cost , and how much the UK get to net zero would reduce global temperature by ? all those detail be set out in the Climate Change Committee report . the right hon . member can look for herself . [ interruption . ] they be set out in carbon budget 7 . actually , the cost of get to net zero have be come down . when I set the 80 % target , the cost of get there , accord to the committee , be high than the cost now of get to net zero . I make the point gently that the cost of inaction be much great than the cost of action . I commend the Secretary of State for his statement . I share his view that we have a responsibility to generation to come , and my constituent want to be part of a just transition . be he commit to a just transition that protect job and prevent decarbonisation through de - industrialisation ? my hon . friend be absolutely right . as we take this journey , we must ensure that we do everything we can to protect exist industry and worker and give they a smooth transition . we do that by ensure that we have lever that the Government can use , such as Great British Energy , the national wealth fund and our clean industry bonus , to intervene and create the job of the future . to give the example of the North sea , 70 , 000 job have be lose there in less than a decade because it be a decline basin . the answer must be to create the job of the future , and that be what the Government be determined to do . the impact of climate change be be feel today in my constituency . at Pegtop farm , there be a race to bring in the harvest after such a dry , hot spring , and yield be expect to be less than half of what they would normally be . on 23 and 24 September last year , we have extensive surface flooding , which flood many home . what share of the flood defence budget will deal with surface flooding , rather than river flooding ? how would the Secretary of State characterise the relevant responsibility of national and local government , developer , water company , insurer and householder ? the hon . Member ask a complex question , so I might volunteer my right hon . friend the Secretary of State to write to he on that , so that we get it right . I know — because he be whisper the answer to I — that he take this seriously . I thank the Secretary of State not just for his statement today , but for his continued commitment to tackle the climate and nature crisis face we . he say that this be something we must all tackle together , and there be huge part of our community , the faith community , that want to do exactly that . while we welcome great British Energy ' s roll - out of solar panel on hospital and on school , can he outline any support that be available for religious building that want to do the same ? follow the successful roll - out to school and hospital , we have have a lot of request to expand the scheme and I be very enthusiastic about do so . it be something we be look at . I be as passionate as the Secretary of State about achieve net zero across the world and about the decline in specie in our natural environment , but that can not be the only thing we worry about . I do not know whether he have have time to read the " fiscal risk and sustainability " report produce last week , but it show that the cost to the public Exchequer of achieve net zero will be 21 % of gdp . we know that an argument be go on inside the Government and inside the Labour party about this very issue . this be a question of balance the risk , because if the Government run out of money because they be overspend , there will not be any money to spend on reverse climate change . I have read the report , and the bit that the hon . Gentleman do not mention be where it say that if we end up in a 3 ° c world , we will add 56 % of gdp to net debt . that be the cost of inaction . this be the point . Nick Stern — Lord Stern — produce a report in the 2000 which say that the cost of inaction be great than the cost of action . this Office for Budget Responsibility fiscal risk report set out very clearly that we will lose 8 % of our gdp by 2070 if we do not act . of course there be a cost to act , and the report set out different scenario for public and private investment , but the evidence in that report could not be clear about the cost of inaction , and they be far great than the cost of action . I be privileged to host a net zero roundtable in my constituency involve many people from a wide variety of background , who be all appal to see net zero become a political football and part of an ongoing culture war on the right . will the Secretary of State join I in recognise the important work of organisation such as Humshaugh Net Zero and the North Tyne climate action group in bring together widespread support for net zero , bring it into our community and embed it across the body politic ? my hon . friend be a great champion for Hexham and it be with great pleasure that I recognise the role of those group . he and I have talk on a number of occasion about the importance of climate action to so many of his constituent , and I look forward to work with he on these issue in the month ahead . last week , 20 of my constituent from the Climate Coalition , the Mothers ' Climate Action Network , our Grandchildren ' s Climate , the Hampstead Neighbourhood Forum and the Camden Fixing Factory come to see I . they be very clear that COP30 will be a pivotal moment to restore momentum on tackle climate change and to tackle the misinformation that be on the rise not just online but in mainstream political party . can I ask the Secretary of State what leadership the UK will be show at COP30 to ensure that we tackle this misinformation ? more importantly , what be he do to ensure that powerful international partner who may not be on the same page as we when it come to climate change be come along with we on this journey , because it be only collective action that will solve this serious crisis ? my hon . friend speak with great expertise and passion on these issue , and she be absolutely right . this be about what we do to engage with other country . we have an environment dialogue with the Chinese Minister a couple of week ago in London . I engage with China , India and Brazil , all of which be absolutely key ; Brazil be obviously the host of COP30 . she be right to say that COP30 will be a crucial moment when we will show that we be continue to take action , and that be what we be determined to do . as a sponsor of the Climate and Nature Bill , I welcome the Secretary of State ' s statement this afternoon . he be right to highlight that this be a national crisis , and many of we across the House be right to point out that it can not be ignore and that inaction have too great a cost , but he will be aware that the cost be politicise this issue for many people in this country . legislation be before the House regard where and how pension fund be invest . can he assure the House that he be talk to Treasury and local government minister to ensure that the maximum amount from those pension fund — particularly , but not exclusively , the local government pension fund — can be invest in green energy project ? that will widen the investment base and therefore hopefully reduce cost , depoliticise the issue and result in the greening of our energy generation that we all want to see . I warmly thank the hon . gentleman for his contribution and his sponsorship of the Climate and Nature Bill . he be the voice of good sense — I hope that be not the kiss of death — on the Conservative Benches . he raise an important issue about pension and pension investment , and it be one that I will take up . rise — Order . I want to get all member in , so can we please have short question and answer ? I welcome the Secretary of State ' s statement and the fact that my local hospital will have solar panel on it thank to this Labour Government , save thousand of pound that can go directly back into frontline service . what more can he do to ensure that public building like hospital and prison have solar panel fit so that we can lower cost and contribute to our climate goal ? my hon . friend be completely right , and it be a scheme that we want to expand . it have be incredibly successful , and it be a no - brainer — use the natural resource of the sun to cut energy bill and release money for frontline service . the statement from the Energy Secretary sound like a desperate attempt to save his own job , but he be right that the british people need protect : they need protect from the Energy Secretary , because business that I visit say every single week that his madcap idea be kill growth , business and job . but I be willing to give he the benefit of the doubt if he can answer one simple question , which he have already refuse to answer : by how much would the Earth ' s temperature be reduce if the UK become net zero tomorrow ? the answer , which the hon . Member just do not want to accept , be this — [ interruption . ] if he just listen , the answer be this : I believe in british leadership and in Britain ' s ability to make a difference . the truth be , as I say in my statement , that when we pass the Climate Change Act 2008 , 60 country follow . when we legislate for net zero , many other country follow . he talk Britain down ; I believe in Britain . thank God there be somebody in this Chamber try to actually save the planet ! net zero make good common sense for lot of our constituent when they recognise that this be not just about climate security — those of we who have face flood in our constituency know how expensive that be — but about national security and the cost of living . move towards sustainable electricity would put both Rosebank and Putin out of business , but the Secretary of State will know that , on current plan , bill payer will be waste £ 8 billion a year switch off wind farm by 2030 if we do not take action . how can we stop this transfer of wealth from citizen to corporation , so that we can invest in community energy ? my hon . friend be absolutely right . the infrastructure we inherit be in a shocking state , and there be a failure to build grid infrastructure . the good thing we can do be accelerate build that grid infrastructure . if we can do that , we can reduce those constraint payment , and I look forward to support from all part of the House on this . the Secretary of State rightly say that british leadership matter and that the choice we make as a country will have an impact on future generation . I do not doubt his personal commitment to tackle climate change and deliver net zero , but be he sure that all his Cabinet colleague be on the same page as he , not least the Chancellor of the Exchequer give she unwavering commitment to expand not just Heathrow , but Gatwick , Luton , City and Stansted , despite the advice and concern of the Climate Change Committee ? yes . I can tell the hon . member that we have never have a Chancellor of the Exchequer so commit to these issue because we have the big investment in clean , home - grow energy in our history in the recent spending review . Welwyn Hatfield stand to be a big beneficiary of the social housing warm home plan . it win a grant of £ 6 million , mean that hundred of home will be upgrade and retrofit , which will see bill and emission come down . our colleague from Reform have a flair for language , and they talk about " net stupid zero " . I be interested to know what language my right hon . friend would use to describe a party that oppose a policy that will cut emission and bill for people live in council home in my community . we be just advocate common sense . why not use our natural resource to have warm home and cut emission ? I think that Reform member be the extremist , frankly . the real driver of this statement be the fact that the Secretary of State be lose the argument with his colleague , who be now challenge the impact of his policy on economic growth . he be try to cover up the cost , which the OBR reveal last week will be £ 30 billion per year and £ 800 billion over the period . business be struggle with power bill that be bankrupt they , and consumer be resist the net zero demand to fly less , eat less meat and buy car that they do not want . do he not see a connection between what he say about young people ' s anxiety and his disgraceful scare tactic today , all of which be to enable he to say that Britain be take the lead ? all I say to he be this : since the Paris agreement , emission have go up by 30 % , so he might be lead , but he do not have too many follower . the right hon . Gentleman and I have be argue about these issue for about 20 year , so I think that I be unlikely to persuade he . we usually have good - natured discussion about this , but on the idea that this be scaremongere , we can see with our own eye what be happen , as the hon . member for Waveney Valley ( Adrian Ramsay ) say early . what the right hon . Gentleman be advocate would be a total betrayal not just of future generation but of today ' s generation . the Secretary of State have be a global leader in this space for 20 year . we all know about the Climate Change Act 2008 , but without his singular intervention at COP15 in Copenhagen , the world would not have agree and would be on a bad climate trajectory today — the whole House need to hear that . we now need significant afforestation and the repair of the world ' s ecosystem — be they peat bog , permafrost or seagrass — so what plan do he have to lead in that space at COP30 in Bel é m ? my hon . friend be very kind . to be frank with he , when I meet a group of young people early today , I feel a sense of responsibility , because no country be yet do enough on these issue and we need to do more . they be fearful about the world that they will inherit and look to the Government to show leadership . the issue that he mention be important , and we will ensure that we make it part of our agenda at COP30 . Hosepipe ban rightly anger my constituent . the ban frustrate they and I because they speak to decade of failure to put in place provision to prepare so that the change climate be liveable for our child . how can people be expect to support large - scale house building , which those same child will need , when water company fail to fix leak , pollute our river and too often fail even to provide clean drinking water ? the hon . Lady raise an important issue . my right hon . friend the Secretary of State for Environment , Food and Rural Affairs have commission a review of the whole system of regulation of the water company . I think I be right in say that a new reservoir have not be build in Britain for 30 year , but we have plan for nine new reservoir as part of our action to address the issue the hon . Lady raise . I have the real pleasure of visit York Road nursery school in my constituency this morning to celebrate its securing Eco - Schools green flag status — with distinction no less . as well as be a sobering reminder of my inability to hold the attention of four - year - old for very long , it be a powerful reminder that future generation will bear the brunt of our failure to take this crisis seriously . the truth be that we do not have to look to the future to see the cost — my local farmer be beset by flooding , for example . we in Hitchin be already feel the pain of the failure to take climate change and the nature crisis seriously and to tackle they head - on . what assurance can the Secretary of State give my constituent that we will not shy away from tackle climate change at source , and that we will invest in mitigation scheme to tackle the issue that we be already face right across our town and village ? I congratulate my hon . friend ' s school on what it be do and on its green flag status , which be really important . it show that local action can really make a difference . globally , I can give he the assurance that he seek . what be so important — I say this to member across the House — be that people look to Britain and say , " be you go to lead ? be you go to show the power of example ? " that be what we have do over 20 year , under government of both party , and we need to keep do it . I call Llinos Medi . Diolch , Madam Ddirprwy Lefarydd . climate change be a huge threat to food security . in 2018 , loss in the Welsh livestock sector due to extreme weather reach £ 175 million , which be equivalent to 9 % of the total Welsh agricultural output . farmer need support to protect their livestock and crop . will the Secretary of State listen to the concern of the farming union about the removal of the ringfence for Welsh agricultural funding ? it could mean less money for climate adaptation , at a time when they be most need to safeguard food security . the hon . Lady raise an issue that I believe be essentially about devolve funding , but the wide issue she raise about the cost face farmer be so important . we be not talk about theoretical event or theoretical future cost ; they be happen now . farmer be face those cost , and the hon . Lady be right to draw attention to that . when I speak to young people in Kettering , and in fact when I have conversation with my friend , they tell I that they be worried about the future of the world that we have inherit . with that in mind , the climate delay rhetoric come from the Tories and Reform be both deeply irresponsible and really disappointing . can the Secretary of State outline that only if we work with urgency to take action will my constituent see the restoration of our natural world — a world that we can pass on to the next generation ? my hon . friend put it incredibly well . this be an obligation that we owe to young people . we hold the planet in trust for future generation . the young people of today speak for themselves , but they also speak for future generation . frankly , we owe it to they to act when the evidence be before our eye . the Met Office report and the Climate Change Committee have make it clear that we be unprepared for climate change , with progress on food security and nature restoration either insufficient or limited . the Lang partnership in Curry Rivel have proudly champion regenerative farming and nature - friendly farming method for more than 30 year . what discussion have the Secretary of State have with his colleague in DEFRA to ensure that farmer like the Langs can farm productively and sustainably and be resilient to climate crisis ? I congratulate the hon . Lady ' s constituent on what they be do to find regenerative way of farming . my right hon . friend the Environment Secretary take the matter incredibly seriously , and we have structure in place that can help to incentivise that , but I think he would say that of course we need to do more on these issue . the hon . Lady have put it very eloquently . I thank my right hon . friend for make such a pertinent statement when the planet be in such a critical condition . I also thank he for his domestic and global leadership . the BioYorkshire project will create 4 , 000 job , help we to see a green transition but also ensure that we have future agriculture at the high level of science . will my right hon . friend ensure that this Government , unlike the last , fund that sufficiently so that we can see a real transition in farming and in other area of climate - mitigate science ? I congratulate my hon . friend on raise what sound like an incredibly exciting project . on all side of the House — well , on a number of side of the House — we can hear fantastic example of what local people be do . in a sense , that should be our inspiration . government be try to do its bit , but local people in community across Britain be do theirs as well . tackle climate change be a top topic among child and young people when I visit school and college across Telford . switch to renewable be a top topic among employer ; it will help to reduce the cost of their energy supply . renewable company tell I about the fantastic , well - pay job that be available . climate security , environment security and energy security be national security . do my right hon . friend know a single reason why this be not a key mission to rebuild Britain and protect our planet for generation to come ? my hon . friend be right , and the emphasis that he place on national security be important . our exposure to fossil fuel market , control by petrostate and dictator , leave we expose , and that be what the previous Government do . this be an energy security issue and a national security issue , and that be why we need clean , home - grow power . as the Secretary of State outline , the climate crisis be also a nature crisis , especially in nature - deplete city such as London . in recognition of that , eale ' s Labour council have imaginative plan for a new regional park from Horsenden hill in the north , to Warren farm in my constituency , create new habitat , wetland , and rewilde area . do the Secretary of State agree that this Government ' s new nature recovery fund could help to support initiative such as Ealing ' s regional park , and that in contrast to the piecemeal approach of the previous Government , the fund will allow a more strategic and effective approach to restore our natural environment ? my hon . friend be right , and if we think about the recent hot weather , access to green space be a massive issue . it be also a massive issue of inequality , because in certain part of the country people have such access , and in certain part they do not , so the project that my hon . friend talk about sound incredibly important . I thank my right hon . friend for place this issue on the agenda . nothing could be more existential or vital than tackle our climate and nature crisis , because we live within the natural system , not outside it . we and nature be in this together , and nothing could be more important , or well for build the foundation of how we shape our community and economy into the future . industry understand that , and I have have the chance to convene industry and bring forward idea such as the diversification of technology , which we support , and the build - up of strategic national clean energy reserve . would the Secretary of State meet I to discuss those idea that be come from industry ? we definitely look forward to discuss those idea , and my hon . friend be right about the interlock nature of the climate and nature crisis , and climate and nature solution . those thing go together . there be big economic opportunity , and my hon . friend be a great champion of they . do the Secretary of State agree that rural and coastal community be on the frontline of the climate and nature crisis , and that investment in clean energy , nature recovery , and resilient infrastructure be essential not only for protect area such as South East Cornwall , but also for unlock new job , strengthen my local economy , and ensure our future national security ? my hon . friend be a fantastic champion of these issue in her previous incarnation , as she be in her current incarnation . I know her constituency , and I could not agree more with the work she be do . Rugby borough council and Warwickshire Wildlife Trust be host a " nature in Focus " event this Sunday , and partner together to buy tree for farmer to plant . in December 2024 , my right hon . friend join I to visit the Urban & Civic - lead Houlton development , where we see Francis Jackson Homes fitting air - source heat pump to its new build home . we talk of our hope to go far , so do my right hon . friend agree that through the future home standard , which ensure that the vast majority of new build will have solar panel , we be show that a Labour Government and Labour - lead council believe in the concept of government and take responsibility , and that we can change thing for the well for future generation ? I wish my hon . friend luck with the event on Sunday , which sound important . he be absolutely right : for million of people the whole warm home plan be about cut their energy bill , create warm home and cut emission — and they go together . today ' s Met Office report say that we need to put in place a highly localise network of rain gauge , as extreme rainfall can be very dangerous . in July 2021 , Stockbridge in my constituency face flooding after a torrential downpour one afternoon , follow several day of soar temperature . a network of rain gauge will help to analyse the impact of climate change , and also help community such as Stockbridge to prepare . will my right hon . friend outline the Government ' s plan in that regard ? my hon . friend draw attention to what sound like an important recommendation , and as somebody whose constituency see two once - in - 100 - year flooding event within about a decade , I know from local experience how serious such issue be . I be glad she have draw my attention to that recommendation , and we will look carefully at it . I welcome this Government ' s focus on the urgency of the climate crisis , and I know that many climate activist in my constituency will as well , because the evidence be unequivocal : only sustained reduction in greenhouse gas will slow global warming and the only way to that it be to accelerate the transition to net zero . will the Secretary of State commit to stay resolute in the face of opposition on the commitment to net zero ? do he agree with I that as the first country to industrialise , the UK have a special responsibility to show global leadership in this area ? my hon . friend put it incredibly well . as the Prime Minister say , action on clean energy and net zero be " in the dna " of this Government . I be in the last Labour Government , but now we have a Prime Minister and a Chancellor who be more supportive of this agenda , and who have move it from the margin to the mainstream more than anyone else before . I warmly welcome the Secretary of State ' s statement , particularly his encouragement for member from across the House to support the Government ' s effort — and those of any future Government who maintain that commitment — to reach net zero by 2050 . do the Secretary of State agree that the announcement by the newly elect Reform county council in Kent that it will axe all investment in net zero be not only a betrayal of my constituent in Dartford and resident across Kent , but particularly of young people , who deserve to inherit a sustainable planet ? my hon . friend be absolutely right . I be not aware of that announcement , but it sound like it be anti - job and a betrayal of future generation and will make people poor . I thank the Secretary of State for his important statement . I say to he gently that I be a Mili - fan before it be cool . when I visit school in my constituency of Harlow , include the wonderful Freshwaters primary academy , which I visit on Friday , and the Downs primary school , where one young child ask I about the decline number of blackbird , the no . 1 issue that student raise be climate change . what would the Secretary of State say to young people in Harlow about the action he have take to protect my constituent , who will face the cost of inaction ? I thank my hon . friend for his kind word ; I be not quite sure how to deal with they — it be a tough one . it have be so interesting to hear hon . member from across the House talk about these issue in relation to the strong feeling of their constituent , so I reassure people in Harlow , include young people , that this Government be absolutely committed on these issue , and we be determined to ensure that they inherit a liveable planet . UK - France Migration : Co - operation with permission , Madam Deputy Speaker , I will make a statement to update the House on new joint action between the UK and France to tackle dangerous small boat crossing — crossing that undermine both UK and french border security , put life at risk in the channel , fuel organise crime , and cause disorder and damage , both here in the UK and in France . the new agreement reach at the summit last week mean strong partnership work with source and transit country to prevent illegal migration ; strong law enforcement action against criminal smuggler and traffic gang who profit from this trade in human life ; action to strengthen the border itself along the french coast and in the channel ; a groundbreake new return arrangement so , for the first time , people arrive on small boat can be send back to France ; and strong action here in the UK to stop illegal working and to tackle the long - term system failure that be exploit by criminal gang to encourage people to travel to the UK . I hope that the whole House will welcome each of those important step . global instability continue to drive irregular and illegal migration towards Europe and towards the UK , and it be exploit and encourage by criminal gang who seek to make maximum profit from human misery and insecurity . France face challenge too , with over 150 , 000 people claim asylum there in 2024 . the most serious aspect that we face be the dangerous small boat crossing that undermine our border security and put life at risk . before 2018 , we barely see anyone try to cross by boat , but in the year that follow a major criminal industry be allow to grow and take deep hold along our border . in the space of just five year , the number of small boat crossing increase by more than a hundredfold , from less than 400 in 2018 to over 40 , 000 by 2023 , weaken border security and badly damaging public trust in the state ' s ability to manage border control . for too long , Britain ' s response have be underpowere and ineffective , and so too have the co - operation across Europe , let criminal gang get away with it and leave the asylum system in chaos . the co - ordinate work across Europe have be far too weak for far too long , and so too have the work between the UK and our near neighbour . as we have set out before , smuggler and traffic gang make their money by operate across border , so government need to co - operate across border to take they down . that have not happen for year in the system we inherit . secure UK border be a fundamental part of the Prime Minister ' s plan for change . that be why we be build the foundation of a new international approach , work with country across Europe and beyond to strengthen and secure our border , to prevent dangerous and illegal boat crossing and to stop criminal gang , who be put life at risk . let I take each of the five area of co - operation in turn . the first area be upstream co - operation . much strong joint action be need with source and transit country to prevent dangerous journey in the first place . we have strengthen the key partnership with the G7 and the Calais Group , and have establish a new joint upstream working group with France — chair by the Border Security Commander and the Minister of the Interior ' s special representative on migration — to target action with source and transit country , include on prevention campaign , law enforcement and return . for example , we be work jointly with the Government of Iraq and the Kurdish Regional Government to tackle the iraqi kurdish smuggler gang that stretch their operation between Iraq , northern France and the UK . secondly , we be extend strong law enforcement action against the criminal gang . we have already introduce the Border Security , Asylum and Immigration Bill to introduce counter - terrorism - style power on people smuggle . we have establish the Border Security Command to mobilise UK agency and fund extra specialist National Crime Agency intelligence and investigation officer , include staff station across Europe and in Europol . we also bring together representative from more than 50 country and international organisation at the border security summit early this year . in comparison with the year before , we have increase disruption against more high - end , high - harm target by nearly a quarter ; close twice as many social medium account — 18 , 000 social media account use by smuggler to sell boat crossing be now down ; and increase the cost to gang of boat and engine package be deliver to northern France , hit their business model . that be all work do by the National Crime Agency this year . we be now go far , with additional recruitment of NCA officer and , crucially , a new specialist intelligence and judicial police unit in Dunkirk to speed up the arrest and prosecution of smuggler in France . thirdly , we be strengthen the border itself . french action have prevent 496 boat crossing this year , but 385 boat have cross . criminal gang be operate new tactic , increase the overcrowding of boat so that more people arrive , load they in shallow water and exploit the french rule that mean authority have not be able to intervene in the water . those tactic have drive appalling scene , with people clamber on to crowded boat in shallow water , disgraceful violence from gang member towards the french police and migrant , and people be crush to death in the middle of overcrowded boat . we can not stand for this . that be why the new action agree with France include establish a new French Compagnie de Marche of specialist enforcement officer , with strong public order power to address increase in violence on french beach and prevent boat launch before they reach the water . it also include provide training for additional drone pilot to intercept those launch and , crucially , support the new maritime review instigate by the french Minister of the Interior so that they can intervene more effectively , pursue what last week ' s declaration describe as " novel and innovative approach to intercept boat , and enhance Maritime co - operation , to ensure we adapt as the criminal gang change their approach " . meanwhile , we be change our domestic law through the Border Security , Asylum and Immigration Bill to criminalise those who endanger people ' s life at sea , so that we can more easily prosecute those who crowd on to overcrowded boat and put other people ' s life at risk . action will be take in both French and UK water . fourthly , we be take new , innovative approach to return . since the election , we have already increase international return for those with no right to be in the UK , but until now we have not be able to return people who have make these dangerous and illegal boat crossing to other safe country they have travel through . previous Governments try to achieve this — indeed , they even promise it — but they never secure an agreement to do so . under the groundbreaking agreement announce by the Prime Minister and President Macron last week , for the first time individual who arrive in the UK by small boat can be readmitte to France . that be the right thing to do , and be also an important step towards undermine the business model of the organise crime group that be behind these crossing . we have agree to establish a safe , reciprocal exchange mechanism for individual in France who apply with appropriate documentation to be transfer to the UK , subject to clear eligibility criterion and stringent security check . transfer to the UK under the new route will match the number readmitte to France on a one - for - one basis . further detail of the scheme will be set out in the immigration rule once final arrangement be in place . this innovative agreement mean that people who undertake illegal , dangerous journey to the UK — put their own and other people ' s life at risk and pay money to fuel an entire criminal industry — will be return to France , where the boat set off from . in return , we will take people who apply lawfully and pass security check , with priority give to those who have a connection with the UK , who be most likely to be refugee , or who be most vulnerable to smuggler gang . this be the right thing to do . it establish the principle that , while the UK will always be ready to play its part alongside other country in help those flee persecution and conflict , we believe this should be do in a control and manage legal way , not through dangerous , illegal , uncontrolled or criminal route . it be also the first step towards undermine the promise make by criminal gang when they tell people that if they travel to the UK , they can not be return to the continent — now , they can be . we will develop the pilot step by step and will trial different approach as part of it , vary the number and seek the most effective way to undermine the gang , reduce boat crossing and help France to deal with the problem it face in the Calais region . the Prime Minister and french President have set out their expectation that that pilot will be operationalise in the come week . fifthly , we will take strong action on illegal working and asylum failure here in the UK . for far too long , it have be too easy for people to work illegally in the UK and for employer to exploit they , undercut responsible business . since the election , we have already increase illegal work raid and arrest by 50 % , and have more than triple the value of employer penalty issue to over £ 89 million . we have also launch a new surge in enforcement link to the gig economy , and the border Bill contain change to the law to compel company to conduct proper check on the right to work . we will also bring forward further reform to the asylum system to prevent its operation be exploit — either by gang to encourage travel to the UK , or by people who be here illegally to find unfair way to stay . we need to be part of the global response to irregular and illegal migration , not separate from it — work in partnership , not just shout and point at the sea . everyone know that there be no single silver bullet to tackle illegal migration and dangerous boat crossing , and that it take time to unpick the deep root that gang have put down and to build the foundation of a new cross - border approach , but that be what we be determined to do . we be committed to strong border , to strong law enforcement in France and in the UK , to increase return , and to build the foundation of a new long - term approach where country co - operate to prevent illegal migration and ensure there be sanctuary for genuine refugee . no one should be make these dangerous boat journey , which undermine our border security and put life at risk . that be why this co - operation between the UK and France be so important . I commend this statement to the House . I call the shadow Home Secretary . I thank the Home Secretary for advance sight of her statement . she come to the Chamber today sound rather pleased with herself , but I be afraid she have no reason to . a year ago , she promise to smash the gang — she say again and again that that be her plan . indeed , it be her only plan , yet today there be no mention of what be once her favourite catchphrase . that be because her claim to smash the gang have become a joke — an embarrassment to she and to the Government . we warn that law enforcement alone would not be enough , as do the National Crime Agency , but she do not listen , and what then happen ? the 12 month follow 5 July last year have be the bad such period in history , with small boat crossing at 44 , 359 — up 40 % year on year . the first 13 day of July have also be the bad in history , with 2 , 510 in less than two week — up 213 % year on year . this calendar year so far have be the bad in history as well — up 57 % on last year . the Home Secretary be set record , just all the wrong one . these boat crossing be now the bad ever . do the Home Secretary accept that she have lose control of our border and be fail in her most basic duty to protect the United Kingdom ? the Home Secretary say she have a new deal with France , yet President Macron say it need EU agreement . be that true ? if so , have the EU provide it ? a deal must of course involve an agree number , yet when the Home Secretary be ask , she be unable to say what number be involve . will she now come clean and tell Parliament what number , if any , have be agree ? if there be no agreement with the EU , and no agree number as part of the deal , then there be no deal at all , only vacuous spin . the only number we have see report be just 50 illegal immigrant a week . that number be put to the Prime Minister last Thursday , and he do not deny it . fifty a week represent only 6 % of illegal arrival , mean 94 % could stay . do the Home Secretary seriously think that allow 94 % of illegal immigrant to stay will be any kind of deterrent ? her claim to smash the gang be a gimmick and so be her 6 % return deal . the truth be this : the only way to fix this be to remove , without judicial process , every single illegal arrival as soon as they get here , either to their country of origin or to a third country . that would be a real deterrent . we see that approach work in Australia about 10 year ago and such a scheme — [ interruption . ] I be glad hon . member mention Rwanda . such a scheme for the UK be ready to start in July last year . the previous Government have do all the legal and logistical work need . all the Home Secretary have to do be press go , but she and the Prime Minister cancel the scheme just day before it be due to start , and as a result we now see record number cross . will she now admit that she make a terrible mistake , and will she now start a proper 100 % removal deterrent ? the damage do by illegal immigration at this scale be immense . far from close asylum hotel as the Government promise , there be now nearly 3 , 000 more people in asylum hotel than at the time of the last election . I have personally witness rampant illegal working from the very hotel that the Home Secretary run . I see Deliveroo , Uber Eats and just eat bike in the compound of an asylum hotel whose resident have no right to work . will she at least commit today to end illegal working from the very hotel that she run ? we also see report of migrant base in hotel be charge with serious crime , include rape and sexual assault on woman and child . Louise Casey have warn that a significant proportion of sexual offence be commit by those seek asylum — case like that of 29 - year - old Afghan , Sadeq Nikzad , convict of rape a 15 - year - old girl . his defence counsel claim that he do not understand that be wrong due to cultural difference . this madness have to stop . the Home Secretary cancel a proper deterrent plan just day before it be due to start . her claim to smash the gang lie in tatter . she have preside over the high number of illegal small boat crossing in history . will she now apologise to the House and to the country for her appalling failure ? the shadow Home Secretary just want to pretend that the last eight year never happen . he know that this crisis — this small boat chaos — go on for 340 week under the Tories . during that period , when he be in charge as Immigration Minister , overall migration nearly treble and the number of small boat crossing increase tenfold . during those 340 week when the Tories be in charge , 128 , 000 people cross the channel , and how many be return to France ? zero . how many be send to Rwanda ? he say himself it be zero , because he do not even want to count the four volunteer . he keep say that somehow it be ready to start , but if it have be ready to start , the Conservatives would not have call the election . they would have introduce the scheme which have , in fact , be run for more than two year , at a cost of £ 700 million and with just four volunteer send . I can also tell the shadow Home Secretary that since the election this Government have return more than 35 , 000 people who have no right to be here . that be a 24 % increase in the number of enforce return compare to the last year in which his party be in charge . it be a 28 % increase in the number of fail asylum return compare to the last year in which his party be in charge . as for the agreement with France , which he do not seem to want to talk about very much , I ask he about exactly that back in 2020 , when I be Chair of the Home Affairs Committee and he be Immigration Minister . I specifically ask : " what chance do you put on be able to get a bilateral agreement , say with France , for they to take back people who have arrive here from France … ? " he say — this be five year ago — that that be what he be work on . indeed , he tell the Committee : " one of our priority will be to reach those agreement and … it be , I think , strongly in the french national interest to agree such a return agreement … that give I significant cause for optimism . " well , it turn out that he should have be optimistic — about the return of a Labour Government , reach an agreement where he have fail . he also say at the time : " we intend to return as many illegal migrant who have arrive — by small boat — as possible … we have flight plan in the come day to return these individual back to France and we will be look to ramp up this activity . " well , that be five year ago . the flight never go , and the activity be never ramp up . the shadow Foreign Secretary , the right hon . member for Witham ( Priti Patel ) , try to return people to France . the shadow Justice Secretary , the right hon . member for Newark ( Robert Jenrick ) , try to return people to France , and even call for the UK " to take one asylum seeker " from France " in return for one illegal migrant that we return to they . or indeed more than one . " as for interception in shallow water , the right hon . Gentleman say , when he be Immigration Minister : " some boat that be just 250 yard away from the french coast have not be stop by the authority . this must change . " I agree , but that be five year ago , and he do not change a thing . the Conservatives never understand that it be not possible to change thing simply by jump up and down and shout about they . it need partnership work and hard graft , and that be what this Government have do . I congratulate the Prime Minister and the Home Secretary on succeed in agree a deal with France . it just show that treat people with respect can result in positive action , and treat they with contempt , as the Conservatives do throughout this issue , be never go to provide a solution . can my right hon . friend confirm that each of those four volunteer whom the Conservative Government pay to be send to Rwanda be pay , by the british taxpayer , £ 150 , 000 to provide free housing , a free university education and free private healthcare ? who approve that funding in the Department ? I can confirm that the deal that the previous Government do with Rwanda involve pay £ 150 , 000 for every single individual , to cover food , accommodation and healthcare for five year . those bill continue . a concern be raise by the accounting officer , so a direction have to be give , on the basis that Ministers have be advise that it be not value for money but they continue regardless . I call the liberal Democrat spokesperson . I be grateful to the Home Secretary for advance sight of her statement . we all want to stop these dangerous channel crossing , which first balloon under the former Conservative Government . cross - border co - operation will be key to achieve that , and clearly a lot of work be need after the Conservatives rip up the return agreement that allow we to send irregular migrant back to Europe . I be very interested to hear the shadow Home Secretary quote President Macron , but he be a little selective in do so — he do not mention the section of President Macron ' s remark that attribute the problem to the Brexit deal that the last Conservative Government cook up . this deal be a step in the right direction , and I sincerely hope that it work , but people will understandably be sceptical that such a small scheme will act as an effective deterrent at this stage . question still need to be answer about how and when the UK and french government will decide to scale up the pilot , so I would welcome more detail from the Home Secretary . of course , deal like this be only part of the solution . the Home Secretary mention place officer within Europol , but will she commit to negotiate a strong leadership role for the UK in Europol , to make it easy to crack down on the trafficking gang behind these crossing ? do she acknowledge that we will not be able to fully take the power out of the hand of the gang until we provide regulated entry to the UK for genuine refugee ? one of the good deterrent to put people off the idea of come here in the first place be for all asylum application to be process quickly , so that those who be grant refugee status can integrate and contribute to our community , and for those with no right to be here to be send back swiftly . can the Home Secretary update the House on the average time it take to process an asylum application after arrival on british shore , and how have that change over the past year ? until the Government act on these point , I fear that they risk repeat the Conservatives ’ mistake and fail to get to grip with the problem , which be something we all want they to do . the Prime Minister and the french President set out their expectation that we will be able to operationalise this agreement and begin the pilot in the come week . the number will vary , and it be a pilot that will need to be develop . we will need to trial different approach as part of it , and that be the right and sensible approach . the principle underpin the agreement be the right one : we should return people who have pay money to criminal gang in order to come on this dangerous journey in small boat — which put other people ' s life at risk , as well as their own , and undermine our border security — in exchange for take people who apply legally , who be more likely to be genuine refugee and who have be through security check , and prioritise people who have a connection to the UK . it be also a way to help undermine the business model of the criminal gang , who tell people that there be no way to be return to France or any other country if they get into one of these dangerous small boat . they use that as part of their advertising , which we should seek to undermine . the hon . Lady be right to say that we also need strong law enforcement . we have already be build strong co - operation , include by set up the new prosecution and investigation unit in Dunkirk , which will work with our National Crime Agency and our Border Security Command , and we be significantly speed up asylum decision make to bring the backlog down . we also need action to speed up the appeal process , because there be delay as a result of the broken system that we inherit . as the Home Secretary point out , we do not have small boat crossing 10 year ago , but we leave the EU without incorporate a return agreement into the withdrawal agreement . on a point of clarification , can the Home Secretary confirm that it be completely unprecedented for an EU country to allow return from outwith the EU ' s external border ? I note that it come on the back of a highly successful state visit by President Macron . we have come a long way from have a Prime Minister question whether France be friend or foe — Macron be our friend , and our foe be the people smuggler . on the pilot , what be the Home Secretary ' s parameter for success , how do she envisage it scale up , and how do she envisage the UK - EU relationship will have to adapt in the future to accommodate it , if successful ? I can tell my hon . friend that we will want to develop this over time , and we will do so in partnership with France . he be right that we will secure this co - operation together and have an impact together , just as successive government over the year have strengthen security co - operation with France — through juxtaposed control , different border security arrangement , and check for lorry and clandestine journey — and that co - operation strengthen our border security . that have just not be do on small boat , and that be what this agreement be all about . it be about build the security co - operation we have have in the past , but not on small boat , and that be now so important . we will build that co - operation , because we will well strengthen our border security by work with country on the other side of our border who face exactly the same challenge , and that be far well than just stand on the shoreline and shout at the sea . I always try to avoid rhetoric in this matter , and I fully concede — this bit be agree — that my party lose a significant number of mps because of our failure to deliver on a number of issue prior to the election . I listen very carefully to what the right hon . Lady say about strong partnership , strong law enforcement action and groundbreake return agreement , but do she not recognise that the scale of the problem , as evidence by the number since the general election , and the scale of public concern require a much big solution than what be propose ? without a significant deterrent on a much big scale much soon , she be not go to fix this problem to public satisfaction . no one should be make these dangerous boat crossing , which undermine border security and put life at risk . we have see a change in the way the criminal gang have be operate over the past six month . first , they have increase overcrowding with a substantial increase in the number of people on the boat , which be put more life at risk . secondly , they have exploit the french rule about not intervene in french water by load the boat in french water , which be why we have see the disgraceful scene of people crowd on to boat from the water . we have to tackle those issue , which be why the UK be change our law so we can prosecute people who be endanger other people ' s life by climb on to overcrowded boat , and it be also why France have instigate a french maritime review so that it can intervene in french water . the french Interior Minister and I have be work on these development over several month , and I think it be right that we build that co - operation . it be also right to say that there be no single silver bullet . we need comprehensive action on every single aspect of this , to make a difference , strengthen our border security and save life . I be sure that the Home Secretary share my frustration that we could have be much far along with a return agreement , because the shadow Home Secretary — the former Immigration Minister — apparently admit to a conservative party member meet in May that , before we leave the European Union , his Government have work out that we would not be able to return people under the hard Brexit deal they be provide . give the progress we have make by get a return agreement , could the Home Secretary outline for we what this will mean for somebody apply from France ? this be go to be a safe route , and it be therefore very welcome movement for those of we who recognise the horror in Calais and the limbo we leave people in . it be important to use this to dissuade people from get on to a dangerous boat , because there be a legal mechanism they can use to be reunite with their family . my hon . friend ' s question be an important one . once the final arrangement be ready to operationalise , we will set out in the immigration rule the precise detail of the way in which people will be able to apply from France . they will need to have proper identification and to go through security check . once people have apply , we will set prioritisation decision , include on whether people have connection to the UK , and on the country from which people be most likely to be refugee or to be target by smuggler and traffic gang . we will set out that detail in due course . part of the reason for the one - for - one arrangement be that it have to go alongside return to France for people who get on illegal boat crossing and end up pay huge amount of money to fuel the criminal smuggler industry , which will make sure that we simultaneously strengthen our border security and save life . this be a grubby , grotesque little deal , which in itself trade in life with the selection of who qualify for this one in , one out basis . this gimmick mean we will now have different class of the wretched , and it do nothing to address the crisis that compel so many people to make these dangerous journey in the first place . it be a gimmick doom to fail and it simply will not work . but there be one thing that could smash the gang in one simple blow : establish the safe and legal route , which have work so perfectly in the past , for people to come to this country . the small boat crossing be dangerous and put life at risk . we have see people drown and people crush to death on overcrowded boat . that be be drive and organise by criminal gang who will do anything they can to profit from these dangerous journey . the whole point of have the one - for - one approach with France be that we have an agreement that mean we will return people who come on those dangerous boat crossing , who pay money to the criminal gang , and who , frankly , should be return or should be part of the return arrangement . in return , we will take those who apply lawfully through the application process and who have have security check . I think that principle be the right one . the UK , as we have show through the Ukraine and Hong Kong scheme , will always do its bit to help those flee persecution and conflict . however , we also think there should be much strong enforcement , and we should not have the illegal migration that undermine border security and put life at risk in the channel . under the Tories , we have Liz Truss question whether France be actually an ally , so it be nice to hear in President Macron ' s word last week that Britain have friend once again . in the 340 week that the conservative party be in charge of the small boat crisis , it send no one back to France and just four people to Rwanda with cash stuff in their pocket . do the Home Secretary agree that the way we get result be by work with international partner , not berate they ? I do think we should be work with international partner ; that be how we will get co - operation . if criminal gang operate across border , then of course we need government and law enforcement to co - operate across border to take those gang down and to get return in place . the Conservatives claim that they be go to get bilateral return agreement in place : that be what they claim in 2020 ; that be what they claim in 2021 ; that be what they claim for year ; and that be what they claim they would seek to do again in 2023 . but they fail to do it year after year , because all they do be shout at France and other country , instead of do the hard graft to get agreement in place . this be about principle and practice . the principle be that every country have the right and indeed the duty to secure its border , and in practice our have become porous . I agree with the Home Secretary that global instability continue to drive illegal migration , I agree with she that we need co - operation upstream and I agree with she that previous government have do far too little , but the scale of the problem require more than she be offer today . the trend be up . if it continue , 85 , 000 people will cross , each one know that they be come here illegally . this require much more emphatic action . everyone who come should be incarcerate and all those who can be return should be . we must recognise that the asylum system be be game on an industrial scale . will she answer this very straightforward question : what evidence do she have that hostile state and organised criminal be use this as a route to get people to this country to do still more harm ? let we be clear : we need action right across the board , from strengthen prevention — work in partnership with country like Iraq — right through to law enforcement and increase action on the criminal gang . we be take action on border security itself , with action along the french coast and in the channel in french water , and strengthen the return arrangement . we be also take action here in the UK , whether on illegal working or on reform to the asylum system . we need to be clear that there must be strong standard on issue of criminality : anybody who come to the UK through whatever route need to abide by our law , and that must be enforce . the right hon . Gentleman will be aware that we have put in place new measure to strengthen the criminality check in the asylum system and to have much strong action as part of the Border Security , Asylum and Immigration Bill . I hope he will support that legislation rather than vote against it . I welcome the fact that we have a Home Secretary who be willing to do what it take to stop the small boat . the french claim that the ability to work illegally in the UK be what motivate those who be willing to take the dangerous journey across the channel . do the Home Secretary agree , and will she outline the action she be take to crack down on illegal working and destroy those incentive ? my hon . friend be right . it have be way too easy to work illegally in this country for far too long . that be why , since the election , we have already increase illegal work raid by 50 % , increase arrest for illegal working by 50 % , and increase the penalty for employer that exploit illegal migration , which undercut responsible and respectable business , by a third . however , we have to go far . we know in particular that illegal migration be be exploit in the gig economy , where there be not proper check in place . we will therefore bring in new legislation to crack down on illegal working in the gig economy , alongside a surge of immigration enforcement activity and biometric check that will enable we to use fingerprint to check who people be on the spot . we must have strong enforcement and strong rule in place . it be a real shame that the Opposition party — the Conservatives and Reform — vote against those illegal working rule . do the Home Secretary agree with President Macron ' s analysis last week that the reason people want to come here be that the UK be perceive as be attractive to illegal migrant — what President Macron refer to as " pull factor " , with one of his mp refer to Britain as " El Dorado " ? if the Home Secretary do agree with the french President , what be she do to reduce those pull factor ? as I just set out in the previous answer , I think that it have frankly be too easy to work illegally in this country for too long . we know that the criminal gang tell people it will be easy to get a job here ; they even give people discount if they will work for those same criminal gang operate in the UK . we know that that be part of the way the criminal gang try to advertise and promote their dangerous and illegal business . that be why we can not stand for illegal working . it be why we be increase not only the raid but the arrest , which be up by 50 % just in the space of this year compare with the previous year , when the right hon . Gentleman ' s party be in power . we be also strengthen the law . I really hope he will urge his party to support our Bill , rather than continually vote against it . I welcome the work the Government and the Home Secretary have do to get this arrangement with France and on the Border Security , Asylum and Immigration Bill , which introduce anti - terror - style power to tackle the crossing . as the Home Secretary have outline , it be critical that we deal with the delivery company that continue to hire people who arrive on the boat . she have say that she will introduce legislation to do that and to make that illegal . can she confirm that that will be robustly implement ? it be these delivery company — we all know who they be — that be incentivise the boat crossing and , ultimately , threaten our national security . my hon . friend be right . we know that although some delivery company have say that they will do strong check , in practice it be just not happen . there be too many case of our immigration enforcement team do raid and find that the rule be be break and that people be work who have no right to do so and who be here illegally . that be why we be increase raid and arrest , and it be why we must change the law so that whether it be delivery company or other organisation in the gig economy , they have to take responsibility and do not just find that they be make a profit from exploit illegal migration , which in the end fuel the work of criminal gang . war , persecution and climate change mean that more and more people be flee their home for their own safety . the Home Secretary talk of the need for comprehensive action on every single aspect of this , yet her Government have cut international aid by £ 6 billion , while the US Government have cut their aid budget so drastically that it could result in 14 million preventable death by 2030 . do the Home Secretary not agree that without adequate international aid and co - operation to tackle such factor at their source , we be simply set ourselves up for more humanitarian crisis and more migration pressure ? the right hon . Member will know that we have to take a difficult decision on overseas aid to ensure that we can increase our defence investment , which we need to keep our country safe . she be right that we need to work internationally to prevent dangerous journey and to make sure that people can get sanctuary and support so that they do not have to make those dangerous journey in the first place . it be that kind of international co - operation that matter , whether through resettlement scheme such as the one we run for Ukraine or much more target work close to home . I welcome the Home Secretary ' s action today . she be take this problem seriously and be produce serious solution and a serious strategy . it be now 80 day since the hon . member for Clacton ( Nigel Farage ) tell the world on social medium that , " the Reform UK policy unit have draft a comprehensive strategy for the deportation of illegal migrant . " have the Home Secretary see that strategy yet , or indeed any detail of reform ' s plan ? the Frenchman Jules Verne write that Phileas Fogg travel the world in 80 day . do she think that the leader of Reform have perhaps be too busy travel the world , flog gold and sell cameo to produce any such strategy at all ? certainly , the hon . member for Clacton have be travel around the world , and sadly he be once again not here in Parliament when we be discuss these issue . if Reform member be serious about take action against the criminal gang , why on earth do they vote against the counter - terrorism power to go after they in the first place ? sadly , their one in , one out approach seem to simply be about their parliamentary party . I have be a bit take aback by the lack of humility show by the Home Secretary in the face of what have be a catastrophic first 12 month in term of cross number . it might have be well for she to acknowledge that " smash the gang " , which she be always tell be go to be a complete failure , have indeed be so . I suppose we should be grateful that she have finally reach for the briefing note leave in the Home Office and no . 10 — not about a return agreement but about a swap agreement . I suppose I offer her congratulation on get that deal over the line with the French . however , I disagree with she about it not be a silver bullet ; I think this have always be the only solution . but she will know that it will be effective only if we can get to a very high percentage of return to France . I have two question . first , what further incentive could she offer to the French to go beyond this relatively small pilot ? give that we be offer swap and the theory be that no one will then cross , would she be willing to go for a two - for - one swap ? secondly , as she point out , the gang will react , so do she plan to cut a similar deal with the Belgians ? I disagree with the right hon . member about the criminal gang . whatever we do , we must have much strong enforcement on the criminal gang ; otherwise , if they be give free rein to do whatever they want , they will find other way around any arrangement and other way to make money . it be crucial that strong enforcement be part of any action we take against they . the National Crime Agency have deliver a 36 % increase in high - impact disruption in the last 12 month compare with the year before , and have be build that partnership with other european country to be able to go far . the right hon . Member have argue previously , when other be not do so , for one - for - one return , as well as for innovative approach . I agree with he , and we want to develop that , but we need to start with a pilot arrangement that allow both the UK and France to trial thing that we have never do before . the previous Government always make grand claim that somehow everything would be solve in the next three day , and repeatedly fail because they do not build up the credibility , the plan or a systematic approach , work in partnership . that be what we need to do . I applaud the shadow Home Secretary for his valiant attempt to sound outraged . be not the truth that while the Conservatives pick fight on the world stage , the Government have rebuild relationship and deliver a groundbreake return agreement that they would have give their eye tooth for ? do the Secretary of State agree that while sound and fury may make conservative member feel well , it be the Government who be systematically get on with the job of stop the boat ? my hon . friend be right . the previous Government try at different stage to do the kind of thing that we be set out , but they allow the relationship with France to deteriorate to the point of diplomacy by tweet and social medium , which do not get practical agreement in place . the work that we have do provide practical arrangement that we can build on , and we can trial different approach . that be the good way to strengthen our border security , and it be what successive government have do until recent year . I have never hear such pathetic drivel in all my life as I have from the Home Secretary and her Back Benchers . it be not the people smuggler bring illegal migrant over the channel but the french warship who transport they halfway and give they to british border security , who bring they to our shore , put they in bus and take they to hotel . the real people smuggler be the french and british authority . do the Home Secretary agree that the British Border Force should take these illegal migrant straight back to France ? no one should be make these dangerous boat crossing ; they undermine border security and put life at risk . if the hon . Member really care about stop boat and stop the criminal who organise they , why have he and his party repeatedly vote against bring in counter - terrorism power to go after the gang ? why have they repeatedly vote against the new law on illegal working to clamp down on people in the gig economy ? why have he repeatedly vote against law to have strong and high standard against criminality in our asylum system ? time and again , they vote against because they want not to solve the problem but just to moan about it . they do not actually want to change anything with France — to work to get France to intervene in french water as the Government have be do . instead , all they want to do be shout at the sea . on Friday , the BBC interview an egyptian economic migrant name Obaida in Calais who say that he have try and fail four time to cross the channel but , since the Prime Minister ' s agreement with President Macron , he be give up : " I don ' t want to go to Britain any more , because they be make it much hard for we . every time we try , they deflate our boat and remove the engine . if they make it even hard , I ' ll stop try . " do that not prove that this new deal to send migrant back to France can be a genuine deterrent , unlike the last government ' s pathetic attempt to claim credit ? my hon . friend be right . what we need be action on the boat in shallow water as well as action against the criminal gang and to prevent people reach the french coast in the first place . we also need the ability to return people to France — as part of this new agreement — and strong action to stop people work illegally in the UK . we need action in each of those area at every stage . that be hard graft — it be not about gimmick — but that be how we will strengthen our border security and save life . the Home Secretary be an intelligent woman , and she must realise that this UK - France migration co - operation be a drop in the ocean , give that since it be announce , another 1 , 375 people have make that dangerous and illegal crossing . she might not like Rwanda , but can she confirm that one of the other thing she be work on be find another safe third country where 100 % of people who cross the channel illegally can be process ? the agreement that we have reach be a fundamentally different approach ; it be groundbreake . it be something that I have discuss with the Interior Minister in France for many month . it be also something that UK government have be work to try to do for around five year but without achieve it . this be a first step , but it be an important one in term of establish the principle around return and around strong law enforcement co - operation . we have also say that we will work with other european country on look at different approach , include return hub and other innovative and novel approach . there be other european country who be interested in work with we on similar and different kind of approach , and we will continue to do that . in her early remark , the Home Secretary reference the memo that the shadow Justice Secretary write in March 2023 , propose exactly the kind of one in , one out deal that this Government have now secure . I be strike by the assertion in that memo that that kind of scheme would " quickly break the business model of the smuggler " . do the Home Secretary agree that the Conservatives look utterly partisan , petty and two - faced as they now decide to oppose in public exactly the kind of deal that they be argue for in private when in government ? my hon . friend be exactly right . there be thing that the Conservatives try and fail to deliver when they be in government that they now suddenly want to oppose . in the end , that be the hole they have get themselves into . instead of want to be practical and serious about measure that can make a difference , take step by step , they just want to oppose everything . they fail to solve the problem , and just moan about it instead . I welcome these important first step announce by the Home Secretary , as well as her commitment to work with wide european partner , but what safeguard have be put in place to ensure that international law be respect and that the right of genuine asylum seeker be protect ? as the hon . Member will be aware , France be a country that abide by international law and with which we have a long history of co - operation in a whole series of area around security and different policy issue over very many year ; all of they be compliant with international law and we will continue to ensure that that be the case . I applaud the Home Secretary for the month of hard work and serious negotiation that have result in this deal . we now have the real deterrent that the Conservatives fail for many year to secure for my constituent and other across the country . these deal make it more important that we keep push the strength of our domestic response to the smuggling gang and illegal working , so I have two question . first off , can the Home Secretary confirm to my constituent that the Metropole hotel in my constituency will be close as an asylum hotel by this Government before the next election ? also , can she confirm when she expect the Border Security , Asylum and Immigration Bill to become law , and would it help if the Conservatives and Reform support the Bill so that we can get the job do ? we be commit to end asylum hotel over the course of this Parliament . we will also continue to roll out this pilot programme so that it can be develop to tackle both return and dangerous boat crossing . as for the Border Security , Asylum and Immigration Bill , it be really important . it contain a whole series of really important measure , and we would be able to get it through Parliament much , much fast if the Conservatives decide to support it . I fear it be another week , another fig leaf from this Government on small boat crossing , which be up 40 % under Labour . I hope this french deal work , but as my right hon . friend the Member for North West Hampshire ( Kit Malthouse ) say , the number of return need to be very substantial , not just a modest pilot . we be also now wait to hear from the EU about whether it will approve this very modest UK - French migration deal . we know from experience that the EU tend not to give such approval without extract a heavy price , so can the Home Secretary guarantee that the UK will not sign up to any element of the EU pact on migration and asylum , when it launch next year , that could see we accept much large asylum transfer from the continent ? we have be work with the EU Commission , as have France , and we have share detail on these proposal over many month as we have be develop they . the EU Commission have be very supportive . indeed , that be why the UK - EU reset explicitly say that the EU Commission — the EU — will support action to tackle the dangerous boat crossing in the channel and to prevent illegal migration . this be something that we have work on for some considerable time . we will continue to develop those partnership with France and to ensure that we work closely with other country , because the same challenge with criminal gang operating be share across Europe . that be why we need to act together . I thank the Home Secretary for her statement . it be a real pleasure to hear President Macron ' s address last week with member from across this House and the other place . do she agree that it do not take Jules Maigret to realise that to tackle this issue effectively and humanely , we must work with our french ally ? I think back to the terrible image of that boy dead on that beach . we should not forget the human cost of these small boat crossing . my hon . friend be right . one of the story that still haunt I be of a little girl who be crush to death in one of the small boat because of the scale of overcrowding and the way these boat be , frankly , dangerous . as well as the risk of drown , we have see people crush as a result of overcrowding . that be why we must do everything we can to prevent these dangerous crossing and ensure that across the world there be system of sanctuary for those who have flee persecution . the criminal gang exploit people ' s desperation and they should not be allow to do so . will the Secretary of State explain to we what happen if one in , one out work ? if the goal be to stop small boat crossing and it be successful , the outside of the equation drop to zero , which mean the inside of the equation also need to drop to zero and the UK will have get rid of the small sliver of a safe and regulated route scheme that it have just create . do the Secretary of State not think that , if we do that , it would be more likely to push people back to the small boat and people smuggler ? I be not fully sure about the logic of the hon . member ' s argument . she seem to be argue that if the scheme work , it will not work . indicate assent . that be what she seem to be argue . look , I think we should be do everything to prevent these dangerous boat crossing . we will continue , as we have do through the Ukraine scheme and through the support for Hong Kong , to ensure that the UK do its bit to help those flee persecution . for example , we make reference in the immigration White Paper to refugee study opportunity at our university . these dangerous boat crossing be so damaging ; they really undermine our border security and the credibility of the whole system , so we must ensure we take action to prevent they . I thank the Home Secretary for her statement this afternoon . I shall allow a few moment for the Front Benchers to swap over . future of the Post Office with permission , Madam Deputy Speaker , I wish to make a statement on the Green Paper that we be publish today on the future of the Post Office . post office have stand as a cornerstone of british national life for generation , serve constituent in every part of the UK . they be a lot more than just place to send letter or collect parcel ; they be hub of economic and social activity . they be a lifeline to small business , provide access to essential service , include everyday banking service , and be a critical part of our high street . they also have a unique role in rural area , particularly permanent branch , and act as the beat heart of community . in recent year , however , the need for change have become clear . twelve month ago , we inherit a Post Office in crisis — decline financial sustainability , unstable leadership , a network struggle to maintain service , and a reputation shatter by the Horizon scandal and its appalling treatment of sub - postmaster , as Sir Wyn Williams ' s first report last week underline only too clearly . this Government be determined to strengthen the Post Office network , and today ' s Green Paper begin a national dialogue on the future of the Post Office so that we can create a modern , resilient and financially sustainable organisation . we recognise that the Post Office , just like other postal service around the world , face significant challenge that be drive in no small part by change consumer habit fuel by the digital transition , change high street and a change economy . we want a Post Office network that the public use , value and , above all , trust . we want branch to be visible on the high street , in rural and urban area , and in all community , offer a wide range of in - person service . I do not believe that people be ideologically wed to a small or big Post Office ; they just want a Post Office that work for they , their business and their community . our preferred approach be for the overall size and shape of the Post Office network to remain the same so that we minimise the impact on community . we want to strengthen branch to modernise they and expand what they do . there be , though , a range of strong view on the Post Office network , so we will carefully consider all the view put to we about its future . we need a Post Office that not only preserve its role in provide vital service to community , but embrace the need of modern Britain . the challenge be significant . many branch be not profitable for the postmaster run they . average weekly customer session have decline by 34 % since 2007 , and the shift to online service continue . while some service , such as parcel drop - off and banking transaction , be grow , other , such as Government service , have see significant decline . but we be also see innovation across the network . drop and collect branch be be roll out to meet the grow demand for parcel service . over 160 banking hub be now operational , with a commitment to roll out 350 by the end of the Parliament . as the bank continue to close branch , we be keen to support the Post Office to improve and develop the banking service it provide . work with our Treasury colleague , we will host joint discussion on this issue with the Post Office and the banking sector in the come month . above all else , we know the Post Office need stability , which we be commit to provide . we be back that commitment with over £ 500 million investment during this Parliament , include up to £ 136 million in this financial year to invest in new technology and replace Horizon . Horizon should have go long ago . instead , it will be many month yet before it be replace . Fujitsu should only be part of the Post Office ' s grim past , not its current and immediate future . we be determined to end the use of Horizon and draw a line under Fujitsu ' s involvement with the Post Office . the task of replace Horizon be hugely complex . it have be embed in the Post Office network for more than two decade and remain critical to the delivery of the essential service that many of our constituent depend on from the Post Office . never again must we allow the Post Office to put blind faith in its technology . we will support the implementation of the Post Office ' s transformation plan , which aim to make the company more efficient , enable it to continue offer cash and banking service in the come year . we will also fund innovative equipment for postmaster to help customer beat the queue . indeed , this plan aim to achieve operational and financial stability by 2030 and include a commitment to boost annual postmaster income by £ 250 million by the end of the decade . already , a £ 20 million uplift have be deliver in 2024 - 25 , with £ 66 million plan for this financial year . after all the Post Office have put its people through , it be now essential that it reorientate its culture towards postmaster , involve they in central decision making . the first step have be take with the creation of a consultative council and the election of postmaster non - exec . I be acutely aware that there be those who say that more be need and , indeed , that be why in this Green Paper we be explore option for far strengthen those structure . in the long term , we be open to more fundamental reform . two idea that have be put to we include the potential mutualisation of the Post Office — give postmaster and community a much great stake in the organisation — and a charter model that separate the Government ' s role in set the purpose from the board ' s role in run the business . we will assess other suggestion for the Post Office ' s long - term future , include on its future commercial direction , such as close work with Royal Mail . these be perhaps not decision for the moment , but we want to begin the debate and conversation now , so we be ready to act when the time be right . the Green Paper be an important step towards rebuild trust in the Post Office and embed a culture of transparency , accountability and compassion . it be important to stress that no decision on change to governance arrangement will be make until after the inquiry ' s final report to allow we all to consider Sir Wyn Williams ' s recommendation on governance issue together with Green Paper response . this be a once - in - a - generation opportunity to reimagine the Post Office . the Green Paper be ambitious but ground in reality . it ask difficult question about how we ensure long - term sustainability while protect essential service . we want to hear from everyone with a stake in the Post Office ' s future . the Post Office must be modern , resilient and trust . the Green Paper will be , I hope , the first step in deliver that vision , and I commend this statement to the House . I call the shadow Minister . I thank the Minister for advance sight of his statement . the Post Office really be the Heineken of Government service : it reach part of the UK that other arm of government do not . the Post Office be much more than a business ; it be a vital part of the UK ' s social and economic fabric . it connect community , support local economy and ensure access to essential service across the country . from rural village in constituency like mine to inner city , postmaster be trust figure who provide a lifeline for people who rely on face - to - face service , particularly the elderly , the digitally exclude and small business . the network play an increasingly important role deliver banking service and hub as the traditional bank network continue to close . while the number of letter send have decline and more Government service be online or direct to bank account , there be area where the Post Office have see strong growth : bank deposit to post office be up by 68 % , parcel up by 68 % and track priority mail have rise by 72 % . the Minister promise that the Government would publish the Green Paper on the Post Office in the first half of 2025 , so I will give he that — it be nearly there . the Government clearly want to get this consultation out before recess when there be arguably less parliamentary scrutiny . I would like to take this opportunity to encourage the public to respond to the consultation over the summer . the Green Paper seek to reduce the taxpayer subsidy over time , but of course , with 50 , 000 worker throughout Britain , the Post Office itself face a £ 45 million hike in its bill from the national insurance job tax . the post office that be eligible for retail , hospitality and leisure business rate relief have see a 140 % increase in their business rate . the Employment Rights Bill will cost the Post Office another £ 8 million . it be no wonder that Nigel Railton , the Post Office chairman , blame the autumn Budget for increase cost and say that it be why the Post Office need a fresh start . the Minister tell the House on 8 April that " access criterion have already be publish that commit the Government to provide 11 , 500 post office . " — [ Official Report , 8 April 2025 ; Vol . 765 , c . 750 . ] he say in the Green Paper that his preference be to maintain the size of the network . will he commit today to there be 11 , 500 post office outlet at the end of this Parliament ? do the Government consider reduce the branch requirement in the Green Paper ? if so , why do they change their mind ? be he advise by his official that it would take the closure of one in five post office to end the network subsidy ? if that be not what he be tell , what be he tell ? where be the cut - off point for that subsidy ? the Minister say that the Government will consult on a change to access requirement as it could be argue that they be too stringent , but for rural area they be not . approximately 14 % of post office branch be the last shop in the village — there be many such branch in my constituency — so will the Minister confirm that rural branch will not be close just to be replace by other in city centre ? do he not realise that for many rural area , the post office be the only shop for mile around and be therefore the only place one can access free cash ? how much do the Post Office get from the framework agreement with the bank ? should it not get a well and more long - term agreement ? how much will the Government ask Fujitsu to pay towards the £ 2 billion estimate cost of compensate the postmaster who be wrongly accuse over the Horizon system ? the Minister appear to have kick Post Office mutualisation into the long grass . I can see why he would not want to do it during the time of the inquiry , but could there be a pilot during this Parliament ? post office and the postmaster who run they be the backbone of our local community , so I urge the public to take this opportunity to champion their local post office and reply to this summer consultation . I be grateful to the hon . Lady for encourage sub - postmaster and anyone who be interested in the future of the Post Office to contribute their view to the Green Paper . as the hon . Lady rightly set out , and as I hope I underline in my statement — the Green Paper be certainly very clear on this — we think that branch up and down the country be a vital part of our country ' s economic and social fabric , and we be determined to strengthen the post office network so that they can play a continue and even more effective role in our economic and social life . the hon . Lady rightly underline the significance of banking service go forward . as an aside , she mention the decline of other traditional post office — letter volume have halve since 2011 . that help to underline the significance of banking to the future of the Post Office . we be clear that the Post Office could offer more if the bank be willing to work with it . the successful completion of the banking framework negotiation be an encouraging sign in that regard . as I set out in my opening remark , we be , alongside Treasury colleague , determine to sit down with the Post Office and the bank to see what more we can do together . there be a commitment to 350 banking hub over the lifetime of this Parliament , but if we can improve the way in which the bank work with the Post Office , we could see a much more significant role for the Post Office in the provision of banking service on far more high street up and down the UK . on national insurance contribution , I gently say to the hon . Lady that difficult decision have to be make in the Budget because of the financial situation that we inherit , but we have take a range of decision to steady the network . I be sure that she be grateful to the Chancellor of the Exchequer for the additional finance put aside to invest in the future of the Post Office . the hon . Lady quite rightly underline the broad point that Fujitsu have a moral obligation to contribute towards the cost of the scandal . as I have say , we need to wait for the final report by Sir Wyn Williams to understand the full sense of Fujitsu ' s culpability . lastly , on mutualisation , as the hon . Lady allude to , we think it right to concentrate in the short term on prioritise the financial and operational stability of the Post Office , give its significant challenge . in the long term , it may well be possible to make serious and sustained governance change . I have a genuinely open mind on that question and will look carefully at the view we receive on it in the Green Paper . I welcome my hon . friend ' s statement and the consultation on the Green Paper . do he agree that we should see the withdrawal of bank from high street like mine in Eltham as an opportunity for the Post Office to expand what it can offer , not just to individual but to small business in local community ? that be an opportunity rather than a burden for post office , and we should seek to maintain they wherever possible . I agree with my hon . friend about the even great role that bank could play on our high street by work with the Post Office . it be one area that Post Office senior management have identify as key to the Post Office ' s commercial future . we have set aside significant sum of money to invest in new technology to make it easy to work with the bank and do even more . I hope that bank and the financial service community will recognise that they have a considerable opportunity to do more in provide service to all our constituent by work with the Post Office . I look forward to sit down with the Post Office and the financial service industry , alongside Treasury colleague , to see whether we can take advantage of that opportunity . I call the liberal Democrat spokesperson . I thank the Minister for advance sight of his statement . the Liberal Democrats welcome today ' s announcement about put local post office on a more sustainable footing . post office be an important part of our community , provide a number of critical service on our local high street , from community banking and foreign exchange to the provision of Driver and Vehicle Licensing Agency service . often their service act as a lifeline , especially for the elderly , those with limited transport option and those in area without reliable access to online service . currently 99 . 7 % of the population live within three mile of a post office , and 4 , 000 branch be open seven day a week . in the past three year , nearly 2 , 000 high street bank branch have close across the UK , result in local post office be the only place where local community can access banking service . as the Government bring forward their necessary reform , it be vital that essential local service and post office job be protect . will the Minister assure I that under this proposal no post office will be close until a consultation with each local community have be undertake ? although we welcome the increase digitisation of service , which will boost accessibility for those who can not use face - to - face service , as well as productivity across the public sector , how will the Government ensure that post office remain financially viable ? I be grateful to the hon . Lady for her welcome for the Green Paper . she rightly underline the significance of the Post Office , particularly to the digitally exclude , to the elderly and to people in rural area . give the other part of my ministerial brief , which be on small business , I recognise just how important the Post Office be to small business up and down the UK . the hon . Lady also underline the significance of banking service for the Post Office . I hope I have make it very clear today that we think that there be an opportunity to go even far to bring more banking service to all our community through the Post Office . the hon . Lady ask about what happen when individual post office change be be contemplate . a set of consultation arrangement have be in place for some time , and we be not seek to change it . whenever an individual post office change , I recognise that it can be unsettling for local community ; there be always an appetite for that branch to be put back in place as quickly as possible . it be therefore important that whenever such a change be contemplate , the Post Office move quickly to engage with local community , include the hon . member who represent the community . on financing , we have set aside at least £ 500 million over this Parliament to invest in the Post Office . More than half of the network be loss - making ; not enough be be provide to the Post Office to fund the network , which be why we increase the funding to cover the loss - make part of it last year . we have do so again this year and will continue to do so . I thank the Minister for his statement . as a fellow Labour and Co - op MP , I welcome the inclusion of mutualisation among the long - term idea for the Post Office . do he agree that post office , particularly in rural community like Little Hallingbury in my constituency of Harlow , be a vital part of the community and that they therefore lend themselves to that model of business ? I commend my hon . friend for champion the Post Office branch in his constituency . he rightly underline the importance of branch in rural community ; they have an essential role in community up and down the UK . as my hon . friend will recognise , I have some history in the area of mutualisation . I be sympathetic to mutual ; I do think that it be important that we address the immediate challenge that the Post Office face in its financial and operational sustainability before we contemplate long - term change . there be risk with mutualisation , so we need to consider the pro as well as the con before make any long - term change , but that be why the Green Paper be important : it will allow that debate to begin . a number of semi - rural and suburban community across my constituency — Newbridge , Blackhall , Ratho — have lose their post office recently . their bank have also go , so there be a dearth of local facility . at the same time , the Horizon scandal have undermine public trust across those community . do the Minister agree that one of the main problem in protect the Post Office and make it sustainable will be that lack of public trust ? how will he overcome it ? the hon . Lady be absolutely right that the reputation of the Post Office have take a huge hit as a result of the Post Office scandal , and it will take a long time for trust to return . there be a series of step that we have to take to rebuild that trust . there be the obvious challenge , which the House consider last week , of deliver redress to the victim of this appalling scandal , but there be also thing we have to do to improve the trust between the exist postmaster in every community and the senior management of the Post Office from now on . the Post Office ' s establishment of a consultative council and a postmaster panel and its commitment to improve postmaster remuneration be important first step in that regard . the Green Paper provide an opportunity to think about what else the Post Office can do . this be an issue that have be highlight by other in the Chamber , and my constituency be no different : it have be subject to a significant number of bank closure and ATM removal . in Cumbernauld , the precinct or the surround village , the post office be the one place where people in local community can access cash . give that so many small business be still cash - first , what will the Minister do to ensure that access to cash remain within a post office setting ? I commend my hon . friend for champion the post office in Cumbernauld and the community around her constituency that depend on it and on the Post Office more generally . the most significant thing that we can do to help small business to access and deposit cash close to where they operate be to continue to try to improve the banking service provide through the Post Office . I hope that the banking industry will seize the opportunity of the Green Paper to work with the Post Office and with the Government to explore what more we can do collectively in that regard . in rural area such as my Thornbury and Yate constituency , it can be difficult to travel to post office in town because of the lack of bus . if the Government be consider relax the distance and access criterion for post office provision , will they take that issue into account in set new criterion ? as I hope I make clear in my opening statement , and as the Green Paper certainly make clear , our preference remain keep the current size of the network and maintain the access criterion . I say gently that there be strong view on that question , include some within the sub - postmaster community , but our preference at the moment be to maintain the current size of the network and the exist access criterion , because of the significance of the post office to every rural and urban community . I thank the Minister for his statement and his clear recognition of the importance that the post office play in rural constituency such as mine . sadly , resident in some of the remotest part of my Carlisle constituency have be adversely impact in recent month by the sudden closure of post office outreach service . however , the closure of an outreach service be not currently subject to the same consultation requirement as the closure of a permanent branch . as part of the proposal for the future of the Post Office , will the Minister consider strengthen the requirement relate to the closure of outreach service ? I be happy to consider any submission that my hon . friend want to make to the Green Paper . indeed , I be happy to consider the thought and idea of hon . member across the House . my hon . Friend mention a particular issue in her constituency ; if it be helpful , I be happy to meet she to discuss it in more detail . Scotland have see an 8 . 3 % decline in post office , while London have see an increase of 9 . 3 % across the past decade . the Minister will know that outreach office help people in rural area and post office to thrive . the Green Paper recognise that , but the Government seem to dismiss it . what be he go to do to help rural post office ? will he reconsider his attitude and his view towards outreach office ? what will he do to reduce the number of post office closure in Scotland ? the most important thing that we can do to help Post Office branch in rural area in Scotland , and indeed across the UK , be to prioritise improve the commercial future of the Post Office . in that regard , it be important to invest in new technology — a replacement for Horizon be critical — and in technology to enable the bank to provide more banking service to all our community use the Post Office , as I hope they will . the key priority for government across the UK , if we be to improve the opportunity for every branch to well serve every community across the UK , be to improve the commercial fortune of the Post Office . the Green Paper set out plan to do so , but I welcome view from across the House on what more we can do . I thank the Minister for his statement . he know from previous question I have ask that I be concern for the future of the Chester - le - Street post office , which be move from have directly manage branch status to franchise status . I also welcome what be go on with the post office in Stanley , which have become a much - need banking hub . do the Minister agree that with a little more commercial flair and imagination about what service be provide , the Post Office should not be a business in retreat but could play a significant role in increase footfall on high street up and down the country , help to reverse their decline and encourage regeneration ? my hon . friend be absolutely right ; with good will on all side , and with financial and operational stability , which I think we be begin to see , there be a significant future ahead for the Post Office . as he say , the Post Office can continue to play an important role in revive our high street . the opportunity for bank to work with the Government and the Post Office to provide more banking service to all our constituent through the Post Office , could play a key role in help to revive the high street and meet the need of our constituent . since the election , three post office in my constituency have close — in Churchstow , Aveton Gifford and Dittisham — through the resignation of postmaster and , in one case , the death of the local postmaster . each time , the Post Office say that it be carry out a review , and each time it quickly decide to close the post office and , as the Minister himself say , the beat heart of those community be then lose . Dittisham resident must now travel nearly 5 mile to the near branch . there be no bus , so elderly resident who do not drive can not get to the near post office . will the Minister guarantee that while the consultation be ongoing , no more rural post office will be lose , and that as part of the Government ' s thinking , more flexibility could be build into the Post Office ' s business model , so that innovative and enthusiastic potential postmaster who want to reopen post office in some of these village can be allow to do so ? one crucial issue that we consider when we develop the Green Paper be how to address postmaster remuneration , because in some community the Post Office have struggle to find people who be willing to take on the running of a franchise . it be important that Post Office senior management have improve postmaster pay , with £ 20 million last financial year , a commitment to £ 66 million this financial year , and a plan to go even far . I hope that will make a significant difference to the ability to find people to take on franchise , and not just in urban area but in the rural area the hon . Lady describe . she will forgive I for not know her constituency as well as she do , but if she want to contact I about particular issue with branch closure , I would be happy to look at those . I welcome the Minister ' s statement , and the announcement of a national dialogue about the future of our Post Office . as a fellow Co - operative party member , I welcome the model of mutualisation , which would also suit our local branch . give the decline of Leigh ' s high street , the announcement of change to our main post office be a major concern . can he reassure staff in Leigh that they will not lose their job as a result of franchising ? will he confirm whether the Communication Workers Union have be fully consult on the change affect our community ? my hon . friend have long be a proud member of the Co - operative party and be interested in mutualisation , and I look forward to discuss these issue with she in due course . discussion on the franchising of the remain Crown post office be still ongoing , both with franchisee and local community , and specifically regard arrangement for staff . the Post Office and the Communication Workers Union be continue to talk to each other about how to manage the transition , and I welcome the positive dialogue that have take place between they both . I be pleased to hear the Minister say that the overall size and shape of the post office network should remain the same so that we can minimise the impact on community , but in my constituency the size and shape of the Post Office be rapidly shrink because of the fundamental fragility of the way it be set up . the retirement of a single sub - postmistress , because of rent go up on her shop , have lead to the closure of outreach service across the constituency . the access criterion consider someone to be within three mile of a post office if that post office be an outreach service and open for a single hour a week . that be not acceptable for rural community , many of which do not have a bus for many hour during the day . will the Minister commit to look at a sustainable model for rural post office , so that people can genuinely access cash and the other service they need , particularly if they do not have a car ? I completely accept the significance of the Post Office in rural community in particular , but it be equally essential that we have access to Post Office service in urban area . the hon . Lady reference the fragility of the Post Office , and that have certainly be the case in certain community when find postmaster who be willing to step forward and take on the role of run a Post Office franchise . that be why the initial step that the Post Office management have take to increase postmaster remuneration be important , by help to make the role more attractive . it be also important that the Post Office have establish a consultative council , to look properly at the way that postmaster be consult and involve in big decision about the future of the Post Office . if the hon . Lady think it would be useful , I would be happy to speak to she separately about the specific issue that her constituent face , and to understand a little more about the specific problem she have raise . I thank the Minister for his statement , and I add my thank to our postmaster , include Andrew Hart in my constituency . last year , resident in Knaresborough face a prolonged period without a Post Office service . I have extensive communication with Post Office official about service continuity , minimum standard , type and award of contract , and I find they evasive when I ask they question about that . as the Minister say , such issue of governance will be address in the inquiry , but how might that feed into the Green Paper consultation ? will he meet I to address some of my concern about the issue that we be face locally ? in principle , I be very happy to meet the hon . Gentleman to discuss the issue with post office in his constituency . he give I the opportunity to put on the record my appreciation for the work that all our postmaster do . they be hugely important servant of all our community , and they play a crucial role for our constituent — I be grateful to the hon . gentleman for that opportunity . the Green Paper be an opportunity for people in rural area as well as urban area to come forward with their view about the future of the Post Office . I hope that all hon . member will encourage their constituent to think about take that opportunity , and take a moment to send in their comment . I be pleased that the Minister have announce that the overall size and shape of the network will remain the same , and he have also indicate that remuneration must be part of the consultation . as he will know — I have correspond with he on this matter — the town of Porthleven and Newlyn in my constituency have be without post office for a number of year , because no one be prepared to take they on at the remuneration level that be available . be the Minister prepare to consider whether he see those post office more as Government office , and to expand their role in term of information , connectivity , and feedback across a number of Government Departments , to build up the service available in post office ? if he be meet people , will he meet I to discuss how we can resolve the situation in my constituency ? the hon . Gentleman be right that we need to make the task of run a post office more attractive . that be why improve both the culture , so that postmaster feel listened to , and the remuneration be hugely important immediate task . the good commercial opportunity for post office lie in the provision of banking service , rather than Government service . I hope that the bank and the financial service industry will have hear the message from member from all part of the House : we want they to do more to work with Government to take advantage of the potential opportunity . as I have commit to meet other hon . member to discuss local issue , I have well do the same for the hon . Gentleman . I thank sub - postmaster across Glastonbury and Somerton , and across the country , in particular Jim Gordon from Martock . many post office in my constituency have close in recent year , include those in Somerton , Butleigh , Charlton Adam , Charlton Mackrell , Keinton Mandeville and Sparkford , deprive their community of a vital service . I recently meet Mr and Mrs Thievendran from Somerton Stores , who be interested in open a post office on their premise but be unable to do so because of the prohibitive cost involve . the owner of the Baltonsborough Village Store be consider do the same but tell I that the cost be extraordinary . what step will the Minister take not only to put exist post office on a sustainable footing , but to help rural town and village without a post office to regain one ? as I have say , in our view we should retain the current size of the network and the current access criterion , which be key to ensure that every community , whether rural or urban , have good access to post office service . I encourage the hon . Lady to reach out to the Post Office to discuss the particular issue face the business to which she have refer , which be interested in run post office branch but feel unable to do so , to see whether anything can be do to ease those local challenge . more generally , the issue the hon . Lady raise partly speak to the challenge of increase postmaster remuneration . Post Office senior management clearly recognise that : there be a £ 20 million uplift in postmaster remuneration in the last financial year , there will be a £ 66 million increase this year , and Post Office management be commit to look to go even far . I hope that will make the opportunity to run a post office much more attractive , and may address some of the financial challenge she raise . I be slightly concerned that the franchising of Crown post office , such as the one at Teignmouth in my constituency , have already go ahead , prior to the consultation . turn to a different issue , Royal Mail be obligate to provide a post box within half a mile of any house , but many new estate in my constituency have no access to a post box — they be just not there . will the Minister put pressure on Royal Mail to ensure that post box be provide ? I thank the hon . gentleman for raise that specific matter . I will happily draw the attention of the Under - Secretary of State for Business and Trade , my hon . friend the Member for Ellesmere Port and Bromborough ( Justin Madders ) , who be responsible for Royal Mail , to that issue . the hon . Gentleman will have to forgive I , but I be not aware of the detail of the issue in his constituency , but he may want to write to we at the Department so that we pass the detail directly to Royal Mail . point of order on a point of order , Madam Deputy Speaker . we be elect to this House to hold the Executive to account and to ask question on behalf of our constituent . the Secretary of State for Energy Security and Net Zero , in common with many minister , be treat this House and our constituent with contempt by not even attempt to answer the question ask of he , probably because those answer would be embarrassing to he . there be get to be very little point in ask question of Ministers at the Dispatch Box . what can you do , as Deputy Speaker , to encourage Ministers to answer the question that be ask of they ? I thank the right hon . Lady for prior notice of her point of order . have she notify the Secretary of State of it ? indicate assent . minister be responsible for their answer , not the Chair , but the point have be make by the right hon . Lady and Ministers on the Treasury Bench will no doubt relay it back to the Secretary of State . privilege the hon . member for Gower ( Tonia Antoniazzi ) and for North Dorset ( Simon Hoare ) have table a motion for debate on a matter of privilege , which Mr Speaker have agree should take precedence today . I beg to move , that ( 1 ) the transcript of unreported oral evidence take from Mr Baxter by the Northern Ireland Affairs Committee in private session on 11 November 2009 be refer to the Committee of Privileges ; ( 2 ) the Committee consider the petition from the Secretary to the Omagh Bombing inquiry in relation to that evidence and take any advice it consider necessary ; ( 3 ) the Committee ' s power , include the power to report and publish evidence if it consider it appropriate to do so , shall apply in respect of that evidence ; ( 4 ) the Committee report to the House on the action it have take and any other matter it consider relevant by 30 October 2025 ; and ( 5 ) if the Committee consider the evidence should remain unreported , the Committee ' s report should include a recommendation on the desirability or otherwise of the release of the evidence to the Omagh Bombing Inquiry . I thank you , Madam Deputy Speaker , for allow this debate today . I raise the matter as a former Chair of the Northern Ireland Affairs Committee , a current member of that Committee and the current Chair of the Public Administration and Constitutional Affairs Committee , which by dint of shadow the Cabinet Office overlook the Inquiries Act 2005 . I have work closely with the current Chair of the Northern Ireland Affairs Committee , the hon . member for Gower ( Tonia Antoniazzi ) , on the motion . we simply hope to take the procedural step need to enable the important work of the Omagh bombing inquiry to be effective , while in tandem respect the right of the House . on Wednesday last week , my hon . friend for Gower — for she be a friend in respect of this work , as well as in many other respect — present a petition from the secretary to the inquiry ask for access to unpublished Committee evidence . we must not forget what lie behind this motion , so let I quote from the 2008 report of the Northern Ireland Affairs Committee into the Omagh bombing : " on Saturday 15 August 1998 , a 500 lb car bomb explode in Market Street , Omagh , County Tyrone , kill 29 people and two unborn child . the bombing cause more death than any other single atrocity commit during , or since , the Troubles in Northern Ireland . More than 250 people be treat in hospital and hundred more be also injure . the real IRA claim responsibility for the attack three day later . no one have be convict of cause the bombing . " like colleague across the House , I think it be important that we remember and honour those innocent people who be kill and injure that day . question still remain and the inquiry seek to answer they — let we hope that it do so . I be bear in Omagh a long , long time ago — 70 year ago , to be precise . I do not remember very much about it , but Omagh have always be dear to my heart . I remember well the event as it take place , the people that day and the tear we all shed for the people of Omagh , and we seek justice . family have suffer for too long and I support their quest for justice . do the hon . Member agree that justice should be at the forefront of the mind of all right hon . and hon . member during this process ? I agree wholeheartedly with the hon . Gentleman . if this place be not a champion of justice and its pursuit as a high court of Parliament , what be it ? I have have the privilege of share time on the Northern Ireland Affairs Committee with the hon . Gentleman and the hon . member for Gower ( Tonia Antoniazzi ) , in the name of whom this motion have be lay . it be crucial that the Omagh inquiry get the information it require , and we have raise concern about the Irish Government and their reluctance . it would be useful for the Privileges Committee to hear very clearly from I and , I hope , from the hon . member for North Dorset ( Simon Hoare ) that it would be entirely incongruous if in an inquiry set up under the Inquiries Act 2005 , which be pass by this Parliament , to seek answer for the Omagh bombing family and construe in their name , information that Norman Baxter give to the Northern Ireland Affairs Committee be available and could assist the inquiry , but be refuse because of privilege . that would be an intolerable situation . I hope the hon . Gentleman will agree that have go through this process and agree this motion , the information will be make available . I be very grateful to the right hon . gentleman for that intervention , and I endorse it entirely . my hon . friend the Member for South Leicestershire ( Alberto Costa ) and his Committee will look at the motion , if the House decide to pass it this evening , and I know he will have hear that . I echo what the right hon . member for Belfast East ( Gavin Robinson ) have say . I hope that if the House agree to this motion , the Privileges Committee will look favourably on the request and do so in a timely manner . the inquiry be establish in February 2024 by the then Secretary of State for Northern Ireland . its task be to investigate whether the bombing in the town of Omagh in August 1998 could reasonably have be prevent by UK state authority . as part of its term of reference , the inquiry be specifically ask to look at " the allegation make by Norman Baxter " — a former senior investigate officer in the investigation into the Omagh bombing — " in the course of his evidence to the Northern Ireland Affairs Select Committee on 11 November 2009 , that police investigator into previous attack in Moira ( 20 February 1998 ) , Portadown ( 9 May 1998 ) , Banbridge ( 1 August 1998 ) and Lisburn ( 30 April 1998 ) do not have access to intelligence material which may reasonably have enable they to disrupt the activity of dissident republican terrorist prior to the Omagh Bombing . " I quote that because I think it be germane to our consideration . the inquiry have establish that some of the evidence take from Mr Baxter by the Committee have not be report to the House , so it remain unpublished and inaccessible . that be effectively the kernel of this motion . the petition ask for access to that evidence . we find ourselves in the strange position whereby in set up the inquiry , specific reference be make to that piece of evidence submit , but because of a procedural problem here it be not publish and be therefore not on the public record . that be why the inquiry have ask for the evidence . at this stage , I express my gratitude to both Mr Baxter and the inquiry team . they immediately realise that if the evidence have not be publish , it belong to this House . they seek advice from the House authority and receive it . they have be careful to ensure that they have act properly throughout . there be two issue here . the first issue be that if a Committee want to publish evidence , it must report it to the House and obtain an order to publish that evidence . if it want material to be available to Members but no one else , it can simply report the evidence to the House . evidence that be report but not publish be available to Members in subsequent Parliaments , but unreported evidence be accessible only to the Committee to which it belong and in the Parliament in which it be take . once that Parliament be over — which , clearly , it be — no one have access to unreported evidence until the archive be open . there be no wriggle room here , hence the reason for this motion and the detailed explanation — I be sorry to detain the House . if a Committee wish to see unreported evidence from its counterpart in the previous Parliament , the House must refer it to that Committee . if anyone outside the House want that evidence , they must petition for it , as the secretary to the inquiry have do . that be what this motion seek to advance . it be very hard for the House to decide whether to release evidence that it have not see and can not see before the decision be make . it be particularly difficult in this case , as that evidence may contain sensitive information . accordingly , the motion invite the House to refer the evidence to the Committee of Privileges . that Committee can undoubtedly consider the matter and probably take advice . if it be advise that there be no reason not to publish the evidence , which be take more than 15 year ago , it might simply decide to publish it — I hope that it can and do . otherwise , it can consider the matter and report to the House with a recommendation on what would be appropriate . the House can then make an informed decision subsequent to the work of the Committee of my hon . friend the Member for South Leicestershire . the second issue be that article 9 of the Bill of Rights say : " that the Freedome of Speech and Debates or Proceedings in Parlyament ought not to be impeach or question in any Court or Place out of Parlyament . " that mean that court should not evaluate what be say in this place . that be not simply a matter of we be free to speak freely in Parliament ; it extend to all those who participate in our proceeding , include our witness . it be clearly important that people should be free to give evidence to the House and its Committees without fear of legal consequence . this be also a matter of the constitutional separation of power between Parliament and the court . a " place out of Parlyament " do not mean anywhere outside Parliament : it have be take to mean something with power like those of a court . the ban on impeach and questioning mean not that no use can be make of parliamentary material , but that the use must be careful . the Omagh statutory inquiry be like a court : it have power to take evidence on oath , and its Chair may direct people to attend as witness and / or to produce document if request to do so . the House authority consider it a " place out of Parlyament " . for that reason , the House authority regularly contact statutory inquiry to draw their attention to the important provision of article 9 . I be delighted to note that the petition be clear that " the Inquiry have take advice on the application of article 9 of the Bill of Rights to its proceeding and will be mindful of the privilege of the House . " I be confident that Lord Turnbull , who have the onerous task of chair the inquiry , and his team recognise the issue ; their behaviour demonstrate that . I expect that if the Privileges Committee consider the petition should be grant , the key issue that the inquiry be invite to consider will be inform by the evidence without impeach and question . I trust it will be possible for we to assist the inquiry in its work . I hope that I have make as clear as I possibly can the genesis and importance of this motion , the lacuna that it seek to fill and the requirement that this House have quite rightly guard jealously for a long , long time on how evidence submit to it be treat . I hope I have make clear and impressed on the House the importance of its pass this motion , and I urge it to do so . as I say in answer to the right hon . member for Belfast East , we set a timeline in the motion to the Privileges Committee , but I know that it will tend to it with expedition . I hope colleague will agree to this motion , which will allow informed consideration of all the issue . it will hopefully bring justice or clarity to justice , as we have discuss with regard to the inquiry , which be look into that terrible crime that blight the life of so many and end the life of so many prematurely , include two unborn child . my comment will be necessarily brief , give the role that I play as Chair of the Committee of Privileges . I thank my hon . friend the Member for North Dorset ( Simon Hoare ) for the comment he have make and the respect with which he be convey this motion to the Committee . the Committee stand ready to deal with this matter , should the House decide shortly to refer it to we . I note that the motion ask we to report our conclusion back to the House by the end of October . we stand ready to carefully consider any issue arise from the release of the unreported evidence from the Northern Ireland Committee ' s 2009 inquiry . we should also wish to consider issue arise from the inclusion in the term of reference of a public inquiry of a document that be — as have be acknowledge — rightfully the property of the House . the principle establish in the Bill of Rights 1689 that proceeding of Parliament ought not to be question or impeach in any place out of Parliament be potentially infringe by such a provision . I be mindful , however , that the solicitor to the Omagh bombing inquiry have very properly include in his petition to the House a respectful recognition of the constitutional principle involve , and be mindful of the privilege of the House . I put on record my gratitude to he for that consideration . finally , whatever the constitutional principle involve — and the Committee will take advice — it must be the case that we all wish the Omagh bombing inquiry well in its endeavour to establish whether anything could have be do to prevent a despicable terrorist act that kill 29 people — include a woman pregnant with twin , as my hon . friend the Member for North Dorset say — and irrevocably affect the life of many more . our thought must ever be with the victim of that atrocious action , both live and dead . if it be within our power to be of aid to the inquiry , I be certain that my Committee and I would wish nothing other than to do so . I call the shadow Minister . I put on record my gratitude to the Minister for reach out to I early to explain her position ; to the Clerk of the Journals for brief I this afternoon ; and to my hon . friend the Member for North Dorset ( Simon Hoare ) for talk I through this issue over the weekend . I will be unusually brief , because I wish to return to the debate in Westminster Hall — a lot of hon . member who would otherwise be in the Chamber for this debate be currently engage in another debate on Northern Ireland . the conservative party strongly support the motion as word on the Order Paper . the Omagh bombing inquiry be set up by my former right hon . friend Chris Heaton - Harris in 2023 to deal with one of the very bad atrocity of the trouble , in which the real IRA attempt to derail the peace process and , in do so , kill many innocent civilian . as my right hon . friend understand when he set up the inquiry , it be critical to have a process that could compel witness and take evidence under oath to get to the bottom of exactly what happen . consequently , it be of acute importance that that inquiry have access to all available information in reach its conclusion . as the right hon . member for Belfast East ( Gavin Robinson ) make clear in his remark , anything else would make a mockery of the process . on that note , and on a point that the right hon . Member make , it be essential that the Republic co - operate fully with this inquiry . we have have encouraging sign that it will , but the proof of the pudding will be in the eating . I be reassure to hear the remark make by the Chair of the Privileges Committee , my hon . friend the Member for South Leicestershire ( Alberto Costa ) . I look forward to hear that Committee ' s conclusion , but its member should be in no doubt that the conservative party wish to see this information hand over to the inquiry for its consideration . I be grateful to the hon . member for North Dorset ( Simon Hoare ) and my hon . friend the Member for Gower ( Tonia Antoniazzi ) for bring this matter before the House . I be also grateful to you , Madam Deputy Speaker , for allow the motion to be debate , and to the hon . member for North Dorset for his careful explanation of the procedure involve . I thank everyone who have work together to enable this motion to come before this House , with nothing but a desire to support the Omagh inquiry . the Government be very supportive of the motion . should it be agree , the Government will await the work of the Committee of Privileges with interest . question put and agree to . deprivation of Citizenship Orders ( effect during Appeal ) Bill consider in Committee Clause 1 - deprivation of citizenship order to continue to have effect during appeal I remind member that in Committee , Members should not address the Chair as " Deputy Speaker " . please use our name when address the Chair . " Chair " and " Madam Chair " be also acceptable . I beg to move amendment 1 , page 1 , line 9 , at end insert — " ( 2ba ) but a judge may determine that an order do not continue to have effect for a person " p " during the appeal period if , on grant leave to appeal at any stage , they be satisfied that — ( a ) " p " face a real and substantial threat of serious harm as a result of the order , ( b ) continuation of the order would significantly prejudice their ability to mount an effective defence at a subsequent appeal , or ( c ) the duration of the appeal process have be excessive because of an act or omission by a public authority . " with this it will be convenient to consider : clause 1 and 2 stand part . new clause 1 — independent review — " ( 1 ) the Secretary of State must , within one year of the passing of this Act , commission an independent review of the effect of the change make to section 40a of the British Nationality Act 1981 by section 1 . ( 2 ) the review must be complete within two year of the passing of this Act . ( 3 ) as soon as practicable after a person have carry out the review , the person must — ( a ) produce a report of the outcome of the review , and ( b ) send a copy of the report to the Secretary of State . ( 4 ) the Secretary of State must lay before each House of Parliament a copy of the report send under subsection ( 3 ) ( b ) within one month of receive the report . " I be pleased to be open this debate , although , give the turnout in the Chamber , it seem to be a minority interest among member of Parliament , notwithstanding the fact that the legislation affect some of our most basic freedom and right . before I address amendment 1 , I hope you will forgive I , Madam Chair , if I briefly indulge in a preamble . there be a couple of issue that I want to impress on the Minister in the hope that he will respond favourably and , if not accept my amendment , agree to consider the principle it raise in the other place . give the number of senior lawyer there , this legislation will be examine by some pretty stringent legal eye . first , Madam Chair , I hope you will agree that we establish on Second Reading that this Bill be highly discriminatory . one of the truism we always utter in this House be that we all stand equal before the law , but I be afraid that where this legislation be concern , that be just not true . the Minister would be unable to wield against I the power he be seek to bring in under this Bill ; it would not be countenance because I have no right to citizenship elsewhere . however , there be member of this House against whom the Minister could wield that power . although he could not wield it against I , he could wield it against two of my child , although not against the other one — I have three . he could wield it against the child of the former Prime Minister , my right hon . friend the Member for Richmond and Northallerton ( Rishi Sunak ) ; against the child of the former Chancellor of the Exchequer , my right hon . friend the Member for Godalming and Ash ( Sir Jeremy Hunt ) ; and against the child of the former Deputy Prime Minister , my right hon . friend the Member for Hertsmere ( Sir Oliver Dowden ) . I be try to illustrate to the Minister that this legislation be highly discriminatory , and unusually so . he be tamper with some of the basic tenet of british justice through this Bill — a principle have be establish in the Supreme Court that he be attempt to reverse — and I want he to have in mind that he be try to embed that discrimination in law . I hope and believe that that be not his primary motivation , but he must comprehend that before he take this step . secondly , I say to the Minister , who have a distinguished record of service in the defence of this country and now serve as Security Minister , that much of the Bill be , let we face it , focus on those accuse of commit terrorism here or overseas . terrorist win in two way : first , by the physical injury that they inflict and the fear of that physical injury that they be likely to inflict by explode bomb , kill people and all the horror we have see in our lifetime over the past 30 or 40 year , if not long ; and secondly , by a long , slow undermining of our way of life and by sow division within our society . their long game be to force we to twist ourselves in knot around the freedom that make we different , which they despise , and slowly to erode our standard of living and the atmosphere in which we live , and we have see that before in this country . the Minister be old enough to remember the evolution of the Diplock court in Northern Ireland , where hearing be hold without jury . we dispense with the basic freedom of the right to a jury trial in Northern Ireland for a while , largely because of accusation of violence towards jury . it be prove later that this be part of a know strategy by the IRA to make the six county ungovernable , other than by military colonial mean , so the IRA see that move as a triumph . what terrorist want in the long term be a twisting of our natural freedom . they want we to make compromise in our legislation that undermine our sense of belong in our nation and create a division not just between the governed and the Government , but within society . this legislation , I be afraid , start to do exactly that . on Second Reading I point out , as I have possibly already do today — I hate to be repetitive — that this legislation and this power create two class of citizenship in the UK . there be those who can have the order remove and those who never can have it remove . as use of the power have accelerate over the past two decade , and we be use it now more than we ever do , it create a feeling of unease among those whose citizenship be conditional . I will explain to the Minister why I table amendment 1 . as I say on Second Reading , my view be that he be undermine some of the basic tenet of british justice with what he be attempt to do with this legislation . with this amendment , I be attempt to swing the pendulum back a little in the cause of fairness before the law . as he will know , individual subject to this power have the right to appeal on a number of basis , and court will decide whether to allow their appeal . broadly , there be three area on which they can appeal : the first be whether the decision be proportional ; the second be whether it be procedurally fair ; and the third be whether the Minister or the Home Secretary have make a mistake over whether the person have a right to citizenship elsewhere and so may in fact be render stateless . as he know , that be not allow under the legislation . if I have have my citizenship deprive essentially at the stroke of a pen by the Home Secretary , and I win an appeal , it seem unfair , give that I have win that appeal on the basis of fact , that the Government can continue to deprive I of my citizenship pende a further appeal by they . ordinarily , I would have get rid of this legislation , but the Minister seem insistent , and he win on principle at Second Reading , and that be fine . I be therefore appeal to his sense of good old british fair play to say , " this individual have win their first appeal on the basis of fact . unless we have some profound reason to dispute that fact , we will not appeal , in which case they get their citizenship back . " on the basis of the fundamental british value of " innocent until prove guilty " , that person should get their citizenship back , particularly if a judge decide that the three condition outline in my amendment be satisfied . I have not speak to the Minister about my amendment — rather disappointingly , he have not approach I to discuss it — but give that he be a man with a strong sense of fair play — [ interruption . ] he be scoff slightly , but normal practice when somebody put down an amendment be that they be approach to discuss the nature of that amendment , if the Government think it will be speak to . this be a small Bill with only two amendment table . nevertheless , I assume he will oppose the amendment . I be try to appeal to his sense of fair play . will the right hon . Gentleman give way ? by all mean . I know he be a busy man , and I do not mean to be critical . I have huge respect for the right hon . Gentleman , but I think he be be a little unfair . he would have be entirely welcome to discuss his amendment with I . have he choose to do so , I would have happily sit down with he to discuss the detail of it . the Minister be a fair man and a fair - minded man . he be quite right , and I be willing to countenance his appeal and give he the benefit of the doubt , and that be exactly what I be ask for the individual subject to this legislation . he will know that we have certain inalienable constitutional right as british citizen , which this legislation contravene . the first be that we have a right to a fair hearing and that any action the Government take must be exercise fairly . that right have be establish in the common law again and again , and most recently in 1994 , in the case of ex parte Doody , when the court decide that Ministers must exercise their power fairly . the second inalienable right , which have be decide in the Supreme Court , be that we all have a right to access to the court , and that can not be unfairly restrict . as that have be decide by the Supreme Court , the Government can not put up artificial barrier to our access , such as raise fee or make sure that we can not physically get to the court . indeed , as the Minister will know , I have an absolute right to defend myself in person at every stage of legal action , whether that be at first hearing or at subsequent appeal . all those power or right that I have as a citizen be affect by the legislation he be attempt to put through . my amendment essentially say three thing . if the Government fail to win an appeal , but wish to continue to deprive I of my citizenship pende a further appeal , they must , when seek leave to appeal from the judge , also ask the judge for leave to continue the deprivation of citizenship . the judge basically could say no in three circumstance . first , the judge could say no if there be a real and substantial threat of serious harm to that individual if they be deny access to the United Kingdom . some of these people will be live or operate from extremely dangerous place . if that person be likely to be kill pende further appeal on the denial of their citizenship , it would seem grossly unfair , their have already win an appeal , to deny they access to the country . the second ground would be if their exclusion from the UK and the continue of denial of citizenship would be deeply prejudicial to the conduct of their defence in an appeal that the Government subsequently decide to bring . in such a case , it would be impossible for I to defend myself at appeal in person , which should be my inalienable right as a british citizen . it would be impossible for I to do that remotely in some God - forsake part of the world where I can not zoom in or I do not have the ability to communicate . it would be the same if I be unable to communicate with my legal team . I be sure the Minister can see that it would be unfair to interfere with someone ' s ability to mount a proper defence — we should not forget that that person have already win an appeal — through the continue denial of citizenship . the third ground , which we cover on Second Reading , be the Government ' s take their time , achieve their objective merely by drag their heel and play for time , hope that something , perhaps something untoward , will turn up . a judge should then make a judgment — the clue be in the name — on whether they be be efficient in their use of the legal system , rather than , as I be afraid happen from time to time , game it to their own advantage . as my right hon . friend know , I have a huge amount of respect and affection for he , and he be right to refer to the inalienable right that a british citizen have in term of access to justice and so forth , but surely he must accept that individual face deprivation of citizenship will have cross a threshold of behaviour , or allegiance , so alien to our tradition , so alien to all the right and responsibility accrue over the decade of british citizenship , that in essence , in the court of public opinion , they will put themselves way beyond the pale when it come to those issue . it would be an extreme hypocrisy for those who most seek to undermine our way of life to demand all the right and privilege that they have seek to undermine , and possibly destroy , through their action or foreign allegiance . I understand my hon . friend ' s point , but I would have more faith , or confidence , in his view if it apply to I as well , which it do not . what we be say be that we can have two british citizen who commit the same heinous act but receive two different kind of treatment . one can have his or her citizenship remove and be expel from the country , but another — say I be to do that — can not . my view be that this be highly discriminatory , and trample over some of the inalienable right that my hon . friend have mention . we currently have plenty of british citizen in high - security prison who have commit act as heinous as those commit by people whom we have deprive of british citizenship , but we have decide to deprive they of british citizenship purely because of their heritage and background — purely because they may be second - generation immigrant . as I point out on Second Reading , this legislation apply to every single jewish member of the United Kingdom citizenry . they all have an inalienable right to israeli citizenship , and as a result , in my view , they all have second - class citizenship . I do not think that that be right . I do not think that it be fair . I think that it drive a wedge into our society , and sow a seed of doubt at the back of everyone ' s mind . this be the point that I be try to make at the start . those who perpetrate such heinous act overseas absolutely should be punish . as my hon . friend will know , over the past 10 year I have be at the forefront of try to ensure that as many criminal as possible end up behind bar , whatever the criminality might be , but the fact be that there be a principle in british law — we be all suppose to be equal — and the Bill breach that principle very significantly . moreover , what the Government be attempt to do not only reinforce that breach , but aim to twist and skew fundamental tenet of british justice that have be our right for century . surely the fact that a remedy be not available to all do not mean that it be not a remedy . if we wish to argue for the two - tier approach , we can think of instance in which mental capacity have come into play , particularly in respect of capital offence , when those exist here . in abstract theory , that be a two - tier approach to justice , determine on the ground of mental capacity or lack thereof . surely remedy do not have be applicable universally to be apply fairly and within the law . I be not sure that I accept the hon . Gentleman ' s logic . the test of mental capacity in the judicial system apply to everyone equally . if I be be prosecute for an offence , I would be assess for mental capacity , just as my hon . friend would . the court would accept that there might be mitigation for his action , or a requirement for a different disposal if he lack mental capacity , but that be an external influence on he . it may come about owe to mental illness or some other kind of disability — who know ? the point be that this come about through no reason other than birth . my citizenship , or my lack of citizenship , be confer on I by reason of my birth — my parentage , or my heritage . I can not do anything about it . I can not be treat for it , as I can be for mental illness . this be purely because my parent may have come from another country , my skin may be of a different colour , or the country of the origin of my DNA may offer particular right of citizenship . it be something arbitrary , about which I can do nothing . we might as well have a piece of legislation that say that people with red hair receive different treatment under the law , because there be nothing they can do about that . do the right hon . Gentleman agree that this whole notion of heritage be not even an exact science ? my first black ancestor to be bear in this country be bear in 1806 , in Twyford ; I have no idea where that be , but I know it be not that far from here . he be the son of a formerly enslave person and a white domestic servant live in the house of his former master . I do not know what that particular ancestry be , but it go quite far back . just because someone call Thomas Birch - Freeman , who be live in the UK and would be deem british by this legislation , travel to Ghana as a missionary and settle there , and that be where my lineage come from , I be now treat differently under the law , despite , perhaps , have heritage that may be similar to that of the right hon . Gentleman . the hon . Lady have make a very good point . my problem with this legislation be that it place a question mark over certain citizen . I be not suggest that the legislation be on everyone ' s lip every day , but when it be use with increase frequency , it do place a question mark over people ' s status as citizen of the United Kingdom , and that , I think , should be a matter of concern . the right hon . Gentleman be make his point in a very consider way , but he be level quite serious charge against the Government . may I say to he , in absolute good faith , that our intention here have nothing to do with someone ' s place of birth and everything to do with their behaviour ? I understand what the Minister be say , and , as I say to he on Second Reading , I be not concerned about this power fall into his hand , but we do not know who will be in his position in the future , and we be never quite sure how the power might develop . as I have say , over the year we have see an acceleration and an increase in what be a very draconian power that we should be take extremely seriously . to deprive people of their citizenship be a profoundly serious thing to do , which may well — indeed , will — affect they for the rest of their life . no doubt it will be do in the face of extremely serious offence on the Minister ' s watch , but I be not sure that that will necessarily always be the case . give that under the power that be be create people can be expel on the basis that their presence be not conducive to the public good , we could see its be use in combination with other power that have be expand recently . just last week , in controversial term , the Minister proscribe a particular organisation operate in this country . I be sure he will be able to explain , but in my experience — I think he refer to this at the time — proscription have be reserve for terrorist organisation . as the Minister have indicate , this power be reserve for those who be terrorist . could it be use against individual who be convict of crime under that proscription ? that be the danger that I be try to illustrate to he , and this be an area of law where I urge he to tread carefully and to think about the compromise that he be create against our basic freedom that we need to maintain , at the same time — I do not dispute his motivation — as protect the United Kingdom in the good way he possibly can . I be just worried that he be take a step too far . I rise to speak in favour of amendment 1 , in the name of the right hon . member for North West Hampshire ( Kit Malthouse ) , who be definitely on the other side of the House but who I be very much ally with in see the clear flaw in this Bill . like he , I remain uncomfortable about the Bill as a whole , which I be sure will come as no surprise to the Minister . I be quite clear on second read about my concern , which unfortunately the Minister fail to adequately respond to . under the Bill , someone who successfully appeal against an order take their british citizenship away will not get it back until it be no long possible for the Government to challenge that appeal . at present , the length of time be indefinite , make this a measure that be effectively design to circumvent the judiciary , and I want to fully understand why . on Second Reading , I repeatedly ask the Minister to specify what act a person must commit to fall into the particularly unique situation in which the Government would want to revoke their citizenship , and why there be no exist legislation that can be use to take criminal proceeding against , or imprison , they as someone who be extremely dangerous . I would really like he to give a clear example — beyond the one case that have spark this knee - jerk response — of where this legislation would be require . he have to recognise that , once law , it can be use in more than one way and in more than one case , as the right hon . member for North West Hampshire have clearly lay out . surely the Minister can understand the apprehension that many people will have if this legislation be be bring forward to address only one specific example , yet potentially have implication for dual national and for those with eligibility for citizenship elsewhere . I mention on Second Reading that certain community be often wary of legislation that touch on citizenship , because it almost always — whether it be the state intention or not — disproportionately impact they . to be clear , I be talk about people from black , asian and minority ethnic community , and those with parent or grandparent who may have be bear elsewhere ; they will be particularly alarm by this legislation . those of we who be entitle to citizenship of other country for no other reason than where our parent or grandparent may have be bear , or simply because of our ethnic origin , know that we be at a high risk of have our british citizenship revoke . when such legislation be pass , it create two tier of citizenship . it create second - class citizen , and we have know that since the Shamima Begum case . as far as I be concern , this Bill go beyond keep people safe and beyond a technical adjustment . it send a message that certain people and certain community be forever second - class citizen , and that no matter how long someone have contribute to this country , their citizenship be conditional , revocable and disposable . it seem that we have learn nothing at all from the Windrush scandal , because we continue to go through this cycle of create piece of legislation that may impact certain community , notice that they may impact those community and pass they anyway . as far as I be concern , the power to remove someone ' s citizenship have its root in colonial logic , whereby belonging be grant or revoke at the whim of empire , but there be no more empire . that logic have no place in a modern democratic society . citizenship should never be a privilege to be grant or withdraw base on the political agenda of the day . citizenship be and should be a right , and it be the foundation of equality before the law ; and even though this may not be the intention , the Bill undermine that right for some people while safeguard it for other . I be against this Bill not just because of what it do , but because of what it say . why have the Minister not see it fit to conduct an equality impact assessment ? I know the Bill have an incredibly narrow scope , but its potential implication be vast and the potential impact be limit to specific community . step should have be take to understand the impact that this legislation might have . I hope the Government will consider amendment 1 . we know that these case be lengthy and can last several year ; I point again to the Shamima Begum case as an example . leave somebody essentially stateless as the Government exhaust the appeal process risk their freedom and safety . although the Government may wish to wash their hand of the individual whom they be seek to deprive of citizenship — as evidence by the very nature of appeal — that person and their safety be and absolutely ought to be , by law , the responsibility of their government . if render they stateless throughout their appeal , regardless of whether it last a few month or a few year , risk harm to the individual , then it be only right that a judge can rule that the order do not continue to take effect until the appeal process be exhausted . ultimately , I believe that this legislation be reactionary and have be bear out of frustration at the failure of the exist legislation . if someone be deem to pose a severe threat to public safety and the exist legislation do not allow the Government to deal with the matter appropriately , we must amend the exist legislation . as I say before , I be against this Bill not just because of what it do , but because of what it say about who we be and whose right matter , and about whether justice in this country be truly blind or whether it see skin colour and migration history before it see the individual and the citizen . I genuinely do not believe that this knee - jerk approach be the answer . create second - class citizen be not the answer . there surely have to be another way . I call the liberal Democrat spokesperson . I rise to speak in support of new clause 1 , in my name . as I say on Second Reading , the liberal Democrats believe there be a need for proper reform of the entire citizenship deprivation process . a transparent and accountable system for citizenship deprivation would ensure that this extraordinary power be use only in the most extreme circumstance , be never deploy for political reason , and be consistently subject to thorough parliamentary scrutiny . sadly , the Bill before we fall short of that standard . as I also say on Second Reading , the Home Secretary ' s description of this Bill as merely close a legal loophole do not mean that its provision should escape robust scrutiny and review — quite the opposite ; any expansion of power to deprive individual of citizenship demand the high level of oversight . early this year , even before this Bill be introduce , the cross - party Joint Committee on Human Rights conclude that the Government ' s current approach to citizenship deprivation fall short of the UK ' s human right obligation . it call for significantly great safeguard , include strong oversight and enhance parliamentary scrutiny of these power . the Liberal Democrats fully echo that call . new clause 1 seek to embed essential safeguard within the framework of these new power in the same way . specifically , the new clause would require the Secretary of State to commission an independent review of the effect of the change make to section 40a of the British Nationality Act 1981 by clause 1 of this legislation . the review must begin within one year and be complete within two year of the passing of the Act . a report of the review must be produce and send to the Secretary of State , who must then lay it before Parliament within one month . new clause 1 recognise that although the Bill may appear narrow in scope , its consequence be substantial . the power to deprive someone of their citizenship be one of the most significant power the state can wield , engage fundamental right and liberty . it be particularly serious give that under the current legislation , deprivation can — in some circumstance — leave an individual stateless . this be especially important in the UK , which use citizenship deprivation order more frequently than almost any other country . the Home Secretary already need only to be " satisfied that deprivation be conducive to the public good " in order to strip someone of their citizenship — a threshold that be far too low . new clause 1 would simply ensure that any further power grant to the Secretary of State be at least balanced by proper oversight and transparency in its application . to be honest , I think many of we have sympathy for the hon . Lady ' s new clause , but I be concern about the security of this country , for which the Minister and the Government have responsibility . if someone contravene that in any way or lead to any insecurity for the rest of the citizen , should they forfeit their right to citizenship ? the hon . Gentleman be right that one of the most serious job of any Government be to keep their citizen safe — I completely agree . there be , though , a need for robust scrutiny . the Government must have confidence that the legislation they be put forward have the support of this House and of the country , include that that legislation do what they say they want it to do and do not accidentally do something else . I think the most confident legislator be those who be open , transparent and welcoming of scrutiny , so I be grateful for the hon . Gentleman ' s comment . the Liberal Democrats support amendment 1 , table by the right hon . member for North West Hampshire ( Kit Malthouse ) , which would empower the court to prevent the Secretary of State from issue a deprivation order in case where do so would place an individual at risk of harm or undermine their ability to mount an effective defence , or in case where a public authority have cause unreasonable delay in the appeal process . this be a measured and sensible proposal that place essential limit on the excessive power currently wield by the Secretary of State in matter of citizenship deprivation , and we will support the amendment if the right hon . Gentleman push it to a vote . to refer back to the intervention by the hon . member for Strangford ( Jim Shannon ) , would the hon . Lady be interested to comment on this point ? my understanding be that , under the term of the Good Friday agreement , every UK citizen resident in Northern Ireland have a right to claim irish citizenship . this Bill in effect mean that every UK citizen resident in Northern Ireland can be deprive of their citizenship — have it remove by the Home Secretary — if that be conducive to the public good . that be another example of a whole group of people who would have a second class of citizenship . I have listen very carefully to the right hon . Gentleman ' s comment this evening and on Second Reading , and I have a great deal of respect for he and the way he lay out his argument . I be very much look forward to the Minister ' s comment from the Dispatch Box shortly . far to the intervention by the right hon . member for North West Hampshire ( Kit Malthouse ) , be the hon . member aware not only that Commonwealth country allow people to claim citizenship from the birth of their parent or grandparent , but that some country — notably Ghana and Kenya — specifically allow people to claim citizenship purely by be of african heritage , because they may not be able to trace their lineage due to enslavement ? I be very grateful to the hon . member for those comment . we Liberal Democrats believe that the whole deprivation of citizenship regime need fundamentally look at and review , and we would welcome any co - operation across the House with hon . and right hon . member who want to work with we on that . the Liberal Democrats be clear that deprivation of citizenship must remain an absolute exception , and never be a routine tool of Government policy . new clause 1 would provide the necessary guardrail to help ensure this remain the case , even as further power be place in the Secretary of State ' s hand . ultimately , the integrity of british citizenship and our commitment to fundamental right must never be compromise by practicality . new clause 1 would uphold those principle and ensure that such a grave power be exercise only with full accountability and the close scrutiny of this Parliament . I call the shadow Minister . I thank all member for their contribution , member who table amendment , and the Minister for his work and approach . as have be set out , the Bill represent an important step towards tighten the exist rule on the deprivation of citizenship , as we discuss on Second Reading . this be a crucial tool that Home Secretaries must be able to exercise as part of their broad effort to keep our country safe . membership of a nation do not just imply right ; it also confer responsibility . when british citizen engage in terrorism , support for terrorism or serious organise crime , they clearly disregard those responsibility . we can not deprive such people of citizenship in all case , but where we can , we should . put simply , the intent of this Bill be to make sure that the Home Secretary ' s use of deprivation power be effective . more broadly , it also intend to make it clear that , when consider the use of the deprivation power , politically accountable Ministers must ultimately be responsible for the final decision . the amendment must be view in that light . first , I thank the hon . member for Hazel Grove ( Lisa Smart ) for her new clause 1 . she be right to highlight the need to keep the use of deprivation power under review , particularly when change be make to the scope of those power . however , we do not believe that need to be in the Bill . secondly , my right hon . friend the Member for North West Hampshire ( Kit Malthouse ) be absolutely right to point out , with amendment 1 , that there be a balance to be strike . it go without say that deprivation of citizenship have a cost — in some case , a very large one — for those who be deprive of their citizenship . use improperly , it also have a cost for the rule of law , trust in our system and the delicate balance involve when we welcome people to make this country their home . he be right to counsel we to take this extremely seriously , as I believe the Minister do . the hon . member for Clapham and Brixton Hill ( Bell Ribeiro - Addy ) be similarly right to point out that the question of citizenship deprivation — I know that we be not today debate that principle in relation either to the amendment or to the Bill more broadly — go to the heart of who we be and wish to be as a nation . however , I believe that the Bill already strike the right balance , and we should be very cautious about create a situation in which judge be ask to apply subjective test about when Ministers can or can not exercise power , particularly in such serious and time - sensitive circumstance . I be confident that no Home Secretary would use these power lightly , and I be also confident that the only sustainable way to ensure that these power be exercise properly be through the political process , include proper parliamentary scrutiny . I have listen very carefully to this debate , and I thank all hon . and right hon . member for the point they have make . as I have say in this Chamber many time , there be simply no great priority than the safety of all those in the UK , and this Bill will help ensure the integrity of a vital tool in our ongoing effort to protect the UK . as ever , I will endeavour to respond to the theme that have be raise . I start with the Bill ' s sole substantive clause . clause 1 insert into the British Nationality Act 1981 propose new section 40a , which will prevent those who have be deprive of british citizenship from automatically regain citizenship if their appeal be successful . this will be in effect until onward appeal have be determine , and that extend up to the Supreme Court . it replicate the approach take on asylum and human right appeal . if all appeal have be determine and the Government prove unsuccessful , british citizenship would be reinstate with immediate and retrospective effect . this clause and the Bill in its entirety do not change any exist right of appeal or widen the reason for which a person could be deprive of their citizenship . I also reassure the Committee that the Government have to demonstrate a genuine case for an appeal in order for court to allow the appeal to proceed . the court carefully assess whether any appellant have a reasonable prospect of success , or there exist some other compelling public interest , before grant permission . rule of court exist to prevent superfluous or unfounded appeal be pursue . clause 2 be necessary to make the Bill operational . the provision be retrospective and will come into effect on Royal Assent . this be necessary to mitigate effectively the risk of case currently in the system . the Bill extend and apply to all of the UK , the Crown dependency and overseas territory , and I be sure that hon . member will be glad to know that we have engage closely with colleague in the devolved government , Crown dependency and overseas territory . the Minister have make very clear exactly where the Bill will apply , but will he be clear about exactly who it will apply to ? we have ask this question in different way when talk about who we think will be disadvantage , but can he be clear that those of british nationality who have no other claim to a nationality can not be subject to such an order ? my hon . friend be right about that specific point , but I will return to the point she have raise once I have respond to amendment 1 , table by the right hon . member for North West Hampshire ( Kit Malthouse ) . I be genuinely grateful to he — he be look a bit cynical as to the extent of my gratitude — for provide an opportunity to address the important issue , and they be important , he raise and for the consider , measured and thoughtful way in which he approach this debate and the second Reading debate a couple of week ago . the right hon . Gentleman make the case for his amendment in his own typically consider way . I listen very carefully to it , as I be sure do other hon . member . he make the claim that the Bill will create a two - tier citizenship , and my hon . friend the Member for Clapham and Brixton Hill ( Bell Ribeiro - Addy ) reinforce that point . he claim , I think somewhat unfairly , that the Government , through these measure , be seek to undermine fairness . I say to he and to other hon . member that we be not try to do that . what we be try to do , very simply , be ensure that the Government have the power and the tool they need to keep the country safe . I know that he would acknowledge — I have make this point to he quite recently — that these be power that exist under all 14 year of the previous Government . we be seek to ensure that we have the same power to be able to do what we need to do to keep the country safe . I say to the right hon . Gentleman and my hon . friend that deprivation on conducive ground be use very sparingly and against those who would pose a serious threat to the UK . it be essential that our legal framework protect our national security — I hope he would agree with that — but he make an interesting point about some of the fine balance and judgment that have to be make . I hope he would accept that , ultimately , deprivation of citizenship and matter relate to national security be matter for the Home Secretary . the Supreme Court have be clear that the right to a fair hearing do not trump all other consideration , such as the safety of the public . I understand and respect the motivation behind the right hon . member ' s amendment , but it do not take into account the impact of the Court ' s decision on national security . these be judgment and decision that have to be take by the Home Secretary . the fact that a court may have allow an appeal against a deprivation decision do not mean that the person do not pose a threat to the UK , for example where the appeal be uphold on procedural issue . furthermore , it be not controversial to delay the outcome of a low court on a civil order while any further appeal be determined . it have nothing to do with be find guilty . as I mention early , the approach in the Bill be in line with the approach take on asylum and human right appeal . turn to the specific condition set out in amendment 1 , I can assure the right hon . gentleman that decision to deprive be take in accordance with our international obligation . it be also assess whether deprivation would expose a person to a real risk of mistreatment , which would constitute a breach of article 2 and 3 of the european convention on human right , be those article to apply . additionally , an appeal can already be pause until a person be in a position to effectively take part . the timing for appeal be agree by both party and the court can order case management review to resolve disagreement between the party . for the reason I have outline , I respectfully ask the right hon . Gentleman that the amendment be withdraw . I be very grateful to the Minister . I have just a couple of point to make , if I may . he be quite right that timetable be agree and there can be case management review , but there be nothing the court can do to restore someone ' s citizenship even if the Government do drag their heel . if he could explain to we , perhaps in a little more detail , what recourse I would have be I somebody who have win an appeal , be await a further appeal by the Government against I and mount a defence but the Government be drag their heel and basically ignore the case management review . I do not think it be the case that the judge would just dismiss the appeal out of hand . the Government could effectively take their time . I have a second question , if I may . can the Minister tell the House whether , in his view , give that it be a subjective judgment by the Home Secretary , membership of a proscribe organisation would be prima facie ground for the deprivation of citizenship ? the right hon . Gentleman undoubtedly make some important point , but he make they from a stance and a point of view that be slightly different from the position of those of we who have to serve in government . he speak about the Government seek to drag their heel . this Government and , I be entirely prepared to accept , the previous Government be not seek to drag our heel ; we be seek to keep the country safe . that be what this be about . it be about ensure that we have a legal framework that provide the tool we need to make difficult decision , yes , but also to keep the country safe . he will forgive I if I do not seek to move into a slightly separate debate about proscription , not least because I think I would be in trouble with you , Ms Ghani , but I also want to come back to the point make by my hon . friend the Member for Clapham and Brixton Hill . my hon . Friend make the point that deprivation raise concern among certain community . I be grateful to she for make that point and I be grateful for the opportunity to respond directly to it . let I say to she and to other hon . member that the power to deprive a person of british citizenship do not target ethnic minority or people of particular faith . it be use sparingly where a naturalised person have acquire citizenship fraudulently or where it be conducive to the public good . deprivation on conducive ground be use against those who pose a serious threat to the UK or whose conduct involve high harm . it be solely a person ' s behaviour that determine if they should be deprive of british citizenship , not their ethnicity or faith . finally , my hon . Friend ask about an equality impact assessment . I can say to she that the impact on equality have be assess at all stage of the legislation . turn now to new clause 1 , table by the hon . member for Hazel Grove ( Lisa Smart ) , I appreciate the intention behind the amendment , specifically to ensure accountability in the use of deprivation power . I recall that she be very consistent in raise her concern about that . however , I must respectfully submit that the hon . member ' s amendment be not necessary , for two reason . first , the role of the independent chief inspector of border and immigration already provide a well - establish framework for independent oversight . she may recall that I mention that to she previously . the role be create under the UK Borders Act 2007 , which set out its statutory function . that include the exercise of deprivation power by the Home Secretary and by any person act on their behalf . the independent chief inspector have the authority to conduct inspection , publish report and make recommendation , ensure that the power be subject to rigorous external scrutiny . secondly , the Secretary of State already publish annual statistic on the deprivation of citizenship . those figure be publicly available and provide transparency on how often the power be use and the ground for deprivation . that datum enable Parliament and the public to monitor trend and assess the proportionality and fairness of the system . take together , the statutory oversight by the independent chief inspector and the routine publication of deprivation statistic already provide a comprehensive framework for accountability . the amendment , therefore , duplicate exist oversight and report mechanism . it would introduce unnecessary bureaucracy without add meaningful value . I would again like to thank all right hon . and hon . member for their contribution . I hope for their continue support in ensure that these important change can be make . Mr Malthouse , do you wish to withdraw the amendment ? in the hope that the Minister will do the right thing , yes . I beg to ask leave to withdraw the amendment . amendment , by leave , withdraw . clause 1 and 2 order to stand part of the Bill . the Deputy Speaker resume the Chair . Bill report , without amendment . third read I beg to move , that the Bill be now read a third time . I thank all member across the House who have contribute to the debate on this Bill for their incisive and helpful contribution and their consider scrutiny . I know that hon . member understand the importance and necessity of the Bill . unfortunately , there be those who seek to do harm to our country and those within it . the deprivation of citizenship be an important tool to help we to maintain the safety and security of our country , and the Bill will ensure that it retain its effectiveness . I thank the hon . member for Weald of Kent ( Katie Lam ) , for Gordon and Buchan ( Harriet Cross ) and for Hazel Grove ( Lisa Smart ) for their work on the Opposition Front Benches and for the collegiate way in which they have work with the Government on the Bill . I also thank my hon . friend the Member for Selby ( Keir Mather ) , who have do such an excellent job in whip the Bill through this place . I also take this opportunity to pass on my thank to the official who work very hard in the Home Office and the Office of the parliamentary Counsel for their work in develop this legislation and support its passage through Parliament . I would particularly like to thank those who serve in our police , law enforcement and intelligence service , who work around the clock to keep we safe . finally , I thank the fantastic House staff for their work in support the logistic of the Bill , in particular the Doorkeepers and the parliamentary Clerks ' team . to conclude , this small but vital Bill have pass through the House swiftly and with cross - party support . as it move to the other place , I trust that colleague there will agree with we on the Bill ' s importance and necessity and will work to ensure it continue its passage as smoothly as possible . I commend the Bill to the House . I rise simply to ask the Minister if he might publish the assessment . he have say continuously that the Bill be fair , but I want to impress upon he that it can not possibly be fair that should such order be bring about , they would impact I and not he . I do not think that be fair at all . I would also like the Minister to address his statement that the Bill be not discriminatory . he must understand that some community may have these provision apply against they more than other , even though they may be use sparingly , and that fact make it discriminatory . he have to accept that . I would also be grateful if the Minister think specifically about the fact that no matter how sparingly the legislation be apply , it be be use more than in the past , and that be give people much cause for concern . as the right hon . member for North West Hampshire ( Kit Malthouse ) point out , the Minister and the Secretary of State may not always be in this place , and there may be other who wish to use the legislation in a way that be not intend . I would be very grateful if the Minister could address those point and see exactly where our concern remain . I call the shadow Minister . I start by thank the Minister for his work on the Bill . it be always a pleasure to work across from he in defence of our great country and its people . keep our country safe sometimes require take difficult decision , include the decision to deprive a person of their british citizenship . work flagrantly against our country ' s interest as , say , a terrorist do clearly demonstrate a disregard for the responsibility of citizenship . such people should not be able to hide behind a passport , and it be therefore right that the Home Secretary retain the power to deprive they of citizenship where it be possible to do so . it be also right that this power remain effective . we believe that the Bill be an important step towards ensure that efficacy and clarify Parliament ' s intention on how those power can be use . give that we be in agreement on the substance of the Bill itself , I would like to briefly make a broad point about what the legislation represent in term of our constitution and Parliament ' s role within it . as I mention on Second Reading , the main role of the judiciary in our system be to interpret and apply Parliament ' s will ; it be not the high arbiter of our constitution . in most case , with the exception of some prerogative power , its only role in review ministerial power be to ensure that they be exercise accord to the guideline set out by Parliament . when the judiciary make a decision that run contrary to the will of Parliament , Parliament be therefore perfectly entitle to overturn that decision and to clarify its will . this be a living and breathing institution , which should be at the centre of our political system , because Parliament be ultimately answerable to the british people themselves . the Bill before we represent one such clarification . at a time when it can seem that many on the Government Benches be happy to defer to the judiciary as a matter of course , it be hearten to see the Minister take a different approach — one that recognise the fact that Parliament be the cornerstone of our system — and I thank he for that . we must never forget that the supreme authority in this country be Parliament . when the legal process produce a result that be not in the interest of the british people , not only be this House well within its right to overturn it , but it must do so . question put and agree to . Bill accordingly read the third time and pass . Royal Albert Hall Bill [ Lords ] Second Reading Debate resume . question ( 8 July ) again propose , that the Bill be now read a second time . [ relevant document : a statement on behalf of the promoter of the Bill in support of the Second reading of the Bill be available on the Bill ' s webpage and in the Vote Office ; and , a supplementary document additional to the Explanatory Memorandum on the face of the Bill be also available on the Bill ' s webpage and in the Vote Office . ] I beg to move , that the Bill be now read a second time . I be delighted to present this Bill on behalf of one of our great national institution , the Corporation of the Hall of Arts and Sciences , know to most of we as the Royal Albert Hall . I do so as someone who have enjoy many performance in the hall , range from artist like Muse and Eric Clapton to act such as Cirque du Soleil , through to the last night — and many other night — of the Proms concert . I also speak as a previous trustee of the hall , a position I be appoint to between 2018 and 2020 , have step down as Secretary of State for Culture , Media and Sport ; it be a great pleasure to take on the role of trustee , and I be disappoint that I then have to give it up because I be reappointe to the position now hold by the hon . member for Rhondda and Ogmore ( Chris Bryant ) , the Minister for Creative Industries , Arts and Tourism . nevertheless , I have maintain a close interest in the affair of the hall , and I strongly support the measure that be be bring forward tonight . as a trustee , I be able to see in detail how the hall operate and how it pursue its charitable purpose . it be worth say a word about the hall , because it be a unique organisation . it be the brainchild of the late Prince consort , Prince Albert , before his death at just 42 year of age in 1861 . the corporation be establish by royal charter not long afterwards , in 1867 , under the chairmanship of the Prince of Wales . the foundation stone of the hall be lay by Queen Victoria in 1867 , when she apparently announce without any prior warning that it would not be call the Central Hall of Arts and Sciences , as have be propose , but would instead be know as the Royal Albert Hall of Arts and Sciences . since that time , for more than 150 year , the hall have be a beacon in the cultural life of our nation . it be a place of celebration , entertainment , enlightenment and indeed commemoration . it be one of the most recognisable and famous venue in the country , and attract thousand , if not ten or hundred of thousand , of visitor to the United Kingdom every year . I know that the Minister , who represent the interest of the creative industry and the art , will also be aware of that fact in his capacity as the Minister responsible for tourism . the building of the hall be not without difficulty . initial funding come from the commissioner of the Great Exhibition of 1851 , who also provide the site , but the actual cost of construction still need to be raise . the remain balance be raise through public subscription , which work by sell seat in the hall prior to it be build ; the potential seat owner agree to invest their money in the building of the hall and , in exchange , would own a seat in the hall for a lease of 999 year . I understand that over 1 , 000 seat be sell for roughly £ 100 each on that basis , 20 of they be take up by Queen Victoria herself . that unique model have sustain the hall throughout the period since . it be a public - private partnership , which be unique to the hall , I think — I certainly do not know of any other — and it have work remarkably well . during that time the hall have thrive , despite some extraordinary challenge , include obviously the covid pandemic . the way it work be that the seat holder , who be in many case either descendant or those who have purchase the seat from the original people who invest their money , be an integral part of the support for the hall . they obviously enjoy access to the seat that they have purchase , but at the same time they hold the hall in trust and have show remarkable generosity in continue to promote it . while I recognise that a lot of the seat have be bequeath down through the generation , a lot of they be now sell on the open market for much more than what that £ 100 would fetch in today ' s money , keep pace with inflation . they be now asset because of the amount of money that can be gain from resell they on the open market . of course , the hon . Lady be right . essentially a seat in the hall be a property asset — in the same way , if one ' s grandfather purchase a property and the descendant eventually decide to sell , it be highly likely that they would receive an amount of money way great than the original investment . that be a very important point . these be essentially property asset , without which the hall could not have be build . it be build on that understanding and on a 999 - year lease , and those who own that lease be entitle to do what they wish with it . as for those who buy seat in the hall , in my experience of talk to many of they during my time as a trustee , they do not regard it as a financial investment to obtain a huge return ; they love the hall in the way that many people do . they want the pride of own an asset while at the same time contribute to the upkeep of the hall . as I will come on to explain , I think that seat holder contribute far more towards the upkeep and maintenance of the hall than they might ever get in return for sell ticket , and they have their right to the use of that seat for event where they be able to do so . on that basis , if it be not about make money off their asset , would they not therefore return the ticket to the hall for the hall to resell , which they can do ? there be also a conflict of interest if they be a seat holder as well as a trustee of the hall . would it not be well for the ticket to be return to the hall for the hall to sell , which be what this Bill seek ? they would still get their face - value money back . I think the hon . Lady raise two separate point . there be the ticket return scheme , which the hall itself have put in place , but that operate on a basis where the sale be all pool together and then distribute among the seat holder . a lot of seat holder prefer to use that , but they take a slight risk because it may be that not all the seat will be sell , and therefore they will not get the face value on their seat . essentially there be a matter of principle involve . if someone own a property , it be certainly my view that they be entitle to do with it as they wish . the hon . Lady have rightly champion the cause against the exploitation of consumer through secondary ticket sale . I share her concern about bot buy up all the ticket for an event and those ticket appear on a secondary ticket site 10 second later , but that be not the same thing . what we be talk about in this instance be ticket that be already under ownership . they have not be buy up in a primary market ; they be own by the seat holder , and the seat holder can choose how they handle they . as I say , a large number will choose to use the ticket return scheme , but one should not require they to do so . first , that would fly in the face of the principle that these be property asset belong to the individual . secondly , it undermine the operation of the way in which they support the hall . I want to continue set out why the hall be such an invaluable institution to this country . it have about 500 employee . some 400 event take place each year in the main auditorium and many more in other part of the hall . as I say , there be something like 1 . 7 million visitor each year . the hall make itself available on very favourable term to a wide range of other organisation , such as Imperial College for graduation ceremony , the Royal Navy for the Mountbatten Festival of Music , and the Teenage Cancer Trust for its fundraising concert . it also have an engagement programme that reach out to some 180 , 000 people of all age in local community and school , give they opportunity to learn about perform art and experience live music . there be something like 5 , 500 seat in the hall . as of the end of last year , 1 , 256 of those — roughly a quarter — be privately own by 315 seat holder . they be people who have either inherit the seat or purchase they from the original owner of the seat . under the constitution that be draw up at the time of Queen Victoria , those seat owner be the member of the hall ' s corporation . some may be private individual , but there be also company and charity . there be a strong and enduring bond between the hall and those member . of the board of trustee , which govern the hall , some 18 out of the 23 be seat holder , as be originally set down . there be five external trustee , one of whom — I be fortunate to hold this position — be appoint by the Secretary of State for Culture , Media and Sport . then there be the commissioner of the 1851 Exhibition , a representative of Imperial College , another from the Royal College of Music , and another from the Natural History Museum . as I seek to explain , those who hold seat actually do put a lot back into the hall . even though they own the seat , they nevertheless contribute on top of it to the maintenance of the hall . the first way be by pay an annual contribution know as the seat rate . this be voluntary but be pay by member every year . an independent committee recommend the amount — I think I sit on the seat committee for a time — and it be roughly a pro - rata proportion of the hall ' s maintenance cost . this year the seat rate , which member choose to pay , be £ 1 , 880 plus vat per seat , amount to about £ 2 . 3 million plus vat . the second way in which member support the hall — this be the crux of the Bill — be by agree to forgo their ticket for event on over 100 day each year . originally when they purchase their seat way back in 1871 , member could attend any event in the hall by sit in the seat they have purchase , but over time , in order to support the hall , member have agree to give up that entitlement for a set number of day each year , and that currently stand at over 100 event each year . by give up the right to use their seat , they give it back to the hall , and obviously those ticket can then be sell . it also help the hall to attract high - quality artist . each time , a negotiation take place with somebody wish to perform at the hall as to how many event will be hold on what be call an exclusive basis , for which seat holder will not have the right to utilise their seat . that method of support for the hall , which have evolve over the year , have be extraordinarily successful . there be also a review of the constitution govern the hall . a work group have identify a range of potential reform . the hon . member for Washington and Gateshead South ( Mrs Hodgson ) refer in her intervention to the concern express by the Charity Commission that there might be a conflict of interest because seat holder both own seat and sit on the council , but I think that be a misinterpretation of the position . as far as I be aware , there have never be any evidence of seat holder abuse their position . indeed , there be a committee of the hall with a majority of independent member call the conflict committee that consider whether there be any potential conflict . I be a member of that committee during my time as a trustee . the Bill contain reform to the position , which can be achieve only by Act of Parliament . I would therefore like briefly to run through the Bill ' s clause . first , clause 3 remove the six - yearly cap on the amount that can be levy through the seat rate . in the interest of equivalence , it transfer the vote threshold of three quarter from the six - year cap to the annual seat rate . if anything , the six - year cap have sometimes prevent seat holder from contribute as much as they might — particularly during covid , when member be obviously unable to take up their right because the hall be not available for public performance . none the less , member continue to pay the seat rate in support of the hall . secondly , clause 4 provide a mechanism whereby member can agree to exclusive — performance where they will not take advantage of their ownership of seat — in excess or of a different kind to those originally permit by the Royal Albert Hall Act 1966 . there be already statutory provision to allow some performance to be exclusive where member have give over their right , but the hall have go beyond the 1966 Act such that now a number of event above and beyond those cover by that Act be agree to by member through voting . that be a way in which they have increase their support for the hall . that have be agree through the council and a majority of member — it be do by majority . the question as to whether that have a legal basis be what need to be clarify through the Bill . three member have commence a challenge in the High Court , which , if it be to be successful , would prevent the hall from have as many exclusive event . that would obviously have a damaging effect on the income not of seat holder but of the hall itself . if the challenge be to be successful , the hall could either continue with its practice — potentially in breach of a legal challenge — or decide that it be no long possible to continue the practice , and therefore then lose the benefit , or it would no long be able to contract some of the most attractive and valuable event that be stage there at the moment . the purpose of the clause be therefore to resolve the issue in order to allow the hall to proceed — as be the current position — without the risk of legal challenge . the third clause that I want to address be clause 5 , which be add to the Bill by amendment in the House of Lords . it be not part of the original Bill as agree by the member and it be not seek by the hall . it be certainly the hall ' s view that its provision , which cover both a requirement that extension to exclusive event need to be agree by a committee not without a majority of seat holder , and a requirement use the ticket return scheme , which the hon . Lady identify in her intervention , demonstrate a lack of understanding of the way in which the hall work and would be detrimental to the hall . it could mean that seat holder will no long be able to support the Bill , which be an essential requirement if it be to become law . I know that the hall be very happy to discuss potential way of address the concern identify through the passage of that amendment when the Bill get to Committee , which , Madam Deputy Speaker , I think you will be involve with . at this stage , I ask that the House agree to the Bill ' s Second Reading . we can return to address any particular concern once it have be through Committee . I be thrilled to follow the right hon . member for Maldon ( Sir John Whittingdale ) , who I would like to call my right hon . friend . we do a lot of work together on the Organisation for Security and Co - operation in Europe . he be a former leader of the british delegation — that role have now pass to I — and we still attend delegation together . he make a good opening speech in support of the Bill . as member will know , since 2010 I have serve as the co - chair of the all - party parliamentary group on ticket abuse , which I also set up in 2010 . as the right hon . Gentleman highlight , I have also fight tirelessly against tout scalp ticket away from fan to sell at massively inflate price online . I be therefore horrified when ticket for event at the Royal Albert Hall — one of our country ' s most recognisable and cherished institution — start appear on site such as Viagogo . that include , to name but one , Ed Sheeran ticket be list online for just under £ 6 , 000 per ticket . I be even more horrified when I learn that those ticket belong to seat holder , some of whom also sit on the council of trustee . as we have hear tonight , and all know well , the Royal Albert Hall be open in 1871 by Queen Victoria in commemoration of her husband Prince Albert and the furtherment of art and science . as a thank you , some of the wealthy benefactor who finance the hall ' s construction be gifted seat in the hall on a 999 - year lease to attend as many event as they wish . those seat have pass down through the generation . fast - forward to today and thing be very different . seat holder can sell their seat for huge amount of money — I will come to that in a moment — and sell their ticket for event they receive as seat holder but do not wish to attend personally . they could give those ticket to friend and family to use at no charge , and I know that some do . many choose to return their ticket to the box office via the hall ' s ticket return scheme , receive the face value of the ticket minus a small fee that go towards the hall . that would obviously be the preferential option for the hall , because it would make a little bit of money from that . increasingly , however , seat holder be choose to sell their ticket through third party website such as Viagogo and Hoorah Tickets — in some case for sum that be many , many time their face value . this include ticket for Roger Daltrey ' s annual Teenage Cancer Trust fundraising concert be sell for seat holder ' personal gain . these seat therefore represent a massive investment , and the seat themselves have be buy and sell over the year , with some individual or family now amass over 50 seat . again , that be not the original intention of those altruistic benefactor fund the hall . most recently , one 10 - seat box be list online for £ 3 million . the advertisement claim that there be 12 seat in the box — pre - empte this Bill , which originally contain proposal to increase the number of seat in a box from 10 to 12 , which would boost the portfolio of the box owner . those clause have fortunately be remove in the other place . I understand that the Royal Albert Hall have say that it need this Bill to pass in order to make necessary change to its constitution and safeguard the future of the hall economically . the hall hold charitable status and receive a £ 20 million loan out of public money as part of the covid - 19 culture recovery fund , which I be aware it be pay back at the rate agree . part of this legislation would reasonably allow the hall to increase and formalise the number of exclusive event from which seat holder be exclude , which the right hon . member for Maldon speak about . the hall can then make that vital profit from all the seat , instead of the seat holder sell they on the open market . obviously , I support that . however , the main reason I support this Bill be the common - sense amendment introduce in the other place by my very good friend and namesake — although no relation — Lord Hodgson of Astley Abbotts , support by a cross - party majority of Lords . as the right hon . member for Maldon explain , the Royal Albert Hall be control primarily by a council of 25 trustee , a majority of 19 — equivalent to 75 % — of whom , include the chairman of the board of trustee , must be seat holder , accord to the hall ' s governance statute . the council have a say over which act be book and decide how many and which event will be for the exclusive benefit of the hall . the seat holder majority of trustee , whether this have happen or not , can therefore prioritise booking and secure ticket to event that will maximise their income . those in the other place have take the reasoned view that charity trustee must not benefit , or be see to benefit , from decision they take as trustee . Lord Hodgson ' s amendment first set out that any power to exclude member from the hall can be exercise only when " approve by a sub - committee of the council of which the independent member of the council will form a majority " . secondly , " any ticket for seat receive from the exercise of the power to alter the number of event from which seat holder be exclude must only be sell by the trustee or relative of the trustee through a ticket return scheme operate or approve by the Corporation . " I believe that this be a moderate change that still give seat holder a lot of freedom to resell their ticket . however , those who wish to govern the hall will receive only the face value of their ticket . I genuinely believe that this be a vital step in bring the hall into line with every other reputable charitable institution . there be obviously those at the hall who oppose this Bill , and it would be massively shameful if they take this opportunity to withdraw the Bill . like many other , include the right hon . member for Maldon , who speak of it so fondly , I hold the hall in high esteem and have many fond memory of time enjoy there . I really want it to survive and to thrive for future generation , so I hope that this serious conflict of interest in the running of this beloved charity come to an end , and that the Bill be give safe passage . I call the shadow Minister . mark its 150th anniversary in 2021 , the Royal Albert Hall continue not only to host world - class performance but , as my right hon . friend the Member for Maldon ( Sir John Whittingdale ) mention , to do a tremendous amount of outreach work and to do so , crucially , without draw on public funding for its operational cost — other than in the covid situation , which of course be exceptional . that be something for which it should certainly be commend and celebrate . this Bill seem to have be go round and round for some time . I know that I be try to deal with it when we be in government . it have be promote by the hall , as we have hear , and seek to provide legal clarity to an exist arrangement in which member , who own right to approximately one quarter of the hall ' s seat , forgo their right to attend event and , when not attend , make those seat available for sale . as we have hear , the hall argue that without statutory backing , this arrangement remain vulnerable to legal challenge , which could have acute impact on its financial stability . during its consideration in the other place , the Bill attract extensive scrutiny and be amend , as we hear . concern be raise by a number of member , include Lord Hodgson of Astley Abbotts , particularly in relation to the governance of the hall and the role of seat - hold trustee . he note that although the hall have hold charitable status since 1967 , the current arrangement may allow some trustee to benefit financially from the reselling of ticket on the open market — sometimes at significant profit , as the hon . member for Washington and Gateshead South ( Mrs Hodgson ) say . in response to the concern , an amendment be pass that provide that any power to exclude member from the hall under the Bill ' s provision can only be exercise by a sub - committee with a majority of independent member . it also require that ticket make available under those provision be sell through the hall ' s ticket return scheme , thereby seek to address concern over potential personal financial gain by trustee . I also note that Lord Harrington of Watford , a trustee of the hall , express the hall ' s position , state that the Bill ' s primary objective be to formalise exist practice and mitigate legal uncertainty , rather than to reform governance structure . he also raise concern that the amendment may place undue limitation on member , include financial disadvantage and restriction on charitable donation of ticket . in the light of these development , it be evident that the Bill face significant challenge in its current form . it also raise a broad issue relevant to many historic charitable institution : the difficulty of update foundational document and governance arrangement under exist legislative mechanism , which often require the introduction of private Bills . it may also beg the wide question of how many of our great establishment , which be found in the victorian era , can operate in a more modern era , but I accept that these be not easy issue to address . in conclusion , although his Majesty ' s opposition absolutely support the aim of secure operational clarity for the Royal Albert Hall , the concern raise about governance and potential conflict of interest be of some significance . we will therefore be abstain on Second Reading . I know that this will certainly be an interesting Bill in Committee . I look forward to follow it with great interest , and I hope that some of the concern that be legitimately be raise can be iron out . well , this be a rum old affair , isn ' t it ? I think we can definitely put this down as one of the recondite moment of parliamentary democracy . a number of people have ask I today , " what on earth be all this about ? " and then say , " what be an opposed private Bill ? " or " what have the Chairman of Ways and Means get to do with it ? " and all the rest of it — so , yes , it be a strange little moment . it be nice to see the right hon . member for Maldon ( Sir John Whittingdale ) , who list about a fiftieth of all the thing he have sit on in his time , and it still add up to rather a large number of thing that he have be involve in at some point or other , include virtually every committee at the Royal Albert Hall , apart from select the music — it would have be very difficult . yes — well , it would have be endlessly hard rock , wouldn ' t it , if it be just to please he ? of course , this debate be timely because the Proms be about to start . the Proms be one of the most renowned british cultural institution in the UK , where the BBC meet the public in a more open way than in any other . the concert be broadcast all around the world , and everybody know about they — not just the last night , but the first night , the penultimate night and all the different bit that have tradition attach to they . of course , the Royal Albert Hall , as everybody have refer to , be one of the great cultural institution of the UK . it be a phenomenally versatile space , apart from anything else . People have mention concert they have be to . Dua Lipa , of course , have a wonderful concert there last year . I think my husband have be to see Kylie there — well , he have be to see Kylie nearly everywhere . I have be to see Kylie nearly everywhere , too — it be always nice to live up to a stereotype , isn ' t it ? what be amazing be that wrestling and so many other different style of event can take place there — the right hon . member for Maldon mention Cirque du Soleil , for example . the Royal Albert Hall be a great part of the british cultural sector , and it be unique in the way it be structure financially and constitutionally . I do not think that anybody have say this evening that it be precisely how one would probably want to constitute it if one be start from scratch . [ interruption . ] I note a slight Gallic shrug from the right hon . member for Maldon , so I think he be sort of agree with I . I think most of the people who own the seat at the Royal Albert Hall would agree that it be not quite what anybody would design if they be start again today . it be worth remind ourselves of precisely what we be do with a private Bill , because it be different from a public Bill . " Erskine May " do not get to private Bills until page 1 , 024 or something , so we can tell that they be unusual . it state : " in give any bill a second reading , the House approve the general principle , or expediency , of the measure . there be , however , a distinction between the second reading of a public and of a private bill . a public bill be found on public policy , and the House , in agree to its second reading , accept and approve that policy ; whereas the expediency of a private bill be found upon allegation of fact which have not yet be prove , so that the House , in agree to its second reading , affirm the principle of the bill conditionally , subject to the proof of such allegation before the committee . " I be sure the Committee stage will be interesting , as the right hon . member for Daventry ( Stuart Andrew ) say , because these allegation of fact will have to be prove . that take we to the several point make by my hon . friend the Member for Washington and Gateshead South ( Mrs Hodgson ) , who be one of the most redoubtable expert on the issue of ticket sale in this country . I very much hope that we will be able to put the big smile on her face later in this Parliament when we come up with legislation to tackle the issue around the secondary ticketing market , which we be determined to do . I take issue slightly with something that the right hon . member for Maldon say . he say , " private property be private property and we never want to interfere with it . " in one sense I agree with he , of course , but when it come to the sale of ticket , I be not sure that that quite apply as cleanly as it might in other form . if the value return to the artist or the venue , I do not have a problem , but when the value from the secondary ticketing market simply disappear into the trouser of online tout and bot , many of which be not even base in this country , I think that that be a problem . rise — oh dear . the Minister and I will undoubtedly debate the Government ' s proposal for secondary ticketing at a future date , but I want to make it clear that what we be talk about here be not tout or bot , but people who own a seat and the right to sit in that seat and who choose to sell it to somebody else , which be a very different prospect from the one that he outline . of course . I be merely respond to the point make by my hon . friend the Member for Washington and Gateshead South . if we have a debate in which there be a venue mention and she be not to stand up and make a speech about ticket tout , we would think that something be wrong ; we would go and search all the A & Es in the country to find out what have happen to she . she say that she support clause 4 and 5 . I think that the right hon . Gentleman support clause 4 , but he be not quite so keen on clause 5 because it be insert in the House of Lords . as he know , we be do a very simple thing tonight : decide whether to give the Bill its second reading . for a private Bill , it be traditional for the Government — as for the opposition — not to stand in the way , nor to urge people one way or the other . I repeat a point make in the House of Lords by my noble Friend Baroness Twycross , however : we be disappointed that some concern about the potential conflict of interest between the hall ' s charitable objective and the private financial interest of individual have yet to be meet . the right hon . Gentleman will know that the Charity Commission have take a view in this space . I think that some of those issue still need to be address more fervently ; whether it happen through this Bill or through other mean , at some point we will have to address they . the right hon . member for Daventry say that the Bill have be hover around for some time , but it be interesting to hear the right hon . member for Maldon say that people at the Royal Albert Hall be wonder what other constitutional change should be bring about . one would hope that if we be to have a private Bill on the Royal Albert Hall , we can do it just once in a Parliament , or in a decade — or in a lifetime , frankly . it would be good if we could address all the issue in a single Bill . nevertheless , as be the tradition with all private Bills , the Government neither support nor oppose this Bill . that sound like a strange moment in british politic , doesn ' t it ? but the last time I go to the Royal Albert Hall be for Emeli Sand é . I think one of her song might be apposite at this point . [ hon . member : " Don ' t sing ! " ] no , I be not go to sing . what ' s wrong with Emeli Sand é ? nothing — it ' s you ! I think I will make sure that get into Hansard now . the right hon . Gentleman be take objection to I personally . well , there we be . go on , then — sing . I be not go to sing . do behave ! the right hon . Gentleman be almost as bad as I use to be when I sit where he be sit now . never ! and the former Minister for common sense have now completely abandon common sense , clearly . anyway , Emeli Sand é sing : " you ' ve get the word to change a nation but you ' re bite your tongue , you ' ve spend a lifetime stick in silence Afraid you ' ll say something wrong . " since the Government do not have anything to say on this business , that be where I shall end . question put and agree to . Bill accordingly read a second time and commit . condition of Roads : Cheshire Motion make , and question propose , that this House do now adjourn . — ( Anna Turley . ) I be grateful to have secure today ' s Adjournment debate on an issue that affect community across the country : the condition of our road . although I will focus on the situation in Cheshire and in my constituency of Chester South and Eddisbury , and on what I believe be a failure by local authority to get to grip with the issue , I will begin by set the context and reflect on the broad systemic problem with how we repair and maintain our road network . the Public Accounts Committee recently publish a report on the condition and maintenance of local road in England . it show that this problem be widespread ; that the Department for Transport do not have a good grasp of the real condition of local road in England ; and that fund arrangement to local authority be likely to be push they to focus spending on short - term , reactive work . in my view , this reactive rather than proactive approach to road maintenance in Cheshire urgently need to change . instead of neglect route be identify and tackle , particularly in rural area , we see a pattern of piecemeal patch - up on individual pothole rather than long - term , cost - effective repair that offer real value for money . I commend the hon . Lady for secure the debate ; I speak to she beforehand . I be remind of the old wee rhyme that my mother use to say to I : a stitch in time save nine . do the hon . Lady agree that a pothole repair in time can save life ? the Government must be more proactive in ensure that we deal with the small issue and save money before they become costly , large issue . that be exactly the point I be make — the hon . Gentleman say it very well . as I outline the issue in more detail , I urge the Minister to consider how local authority might be encourage to take a more strategic , preventive approach . I have lose count of the number of time that frustrated resident have ask I why a white circle of paint have be draw around one pothole , while another right next to it be leave untouched because it do not meet the criterion for repair . we all know that within a week or two a team will have to return to fix the one that be miss . the hon . member — my constituency neighbour — talk about resident . do she agree that it be often our resident who know their area well , because they live and breathe they every day ? they be resident such as those on East Avenue in Weston , who I consult widely over road repair and traffic - calm measure , or those from Stewart Street in Crewe , which be a key arterial road that have be neglect for some time . do she agree that our resident should be listen to as part of any plan to repair our road ? the hon . Member make an important point . this be about voice the view of resident , and they know their area well . resident have see how a short - term mindset have consequence . the condition of our road be worsen , and the national repair backlog have grow , from estimate of between £ 7 . 6 billion and £ 11 . 7 billion in 2019 , to over £ 15 billion today . that backlog in road repair have rightly be call a " national embarrassment " , and it be a sign that the system we have in place be simply not work . during her time on the Public Accounts Committee , my hon . friend the Member for Reigate ( Rebecca Paul ) rightly make the case for a more strategic approach to road repair and maintenance , alongside great funding certainty and a simplified allocation process . I echo those call today , both to the Minister and to Cheshire West and Chester council and Cheshire East council . this be not a partisan point — I know that member across the House share frustration with how local authority manage road repair . my intention be to offer a constructive perspective on how we might improve thing in my constituency and across the country . cheshire be the good county to drive through . we have outstanding countryside , beautiful village and scenic route , but what should be a pleasure be too often spoil by pothole . in my constituency , where public transport be minimal and key amenity such as a gp or post office be often too far to reach without a car , that be not just an inconvenience but a real barrier to daily life . business depend on those road , and crumble surface damage vehicle , endanger road user , and hold back our local economy . I thank the hon . Lady — she be be very collegiate , as she always be . do she agree that it be incredibly important in our beautiful Cheshire town that our road be maintain in good condition ? I be think in particular of a stretch of road in Alsager , which be lovely and have a fantastic local caf é , but it be a major part of the town centre , and the degeneration of the road be make it look less attractive than it otherwise could be . do she agree that those be important point , not simply for the state of the road , but for the whole local economy ? that be an important point . this issue be have an impact on that road , but also on a village , and on business and people who be try to use that area . that be why we need a well system — one that deliver well road and well value for the taxpayer . we must not settle for the status quo piecemeal approach that council such as Cheshire West and Chester , and Cheshire East currently seem to take . pothole be one of the top issue in my inbox , as they be for many right hon . and hon . member , yet as member of Parliament we do not have direct control over local road . highway be a devolved responsibility , so when constituent raise concern , I encourage they to report issue to the council , and work with they to follow up with official and draw attention to where repair be urgently need . but people be rightly frustrated and , as we have hear , local voice need to be hear . that be why I have secure this Adjournment debate , to do what I can in Parliament to raise this issue , highlight its severity in Cheshire , and push for a well approach to tackle our county ' s , and the UK ' s grow road crisis . in common with what the hon . Lady hear from resident in Cheshire , I often hear from my constituent about the problem cause by pothole . the Government have recently commit £ 6 . 7 million to South Yorkshire and £ 9 . 8 million to north Lincolnshire , which be a huge step forward , but strategic leadership at a local level from Mayor Ros Jones have mean that significantly more than that have be put towards pothole repair . some 144 street have be resurface and we have the low ever level of street need to be look at in that area . do the hon . Lady agree with I that that strategic leadership at a local level be vital , and that we must not focus only on pothole in road , but on what our pavement look like , particularly for people who have access issue ? I thank the hon . member for his point , and I will go on to say that it be not just an issue of funding , as there be serious issue about how that strategic approach be take . as I be say , this be a crisis . whether from knock on door or through people contact my office , I have deal with hundred of case relate to road maintenance , from pothole to overgrown hedge , poor road signage and other highway issue . to really understand the impact on people locally , I want to take a few moment to share some personal story from those affect by the poor state of the road in Chester South and Eddisbury . David Doyle run a taxi company just outside Tarporley , and he come to see I at one of my mobile advice surgery to share his grow concern about the state of our road . as someone who drive across Cheshire all day , every day , for a living , he see the problem daily . we all know how frustrating , and at time dangerous , it be to dodge pothole , or that moment when we wince because we have hit one and we feel the jolt through the car . but for David , the issue be not just about inconvenience or even the rise cost of repair , for new tyre or suspension ; it be also about lose income . if his car be damage , he can not work — he may even have to cancel booking or leave passenger strand — so someone ' s livelihood be be put at risk by the failure to maintain our road properly . it be not just motorist who be affect by poor road condition . Paul Kerr , a keen cyclist , come to see I recently at a surgery in Huxley . he cycle over 1 , 000 km a month across the UK , and he tell I that the bad road he have ride be in Cheshire . pothole be inconvenient and sometimes dangerous for driver , but they pose a serious safety risk for cyclist . the issue be often make bad because repair tend to be do with motorist in mind . pothole near the edge of the carriageway may be ignore or dismiss as too shallow to bother with , yet for cyclist , who be more exposed and ride close to the verge , even a small defect can be hazardous . of course , when driver instinctively swerve to avoid a damage section of road , they can unintentionally put cyclist at great risk . we must do more to recognise cyclist ' right to safe , well - maintain road , especially in Cheshire , where cycling be not only good for our health and the environment , but one of the good way to enjoy our beautiful countryside . those two example come from constituent live in the Cheshire West and Chester part of my constituency , but the road be no well in Cheshire East . I recently go with Councillor Janet Clowes , our excellent councillor for Wybunbury ward , to see the state of the Newcastle Road , lead up to the roundabout serve the Wychwood Village and Wychwood Park estate . Councillor Clowes describe the inaction of Cheshire East council to fix the deteriorate road surface and intermittent pothole , where the speed limit on Newcastle Road be 60 mile per hour . traffic weaving in and out of this pothole slalom on the approach to the roundabout have lead to multiple accident . despite repeat request over a two - year period for the road to be top - dressed , or at least to have section of level 2 patching to make this section safe , her request have be deny , with fund be channel to more urban area elsewhere in Cheshire East . Herein lie another issue : some £ 53 million have be allocate to Cheshire East ' s highway department this year , but not a penny be be spend in the Wybunbury ward in my constituency . I completely concur with what my hon . friend and neighbour have say about Cheshire West and Cheshire , but the road in Cheshire East be a disgrace . as for the money — the £ 53 million that my hon . friend mention — I have try to get to the bottom of where that money have be spend . in fact , I have have to resort to freedom of information request to find out where Cheshire East be spend the money — the council supposedly do not know the location , the area or the postcode ; it have merely a job number . I find that hard to understand , because how do the council tell the contractor where to go ? do my hon . friend share my concern that this money be be spend neither properly nor fairly across the council area ? my right hon . friend make such an important point and really hit the nail on the head . it be just not acceptable that ward such as the large ward of Wybunbury in Cheshire East in my constituency be consistently neglect , with funding be divert elsewhere — as my right hon . friend point out , we do not know where . Cheshire East council may forget the rural area of the borough , as its counterpart in Cheshire West do , but I will not stop speak up for Wybunbury , and neither will Councillor Clowes . let I briefly share one more example from Cheshire East . Wrenbury - cum - Frith be temporarily rename " Wrenbury - cum - Pothole " by local . the main issue in Wrenbury be on Station Road , a 650 - foot thoroughfare lead into the heart of the village and therefore use frequently by resident . frustration with the state of the road run so high that villager actually amend their own welcome sign and erect another on the road , warn driver that the condition of this road would " break your vehicle and your soul . " on 650 foot of road , there be 174 pothole and countless report to Cheshire East council , and campaign lead by Councillor James Pearson and the parish council follow . only after the issue get national coverage do Cheshire East council finally commit to repair the road . in those example , we can see three clear issue emerge with the current approach to road maintenance in Cheshire . first , while both council seek to follow the national " Well Managed Highway Infrastructure " code of practice , it have result in maintenance strategy that be reactive , rather than proactive , lead to waste council tax and Government highway maintenance and pothole allocation . secondly , there have be a failure from the council to think about the wide impact that poor road have on individual , business and community . thirdly , there be a failure fully to understand the need to more effectively prioritise rural road , often where public transport be not viable or simply non - existent , across constituency such as Chester South and Eddisbury , where there be a far great social , educational and economic dependency on the rural highway network . as I begin to conclude my remark , I will reflect briefly on the funding allocate to Cheshire West and Chester council and Cheshire East council and how it be be use by their respective highway department . frankly , I do not believe that a lack of funding justify the poor performance we have see , and the figure tell their own story . over the past few year , both council have significantly increase the number of pothole be fill ; in Cheshire West and Chester , the number of pothole be repair have more than triple since 2021 . that might sound like progress , but I suggest it point to something else : that repair be not be do to a lasting standard and that the " patch it up " strategy mean the wide network be deteriorate at a fast and fast rate . in one case alone , a single pothole on the A51 at Blakenhall have to be repair nine time in just 18 month . in addition , the focus primarily on urban network have exacerbate a culture of manage decline on rural carriageway , where repair be too often delay or overlook altogether . the specific challenge face by rural road be often ignore — the wear and tear cause by heavy vehicle such as tractor and hgv , the lack of alternative transport option and the need to travel great distance just to access basic amenity . I urge the Minister to ensure that all council be consider not just our urban street , but the need of the rural road network . what make that even more frustrating be that conservative councillor in Cheshire West and Chester have repeatedly put forward reasonable , fully cost proposal to improve the highway network that would have make a meaningful difference , particularly for rural area . over the past two year alone , they include more than £ 3 million in additional investment for core maintenance , gully clearing , pavement safety and public right of way , and every single one be reject by the Labour - lead council . at the same time , the council have steadily reduce its own funding contribution to highway maintenance , cut it from £ 4 . 5 million under the previous conservative administration to just £ 2 . 05 million in 2023 - 24 . have it simply maintain early spending level , it could have invest an additional £ 14 million in the network by now . that be not a funding problem from central Government — it be a political choice at a local level , and resident be pay the price . the situation be make bad by outdated guidance from the Department for Transport , which lack clear direction from local authority on the use of new technology for assess road condition and repair pothole , as well as on how to adapt to the challenge pose by climate change . as the condition of our road have worsen , we have see large sum pay out in compensation ; Cheshire West and Chester pay out over £ 200 , 000 last year alone . meanwhile , Cheshire East have face more than 2 , 500 legal claim relate to pothole damage since 2021 , but only a fraction of those claim have be accept . astonishingly , ten of thousand of pound have be spend on legal fee just to review those application . that be not an efficient use of public money . all of this point to a system that be reactive , wasteful , and deeply frustrating for resident . accord to the industry , it cost around £ 57 to repair a pothole as part of a plan , proactive approach — that be a fraction of the cost of deal with compensation claim , not to mention the inconvenience for driver and the damage to vehicle . I be certain that my constituent would far rather see durable , well - maintain road than have to battle with the council for month to claim compensation for damage that should never have occur in the first place . I hope I have make clear just how strongly my constituent and I feel about the state of our road in Cheshire . the answer be not endless pot of money , but a fundamental change in approach , one that tackle the problem proactively and make sustainable , long - term , value - for - money repair . People do not want their council tax or Government grant to be waste on crumble repair and short - term fix . many member in the Chamber today will have have similar experience , so with collaborative and constructive intent , my ask of the Minister be for the Department to recognise that Cheshire ' s road be in an unacceptable condition . I ask for his support in advocate for a well approach to road repair , so that all my constituent , whatever their mode of transport , can have confidence in Cheshire ' s road . I congratulate the hon . member for Chester South and Eddisbury ( Aphra Brandreth ) on secure this debate on the condition of road in Cheshire , and on her admirable effort to highlight her constituent ' concern . I also thank all hon . member who have contribute to this debate . like everyone else in the Chamber , I appreciate that this country be suffer from a plague of pothole and poor road condition . not only be those a costly nuisance to driver , but they be a great risk to all road user , include cyclist and motorcyclist , who be more vulnerable . the public be the one face the repercussion of our poor road and the maintenance backlog that have build up everywhere over the past decade , and I believe we be all in complete agreement that this must stop . this Government be up to that challenge , and be determined to improve condition for all road user . we be already put our money where our mouth be by provide £ 500 million of extra funding for highway maintenance this year , take overall spending through the highway maintenance block to nearly £ 1 . 6 billion this year . that be the large ever amount of funding for local highway maintenance in England in one year , and mean a huge increase in funding for nearly every local highway authority in England , include in Cheshire . in the hon . member ' s area , Cheshire East council will receive up to an additional £ 5 . 54 million of highway maintenance funding this year on top of around £ 15 . 5 million in baseline funding , while Cheshire West and Chester council will receive an additional £ 4 million of highway maintenance funding this year on top of around £ 11 . 4 million in baseline funding . the Government be determined to transform the condition of the country ' s highway . the hon . member will also note that 25 % of this year ' s funding uplift be contingent on each local highway authority meet the requirement announce by the Secretary of State in March this year . we be make sure that road user , such as the people of Cheshire , have full transparency from local authority over how this investment will be spend in transform their road . all 154 highway authority be require by 30 June to publish clear information about the condition of their network and their plan for how they will use the additional funding . I be pleased to confirm that both Cheshire highway authority have return their report . the hon . member ' s constituent will be able to see that last year in Cheshire East , for example , the council estimate that the number of pothole they fill increase by nearly 50 % compare with the year before . in Cheshire West and Chester , the council be commit — the hon . member talk about the issue with continuous patching - up — to deliver 12 major resurfacing scheme during this financial year , include on the A559 Chester Way in Northwich and the B5153 in Kingsley . everyone in England should now have access to these report by log on to their council ' s website . I be reliably inform that Cheshire East council have an interactive map , and I be sure that the hon . member , as soon as she leave the Chamber , will be head straight to a computer to take a look at that . everyone will be able to log on to their local council ' s website to understand more about what their local highway authority be do to improve their road and to see at first hand the difference that this Government ' s funding be make . crucially , it will also help people to challenge their local authority if it be not deliver . however , our funding for local road do not stop there . the hon . Member should already be aware of the result of the spending review , where it be announce that the Government will provide £ 24 billion in capital funding between 2026 - 27 and 2029 - 30 to maintain and improve motorway and local road across the country . that funding will allow National Highways and local authority to invest in significantly improve the long - term condition of England ' s road network , deliver fast , safe and more reliable journey . we will announce allocation for individual authority in due course . the capital funding for highway also include a £ 1 billion investment to enhance the road network and create a new structure fund , which will inject cash into repair road and rundown bridge , decay flyover and wear - out tunnel across the country . further funding of more than £ 6 million have be grant for active travel scheme for Cheshire West and Chester and for Cheshire East , for a total of 13 scheme . I be also delighted that on 8 July the Department confirm that it will provide £ 48 million of funding towards Cheshire East council ' s important Middlewich eastern bypass scheme , which be intend to help tackle congestion and safety concern in the town centre . to conclude , this Government be dedicate to support local highway authority to improve and maintain road for all user , and we will continue to prove our dedication through funding , transparency and support for local highway authority . question put and agree to . House adjourn .