Oral Answers to Questions Justice the Secretary of State be ask — Prolific Offenders what step her Department be take to help tackle hyper - prolific offender . what step her Department be take to help tackle hyper - prolific offender . we know that prolific offender represent only 10 % of offender but account for nearly 50 % of all sentence . that clearly can not continue , which be why I have specifically ask David Gauke to look at this issue in the independent sentencing review , to ensure that we have few crime commit by prolific criminal . I be grateful to the Lord Chancellor for her answer . can she tell the House what data her Department hold on the nationality of prolific offender , and what step she will take to deport those who be non - british ? the hon . Member will know that we retain datum on foreign national offender , and this Government be on track to remove more foreign national offender this year than in the previous year . I obviously want to make further progress on this issue , and I hope that there will be consensus across the House so that we remove those who commit crime in this country and who have no right to be here . the Government ' s early release scheme have an impact assessment for it to run for 10 year . for however long it do run , will the Government confirm that no prolific offender will be release early ? the impact assessment be do over the usual period of time , but I have commit to review the policy 18 month from the moment it be bring in , which be a commitment that we will keep . I recognise that we have a problem with prolific offending . it have go up over the last decade or so , which be why I have specifically ask the sentencing review panel to consider the intervention that we should make to cut the cycle of prolific offending . retail worker in my constituency tell I that they can predict , almost to the week , when somebody will arrive at their store to begin shoplift again after their oftentime all - too - short sentence . do my right hon . friend agree with they that the solution to hyper - prolific offending must be long sentence in certain case ? the length of sentence , and how to deal with the problem of prolific offending , will be look at specifically by the independent sentencing review panel . my hon . friend will understand why I can not pre - empt the finding of that review , but he will note that this Government be commit to scrap the effective immunity for some shoplifting , which be introduce by the previous Conservative Government , by remove the £ 200 threshold . that show that we be determined to clamp down on the sort of shoplifting he describe . I call the shadow Minister . we know that one of the key way in which we manage prolific offender be through tagging — both gp tag and home detention tagging . the Secretary of State have assure we that the problem with early release tagging have now be resolve , but I understand that problem persist for thousand of other prisoner who be due to be tag . can she assure the public that everyone who be be release , and who should be get a tag , be be tag on time ? yes . the specific problem that the hon . Gentleman refer to , which relate to Serco ' s performance and the two tranche of SDS40 release , have now be resolve . the backlog have be clear , and Serco ' s performance be now back to where it should be . of course , we will continue to monitor Serco ' s overall performance and keep the contract under regular review . the House will have hear that the Secretary of State do not answer my question . I acknowledge that the problem with the early release scheme have be tackle , but I be tell by many people work in the criminal justice sector that there be many other delay with the thousand of other prisoner who be due to be tag . again , can she assure the House that the thousand of prisoner who be due to be tag be be tag on time ? yes . there be no additional issue in relation to tag or the process by which the tagging take place with Serco , but where there be contract failure by Serco , we will not hesitate to take action . we have already impose financial penalty for the thing that go wrong with the SDS40 release , and we will keep this issue under regular review . the Prisons Minister in the other place discuss these matter directly with Serco on a regular basis , as do my official , and we will continue to monitor the situation . Prison Conditions what assessment she have make of the adequacy of the condition of prison . the prison estate condition survey programme be a live assessment of the condition of our estate , but there be still much to do . approximately 4 , 000 cell be lose to dilapidation under the last government . that be why we be invest £ 220 million in Prison and Probation Service maintenance in 2024 - 25 , and up to £ 300 million in 2025 - 26 . a constituent who be now a prisoner of HMP Coldingley write to I recently about the appalling condition in his prison . he speak about the prevalence of drug , violence , discrimination and denial of access to healthcare . in his most recent letter to I , he say that the condition have get so bad that he make an attempt on his life . another report on Coldingley have describe the condition as " inhumane " . can the Minister tell I what urgent work be be do to ensure that all our prison have humane condition for prisoner ? this Government be determined to ensure the good possible condition in our prison . we have inherit a crisis in our prison , I be afraid , but if the hon . member wish to write to I about that particular issue , I will be happy to write back to he . I call the Chair of the Justice Committee . the condition of our victorian prison in particular be not conducive to rehabilitation or preparation for life on release . the Government be press ahead with the construction of 20 , 000 new prison place , which their predecessor fail to honour . what thought have be give , in the design and operation of these major new prison , to the training , education , addiction and mental health need of inmate , for whom prison be currently little more than a human warehouse ? these new prison will be build with all the thing my hon . friend mention take fully into account . the Government be determined to put in place 14 , 000 more prison place . violence against Women and girl what step her Department be take through the criminal justice system to help tackle violence against woman and girl . last week , this Government introduce domestic abuse protection order in select area . this will improve protection for victim of domestic abuse , include non - physical abuse and coercive and control behaviour . we have also commit to fast - track rape case through the court in order to deliver swift justice for victim of this abhorrent offence . I recently visit South Ayrshire Women ' s aid in my constituency as part of the 16 day of activism against gender - base violence . will the Minister join I in praise the hard work of Women ' s aid in support woman and girl who have suffer violence ? do she agree that we need more support for these organisation up and down the country , particularly in respect of reliable funding ? I wholeheartedly echo my hon . friend ' s word about the vital work of organisation such as woman ' s aid , who do such brilliant work in empower woman and child to rebuild their life after experience domestic abuse . this Government be commit to halve violence against woman and girl within a decade . that be why I have decide to protect violence against woman and girl victim spend in the Ministry of Justice by maintain the current funding level for sexual violence and domestic abuse support for the next financial year . in August 2008 , Alan Jermey brutally murder Kirsty Wilson , strangle she and set her body on fire while their two young daughter sleep upstairs . he have now be recommend for transfer to an open prison , which could allow he unchaperoned access to the community within six month . his daughter , now 18 and 23 , be my constituent , and they be terrify by the thought of encounter he , or bad , of he come to their home , as he know their address . will the Lord Chancellor meet I and these young woman to discuss their fear and ensure that this transfer be stop ? I would be delighted to meet the hon . Gentleman and his constituent to discuss the case . the Minister will be aware of increase report of internet image abuse and the rise of deepfake pornography . what be her Department do to ensure that woman and girl be safe online and that this modern form of abuse can be prevent ? this government share the concern that more need to be do to protect woman from this appalling form of abuse . that be why we make a clear commitment in our manifesto to criminalise the creation of sexually explicit deepfake image of adult , and I look forward to set out our position on this in more detail soon . four schoolgirl suffer sexual abuse by their headteacher , Neil Foden , who be sentence in July to 17 year with a two - third tariff . the Crown Prosecution Service now tell I that Foden will instead spend half his sentence in prison , because the most serious of his crime can only be sentence to 14 year . will the Minister meet I to discuss how to safeguard the victim , whose abuser be in a position of trust , because they live in fear of his early release ? I be aware of the appalling case that the right hon . Lady mention . it be horrific and all my thought be with the victim of those crime . if she want to write to I with more detail , I will happily look at the case . as she know , sentencing be a matter for the independent judiciary , but I will look at the case and meet she to discuss it far . Prisoner Rehabilitation what step she be take to equip prisoner with the skill they need to support their rehabilitation . what step she be take to help ensure that prisoner be prepare for life outside of prison before they be release . we be mandate career advice in prison and introduce a life skill curriculum . all release prisoner have access to an employment advisory board that can connect prisoner with work , and banking and ID administrator be prepare prisoner for life after prison . the UK face a major labour shortage that be cost billion of pound annually . lacking prospect , many ex - prisoner return to a life of crime . enhance prisoner literacy and numeracy and provide vocational training can help equip they with skill for employment , lead to a reduction in reoffende rate . I welcome the " get Britain work " White Paper , which will address the issue . do the Minister agree that fail to tackle the issue will not only cause a lifelong challenge for individual , but create a significant problem for the state , include lose opportunity and increase crime ? I agree with my hon . friend . we know that have a job and a home be the good way to reduce reoffende . that be why we have employment hub in all resettlement prison , where prisoner can access job vacancy and support with their application . the Minister will know that prison governor have a statutory duty to ensure that prisoner be prepare for life outside prison before their release . one of the main issue for release prisoner be find a secure home , so that they can have somewhere secure to live rather than go back to the place where they be probably involve in gang or with particular individual . now that prisoner be be release from their sentence early , what action be the Minister take to ensure that they be fully prepared for life outside prison and there be no risk that they will reoffend ? we know that accommodation be key to reduce reoffende . that be why we be expand our transitional accommodation service and work closely with the Ministry of Housing , Communities and Local Government to develop a long - term strategy to put we back on track to end homelessness and ensure this issue be tackle correctly . legislation on Funerals what assessment she have make of the adequacy of legislation on funeral . the Government recognise that there be serious concern about the funeral director sector and that the legislation that govern what happen after we die be outdate . we be consider how to ensure that appropriate standard be introduce , include through the potential for some form of regulation . we have ask the Law Commission to create a future - proof legal framework to address what happen to our body after we die . as the Minister know , we have be in correspondence about that sector . she kindly write back to I to say that the Fuller inquiry ' s phase 2 interim report have be release . my constituent Joseph Barsby run G . Seller , one the big independent funeral director . he be passionate about how we can bring forward a compassionate way of look at people who have die , while ensure that standard be keep high . will the Minister consider meet I and he to far discuss way that we can bring the sector into the 21st century ? as the hon . Gentleman will know , the vast majority of funeral director treat people in their care with the utmost respect , as that business in his constituency will do . nevertheless , there be some serious issue of concern in the sector . as I mention , the Government be currently consider the full range of possible next step , include meet with sector director . I would be happy to inform the hon . Gentleman when that meeting be take place , so that he and his constituent can take part . support for Victims of Ecocide Order . before we come to question 6 , I notice that it be group , but to be honest I can not see a relationship between the question or why they be group together . I hope a message can be pass back to the Department to say that we need to have relevance in the way question be group . what step her Department be take through the criminal justice system to help support victim of ecocide . the victim code set out the service and support that victim of crime be entitle to receive from the criminal justice system in England and Wales . that include the right to access support , which apply regardless of whether they decide to report the crime directly to the police . we provide police and crime commissioner with annual grant funding to commission local , practical , emotional , and therapeutic support service for all victim of crime . England be home to 85 % of the world ' s chalk stream , which be very rare habitat . in Winchester we be lucky to have the Rivers Itchen and Meon run through the constituency . we know that they be struggle , with only 17 % of chalk stream rate as have good ecological health . that be partly because of over - abstraction , partly because of pollution , and partly because of water company dump sewage in they . we know that that not only destroy biodiversity but make people who swim in it sick . will the Minister , in addition to come down hard on water company , commit to implement a sewage victim compensation scheme for that particular problem ? I will ensure that the hon . member ' s comment be pass to the Department for Environment , Food and Rural Affairs and the Minister responsible for water quality . I can confirm that we be committed to deliver for nature , take action to meet our target in the Environment Act 2021 , and that we work in partnership with civil society , community and business to restore and protect our natural world . reduce reoffende what step her Department be take to help reduce reoffende . what step her Department be take to help reduce reoffende . we will expand our transitional accommodation service and launch employment council to strengthen the relationship between employer and HM Prison and Probation Service . People who commit crime should be prosecute and put in prison as quickly as possible . it be also clear that we need to do more to reduce reoffende rate in order to keep the public safe . to keep up with the current demand for prison place , we need to build three mega - jail a year , cost the taxpayer million . give those fact , do the Minister agree that we need to invest in technology to bring reoffende rate down , so that we can help those people turn their life around and , crucially , keep the public safe ? absolutely ; public safety be our no . 1 priority and new technology give we every advantage to do thing differently . that be one of the thing that the independent sentencing review under David Gauke will be look at . provide quality education and training for offender be one of the most effective way of reduce reoffende . Weston College in Weston - super - Mare run a transformational prison education programme across the south - west of England , which support successful rehabilitation , resettlement and employment of offender on release . can the Minister advise what step the Department be take to ensure that more offender can develop the skill they need to successfully gain employment and reintegrate into society ? I very much welcome the work that Weston College do in prison . we be also develop our training offer for employer in area such as rail track and construction , and hmpps ' s create future opportunity programme be work to improve the employability of offender in both prison and the community . I declare an interest as the founder and chairman of a prison rehabilitation charity . the Minister have helpfully set out what the Government be do about reduce reoffende , which I welcome . be he aware , though , of the enormous pressure put on prisoner who be approach the end of their release , give the pressure that the prison service be under ? that be partly because of early release itself , which be release prisoner before they finish programme provide by charity or the prison , but also because of the churn of prisoner be ship around the prison system because of the pressure on that system . be there anything he can tell we about what the Government be do to ensure that prisoner approach the end of their sentence have some stability in the prison they be serve in so that they can get support as they approach release ? several of the thing that I have mention already be design to do exactly that , and we recognise exactly what the hon . Gentleman say . on the SDS40 scheme , prison and probation officer have do an outstanding job in support prisoner through that journey . a constituent of mine report a rape and sexual offence case well over two year ago but , like many victim , be still wait for her case to be process by the Crown court , leave her pessimistic about the criminal justice system ' s ability properly to tackle violence against woman and girl . what be the Ministry of Justice do to tackle the backlog and support victim of VAWG through the criminal justice system ? order . that be not relevant to the question that have be ask . Prison Capacity what step her Department be take to increase prison capacity . we take immediate action to prevent the collapse of the prison system by change the automatic release point for standard determinate sentence . we be build 14 , 000 new prison place and we will publish our 10 - year capacity strategy shortly , which will set out exactly where and by when we will get the place that we need . the previous Government leave prison in crisis . we will fix they for good with that capacity strategy and the independent review of sentencing . I welcome what this Government be do to increase prison capacity , but what will the Secretary of State do on tough sentencing ? if she go to my constituency of Central Suffolk and North Ipswich , she will be meet with a tough , gruff East Anglian accent that say , " what ' s the point of build prison place if you be not go to use they ? " I be sure the hon . member ' s constituent will also recognise that , even with the new supply that we be build , we will still run out of prison place , as the demand in the system be much great than the building plan . we simply can not build our way out of this problem , so to make sure that there be always a prison place for the people who need to be lock up and that we never run out of prison place again , we need an independent review of sentencing . I call the shadow Secretary of State . the Lady Chief Justice have say that the court be not operate at full capacity , perpetuate the record number in prison on remand , await trial . there could be an extra 6 , 500 sit day if the Government allow they . case such as rape and sexual assault be be push into 2027 . Baroness Carr warn the Justice Secretary that failure to maximise judicial capacity would actually cost the government more in costly and limited prison place , yet the Justice Secretary fail to agree to her request . why be the Government let out criminal rather than hear more case ? I be tempt to remind the shadow Minister about his own Government ' s track record . he ought to know that it be my predecessor , his colleague , the former Lord Chancellor who agree the allocation of sit day with the Lady Chief Justice and that that concordat agreement be conclude during the election period when the Tories be still conduct business . when the right hon . Gentleman respond , perhaps he would like to explain why the allocation be make for only 106 , 000 sitting day . what I have do be increase sit day by a further 500 and increase magistrate court ' sentence power , which be the equivalent of an additional 2 , 000 Crown court sitting day , in order to start crack down on that backlog . instead of increase sit hour , the Justice Secretary ' s define intervention in her five month in office have be to accidentally let out dangerous criminal from our prison . just last week , she rush to Parliament to close loophole that she create for stalk , for disclose private sexual image and for murder . she could be sign deal with other country to get new prisoner transport agreement . she could be use visa sanction with foreign country to force they to take back the 10 , 000 foreign criminal in our prison . she be not do so . meanwhile , criminal be be release and be reoffende already . will the Justice Secretary commit now to end her dangerous and unnecessary early release scheme ? the shadow Minister could at least have apologise to the country for be part of a Government and a party that run out of prison place . it be the Tory party that run the system at boil hot — at over 99 % capacity . I hate to remind he , but for month before the previous election , the Tory party operate its own emergency release scheme , which do not have any exclusion for offence connect to domestic abuse . I will take no lesson from he , as it be this Government who be clean up the mess that his party leave behind . Crown Court Backlog what step her Department be take to reduce the backlog of Crown court case . the Crown court backlog that we inherit from the Conservatives be dire . instead of cut the number of case wait to be hear , as they promise , the backlog of case explode under their watch . this government be get a grip of the problem . we have take important first step . we have fund 106 , 500 Crown court sit day this year , and we have increase magistrate ' sentence power to free up more sitting day in the Crown court to hear the most serious case , but we know that there be more to do . I be campaign to put more police on our street , but that be only part of the picture . this backlog in our court mean that the entire criminal justice system be creak and justice be be delay . this time last year , there be a backlog in my region of more than 9 , 000 case . will the Minister ensure that this conservative court chaos be deal with and offender be bring to justice ? my hon . friend be absolutely right to describe the situation as conservative court chaos . indeed , the full picture of the last Government ' s terrible inheritance will become clear when we publish Crown court datum later this week . demand on the criminal court be increase at a fast rate than the action we be able to take , and we must therefore go far . this Government understand the scale of the problem and be ready to confront it with the fundamental reform that will be necessary . the Minister refer to court chaos . a tribunal judge and a court worker from my Taunton and Wellington constituency write to I . the tribunal judge say : " tribunal be be cancel every day as they say there be not enough judge to cover the case . this be absolutely not the case , " and " People be wait month for their benefit appeal in appal poverty and again we can not deal with the case because of this limit " on sit day . what will the Minister do to increase sit day in Taunton and Somerset court ? we be invest in increase court capacity and in the recruitment of 1 , 000 judge and tribunal member . as the Lord Chancellor say , we have increase the number of Crown court sitting day by 500 , but it be not simply enough to increase court sitting day . we have to look at fundamental reform to address the serious backlog we have inherit from the Conservative Government . gambling - relate crime : support for Victims what step her Department be take through the criminal justice system to help support victim of gambling - relate crime . the Government be determined to provide support for all victim of crime . that include publicly consult on a new revise victim code in the new year . I remind the hon . member that the Minister for Gambling in the other place recently announce a legally mandate levy on gambling company to address gambling harm and to introduce nhs - lead treatment and support . I welcome that response from the Minister . gambling addiction destroy life . in fact , on average , 496 gambling - relate suicide occur every year . it be not just the life of the gambler that get destroy ; there be an invisible group of victim — the family who have to pick up the piece . a local charity in my constituency — Spinney Hill drug , alcohol and addiction support — tell I of a talented young man from a deprive socioeconomic background whose family save every single penny to send he to university . he spend that and more on gambling because of his addiction . the family be now in spiral debt , and the whole family unit have be destroy . do the Minister agree that gambling company should pay a levy to help compensate family , especially when child be become addict ? the Government recently announce a mandatory levy on the company directly to provide support and nhs - lead service . I will pass his comment to the Department for Culture , Media and Sport to give he an answer . Court case : Backlog what assessment she have make of the potential impact of the backlog of court case on victim of crime . bear down on the outstanding caseload in the Crown court and bring down waiting time be a priority for the Government . we want to ensure that every victim have the swift access to justice that they deserve . we know rape victim be wait a disproportionately long time for their trial , and that be why we have commit to work with the judiciary to fast - track those case through the court . recently , Truro Crown court , which serve my constituency of South West Devon , have be force to shut one day a week due to recent budget cut and the judicial sitting day reduction . some case have already be postpone until late 2025 , include lengthy case that involve victim of violence , and it be prompt those victim to consider withdraw their case . give the maxim justice delay be justice deny , what additional step be be take to support victim to continue with their case across Devon and Cornwall ? as the hon . Lady know , rape be an abhorrent crime and case be usually complex . that mean despite judge prioritise case involve vulnerable complainant and witness , rape victim can wait disproportionately long than victim of other case for their trial to come to court . I remind she that the Government have increase the number of court sitting date by 500 day this year , and the Lord Chancellor agree to increase capacity in the magistrate court so that we can get through case more quickly . we be also introduce independent legal advocate in the new year to advise rape victim from report to trial , which will ensure they stay in the system long , feel supported and get to trial . in the last five year , the number of magistrate cover Telford and wide Shropshire fall from 91 to 76 . in 2022 , 50 % of the court session go unused . at the Crown court , victim be wait an average of 18 month , with some sexual offence take up to three year to be deal with . Telford vote for change . will the Minister ensure that victim of crime get justice and that criminal be punish ? absolutely . the Minister with responsibility for court , my hon . and learn Friend the Member for Finchley and Golders Green ( Sarah Sackman ) , have already outline the step that the Government be take to increase sentencing in our court . we will of course consider what other action we can take . we know that the budgetary position that the Government face be incredibly tight , because of the inheritance that we receive . however , it be vital that we make fiscally responsible decision . early Release Scheme what recent assessment she have make of the effectiveness of the early release scheme . SDS40 — the standard determinate sentence early release scheme — be an emergency measure that we have to take to avert the complete collapse of the criminal justice system follow the shocking inheritance leave to we by the previous Government . the emergency measure be not , of course , the solution to the crisis that we inherit . that be why we will build the 14 , 000 prison place that we need , and have launch the independent review of sentencing . what concern I be not the past but the future and how to protect the public . will the Secretary of State assure I that the screening process be sufficiently robust to ensure that violent and dangerous criminal be not release into the community ? I gently say to the right hon . Gentleman that the past be relevant in so far as it set the context for the crisis that we have inherit , which need resolve . give that we all but run out of prison place — number have fall to few than 100 in the summer — it be important that we recognise that the prison system be and have be on the point of collapse . that be why we have to take emergency measure . we have make exclusion to the SDS40 scheme that should take account of his concern . it be of course important that offender be monitor and supervise effectively when they be not in prison , and that be what we be try to do now . tech can play a big role there , and I have ask the independent review into sentencing to look into that . I call the liberal Democrat spokesperson . there be no specific domestic abuse offence in law , so abuser hide behind conviction such as actual bodily harm be be let out early under the SDS40 early release scheme . that be not right , so I have introduce the Domestic Abuse ( Aggravated Offences ) Bill to create a specific set of domestic abuse aggravate offence — a bit like racially aggravate offence — that could be exclude from early release scheme . woman ' s aid be back my Bill ; will the Secretary of State back it , too ? the hon . Gentleman be right to note that , under current legislation , it be possible to exclude only offence , rather than class of offender . I be sure that his Bill will gain some interest across the House . if any such change be to be make , they would be for the future , as they do not help we with the current crisis . I will ensure to discuss the detail of his Bill with the Home Secretary . I thank the Secretary of State for that answer — I hope to have the chance to meet she to discuss it in more detail . the Liberal Democrats be deeply concerned about survivor who have be tell that , as it stand , their abuser be set to be release early . one such survivor be Elizabeth Hudson , who I meet on the set of " Good Morning Britain " today when launch this campaign . she have write to Ministers about her concern , but say that she have not receive a response . will the Secretary of State meet Elizabeth and I to discuss her case and how survivor can be respect and protect ? I believe that all who have write have receive a response from the Ministry , but I will chase down that specific case . the way we implement the policy mean that we be able to give the Probation Service time to prepare which be not available to it under the previous Tory Government ' s end of custody supervise licence scheme . that mean that all victim who be suppose to be notify under the victim contact scheme have be notify . epilepsy : sudden unexpected death what discussion she have have with the chief coroner on report sudden unexpected death in epilepsy . I recently meet the chief coroner . we do not discuss the specific of this issue , but coroner have a statutory duty to investigate death that be not report to they if they suspect that the cause be unknown , violent or unnatural , or that the death occur in custody or other state detention . the charity SUDEP Action , which be base in my Oxfordshire constituency of Didcot and Wantage , provide specialist support for bereaved family . improvement to the coroner service would help to reduce trauma , improve understanding of the cause of death , and enable more research to aid prevention of future death . will the Minister press for more investment in , and support for , the coroner service ? the Government recognise the impact of delay and the other issue face coroner at the moment , and the impact that that be have on bereaved family and the wide system . we welcome the recent Justice Committee report on the coroner service , and I look forward to work closely with the chief coroner , local authority and key partner to devise and deliver a wide strategy for those service . Prison Maintenance what assessment she have make of the potential merit of insource all prison maintenance . my hon . friend be right to ask this question . under the previous Government , a process be already under way to put in place new contract for prison maintenance . we need to make sure that those contract deliver good value for the public purse . I thank the Minister for that response . the prison maintenance contract be set to be retendere to the private sector next year . prison such as Walton in my home city of Liverpool — a crumble victorian prison — struggle to get the small repair undertake , and there be £ 1 . 8 billion - worth of unreported repair within the prison system . we know that privatisation lead to high cost and increase squalor , so can the Minister or the Secretary of State call time on this fail experiment and bring prison maintenance back in - house where it belong ? the previous Government pause work on essential maintenance , which have add to the problem we be now deal with . my hon . friend be right to say that all option need to be look at in order to ensure we get the good possible value for money for the public purse from any new contract or arrangement . I thank the Minister very much for that response . one story that have be quite prevalent in the press over the past two month have be the amount of mould growth in prison , which will obviously lead to health issue . will the new prison maintenance service that the Minister have refer to be able to deal with that specific issue ? if it be not deal with , it will lead to ill health among those who be in prison . clearly , issue such as that need to be deal with . staff at his Majesty ' s Prison and Probation Service be do their utmost to try to tackle those issue , but we will redouble our effort after the hon . Gentleman ' s encouragement . topical Questions if she will make a statement on her departmental responsibility . last week , the National Audit Office release a damn report on the previous Government ' s record on prison building , show that their promise of 20 , 000 prison place by the mid - 2020s be hollow . unwilling to face down opposition on their own Back Benches , the last government dither and delay , ultimately build less than a third of the cell they promise . as a result , they leave our prison overcrowded and at the point of collapse . later this week , I will set out in my 10 - year capacity strategy a realistic plan for build the 14 , 000 prison place that we need , and I will ensure that our prison be never leave at the point of collapse again . I thank the Justice Secretary for that answer . in common with many member of the House , I have hear horrific story of perpetrator breach order to which they be subject , give they further opportunity to terrorise , injure , or in some case kill woman protect by those order — may Harshita Brella and so many other rest in peace . what action be the Justice Secretary take to assess and improve the effectiveness of civil order in safeguard survivor of domestic abuse ? my hon . friend will know that this Government have launch a pilot of domestic abuse protection order in a number of area , which will bring together the strong possible protection for victim in other exist protective order into a single order . breach such order will be a criminal offence punishable by up to five year in prison , and unlike other order , there will be no maximum duration . I call the shadow Secretary of State . in London , there be a phone theft epidemic , and this time it be not the former Transport Secretary on the loose . last year , more than 64 , 000 mobile phone be report to the police as steal in the capital alone . the small number of individual responsible should be lock up for a long time , yet last month , a criminal who use a motorbike to steal 24 phone an hour be jail for just two year . enough be enough , so will the Justice Secretary commit to dramatically increase sentence for career criminal , get they off our street and slash crime ? where be the shadow Secretary of State over the past 14 year when the theft epidemic begin ? again , give the scale of his party ' s general election defeat , some humility be usually require — perhaps even an apology to the british public — before he and other can earn the right to be hear again . he be right about the issue with mobile phone theft , and the Home Office and the Home Secretary in particular be meet with tech company to talk about how we can break the business model of those criminal . cousin marriage have absolutely no place in Britain . the medical evidence be overwhelming that it significantly increase the risk of birth defect , and the moral case be clear in that we see hundred of exploitative marriage that ruin live . frankly , it should have be stamp out a long time ago . will the Justice Secretary commit to end this medieval practice , which be rear its head once again in modern Britain ? the right hon . Member will know that there have be a recent Law Commission report on marriage law more generally . the Government be go to consult on broad reform of marriage law , and we will certainly consider the issue that he have raise before set out a public position . many of my constituent work at HMP Swinfen Hall in Staffordshire , although the boundary change take it out of my constituency recently . many of the prison officer I speak to there be concerned about retention at the start of their career , get into more experienced role and ensure that such experience be retain . can the Minister reassure I about the step be take to encourage retention of experienced member of staff ? one of the very first action of the Government be to accept the Prison Service pay review body ' s independent recommendation in full , deliver a pay increase of 5 % for prison officer . in addition , we monitor exit interview datum and use it to help design intervention to improve retention . one in four people of work age in the UK have a criminal record , for a variety of reason . Most of these people no long pose a threat to society , but be still tie to their past by their criminal record and face a lifetime of barrier with employer . what step be the Minister take to ensure that the criminal record implication of a sentence do not impact on an individual disproportionately ? the hon . member raise an important issue , which be always under review , but that be where we be at the moment . what be the Government do to ensure that offender be manage effectively in the community , and how will the Secretary of State use offender monitor technology to improve the efficiency of the Probation Service in keep the public safe ? I particularly welcome the step take with technology on exclusion zone and monitor alcohol and drug in the human body . I thank my hon . friend . tag technology can monitor offender effectively in the community . we have tag that monitor curfew and exclusion zone , tag to impose home detention — in effect , the equivalent of house arrest — and sobriety tag with a 97 % compliance rate . we be currently look at expand the use of technology to improve productivity in the Probation Service . we will also fund an additional 5 , 000 new tag to expand the use of tech outside prison . one in 50 Albanians in Britain be in jail , and foreign national such as Jamaicans , Iraqis and Somalis be also disproportionately likely to be criminal . we need well datum to inform immigration , asylum and criminal justice policy . will the Government publish the nationality , visa and asylum status of all offender in prison — if yes , can we have a timeline , and if not , can we have a good reason why not ? we be currently use a data collection and publication approach inherit from the previous Conservative Government — probably from the hon . member ' s time as an adviser to the former Home Secretary and Prime Minister — but I will continue to monitor the datum that we collect and publish . we be committed to ensure that we deport foreign national offender , and be on track to deport more this year than be deport in the previous year . we will make more progress in that respect . like other hon . member from south Wales , I regularly hear from constituent with relative in Parc Prison of their concern about safety , the state of the facility and the difficulty of get medication and mental health support . I know the Victims Minister — the Under - Secretary of State for Justice , my hon . friend the Member for Pontypridd ( Alex Davies - Jones ) — and the Prisons Minister visit on Thursday , and I thank they for be proactive , because this have be go on a long time . can the Minister report back on what the management be do to improve thing ? I can assure the House and my hon . friend that HMP Parc be receive targeted support . she point to the recent visit by my hon . and noble friend to the prison , and the Minister for Prisons in the other place be provide full evidence about this and other matter to the Welsh Affairs Committee tomorrow . Elizabeth Fry first begin her work to create sex - specific prison facility for woman in 1813 , with the primary aim of protect female prisoner from rape , and the Gaols Act 1823 put this into statute . yet 200 year later , Fry ' s legacy be be betray as girl and woman continue to be house with boy and man . one such example be Wetherby . do the Secretary of State agree with I and the Women ' s Rights Network that Susannah Hancock ' s work on this be urgently need , and can she give any indication of when Susannah will conclude her review ? there be no girl currently in Wetherby . we have not change and will not be change the policy we inherit from the previous Government in relation to single - sex space and the prison system ; that policy will remain as it have be . the woman ' s justice board will consider the issue that relate to female offender across the woman ' s estate . the criminal injury compensation scheme be a vitally important part of the justice system but among the gap in the framework we inherit be interim support for victim of crime under 18 before they can access their award . this be profoundly affect three of my young constituent who be victim of rape , and their family , in deal with the consequence . will the Secretary of State meet I to discuss how we can do more for child victim of the most serious offending and ensure the Criminal Injuries Compensation Authority be fit for purpose ? my hon . friend raise an important point about the Criminal Injuries Compensation Authority . the previous Government undertake a review of the scheme ; it run three consultation respectively . when the election be call in May no response to those consultation have be publish . we be consider the support we provide to victim include child victim , and we be advise on a new victim ' code in the new year specifically to look at that issue , include any response to the review , and we will set out our plan in due course . since the beginning of this year , 17 inmate have die at HMP Parc . it have be under the control of G4S since open in 1997 . what consideration have the Lord Chancellor make of return the prison to the Ministry of Justice ? as I say in answer to an early question from my hon . friend the Member for Newport East ( Jessica Morden ) , HMP Parc be receive a lot of attention at the moment . the Minister for prison in the other place , Lord Timpson , will be answer question tomorrow in thorough detail and the hon . Member might wish to attend that meeting . two week ago I visit Currys in Farnborough Gate after its staff suffer yet another horrify steam attack . a gang of six man storm into the store , destroy and steal product and terrified customer . how will the sentencing review contribute towards crack down on this appalling behaviour trend ? the independent sentencing review will be make recommendation to ensure that our sentencing legislation and framework be fit for purpose and that we always have prison place for those who need to be lock up , so that our prison create well citizen out of criminal and we can expand the use of punishment outside prison . I will not get ahead of what that review might recommend but it will look at all those issue in the round . the smuggling of illegal drug into prison have be a problem for many year . the last Government spend over £ 100 million try to deal with the issue ; what plan do the current Government have to try to comprehensively deal with it ? the hon . Gentleman be right : drug be rife in too many of our prison and that problem have be very difficult to challenge , both for the previous Government and no doubt for we as well . we have to crack down on the supply of drug into our prison , which be why we be expand the use of no - fly zone . the hon . Gentleman will know that scanner have already be use , but harden criminal be increasingly move on to use drone instead . we will crack down on supply but we also need to look at demand and get more of our prisoner off drug while they be in prison . the current court backlog across England be an indictment of the previous Government , with almost 1 , 800 case in Nottinghamshire alone . rape victim be wait on average over a year to have their case bring to trial , if it get that far . what be the Department do to prioritise these case and restore faith in the criminal justice system for victim of rape and serious sexual offence ? my hon . friend be right that justice delay be justice deny , and our heart break for victim wait too long for trial to come . that be why we must tackle the Crown court backlog , which we be do by keep open 16 Nightingale court through the recruitment of more judge . as I say previously , we need fundamental reform , and that be what we will bring about . to boost public confidence in the criminal justice system , can the Minister confirm that the Government will not resort to increase dependency on community sentence , many of which be unserve ? as the hon . Gentleman will have hear I say many time , we have bring forward an independent sentencing review to look at the issue of sentencing in the round to ensure that we be never again in the position where we be about to run out of prison place and can not lock up those who must be lock up for reason of public protection . the review will also make recommendation on how prisoner rehabilitation can help people turn their life around and , more importantly , cut the number of victim that would result from reoffende . last month in Basingstoke , three woman be victim of spike while on night out . that appalling crime rob individual of their autonomy , put life at risk and leave woman feel unsafe . victim , include Skylar , Laura and Jade , have highlight serious gap in the awareness of and response to spiking , so I welcome the Government ' s pledge to make spike a specific criminal offence and to train thousand of night - time economy staff . will the Minister update the House on how the propose measure will be implement to prevent further incident in town such as Basingstoke ? this Government be commit to bring forward a specific new offence of spike . we be commit to modernise the exist legislation in this session so that no other victim like Skylar , Laura and Jade suffer these abhorrent crime . nearly 3 , 000 prisoner be still incarcerate under imprisonment for public protection sentence , which be abolish more than 12 year ago , many for offence not intend to be cover by such sentence . will the Justice Secretary commit to expedite the Government plan to re - sentence all prisoner still stick on indefinite IPP sentence to free up limited prison capacity ? first , the last Conservative Government be right to abolish the IPP sentencing regime , but that have leave we with a cohort within our prison system who be still serve these sentence . I be determined to make more progress in ensure that , when safe to do so , more of those individual can come out of prison , but I will not do so in a way that compromise public protection , as some of these individual pose a real risk to the public . I will not conduct a re - sentencing exercise , because that would have the effect of release everyone immediately , but we will make progress on get more people properly rehabilitate and out of prison . section 127 of the Criminal Justice and Public Order Act 1994 ban prison officer from take industrial action and limit trade union ' ability to protect prison officer from attack on their term and condition and wage . thankfully , these fundamental trade union right have be reinstate for prison officer in Scotland . do the Secretary of State agree that it be time for section 127 to change so that worker ’ right be fully restore for prison officer in the rest of the UK ? I do not think now be the time to consider that . Avon and Somerset police be do an excellent job at Bath Christmas market , challenge any individual see behave inappropriately towards a woman or young female . what more can the Ministry of Justice do to tackle street harassment ? we be work closely with our colleague in the Home Office to tackle violence against woman and girl . this Government be elect with a landmark mission to halve violence against woman and girl over the course of a decade . that include all crime against woman and girl , particularly harassment , and we be work together to ensure that that happen . I welcome the Secretary of State ' s approach in recognise that we can not continue as we have do . she will know that county line be have an impact in town and city across the country , with a particularly devastating impact on child . can she outline the option that the sentencing review might explore to effectively disrupt the criminal network and protect vulnerable young people ? the sentencing review will primarily look at the sentencing framework and how we treat different cohort of offender within that . it will consider drug crime , too , but on the specific issue of county line , I will ensure that my hon . friend get a response from the Home Office . only a couple of day ago , a prisoner be let out under the Government ' s early release scheme . he be want for remove his gps tag . what assessment have be make on the reoffende rate so far since the start of the scheme ? anybody who breach their licence condition can be recall immediately to prison . if somebody remove their tag , they can and will be recall . we have not see high than normal rate of recall under the SDS40 scheme , and we have not change our projection on prison capacity . I call the Chair of the Justice Committee . last month , the Justice Committee visit central London county court , which be one of the busy in England , and meet the exceptional and resilient people who run it , both judicial and administrative . they need to be resilient as their work be contain in thousand of paper file that be store , transport and update in a way that Dickens would have recognise . when will we digitise civil justice ? the modernisation of the court and the digitisation programme be a priority . clearly , that can increase efficiency in the progress of case and improve the working of case management . we be look at that and work in close co - operation with our colleague in the judiciary to ensure that we make progress in that area . storm Darragh ( Urgent Question ) : to ask the Secretary of State for Environment , Food and Rural Affairs if he will make a statement on the Government ' s response to storm Darragh . I would like to say how sorry the Government be to hear that two people lose their life during Storm Darragh . I extend my sympathy to their family and friend . late last week , the Met Office issue a red weather warn for wind cover England and Wales , with wide part of the UK cover by amber and yellow warning . the Government immediately take action to prepare for the arrival of Storm Darragh . ahead of the storm , we issue an emergency alert to over 3 million people in affected region under a red weather warning , urge they to stay indoor . that be the large use of the early warning system outside of a test scenario . impact , although widespread , be manage effectively and local response mechanism work to mitigate impact . for the household and business affect by disruption , it would have be a very distressing few day . over 2 . 3 million customer have have their power restore since the storm make landfall . as of this morning , just under 24 , 000 customer remain without power . reconnection be continue at pace , and operator expect to have all remain customer reconnecte by tomorrow . I be grateful for the response from colleague in devolved Administrations and local resilience forum around the country . I praise our emergency responder and utility worker , who have work , and indeed be continue to work , so hard in difficult condition to help the public manage the impact of the storm . thank you for grant the urgent question , Mr Speaker . I thank the Minister for her reply and join she in express my condolence to the family of those two individual who have tragically lose their life . the storm leave hundred of thousand of home without power and disrupt critical infrastructure . we be all grateful to the engineer who be work tirelessly to restore power under challenging condition . I pay tribute to the emergency service and local authority who have also work hard to clear road and offer support to household where possible . however , I be deeply concerned about the thousand of people still without electricity . the storm have bring into sharp relief just how dependent other key utility be on electricity : from heat to water supply and mobile phone network . the latter concern be compound in rural area by the fact that many have lose their copper landline in the recent digital switchover and now use a system dependent on main power . village such as Blaenffos , Pont - rhyd - y - groes and Ponterwyd in my constituency , to name just a few , have therefore not only be without power but have period without water , heat and any mean of communicate for help and support . the increase frequency of extreme weather event such as Storm Darragh due to climate change underscore the need for robust civil protection measure encompass both our immediate response and long - term resilience planning . in that regard , our experience with storm Darragh highlight a need to review the adequacy of current arrangement . for example , if rural area such as mine be without mobile signal and no long have copper landline , how can they receive important emergency information , let alone call for assistance ? will the Minister therefore commit to review arrangement in the light of the storm , include whether the priority service register be adequate to address the need of vulnerable resident during widespread power outage ? will she ensure that key utility be equip to mitigate the impact of future extreme weather event ? finally , will she outline the Government ' s immediate action to work with the Welsh Government and local authority in Wales to support community who be still without power , and their long - term strategy to strengthen national resilience in the face of extreme weather event ? I thank the hon . gentleman for his question and for his effort over the weekend to provide advice and support to constituent . as he mention , many household across north and mid - Wales have be particularly affect by the damage and disruption cause by Storm Darragh . again , I extend my sympathy to all those who have be affect by power cut , flooding and other disruption , which I know will have be distress . again , I pay tribute to the emergency service and utility worker in north and mid Wales who be continue to work hard to support the household affect . the UK Government have be work closely with our counterpart in the Welsh Government — the hon . Member raise concern about that . my right hon . friend the Chancellor of the Duchy of Lancaster speak to the First Minister on Friday , and we be continue to work closely together . I hope that reassure the hon . member on that aspect . in my response I set out how work be under way to resolve the situation of property without power and affect by flooding , which the hon . Gentleman rightly point out . more broadly , we be continue to work with partner to ensure that the disruption be address as soon as possible , and that support be provide to those affect . I hope that the hon . Gentleman feel reassure that we be constantly monitor the work that we have do to see how to improve for future flood and storm . the Government be take this seriously , and I hope the whole House support these effort . I echo the sentiment of my hon . friend and the hon . member for Ceredigion Preseli ( Ben Lake ) about the people who lose their life and all those who have be affect by flood . those of we in community that have be flood know how desperate the impact be , not just in the immediate aftermath but for month afterwards . flood victim often say that they have receive false warning on so many occasion that when the warning come , they often do not have faith in they . what be the Government do to improve the reliability of those warning , so that we be well informed ? what be they do to ensure that the public be well educate about the limitation of the warning that we get from the Environment Agency ? I thank my hon . friend for raise that important point and talk about the impact on his constituent and those across the country . the Met Office warning be base on judgment make by highly train staff who have carefully collaborate to provide instructive advice to people , business , transport operator and emergency responder on a storm ' s impact on customer disruption . in this particular situation , the emergency alert be send to approximately 3 million people across Wales and the south - west on Friday 6 December . it reach the people who need to be reach really effectively . I call the shadow Minister . I applaud the hon . member for Ceredigion Preseli ( Ben Lake ) for ask this urgent question . he ask some very detailed question about communication and connectivity that be vital for rural area . can the Minister commit to write to he and to put that letter in the Library ? there be important information that need to be put on the public record . storm Darragh have have and continue to have terrible impact across the UK . our thought be very much with the love one of those who tragically lose their life in recent day , and with the people whose home and business have be devastate and those who continue to feel the effect of the storm . we must not forget that for at - risk community , the mental health consequence can remain long after the storm and flood have abate and the blue light have leave . the opposition pay tribute to the emergency service , the Environment Agency , local authority and volunteer group for their effort to help people in these challenging and dangerous circumstance . in the come hour and day , the Government need to focus on quickly reconnecte those without power and give help to those who have be drive out of their home , on the repair and reopening of building and school and on the process for insurance claim so that resident can return home as soon as possible . what conversation be be have across Government to ensure that all that happen ? what discussion do the Minister have with ministerial colleague across Government and with the Environment Agency and the Met Office before the late storm hit ? the Government ' s flood resilience taskforce be set up to improve flood preparedness . it have meet once , and its next meeting be next year . should it not be stand up more frequently and meet more regularly ? the previous Conservative Government commit a record £ 5 . 2 billion from 2019 to 2027 to provide significantly improve flood defence across the country . will the new Labour Government continue that investment ? the farm recovery fund , initiate by the previous Conservative Government to support farmer , be vital . will this Government provide new money now , after recent storm like Bert and Darragh ? finally , can the Government confirm their ongoing commitment to the community hit by these increasingly common extreme weather event ? I want to reassure the hon . Gentleman that the Government be work closely with devolved Administrations and organisation to address these issue . as I mention already , the Chancellor of the Duchy of Lancaster speak to the First Minister on Friday , and we continue to work together . work be be do to strengthen the resilience review , which the hon . Gentleman mention , and the emergency alert work effectively to reach those who have be directly affect . I assure the hon . Gentleman that we will respond to the hon . member for Ceredigion Preseli on the issue he have raise to ensure that his question be answer . I thank the Minister for the statement , and express my sympathy for those affect and my thank to emergency and utility worker for all their effort over the weekend . the storm be of great significance in constituency such as mine . I appreciate what the Minister have say on the effort and conversation between the UK Government and the Welsh Government . can she say any more on that , and assure we that the lesson to be learn from this storm — on resilience and deal with any future storm — will be share with all of we in this House , as well as our colleague in Wales ? like my hon . friend , I recognise the impact the storm have have on individual . we have be work closely with the Welsh Government on the civil contingency response structure in response to storm Darragh , and have convene an all - wales civil contingency committee . [ Official Report , 6 January 2025 ; Vol . 759 , c . 3WC . ] ( Correction ) official in the UK Government regularly engage with the Welsh Government on this matter , and ensure that local responder be work effectively . we will be look to see what else we can learn from this situation . I call the liberal Democrat spokesperson . I thank the hon . member for Ceredigion Preseli ( Ben Lake ) , who ask an excellent question and raise this important issue today . my thought also be with those who tragically lose their life this weekend and with their family , and with all the community who have be so terribly affect by the storm . I have immense gratitude , as I be sure we all do , for our emergency service , utility company staff and local community , who have respond with such effectiveness and compassion . we be affect in Westmorland , although not as badly as the constituent of many Welsh Members present . last week be the ninth anniversary of storm Desmond , which we remember and still bear the scar from , and we stand in solidarity with all those deeply affected right now . the storm remind we of our duty to protect home , community , farmland and business . in the Budget , the Government agree to funding for flood defence up to March 2026 , with the potential threat of reduce funding thereafter . will the Minister take this opportunity to guarantee , as a minimum , the current level of funding for flood defence beyond March 2026 ? so much farmland have be affect by the storm , yet farm be key to successful flood management , store water and slow the flow to protect village and town downstream , such as Appleby and Kendal in my constituency . will the Minister now agree to increase the environmental land management scheme budget to help our farmer be our first and good defence against flooding ? finally , will the Minister confirm that the Government will expand eligibility for the farming recovery fund ? will they publish an up - to - date water management strategy to set out a plan for urgent maintenance and upgrade to flood defence to protect home , farmland and business at risk ? the Government be work at pace to step up further preparation for winter . we be invest £ 2 . 4 billion up to March 2026 to improve flood resilience and well protect community across the country . we be also look at lesson from the flood , which be be feed directly in to the flood resilience taskforce that be set up under this new Government . that will look at flood defence and bolster the nation ' s resilience to extreme weather . I have the opportunity to attend the flood resilience taskforce with a wide range of stakeholder , and it be a positive way to address future issue . we recognise the significant impact flooding have on farmer and rural community , which be why we be provide up to £ 50 million for internal drainage board and an additional £ 60 million through the farming recovery fund . I thank the Minister for come to the House to explain what have be go on in relation to storm Darragh . like everyone I thank the emergency service , and I also thank Monmouthshire county council for all the work it do this weekend . over 2 million household lose power this weekend , include a group of constituent in Llangybi , one of whom be extremely vulnerable . will the Minister share with we how many household have be reconnecte ? as my hon . friend mention , up to 2 . 3 million customer lose power during the storm . as of this morning , as I mention , just under 24 , 000 customer be without power . the Government have be reassure that the operator be due to reconnect they all by tomorrow . I join the House in pay tribute to the emergency service , include Mid and West Wales Fire and Rescue Service and Dyfed - Powys police , as well as Powys county council in my constituency , which have be work tirelessly to keep people safe over the past few day . community across Wales , include in my constituency , have be batter by this storm only a few week after already take significant damage from Storm Bert . many of my constituent in the Swansea valley be leave without power for over 48 hour and some may not have power restore until Thursday . likewise , many water supply have be disrupt and town such as Builth Wells have experience significant flooding . what support be the UK Government provide to Wales to ensure that power be restore as soon as possible to those household ? I send my sympathy to the hon . Gentleman ' s constituent who be still directly affect . our priority be to ensure that everyone without power be reconnecte as quickly as possible . our colleague in the Department for Energy Security and Net Zero have be receive regular update from the Energy Networks Association on electricity outage . work be be do swiftly to ensure that those who be directly affect get their power back as soon as possible . I thank my neighbour the hon . member for Ceredigion Preseli ( Ben Lake ) for ask the urgent question . let I add my voice to the chorus of voice thank the emergency service , and also pay tribute to community and local business such as the Hand in Llanarmon Dyffryn Ceiriog , in my constituency . the storm bring out the good in society , which be what the bad weather sometimes do . will my hon . friend join I in pay tribute to local business and civic society for all their work in help those most affect by the storm ? local business , local resilience forum and emergency service have play a powerful role , and it have be great to see community and business come together to address these problem , so I echo my hon . friend ' s thank . these storm be become more frequent , and we in Scotland probably have more experience of they than most , but there be a prevailing sense that we be lurch from one storm to the next . in the case of Storm Bert , for example , it be feel that the Met Office do not issue enough warning early enough . to what extent be the Minister bring the four nation together to share what they have learn from the various storm so that we can respond to they well ? the Government have be work closely with devolved administration , and the Chancellor of the Duchy of Lancaster organise a call on Friday to see what work could be do with they collaboratively . a meeting be hold to establish which area be directly affect and where there be threat to life , and an alert be issue as quickly as possible to those area in particular . however , we recognise that there be some delay in the conveying of information , so we be work with operator to see how they can get the message out as speedily as possible in the event of another storm of this kind . will the Minister please give we an update om the extent of the flood that result from the storm ? rural constituency such as mine experience a double whammy : we be batter by the storm , and then we be deluge once again by flooding . that double problem be also much more sustained . a lot of work have be do in this regard , but if my hon . friend write to I I shall be able to respond to she directly and adequately . I thank my hon . friend the Member for Ceredigion Preseli ( Ben Lake ) for secure the urgent question . electricity supply have yet to be restore to some Gwynedd community , more than 72 hour after the red weather warning . the switch from copper to digital technology mean that all landline telephone will need electricity to work in the future , as do mobile phone mast . these matter be reserve to Westminster — they be not devolve — so will the Minister speak to her colleague in the Department for Culture , Media and Sport , and commit to a Government assessment of the resilience of mobile and landline communication in Wales and the adequacy of the support give by BT and EE to elderly and vulnerable people during the switchover process ? engineer have be work tirelessly with National Grid ' s electricity distributor and with other network to ensure that step be take to reconnect vulnerable customer in particular , but if the right hon . member write to I , we can look into this in more detail . will the Minister join I in pay tribute to our fantastic volunteer who work around the clock in difficult circumstance , play a critical role in protect people and home ? will she visit my constituency to meet some of those volunteer , include some from Lowdham , Rainworth and Hucknall , who continue to face the threat of flooding ? I too thank the volunteer who have work so hard to provide support . I always try to visit area around the country , and if my hon . friend write to I , I will see whether if I can visit her constituency with the flood Minister , my hon . friend the Member for Kingston upon Hull West and Haltemprice ( Emma Hardy ) , to see the hard work that those volunteer have be do . this morning , 2 , 500 people in my constituency be still without power . that be down from 8 , 000 yesterday morning , and I be grateful to all the engineer who have work so hard to get those people back online . water booster pump also lose power on Sunday , so those in a large area of the constituency experience low water pressure . in the sizeable town of Wem , there be large area with no water at all , despite there have be only a yellow weather warn . it seem that that the resilience of the utility company be not where it need to be to respond to an event of this nature . can the Minister reassure I about what she be do with those company to ensure that we be more resilient in future , give that these event will be increasingly frequent as the impact of climate change worsen ? we and our colleague in the Department for Energy Security and Net Zero be work closely together , and as I say early , they be receive update from the Energy Networks Association . if any of the hon . member ' s constituent be directly affect , I urge they to call the network operator directly by dial 105 , or to visit the Power Cut 105 website . however , she be right that we should be explore the impact that this could have on we in the future . in Ironbridge gorge , a world heritage site in my constituency , the river fill up with water from Wales in the day after these storm . will the Minister commit to ensure that the Government pay attention to secondary area such as mine , and will Government Departments ensure that the economic hammer blow that flood cause in community such as mine be consider in any future grant application by the local authority ? we be currently review the flooding funding formula , which will address some of the issue that my hon . friend have raise . I be incredibly concerned about the news that fund for organisation that co - ordinate multi - agency response in the event of emergency , such as the Sussex resilience forum , be set to end in April next year . will the Minister commit to long - term statutory funding for crucial organisation that plan emergency response ? there be already a long - stand relationship between central government and responder , underpin by the Civil Contingencies Act 2004 . the Ministry of Housing , Communities and Local Government already work with local resilience forum on prepare for , and act during , response to emergency , and provide a direct line of communication for they to central Government . the Met Office be our statutory responder under the Civil Contingencies Act , which strengthen its role at the heart of UK resilience . I recognise the contribution of resilience forum , and in particular the role that they play during the storm . northumberland have be batter by storm in recent year , most dramatically and devastatingly by Storm Arwen . can the Minister assure I that she and her colleague be take proactive step to protect community in some of the most isolated place in my constituency from the devastating impact of these storm ? the flood resilience taskforce set up by the Department for Environment , Food and Rural Affairs be look into exactly those issue . storm Darragh bring 96 mph wind , flooding and power outage , and it come hot on the heel of Storm Bert , which bring severe rainfall and terrible flooding . give the strong evidence that link increase frequency and severity of storm with climate change , may I ask for the Minister ' s response to the comment of Emma Pinchbeck , the new chief executive of the Climate Change Committee , who say at the weekend that the UK be " not ready " for these increasingly severe impact of climate change ? what be the Government do , and what will they do , to make adaptation an urgent national priority ? as the hon . member know , we have only just come into office , but we have already set up a flood resilience taskforce and be carry out a resilience review , so we do recognise these issue . just a few month in , we be already look into they proactively . as the Minister and Members from across the House have do , I commend our local authority and our emergency service for the hard work that they do to make people safe . the storm cause so much damage ; community in my constituency , such as Northop , be without power for several day . sadly , many of we have to change our plan to go out on Small Business Saturday and support our local high street , which be struggle . there be a palpable commitment in this Chamber to preparedness . what conversation be have with the Welsh Government prior to the storm to ensure that we be ready to tackle it ? the Government regularly meet official to look at how we can work with the devolved administration . on preparedness , as I mention , we be do work on the resilience review . I have have a huge amount of engagement with various stakeholder and the devolved administration , so that no one be leave behind when it come to make sure that we be prepared . let I thank the emergency service , Carmarthenshire county council , which be the local authority , and National Grid engineer for work tirelessly to help resident who be without power in Caerfyrddin . I also want to give a shout out to the farmer who help clear the road with their chainsaw . give that many area be on their fourth day without electricity — most have not be promise a connection until Thursday , and some do not have water or connectivity either — it be clear that we need additional help . the 105 line be not work . it be not its fault ; it be just overwhelm by the number of call . what advice do the Minister have for people live in rural community such as Trelech , Brechfa , Blaenwaun and Llanarthne , who be in desperate need of generator for their village hall and community centre , so that they can provide hot water , hot meal and a place to charge a mobile phone ? can we do something about that ? I thank the hon . member for her question , and express sympathy with what her constituent be go through . I be disappointed to hear that constituent face difficulty in connect to network . we be try our good to work with network on the wide lesson for the future . if she write to I directly about these matter , we can certainly explore the issue far . in Harpenden and Berkhamsted , much of the impact of storm Darragh be wholly preventable , such as Flamstead village be cut off because Trowley Bottom and Chequer Lane be flood , as well as the flooding on Station Road in Harpenden , and in Puttenham . next to the Hospice of St Francis be Shootersway , which have repeatedly flood , and there be worry about ambulance access . what be the Government do to work with local authority , and what be the long - term strategy to prevent repeat damage from storm such as Darragh ? we be work with local resilience forum , and we be also carry out a flood review . as I mention , a flood taskforce have be set up and be explore the issue raise by the hon . Lady . while the damage from Storm Darragh be thankfully limited in North Norfolk , a number of property in my constituency suffer power cut , which last well into Monday . that have once again highlight the problem cause by poor mobile phone signal in rural part of North Norfolk . as hon . member have mention , many people do not receive update and can not access real - time SMS information . what discussion have the Minister have with colleague in the Department for Science , Innovation and Technology about ensure that we fix the notspot and keep my constituent safe and connect when the next big storm hit ? DSIT be look into this matter to see how the issue that the hon . member raise can be address . I recognise that there be issue , especially with access to mobile network , which make it a real challenge to reach people , particularly vulnerable individual . the situation be be review by my colleague in DSIT . storm damage in Holyhead have lead to severe disruption to the second busy roll - on , roll - off port in the UK , with ferry to Ireland be cancel . this weekend also see the closure of the Britannia bridge to all vehicle . the vulnerability of Ynys M ô n ' s connection to the mainland have be of concern for several year , with access to our main hospital at risk . what assurance can the Minister give I that island community , such my constituency of Ynys M ô n , will be safeguard from extreme weather in the future ? I have be very concerned about this issue , particularly as part of our work on resilience look at who may be affect , include vulnerable people and those who may become vulnerable as a result of extreme weather . local resilience forum have also be look into this issue . we be work closely with Welsh local authority and the Welsh Government on how these issue can be address . storm Darragh be the second serious storm to hit my Thornbury and Yate constituency in recent week ; it come soon after Storm Bert , which cause serious flooding disruption . I thank everyone involve in the response . these storm be not go away ; owe to the impact of climate change , they be likely to get bad . we need a clear framework for local authority , so that they know when they will get support and what that support will be . can the Minister please provide some clarity on that ? we work very closely with the devolved Administrations , local authority and emergency responder regularly on how we can address this issue . the UK Resilience Academy will be launch in April next year , and it will be a great way for we to look at the lesson learn and at how we can strengthen our response to such issue . my resident in Bersted , in Pagham and across my constituency of Chichester live in constant fear of storm such as Darragh . they cause severe localise flooding , which often isolate community and close business , often for month on end . funding be available for local community to improve their flood resilience , but West Sussex county council cut that funding by a third this year , even though the problem in my patch be only get bad . how do the Minister expect community to be resilient to flood if local council be erode the funding ? we do not have authority over what West Sussex county council do , but we have be advise council , which be under a lot of pressure , on how they could look at their flood resilience . this issue be really important , but it have not always be champion . hopefully , we can have that conversation and encourage people to play a role . Hurley and Cookham in my constituency have be hit time and again by storm . what work be the Government do to protect village along the Thames , which often get flood several day after a storm have pass ? as I mention , we have set up a flood resilience taskforce , which look at constituency such as the hon . member ' s to make sure that they be not affect . [ Official Report , 6 January 2025 ; Vol . 759 , c . 3WC . ] ( Correction ) the Government will invest £ 2 . 4 billion until March 2026 in improve flood resilience and well protect community across the country . DSIT be also look at UK power network to see what role they could play . on the emergency alert that be issue on Friday , we be look at the lesson learn to see how they could be use effectively if we roll they out in the future . I thank the Minister for her positivity , and for her helpful answer ; it be very clear that she be do she good to make thing well . I put on the record my thank to all emergency service worker across this United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland for their sterling effort . storm Darragh see the cancellation and delay of numerous train and flight across Northern Ireland and , far afield , across the United Kingdom . although that can not be help , thousand of people be at a financial loss due to the cancellation and delay . what step will the Minister take to ensure that airline and rail company across the United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland do their bit to ensure that due compensation be pay to constituent , and that they do not lose out due to the weather condition ? that be an issue on which we need to work collaboratively , particularly when it come to the impact on the hon . Gentleman ' s constituency . we need to see what the challenge be , and why these matter be not be address , particularly at local level . point of order on a point of order , Mr Speaker . on 1 August , I write to the Secretary of State for Health and Social Care about the closure of yeovil district hospital ' s hyper - acute stroke unit . despite follow up several time , include with his senior staff , I have not receive a response . on 2 December , I submit a name - day parliamentary question for response on 6 December , but I have receive only a hold answer . my understanding be that while member can occasionally expect to receive a hold answer , we should usually receive a proper answer by the due date , or at least in a timely manner . from a previous parliamentary exchange , I understand that the decision to give a hold answer be determine by the term of the question , how much information be seek and how difficult it be to obtain , but I do not believe that I be ask a question of great difficulty . what more can I do to ensure a response from the Department for my constituency of Yeovil ? the Chair be not responsible for the quality or timeliness of Ministers ' answer to correspondence or to question , but it seem to I that the hon . Gentleman have wait an awfully long time , both for a reply to his letter and for a substantive answer to his write question . I be sure that those on the Treasury Bench will have note his remark , and I hope that somebody from the Department of Health and Social Care be already draft a response . I be sure that they will be in touch with he very soon to explain what be go on . I do not want to have to keep repeat this , but member have a right to expect timely answer to correspondence , and to expect that when a holding answer be issue , a substantive reply will be along very soon thereafter . this seem to be a trend ; it be become more and more apparent that minister be not respond . I be still wait for a Minister in the Lords to respond to I , so I know the frustration well . bill present Breast Cancer Screening ( Review ) Bill Presentation and First Reading ( Standing Order no . 57 ) Wera Hobhouse , support by Clive Jones , present a Bill to require the Secretary of State to review the current arrangement for breast cancer screening , include the potential merit of reduce the minimum age at which woman be invite for regular breast cancer screening and of increase the use of automated breast ultrasound ; and for connected purpose . Bill read the first time ; to be read a second time on Friday 7 March 2025 , and to be print ( Bill 144 ) . Carbon Emissions from building ( Net Zero ) Bill Presentation and First Reading ( Standing Order no . 57 ) Ellie Chowns present a Bill to require new building to meet net zero standard for embodied and operational carbon emission ; and for connected purpose . Bill read the first time ; to be read a second time on Friday 11 July 2025 , and to be print ( Bill 148 ) . Building Regulations ( Swift Bricks ) Bill Presentation and First Reading ( Standing Order no . 57 ) Ellie Chowns present a Bill to require the installation of swift brick on new building ; and for connected purpose . Bill read the first time ; to be read a second time on Friday 11 July 2025 , and to be print ( Bill 149 ) . river , Streams and Lakes ( Protected Status ) Bill Presentation and First Reading ( Standing Order no . 57 ) Victoria Collins , support by Jess Brown - Fuller , Dr Danny Chambers , Edward Morello , Tom Gordon , Alex Brewer , Calum Miller , Tessa Munt and Manuela Perteghella present a Bill to make provision for the designation of river , stream and lake as have protect status ; to specify criterion for minimum standard that a site must meet where it have be designate as a river , stream or lake with protect status ; to set minimum standard of water quality , safety , environmental management and provision of information in relation to such site ; and for connected purpose . Bill read the first time ; to be read a second time on Friday 17 January 2025 , and to be print ( Bill 150 ) . marriage ( prohibit Degrees of Relationship ) Bill Motion for leave to bring in a Bill ( Standing Order no . 23 ) I beg to move , that leave be give to bring in a Bill to prohibit the marriage of first cousin ; and for connected purpose . member across the House may wonder why first - cousin marriage be not already illegal . in fact , many in this House and in the country may already believe that it be . that be understandable , because as early as the middle of the fifth century in England , the Church practise the roman doctrine on first - cousin marriage , which be clarify by the first Archbishop of Canterbury in the early eighth century , after he receive a letter from Pope Gregory I . the letter cite Leviticus 18 : 6 , which state that sacred law forbid a man to uncover the nakedness of his near kin . throughout the century that follow , this canon law forbid first - cousin marriage remain the norm , and by the 11th century it extend to sixth cousin . this 1 , 000 - year tradition of first - cousin marriage be illegal be continue until 1540 , when King Henry VIII break with Rome and legalise marriage between first cousin so that he could marry Catherine Howard , his fifth wife and a cousin of his second wife , Anne Boleyn . sadly , both Catherine and Anne end up face a swift end at the block . however , the law pertain to first - cousin marriage have be more enduring , remain unchanged ever since . today , accord to the Oxford Journal of Law and Religion , cousin marriage be practise by about 10 % of the world and be most prevalent in the middle east , west Asia and north Africa . however , the practice vary enormously within country and by regional culture , reach at its high over 80 % in part of rural Pakistan . by contrast , in China and western country it be less than 1 % . Patrick Nash , a visit fellow at Oxford University ' s faculty of theology and religion , describe how a region ' s history of harsh condition , such as resource - scarce rurality , proximity to conflict zone and industrial poverty , play a major role in develop the culture that practise first - cousin marriage . he argue that cousin marriage be at one time biologically beneficial for the survival of mankind , when time be especially hard and inhospitable . however , this do not carry forward into modern living condition in our post - industrial age , where genetic and degenerative disease be among the most severe threat to public health . that bring we to the issue today . certain diaspora community have extremely high rate of first - cousin marriage , with a rate of 20 % to 40 % among Irish Travellers and high rate still among the British Pakistani community . there be a worrying trend , as this rate have increase significantly from that of their grandparent ' age group . although there have be some report of the rate fall within the last decade as young people push back against the system , there remain an extraordinarily strong link . I have already touch on why first - cousin marriage be problematic , but I will expand far , as there be three real issue at stake : health , freedom and our national value . the danger of consanguineous relation have be appreciate throughout history . the consequence of extreme intergenerational cousin marriage within the Habsburg monarchy of Spain eventually lead to the demise of the house itself and the war of the spanish succession . that be very well document . by the 19th century , the British Medical Journal have publish many paper on ill health transmit to child through first - cousin marriage . indeed , Charles Darwin himself publicly express concern base on his own experience of marry his first cousin , with three of their 10 child sadly die in childhood . today , the health risk be explicable in granular scientific detail . accord to Alison Shaw , professor of social anthropology at Oxford University , the child of first cousin carry approximately double the risk of inherit a serious disorder than the child of unrelated people . health consequence can include : recessive disorder such as Tay - Sachs , cerebral palsy and cystic fibrosis , which require lifelong treatment and can lead to premature death ; an increase susceptibility to cancer and infectious pathogen such as hepatitis ; birth defect include facial cleft and cardiovascular condition ; an increase risk of many illness , include schizophrenia and Alzheimer ' s ; and high infant mortality . moreover , where the parent come from multigenerational cousin parent of their own , this risk be compound and intensify with every subsequent generation . the science be clear . first - cousin marriage should be ban on the basis of health risk alone . the second issue at stake relate to freedom , and particularly the freedom of woman . in my work in the last Parliament to ban so - call virginity testing and hymenoplasty , I see at first hand through speak to people how reproductive mechanism be use to coerce and control woman and girl where action and freedom be heavily control . woman and girl live under a clan mentality often know the scientific risk of first - cousin marriage but make consider social and cultural calculation . strict honour code — where expression of individuality can be subject to social isolation , violence and even death — dominate thinking . notion of dishonour can also significantly hinder a family ' s stand among clan institution , risk the family ' s stand in the social hierarchy and materially affect issue such as share access to clan wealth . it be vital that we ensure that freedom that have be hard fight for by woman over century be protect . finally , alongside the impact on woman ' s right , cousin marriage have a broad societal impact . Joseph Henrich , professor of human evolutionary biology at Harvard University , have find that cousin marriage do not just affect individual right , but reshapes society . his research show that cousin marriage decline in medieval Europe as individualism grow . the weakening of blind family tie lead to the growth of individualism , natured trust of outsider and , in turn , help to develop a deep civic responsibility beyond clan to country , allow people to break free from the chain of clan , class and caste in their society . Anthropologist Sir Jack Goody attribute the Church ' s ban on cousin marriage as the drive force behind the breakdown of barrier between Angles , Saxons , Jutes and Vikings in early english society . as people be enable to marry outside their clan , sectarian affiliation be gradually dissolve , which pave the way for the modern nation state . Britain be not unique in have have immigration in recent decade from some region where first - cousin marriage be prevalent , and therefore there have be a revival in the practice that we move away from century ago . Norway have already ban the practice , and Sweden and Denmark be look to do the same . much like so - call virginity testing and hymenoplasty , it be clear that the practice be not really conducive to modern british society . as mps , we be more than mere delegate but rather legislator for the mother of all Parliaments — our country . as mps , we should be more than glorify social worker seek to help constituent through the bureaucracy and the system . we have a role in change thing for the well too . Henry VIII change the law on cousin marriage to suit his own personal interest and pursuit , but we should act in the national interest . of course , we should find a balance . I have outline the risk to health , freedom — especially for woman — and the cohesion of our society . for I , those risk tip the balance against personal freedom . while there will be detail to work through , I hope right hon . and hon . member give I the chance to take the Bill forward to Second Reading , and that Government Front Benchers will look at the measure as a vehicle for positive change in our country . in the end , the legislation be about more than individual marriage ; it be about the value and foundation of our society and our democracy . as the right hon . member for Basildon and Billericay ( Mr Holden ) state , there be document health risk with first - cousin marriage , and I agree that there be a need for great awareness about that issue . virginity testing and force marriage must be prevent , and the freedom of woman must be protect at all time . however , the way to redress the issue be not to empower the state to ban adult from marry each other , not least because I do not think such measure would be effective or enforceable . instead , the matter need to be approach as a health awareness issue and , where woman be be force against their will to undergo marriage , as a cultural awareness issue . in do so , it be important to recognise that this be a highly sensitive issue for many people . in discuss it , we should try to step into the shoe of those who perhaps be not from the same culture as ours , to well understand why the practice continue to be so widespread . an estimated 35 % to 50 % of all sub - saharan african population either prefer or accept cousin marriage , and it be extremely common in the middle east and south Asia . the reason the practice be so common be that ordinary people see family intermarriage as something that be very positive overall ; as something that help to build family bond and put family on a more secure financial foothold . however , as be well document , it be not without health risk for the child of those relationship , some of whom will be bear out of wedlock . instead of stigmatise those who be in cousin marriage , or those who be inclined to be , a much more positive approach would be to facilitate advanced genetic test screening for prospective married couple , as be the case in all arab country in the persian gulf , and to run health education programme target those community where the practice be most common . I therefore urge the House to vote against the motion and to find a more positive approach to address the issue that be cause by first - cousin marriage , include the health risk , and the consequence of modern conflict and displacement of population around the world . question put ( Standing Order no . 23 ) and agree to . order , that Mr Richard Holden , Robert Jenrick , Dan Carden , Claire Coutinho , David Smith , Neil o ' Brien , Lee Anderson , Mr Andrew Snowden , John Lamont , Nick Timothy , Katie Lam and Laura Trott present the Bill . Mr Richard Holden accordingly present the Bill . Bill read the first time ; to be read a second time on Friday 17 January 2025 , and to be print ( Bill 146 ) . Finance Bill [ 1st Allocated Day ] - ( clause 7 to 12 and 15 to 18 , schedule 1 to 3 and relate New Clauses ) consider in Committee [ Ms Nusrat Ghani in the Chair ] I remind member that , in Committee , Members should not address the Chair as " Deputy Speaker . " when address the Chair , please use our name . " Madam Chair " or " Chair " will also suffice . clause 7 - main rate of CGT for gain other than carry interest gain question propose , that the clause stand part of the Bill . with this it will be convenient to consider the follow : schedule 1 . clause 8 to 11 stand part . schedule 2 . clause 12 stand part . new clause 1 — impact assessment : capital gain tax — " the Chancellor of the Exchequer must , within six month of the passing of this Act , lie before Parliament a review of the impact of the measure contain in clause 7 to 12 and schedule 1 and 2 of this Act , on — ( a ) long - term investment ; ( b ) disposable income across different income decile , and ( c ) tax revenue . " this new clause would require the Government to produce a report set out the impact of change to Capital Gains Tax make in this Act on investment and the disposable income of taxpayer across different income decile . new clause 4 — section 12 : review — " the Chancellor of the Exchequer must , within three month of this Act come into force , publish a review of the expect impact of the measure in section 12 of this Act on — ( a ) the timing of asset disposal or transaction ; ( b ) shifting between different asset ; ( c ) shift between gain and income ; ( d ) tax planning ; ( e ) migration ; and ( f ) non - compliance by non - payment , misreporte or underreporting of chargeable asset , gain or income . " new clause 5 — business asset disposal relief : review of increase in rate — " ( 1 ) the Chancellor of the Exchequer must commission and publish an assessment of the expect impact of the provision of section 8 on the number of Business Asset Disposal Relief claim involve the sale of a business . ( 2 ) the assessment must compare estimate for the number of claim involve the sale of a business in the tax year 2024 - 25 with the number of such claim in the tax year 2025 - 26 . ( 3 ) the assessment must compare the impact under the provision of section 8 with what impact could have be expect have the rate remain unchanged " . since 2010 , the UK have experience low productivity , rise debt level and decline public service . public sector net debt be at its high since the early 1960 , at 98 . 5 % of gdp . per capita , GDP remain low that before the covid - 19 pandemic . in July this year , the Government uncover a challenging fiscal and spend inheritance , with a £ 22 billion in - year pressure in the public finance . the Office for Budget Responsibility ' s review into March ' s spend forecast conclude that have the information that have since be share by the Treasury be make available to it at the time of the March Budget , there would have be a materially high departmental expenditure limit forecast for 2024 to 2025 . this be the result of the previous Government not factor in the impact of a series of new , challenging pressure on the public finance , not take the difficult decision need to address these pressure , and instead make a series of commitment that they could not fund . this Government be commit to fix the foundation and deliver a decade of national renewal . to do so , we must turn the page and take a different approach . in the autumn Budget , the House will have hear the Chancellor set out the Government ' s first step to repair the public finance , by take the tough decision need to address the £ 22 billion in - year pressure to avoid further damage to our public service , include secure £ 5 . 5 billion of saving . we be also put in place significant reform to strengthen our fiscal and spending framework that will improve certainty , transparency and accountability , and ensure that the situation can never happen again . this government be take the tough decision on tax , spending and welfare that be necessary to repair the public finance and restore economic and fiscal stability . those choice be not easy , but they be transparent , they be responsible and , with such a difficult position , they will ensure that the Government can deliver on our commitment not to increase taxis on work people . the change to the main rate of capital gain tax in clause 7 to 11 will help to address the gap in public finance while retain the UK ' s internationally competitive investment climate . the new rate be revenue - maximise in the current design of the tax system , generate an additional £ 8 . 9 billion over the forecast period . the UK ' s headline CGT rate will remain low than those of France , Germany and Italy , and the high rate be still low than it be between 2010 and 2016 . the new rate will mostly affect people who earn income from sell financial asset . the Government be take the difficult but responsible decision to ask that group to pay a little bit more tax in order to restore economic stability . clause 12 represent the first step in a package of reform to the taxation of carry interest by increase the applicable rate of capital gain tax to 32 % for carry interest arise on or after 6 April 2025 . the reform will put the tax treatment of carry interest on a fair and more stable footing for the long term , while preserve the UK ' s competitive position as a global asset management hub . I will begin with clause 7 to 9 , concern the capital gain tax package . CGT be charge on individual ' annual capital gain , net of loss and allowable cost . Less than 1 % of adult pay CGT per year . there be low rate available for relief , include business asset disposal relief and investor ' relief . CGT have an annual exempt amount of £ 3 , 000 for individual , which keep people with low level of capital gain out of the system . to repair the public finance and help raise the revenue require to increase funding for public service , the Government be increase the main rate of CGT . the clause will increase the low main rate of CGT from 10 % to 18 % and increase the high rate from 20 % to 24 % . those change affect disposable make on or after 30 October 2024 . the clause also increase the CGT rate at which business asset disposal relief and investor ' relief be charge in a phase way from 10 % to 14 % , effective from 6 April 2025 , and from 14 % to 18 % , effective from 6 April 2026 . phase in the rate increase for those CGT relief demonstrate the Government ' s commitment to a predictable tax system . the Government accept that for some entrepreneur , a low cgt rate will be factor into their plan for exit the business , which can be a once - in - a - lifetime event . although it be right to increase CGT rate to raise revenue , it be also fair to give business owner some time to adjust . the change will raise £ 2 . 5 billion per year by the end of the forecast period , while ensure the UK ' s headline CGT rate remain below those of France , Germany and Italy . turn to clause 10 , investor ' relief offer access to the low rate of CGT on the disposal of qualify unlisted share . its objective be to provide the financial incentive for individual to invest in unlisted trading company over the long term and help company in access other form of investment . the lifetime limit for investor ' relief be previously £ 10 million , compare with business asset disposable relief ' s lifetime limit of £ 1 million . we feel that that disparity in lifetime limit be unfair towards entrepreneur and could encourage harmful tax planning strategy . the change make by clause 10 will reduce the lifetime limit for investor ' relief to match that of business asset disposal relief at £ 1 million of qualifying gain per person . investor ' relief have receive little take - up since its introduction in 2016 , and so the Government expect that the measure will affect a very small number of individual . turn to clause 11 and schedule 2 , which introduce transitional arrangement and anti - forestalling rule , the transitional arrangement be consistent with similar rule put in place when CGT rate be charge in - year in 2010 . the anti - forestalling rule draw on the approach take when change be make to business asset disposal relief in 2020 . transitional arrangement be need for a small group of taxpayer in some specific circumstance . those taxpayer will have capital gain that be ascribe to the 2024 - 25 tax year in general and not to any particular point in the year , and because clause 7 make in - year change , the Government have a legal responsibility to clarify the capital gain tax liability of those taxpayer . to avoid tax those individual retrospectively , the legislation put in place transitional arrangement . the relevant capital gain be treat as arise in the early part of the year and be therefore subject to the previous rate schedule . from April 2025 , there will be no need for those arrangement to remain . I now turn to anti - forestalling rule . some taxpayer will have try to lock in the old rate by enter into various artificial arrangement and specific anti - forestalling rule be need to prevent abuse . the anti - forestall rule target disposal enter into before 30 October 2024 but complete after that date for the main rate change and the investor ' relief lifetime limit reduction . they also target disposal enter into on or after 30 October 2024 for the phase rate change apply to business asset disposal relief and investor ' relief . the provision ensure that such people can still access the previous rate and the previous investor ’ relief lifetime limit , but only where the disposal have not be artificially structure for the purpose of secure a tax advantage . I now turn to clause 12 , which concern CGT on carry interest gain . carry interest be a form of performance - relate reward that be receive by a small number of individual who work as fund manager and , unlike other such reward , carry interest can , where certain condition be meet , be subject to capital gain tax . hon . member will have hear the Chancellor announce at the Budget that the Government will reform the way carry interest be tax , ensure that that be fair and in line with the economic characteristic of the reward . from 6 April 2026 , a revise regime will tax all carry interest within the income tax framework with a 72 . 5 % multiplier apply to the amount of qualifying carry interest that be bring into charge . the Government be also consult on potential new condition of access to the regime . legislation to implement that revise regime will be include in a future finance Bill . in advance of the implementation of the revise regime , the Government be act now to increase the rate of capital gain tax that apply to carry interest . clause 12 therefore increase the rate of capital gain tax for carry interest arise on or after 6 April 2025 from 18 % and 28 % to 32 % , and from that date , the single CGT rate will apply to all relevant carry interest , subject to the same condition as currently . to conclude , the increase to the main rate of CGT to 18 % and 24 % represent a balanced and responsible approach to revenue raising , which will help the Government to improve the UK ' s public finance and service while remain competitive for investment . the clause phase in the rate increase for business asset disposal relief over 18 month to mitigate impact where the previous level of relief be factor into anyone ' s plan to exit their business in the short term . that underline the Government ' s commitment to support entrepreneur and recognise the vital role that small business play in our economy . in addition , the move to a single high rate of CGT on carry interest at 32 % demonstrate the Government ' s commitment to decisive action now , while we rightly take the time to undertake technical consultation on the revised regime . just before I call the shadow Minister , I remind member that , in Committee , I be Madam Chair or Madam Chairman . thank you very much , Madam Chair . it be always a pleasure to see you in Committee and to serve under your chairmanship . on behalf of the Opposition , I rise to speak to new clause 4 and 5 , which stand in the name of my right hon . friend , the shadow Chancellor . before I do so , let I set the scene for clause 7 to 12 . when announce these change in her Budget , the Chancellor say : " we need to drive growth , promote entrepreneurship and support wealth creation " . — [ Official Report , 30 October 2024 ; Vol . 755 , c . 818 . ] she say something similar to the BBC in 2023 : " we want Britain to be the good place to start and grow a business " and that be why , she say " I don ' t have any plan to increase capital gain tax . " this Bill correct the record . labour want to increase capital gain tax , so clearly it do not have any plan for Britain to be the good place in which to start and grow a business . be it any wonder that business confidence be now at the low level we have see since the pandemic ? clause 7 increase the main rate of capital gain tax from 10 % and 20 % to 18 % and 24 % respectively , with schedule 1 make consequential change to reflect that these rate be now equal to those on residential property . the Office for Budget Responsibility rate the costing on this policy as " highly uncertain " . it say that " these costing be among the most uncertain in the policy package , reflect the range of potential behavioural response . " this Government be far too quick to ask other to explain how they would pay for Labour ' s policy , when they be clearly fail to explain convincingly how their own policy would pay for themselves . I wish to take this opportunity to highlight an issue raise with I by the Chartered Institute of Taxation . first , let I place on record my thank to the organisation for its invaluable support . it have be inform by his Majesty ' s Revenue and Customs that it be too late to change the format of the relevant 2024 - 25 tax return page to accommodate this in - year change . I would therefore be very grateful if the Minister could provide the following assurance to HMRC : first , that it will be properly equip to implement this measure ; secondly , that the change will be publish as widely as possible ; and , thirdly , that an appropriate level of understanding will be show to taxpayer contend with these complication . clause 8 and 9 increase the rate for gain that qualify for business asset disposal relief and investor ' relief . from 6 April 2025 , the 10 % rate will increase to 14 % . from 6 April 2026 , it will rise again to 18 % . as the Chartered Institute of Taxation have highlight , because the increase to the main rate of capital gain tax be effective immediately , this leave a window where people sell their business can save up to 14 % in capital gain tax until April 2025 . in other word , the tax change in this Bill do not cultivate a start - up Britain ; they incentivise british business owner to sell up and sell up soon . this could have be avoid — along with the administrative complication that I have already outline — have measure in clause 7 be implement from the start of the new financial year . will the Minister explain why the timing of these provision appear to be so untidy , and , for that matter , how exactly they drive growth , promote entrepreneurship and support wealth creation ? I simply say that if hon . member be not satisfied with the Minister ' s explanation , I encourage they to vote for new clause 5 , which would require a proper assessment of the impact of this perverse incentive . clause 10 reduce the lifetime limit for investor ' relief from £ 10 million to £ 1 million , while clause 11 and schedule 2 bring in transitional rule and anti - forestalling provision . on those anti - forestalling provision , the Chartered Institute of Taxation note that the anti - avoidance measure risk be " unfairly retrospective " , capture those who enter into commercial contract in good faith before the Budget , on the ground that they do not satisfy the stringent requirement put down by the Treasury to be " wholly commercial " . will the Minister tell the House why the wording be so tight ? widespread concern over be hit with " unfairly retrospective " taxation would have a chilling effect on part of the economy . it would exacerbate uncertainty among those who already feel that they have be blindside by this Government . with permission , Madam Chair , I shall dwell in a bit more detail on clause 12 , which , for I , sum up the Labour Budget . only Labour could increase spending by £ 70 billion a year over the next five year — the equivalent of a furlough scheme every year — and still have growth downgrade as a result . only Labour could come up with a tax rise that lose money for the Exchequer . it be so bizarre that it be worth repeat . clause 12 be a tax rise that lose money . clause 12 increase the rate of capital gain tax apply to carry interest gain by as much as 14 % , by apply a single rate of 32 % in the 2025 - 26 financial year , after which labour propose to take carry interest out of the capital gain tax regime altogether . the Treasury ' s own Red Book say that the measure will not raise a single penny in revenue . at the same time , HMRC have disclose that the implementation of the measure , which impact on only 3 , 100 individual , will cost £ 4 . 5 million . to put it another way , the Government could have give every affected individual a tax cut worth £ 1 , 500 and the cost to the Exchequer would have be no different . that be total madness , and it be about the only measure in the manifesto that Labour have keep . the OBR have say that the measure rank among " the most uncertain " in the entire Budget . it be why new clause 4 would require the Chancellor to review the expect impact of the policy on key behaviour highlight by the OBR . will the Minister explain why this one measure , which impact so few people , cost so much — £ 4 . 5 million — when the cost to HMRC of implement other change to capital gain tax in the Budget be £ 600 , 000 . by the Chancellor ' s own admission , these measure make Britain a bad place in which to start and grow a business . in fact , the measure tell entrepreneur , " Don ' t start up , sell up " . they introduce a tax rise , which , unbelievably , lose money . I hope hon . member will agree that we need to shed more light on the true impact of the Budget . it be a pleasure to serve under your chairship , Madam Chair . I will talk mostly about new clause 5 on capital gain tax , but , give the remark by the shadow Minister , I will make a few point on the broad matter and on incentive to start a new business . my constituency of Earley and Woodley in the Thames Valley be one of the hot destination for business investment and for new start - up in the tech and pharmaceutical sector . I have meet a number of those inspire entrepreneur to talk about their start of the business journey . as be widely know , when entrepreneur start passionately with a project , they be think not about the disposal and taxation regime at the end of their journey , but about the infrastructure and the support that they will have around they that bring their idea to fruition . for the tech and pharmaceutical entrepreneur in Earley and Woodley , that be about a transport infrastructure , a skill base , and school , college and university in the area that can produce the kind of graduate who will then staff their company . it be about a regime that be welcome to entrepreneurship and be welcome for people to live in and to prosper in . for all those reason , I very much support our Budget and the Budget that bring more investment to infrastructure across the UK . first , I welcome the measure on capital gain tax introduce in new clause 5 . let I remind Conservative Members that it be Chancellor Nigel Lawson who , in a much more dramatic measure than that propose today , equalise the rate of capital gain tax with income tax in 1988 . that equalisation be propose because of tax avoidance . to many people listen to the debate , capital gain tax will not be familiar because , like I , their main mean of taxation will be income tax and they will not have come into contact with CGT . for the purpose of understanding , let I illustrate what I mean by " tax avoidance " . the issue be raise with I by a retire consultant when I be canvass in the summer in the north of my constituency . when I knock on his door , he say , " what be you go to do about capital gain tax ? I want you to ensure that this doesn ' t happen any more . " he then proceed to illustrate the mean by which he have pay less income tax than he otherwise would have do through the capital gain tax system . it be a principled and honourable admission for he to make to his then parliamentary candidate on the doorstep . many of we pay income tax , and we be all familiar with the way that it be structure . among those of we who do not receive income from payroll — that is , who do not work for a company — but have the ability to structure it as self - employ or consultancy income and funnel it into a business of our own creation , that be a channel by which many people avoid pay income tax on activity that be arguably income - like . that happen , as I say , for a minority of people in the UK . the vast majority do not have access to that route because they earn through work for other people through company , and they be on the payroll and not able to structure their own company . when those company hold the — arguably — income revenue be dispose of , that be when capital gain tax come into the picture . of course , the rate of capital gain tax be much low than the rate of income tax , and that be where the gap come from that be illustrate by my retired constituent . Madam Deputy Speaker , it be important that the tax system be efficient in raise revenue , which be what our Budget set out . the tax system must also be principle in ensure that the tax purpose to which we have allocate certain measure raise the right taxis and be target towards the kind of activity that be mean to be tax . all of we in the Committee would probably agree that we should pay tax through a progressive system that distinguish between different form of revenue - raise activity , but that allocate people fairly and proportionately to those right and relevant activity . I be remind of the announcement that come out during the last government regard the tax affair of the former Prime Minister , the right hon . member for Richmond and Northallerton ( Rishi Sunak ) , who pay 23 % in average tax on his £ 2 . 2 million in earning . that be of course possible because of the relatively low rate of capital gain tax that he be pay on the vast majority of his earning , which come through capital and not through earn income . again , to the vast majority of people listen to the debate , I be sure that that be a reality far outside their understanding . the vast majority of people in the UK earn income through go out to work and work hard every day . it be for those people — the work people of this country — that this Budget have be make , so that we can lift livelihood across the country by properly fund our public service and by close the significant in - year overspend that the previous Government make of £ 22 billion . through those measure , and by ensure the financial stability of our tax system and the economic stability of our country , we will start to raise living standard across the UK . for those reason , I very much support the measure . as colleague will notice , the Speaker ' s Chair be vacant , so I remind member that the Chair should be address as Madam Chair or Madam Chairman . I call the liberal Democrat spokesperson . I commend the Government for look at capital gain tax as a potential source of revenue to get public service back on their foot , but we Liberal Democrats believe there be a well way of do it . right now , capital gain tax be unfair for everyone . Most people already pay too much capital gain tax when they sell a property or a few share because the system do not account for inflation over the time they have own they . at the same time , a tiny number of super - wealthy individual — the top 0 . 1 % — be able to exploit the capital gain system as effectively one giant loophole to avoid pay income tax like everyone else . accord to the late hmrc statistic , 12 , 000 multimillionaire use the loophole to pay less than half the top rate of income tax on their combine £ 50 billion of income . instead of raise capital gain tax across the board , we Liberal Democrats would have like to see the Government properly reform CGT to make it much fair . to provide a comparison , under the Labour Government ' s proposal , the main rate of capital gain tax for basic rate taxpayer be be increase from 10 % to 18 % and , for high and additional rate taxpayer , from 20 % to 24 % . accord to the Government ' s own statistic , the change will raise about £ 2 . 5 billion per year by 2029 to 2030 . under the liberal Democrat proposal , we would have separate out capital gain tax from income , raise the tax - free allowance , provide a new allowance for inflation and have three different rate of capital gain tax . that would have raise £ 5 . 2 billion , more than twice the Government ' s proposal . as colleague will hear , key to our proposal be the reintroduction of indexation — effectively , an allowance keep people from pay tax on gain that be purely the result of inflation . that would be fair for ordinary people sell a family home or a few share , but it would also incentivise long - term investment by ensure that taxpayer be not penalise due to inflation if they hold their asset for a long period of time . to summarise , the liberal Democrat proposal for reform capital gain tax would be fair and would raise twice as much . the Institute for Fiscal Studies say our proposal would move CGT in a " sensible direction " . our new clause 1 be incredibly simple . it would require the Government to produce a report set out the impact of the change to capital gain tax under the Bill on investment and on the disposable income of people in different income bracket . the objective behind the new clause be to illustrate to the Government that there be a fair way to reform capital gain tax and to encourage the Government , in the spirit of constructive opposition , to look at our proposal in future year . it be a pleasure to serve under your chairship , Madam Chair . I be grateful for the opportunity to take part in Committee of the whole House on a crucial bill that underpin the new Government ' s aim of fix a tax system that have become less fair and less sustainable over 14 year of conservative government . we will ensure that the wealthy pay their fair share , and we will increase funding for public service . I will not detain hon . member long as we have debate the measure at length already , but I want to make a few brief comment on the portion of the Bill that relate to capital gain tax . as other member have point out , we need to remind ourselves of our starting point . as the director of the Institute for Fiscal Studies , Paul Johnson , say in his response to the Budget : " it do bear repeat that the fiscal inheritance " — that this Government face — " be truly dire . " it be in that context that the Bill and the wide measure announce at the Budget should be see . as the IFS have set out , and member have mention , capital gain tax be pay by less than 1 % of the adult population — about 350 , 000 people . if we break that down far , around 12 , 000 people — 0 . 2 % of the adult population — realise gain of more than £ 1 million , which account for two third of capital gain tax . that be 12 , 000 people — the main contributor to capital gain tax — pay a little bit more . clause 7 raise the headline rate of capital gain tax to 18 % for gain within the basic income band for basic rate taxpayer and to 24 % for those who pay high rate income tax . those level have rise to match the unchanging residential property rate . the change be welcome and perhaps not as substantial as be widely speculate in advance . it be important that we look at comparator with neighbouring country . those rate , even after the change , compare well with our european neighbour . in France , as the Minister already say , capital gain tax sit at 30 % , rise to 34 % for high earner . our close neighbour Ireland — often see as a haven for entrepreneur who feel that the UK be not a good place to do business — charge 33 % , and in Germany it be charge at 25 % , plus a 5 . 5 % solidarity surcharge on the tax pay . clause 12 include a long - need reform in the treatment of carry interest , and I be pleased that the Government be proceed carefully with this long - overdue measure , move we towards a tax regime where carry interest be within the income tax framework . these measure will , I believe , contribute to the crucial revenue that must be raise to fix the foundation of our economy and repair our public service . we need to remind ourselves of the word of George Dibb , the associate director of economic policy at the Institute for Public Policy Research , who say of the change in the Budget : " after at least a decade of under - investment , there be now real hope that the government can start to fix the UK ' s economic foundation . " we in the SNP and the Scottish Government believe in progressive taxation . I think that be evident from the change we have make to income tax since those matter be devolve . we would like a more progressive influence in the change before we , rather than simply claw at allowance and increase the rate . nothing in clause 7 to 12 be design to make matter well in Scotland , but at least the Labour party be consistent on that . inheritance tax and capital gain tax be increasingly out of step with modern activity in the UK economy . as the IPPR point out , since the 1980 , household wealth in the UK have rise from three time the national income to more than seven time , yet over the same timeframe wealth taxis have not rise at all as a share of that income . tax unearned wealth more fairly and efficiently be a legitimate long - term ambition in a state where the economy be on life support . taxpayer be leave wonder from this Budget whether more tax rise be on the way , after a substantial lack of clarity from the Chancellor , who say a week or so ago that the Government would not come back for more tax rise , or indeed more borrowing , but have since refuse to echo those rather injudicious remark . if she do not have the confidence to stand by her own statement , it be hard to imagine the effect on business and investor confidence across the UK . the Chancellor should have work with economic expert , such as those at the IFS , to create a fair and more growth - friendly capital gain tax , but instead she have be capture by the same old Treasury dogma that have serve the UK so badly over recent decade . capital gain tax raise a grow amount of revenue — about £ 15 billion last year — partly reflect the increase role of wealth accumulation in the UK , but it be still less than 2 % of all tax take , and although CGT be pay by about 350 , 000 people each year , two third of receipt be from just 12 , 000 people with an average gain of £ 4 million . CGT rate vary significantly across asset , and be almost always significantly low than income tax rate . that rate differential be unfair and create undesirable distortion , include to what people invest in and how long they choose to work . the IFS have criticise the Chancellor for choose simply to increase CGT rate with no effort to carry out what it describe as much - need reform . it also describe the whole design of CGT as " flawed " , add : " there be step the government could and should take to make the tax fair and less harmful to economic growth and well - be . " moreover , the Centre for the Analysis of Taxation propose further change to CGT , include align capital gain tax rate with income tax rate , introduce allowance to incentivise investment , tax the increase in an asset ' s value when it be inherit , and implement an exit tax to prevent individual from dodge UK taxis on gain make while reside in the UK . it estimate that that package would generate £ 14 billion , but none of those measure be in the Bill . the IFS say that if the Chancellor choose to raise CGT rate while leave the flawed tax base unchanged , she would be choose to raise some limited revenue at the expense of weaken saving and investment incentive , and of far distort which asset people buy and how long they hold on to they . the IFS say that that would not be the decision of a Chancellor who be serious about growth . well , what a portent that turn out to be . she do not reform CGT , and look what happen to growth : forecast be down immediately after first contact with this inverse Midas - touch Chancellor . it be clear that , in prepare for the Budget , she could have do with a full hour or more with the IFS , but I doubt that she would have listen . we come to the final Back - Bench contribution , and have save the good until last . I call Bobby Dean . before I address capital gain tax directly , I will make a few short remark about the state of the national conversation about tax more generally , which I think be highly relevant . I note that tax be always something to be " hit by " in politic — it be violent ; we be " hammer " by it — so the debate end up focus on who be deserve or undeserving of such punishment . as a result , few organisation be view as legitimate target for taxation . very rarely do we in politic have the bravery to talk about the virtue of pay tax — what it pay for , how it benefit we all , and why collectively contribute to school , hospital and physical infrastructure be sensible investment that we should be proud to make . that be where the political conversation fall slightly out of step with the mood of the public . believe it or not , I have have conversation about tax on the doorstep , and I mostly meet people who be proud to make that contribution . let I be clear : this be not some special plea to talk about tax in a warm , fuzzy way in order to improve the civility of public discourse . nor should it be confuse for advocacy of a high - tax base economy . I raise that point because our distorted public conversation mean that we end up with a dysfunctional tax system that be neither efficient nor equitable . where we be with capital gain tax be a good example of that . decade of wrangle over whether capital gain tax stifle entrepreneurship or be merely a ruse for the rich often result in a pretty reductive focus on rate . it seem that that happen again in the Budget , and I fear that we have miss an opportunity to make that tax well . as other have explain in put capital gain tax into context , it be pay by around 350 , 000 people and raise around 2 % of total tax revenue , and 12 , 000 people account for two third of that revenue . that tax do not necessarily affect a broad section of society , but it do play an important role in investment in the economy and in the overall sense of fairness in our system . let I start with the economy . it make no sense to I for the Government to make change to capital gain tax without sort out the tax base . if we do not index capital gain for inflation , we be not really tax the thing that we say we be tax . we should be focus on the real gain — otherwise , we risk tax those who simply hold on to an asset for a long time , and ultimately we end up discourage long - term investment . secondly , we ought to be target capital gain tax at those make the large gain — if large gain be to be have , those investment will be make anyway . small gain , however — the stuff at the margin — be where investment decision could be at risk . raise the CGT allowance a bit would go a long way towards address that , as would design well - target relief that more precisely encourage investment . finally , we come to capital gain tax rate , whose alignment with income tax rate be often call for . the Government have of course move a bit on that , but a focus on rate alone mean that an inherent unfairness remain . there would still be the sense that there be one rule for small business and another for the giant . when he appear before the Treasury Committee , Paul Johnson of the IFS remark on another unfairness : someone can simply leave the country for a few year and dispose of an asset overseas — somewhere like Monaco — and they be then no long responsible for capital gain tax . that be another inherent unfairness . ultimately , with the propose change only , the system will continue to disproportionately benefit the very wealthy . it be for that reason that I can not support the measure . if it pass , I hope the Government will consider carefully the impact of the change in isolation , and whether further reform be necessary in future . our tax system need to ensure that everybody pay their fair share , and I do not think the Government have quite get this one right yet . we come to the Front - Bench wind - up . do the shadow Minister wish to speak ? indicate dissent . I call the Minister . I thank hon . member for their contribution to today ' s debate . I will take a few moment to respond to some of the point , and will then give the Government ' s view on the propose amendment . if there be question that I do not answer , I will write to hon . member . I thank my hon . friend the Member for Dartford ( Jim Dickson ) for his important speech and agree with his point about much - need reform to our tax system . I also thank my hon . friend the Member for Earley and Woodley ( Yuan Yang ) for her powerful speech and wholeheartedly agree with her constituent , who seem very principled and knowledgeable . to respond to the point make by the conservative spokesperson , the hon . member for Grantham and Bourne ( Gareth Davies ) , about the revenue impact of the carry interest measure , the OBR - certify costing demonstrate that this measure raise revenue over the scorecard period . the Budget do deliver on the Government ' s manifesto commitment on tax : estimate revenue for these policy have be adjust for final policy decision and to account for underlie change in the OBR ' s forecast , but overall , the hon . Gentleman may be interested to know that the tax measure raise over £ 1 billion more than be in the manifesto . to answer the hon . Gentleman ' s question about why the change be be make in - year , the in - year rate change be make to protect Exchequer revenue from the impact of forestalling . it be common practice for tax change to take effect from the date of the Budget . as for anti - forestalling , we would not expect the anti - forestalling provision to apply to an ordinary commercial sale of an asset where the contract be enter into prior to 30 October . those provision target those who enter into artificial arrangement to lock in the pre - Budget tax treatment . the Lib Dem spokesperson , the hon . member for St Albans ( Daisy Cooper ) , talk about inflation indexation of CGT . Indexation previously exist when CGT rate be charge at income tax level with a top rate of 40 % . a rate schedule of 18 % and 24 % be significantly below those level , so for the important reason of simplicity , indexation be not a part of the system . new clause 1 would require the Government to present to Parliament a review of the capital gain tax package ' s impact on long - term investment , disposable income across the distribution , and tax revenue . in decide on these change to capital gain tax , the Government have already consider all three factor . on long - term investment , the OBR assess the CGT package to have no measure - specific macroeconomic impact . on impact across income , distributional analysis for all Budget measure combine be set out in the " Impact on household " publication . the Government do not normally publish the impact of individual measure . finally , the Government ' s projection of the revenue raise by these CGT change have be certify by the OBR and publish in the Budget document . every year , the Government publish the amount of CGT pay in the most recent tax year with available datum , where table 3 break down gain by income . for those reason , the propose report be unnecessary , and I implore member to reject the new clause . new clause 4 would require the Government to publish a review within three month of the passing of this legislation cover various issue in connection with our reform to the tax treatment of carry interest . as set out early , the CGT rate applicable to carry interest will increase to 32 % from April 2025 . this be a first step in advance of move to a revise regime fully within the income tax framework from April 2026 . the Government believe that their reform will deliver increase fairness and place the tax rule on a more sustainable footing , while preserve our country ' s position as a global fund management hub . we will also be undertake extensive technical consultation ahead of legislate for the revise regime in a future finance Bill , which the House will of course have the opportunity to scrutinise . we therefore do not consider that new clause 4 be a necessary addition to the Bill that be before we today . I be very grateful to the Minister for explain all the thing she have just set out , but I do not quite get an answer to the specific question of why it cost HMRC £ 4 . 5 million to execute this tax rise , which will not raise any money in the next year or the year after . could she explain why this specific measure that only affect 3 , 100 people cost HMRC £ 4 . 5 million , but other tax increase cost hundred of thousand of pound ? if the shadow Minister look carefully at the document we have publish , he will find all his answer write out very clearly there . new clause 5 would require the Government to publish an impact assessment of the change to business asset disposal relief , and to compare the impact of those change with the number of claim that would have be expect if the rate have not be change . every year , the Government publish capital gain tax statistic , which include the number of business asset disposal relief claim for the most recent tax year with available datum . the number of claim in 2024 - 25 compare with upcoming tax year will therefore become public information in time . meanwhile , the fiscal impact of the change be be out in the tax information and impact note for this measure , which have be publish online . it would not be practical for the Government to publish counterfactual comparison for all tax change , and do so for business asset disposal relief would create an unsustainable precedent . the Government recognise that monitoring and evaluation be critical to maintain the efficacy of any tax measure they introduce , and will continue they as appropriate . for these reason , new clause 5 be not a necessary addition to the Bill , and I ask Members to reject it . I hope I have be able to reassure member who have table new clause that , for the reason I have set out , those addition and change be not necessary . I therefore urge the Committee to reject new clause 1 , 4 and 5 , and I commend clause 7 to 12 and schedule 1 and 2 to the Committee . question put and agree to . clause 7 accordingly order to stand part of the Bill . schedule 1 agree to . clause 8 to 11 order to stand part of the Bill . schedule 2 agree to . clause 12 order to stand part of the Bill . New Clause 5 - business asset disposal relief : review of increase in rate " ( 1 ) the Chancellor of the Exchequer must commission and publish an assessment of the expect impact of the provision of section 8 on the number of Business Asset Disposal Relief claim involve the sale of a business . ( 2 ) the assessment must compare estimate for the number of claim involve the sale of a business in the tax year 2024 - 25 with the number of such claim in the tax year 2025 - 26 . ( 3 ) the assessment must compare the impact under the provision of section 8 with what impact could have be expect have the rate remain unchanged " . — ( Gareth Davies . ) bring up , and read the first time . question put , that the clause be read a second time . Jim Allister Stuart Andrew Edward Argar Victoria Atkins Gareth Bacon Kemi Badenoch Harriett Baldwin Peter Bedford Bob Blackman Sarah Bool Andrew Bowie Karen Bradley Aphra Brandreth Alex Burghart Gregory Campbell James Cartlidge James Cleverly Geoffrey Clifton - Brown Lewis cock John Cooper Alberto Costa Claire Coutinho Harriet Cross Ann davy Gareth davy Mims davy Charlie Dewhirst Caroline Dinenage Oliver Dowden Alex Easton Luke Evans Ashley Fox Mark Francois George Freeman Louie french Richard Fuller Roger Gale Mark Garnier John Glen Helen Grant Andrew Griffith Alison Griffiths Rebecca Harris Damian Hinds Simon Hoare Paul Holmes Neil Hudson Jeremy Hunt Bernard Jenkin Robert Jenrick Lincoln Jopp Alicia Kearns Danny Kruger Ben Lake Katie Lam John Lamont Julian Lewis Carla Lockhart Julia Lopez Alan Mak Jerome Mayhew Esther McVey Llinos Medi Andrew Mitchell Gagan Mohindra Robbie Moore Joy Morrissey Kieran Mullan David Mundell Jesse Norman Ben Obese - Jecty Neil o ' Brien Chris Philp Mark Pritchard David Reed Joe Robertson Gavin Robinson Andrew Rosindell Liz Saville - Roberts Jim Shannon Neil Shastri - Hurst David Simmonds Greg Smith Julian Smith Rebecca Smith Andrew Snowden Ben Spencer Patrick Spencer Gregory Stafford Blake Stephenson Graham Stuart Robin Swann Desmond Swayne Bradley Thomas Nick Timothy Laura Trott Thomas Tugendhat Martin Vickers Matt Vickers Helen Whately John Whittingdale James Wild Sammy Wilson Mike Wood Jeremy Wright Rebecca Paul Richard Holden Diane Abbott Jack Abbott Debbie Abrahams Shockat Adam Zubir Ahmed Bayo Alaba Dan Aldridge Douglas Alexander Heidi Alexander Sadik Al - Hassan Rushanara Ali Tahir Ali Rosena Allin - Khan Mike Amesbury Callum Anderson Fleur Anderson Tonia Antoniazzi Scott Arthur Jessica Asato James Asser Jas Athwal Catherine Atkinson Lewis Atkinson Calvin Bailey Olivia Bailey Richard Baker Alex Ballinger Antonia Bance Paula Barker Lee Barron Alex Barros - Curtis Johanna Baxter Danny Beales Lorraine Beavers torsten Bell Hilary Benn Si â n Berry Clive Betts Polly Billington Matt Bishop Olivia Blake Rachel Blake Christopher Bloore Elsie Blundell Kevin Bonavia Jade Botterill Sureena Brackenridge Jonathan Brash Chris Bryant Julia Buckley Richard Burgon David Burton - Sampson Dawn Butler Ian Byrne Liam Byrne Ruth Cadbury Nesil Caliskan Alan Campbell Irene Campbell Juliet Campbell Markus Campbell - Savours Dan Carden Sam Carling Sarah Champion Luke Charters Ellie chown Feryal Clark Ben Coleman Jacob Collier Lizzi Collinge Tom Collins Liam Conlon Sarah coombe Andrew Cooper Deirdre Costigan Pam Cox Jennifer Craft Mary Creagh Stella Creasy Torcuil Crichton Chris Curtis Ashley Dalton Emily Darlington Jonathan Davies Paul Davies Shaun Davies Alex Davies - Jones Josh Dean Kate Dearden Carla Denyer Tan Dhesi Jim Dickson Anna Dixon Samantha Dixon Helena Dollimore Stephen Doughty Peter Dowd Graeme Downie Neil Duncan - Jordan Cat Eccles Lauren Edwards Sarah Edwards Clive Efford Damien Egan Chris Elmore Kirith Entwistle Bill Esterson Miatta Fahnbulleh Hamish Falconer Linsey Farnsworth Josh Fenton - Glynn Mark Ferguson Natalie Fleet Catherine Fookes Paul Foster Vicky Foxcroft Daniel Francis James Frith Barry Gardiner Anna Gelderd Alan Gemmell Gill german Tracy Gilbert Preet Kaur Gill Becky Gittins Mary Glindon Jodie Gosling Georgia Gould John Grady Nia Griffith Amanda Hack Sarah Hall Paulette Hamilton Emma Hardy Carolyn Harris Lloyd Hatton Helen Hayes Tom Hayes Claire Hazelgrove Mark Hendrick Meg Hillier Chris Hinchliff Jonathan Hinder Sharon Hodgson Rachel Hopkins Alison Hume rupa Huq Patrick Hurley Imran Hussain Natasha Irons Sally Jameson Terry Jermy Adam Jogee Kim Johnson Gerald Jones Louise Jones Gurinder Josan Sojan Joseph Warinder Juss Chris Kane Satvir Kaur Liz Kendall Stephen Kinnock Jayne Kirkham Gen Kitchen Sonia Kumar Uma Kumaran Laura Kyrke - Smith Peter Lamb Ian Lavery Noah Law Kim Leadbeater Brian Leishman Emma Lewell - Buck Andrew Lewin Clive Lewis Simon Lightwood Rebecca Long - Bailey Josh MacAlister Alice Macdonald Andy MacNae Justin Madders Shabana Mahmood Amanda Martin Rachael Maskell Keir Mather Alex Mayer Kerry McCarthy Martin McCluskey Siobhain McDonagh Andy McDonald Chris McDonald John Martin McDonnell Blair McDougall Lola McEvoy Alison McGovern Alex McIntyre Gordon McKee Kevin McKenna Catherine McKinnell Jim McMahon Anna McMorrin Frank McNally Kirsty McNeill Anneliese Midgley Julie Minns Navendu Mishra Abtisam Mohamed Iqbal Mohamed Perran Moon Jessica Morden Stephen Morgan Grahame Morris Joe Morris Margaret Mullane Luke Murphy Chris Murray Ian Murray James Murray Katrina Murray Luke Myer James Naish Connor Naismith Lisa Nandy Pamela Nash Samantha Niblett Charlotte Nichols Alex Norris Melanie Onn Simon Opher Abena Oppong - Asare Kate Osborne Tristan Osborne Taiwo Owatemi Sarah Owen Darren Paffey Andrew Pakes Matthew Patrick Michael Payne Stephanie Peacock Jonathan Pearce Matthew Pennycook Toby Perkins Jess Phillips David Pinto - Duschinsky Lee Pitcher Jo Platt Luke Pollard Lucy Powell Gregor Poynton Peter Prinsley Richard Quigley Yasmin Qureshi Steve Race Adrian Ramsay Andrew Ranger Mike Reader Steve Reed Ellie Reeves Joani Reid Emma Reynolds Martin Rhodes Bell Ribeiro - Addy Jake Richards Jenny Riddell - Carpenter Lucy Rigby Dave Robertson Tim Roca Sam Rushworth Sarah Russell Tom Rutland Oliver Ryan Sarah Sackman Jeevun Sandher Michelle Scrogham Mark Sewards Naseem Shah Baggy Shanker Michael Shanks Tulip Siddiq Josh Simons Andrew Slaughter John Slinger Cat Smith David Smith Jeff Smith Karin Smyth Gareth Snell Alex Sobel Euan Stainbank Jo Stevens Kenneth Stevenson Elaine Stewart will Stone Alistair Strathern Alan Strickland Graham Stringer Peter Swallow Mark Tami Mike Tapp Alison Taylor David Taylor Rachel Taylor Fred Thomas Emily Thornberry Stephen Timms Jessica Toale Dan Tomlinson Jon Trickett Henry Tufnell Matt Turmaine Laurence Turner Liz Twist Harpreet Uppal Tony Vaughan Valerie Vaz Christopher Vince Imogen Walker Chris Ward Melanie Ward Paul Waugh Chris Webb Michelle Welsh Catherine West Andrew Western Matt Western Michael Wheeler John Whitby Jo White Katie White Nadia Whittome David Williams Steve Witherden Sean Woodcock Rosie Wrighting Yuan Yang Mohammad Yasin Steve Yemm Daniel Zeichner Anna Turley Christian Wakeford the Committee divide : Ayes 105 , Noes 340 . question accordingly negative . clause 15 - increase in rate of energy ( oil and gas ) profit levy Question propose , that the clause stand part of the Bill . with this it will be convenient to consider the following : clause 16 to 18 stand part . schedule 3 . new clause 2 — report on fiscal effect : relief for investment expenditure — " the Chancellor of the Exchequer must , within six month of the passing of this Act , lie before Parliament a report set out the impact of the measure contain in clause 16 of this Act on tax revenue . " this new clause would require the Government to produce a report set out the fiscal impact of the Bill ' s change to the Energy Profits Levy investment expenditure relief . new clause 3 — change to energy ( oil and gas ) profit levy : review — " the Chancellor of the Exchequer must , within three month of this Act come into force , publish a review of the expect impact of the measure in section 15 to 18 on — ( a ) employment in the UK oil and gas industry ; ( b ) capital expenditure in the UK oil and gas industry ; ( c ) UK oil and gas production ; ( d ) UK oil and gas demand ; and ( e ) the scottish economy and economic growth in Scotland . " at the Budget in October , the Chancellor set out the decision that we be take to restore economic stability , put the public finance on a firm footing , and embed fiscal responsibility in the work of Government . have wipe the slate clean of the mess we inherit , our Government can now focus on boost the public and private investment that be essential for sustainable long - term growth . it be through sustainable economic growth across the UK that we will create wealth and provide security , make people across the country well off . that goal of raise living standard in every part of the UK so that work people have more money in their pocket be at the heart of the Government ' s plan for change that the Prime Minister set out last week . that plan also set out the Government ' s commitment to secure home - grow energy , and to protect bill payer by put we on track to secure at least 95 % clean power by 2030 . make the transition to home - grow energy have require we to take immediate action to unblock investment , include decide to reverse the de facto ban on onshore wind . the Government have their part to play , alongside the private sector , in make sure that investment happen on the scale and at the pace that we need . that be why the clause that we be debate be so important — they be a key mechanism for raise the funding that be need for that investment to be deliver . we be take a responsible approach that recognise the role of business and their employee in the energy industry of today and tomorrow . since we form a Government , my colleague and I have be work closely with the sector affect by the energy profit levy to make sure that the transition be manage in a way that support job in exist and future industry . our approach recognise that oil and gas will have a role to play in the energy mix for many year to come , during the transition , and it balance that with ensure that oil and gas help to raise the revenue that we need to drive investment towards the energy transition . our legislation deliver that approach , and I welcome the chance to set out the detail of how it do so . the clause that we be debate concern the energy profit levy , a temporary additional tax on profit from oil and gas exploration and production in the UK and on the UK continental shelf . the levy be introduce by the previous Government in response to the extraordinary profit be make by oil and gas company — and , it be fair to say , in response to substantial political pressure from Labour Members . do the Minister believe that oil and gas company be still make extraordinary profit ? I believe that it be fair that the oil and gas industry make a reasonable contribution to the energy transition . we need to ensure that during the transition from oil and gas , which will play a key role in our energy mix for year to come , the industry contribute to the new , clean energy of the future . the way to have a responsible , manage transition be to work with the industry and make sure that it make a fair contribution , but to not shy away from make that transition at the scale and pace need . let I try to understand the Minister ' s logic . first , he recognise that we will need oil and gas . secondly , he be go to tax oil and gas company . thirdly , he be tell they that his Government be create an environment in which there be no future for oil and gas , but he still expect they to invest . where be the logic ? I be glad that the right hon . Gentleman have give I a chance to set out why the Government plan be the right and balanced approach . we be ensure that the oil and gas sector be support in make the contribution that we know it will to our energy mix for many year to come , while ask it to contribute to the transition to clean energy . the oil and gas industry recognise that a transition to clean energy be under way . it want to support investment and job in the industry but also to contribute to the transition . take a fair and balanced approach be the right way to protect the job and industry of today and tomorrow and , crucially , to protect bill payer , give they permanently low bill and great energy independence . [ interruption . ] in the last financial year , the oil and gas industry make £ 6 . 1 billion in profit , despite the chuntering from Opposition Members . do my hon . friend agree that the Conservatives introduce the energy levy ? we be simply ensure that our oil and gas sector pay an equivalent sum , so that we can transition to a green energy future . this money be necessary for that transition to occur . my hon . friend be absolutely right that we be ask oil and gas company to make a fair and reasonable contribution towards our transition to clean energy . that transition be under way , and it be important for oil and gas company to make a contribution , but that should happen in a way that protect the job and industry of today and tomorrow . the oil and gas giant be make eye - water profit when the Conservative Government finally introduce a levy , although it have a loophole that let the oil and gas company off the hook . the Government should support the Liberal Democrat amendment , which demonstrate how much of a miss opportunity that be , and how much money we could have raise , have the loophole be close early . I be not entirely clear that that be what the Liberal Democrat amendment do . we have be clear that our intention be to end unjustifiably generous allowance . that be exactly what we be do by abolish the core investment allowance , which be unique to oil and gas taxation and be not available to any other sector in the economy . new research publish in the last few day have find that fossil fuel company report profit of nearly $ 0 . 5 trillion during the 2022 energy crisis . by contrast , people struggle with fuel poverty and have to choose between heating and eat . one in seven household in my constituency be in fuel poverty . do the Minister agree that the ability to extend and increase the energy profit levy be a key lever for address this imbalance and support household ? order . that be neatly do , but intervention have to be very closely related to what we be debate here and now . I hope that my hon . friend ' s constituent will benefit from low bill as a result of the investment that we be ensure , by the public and private sector , in the clean energy source of the future . we know , when the Conservatives introduce the energy profit levy , that the extraordinary oil and gas profit be drive by global circumstance , include resurgent demand after covid - 19 , and the russian invasion of Ukraine . household in the UK , however , be particularly badly hit by high oil and gas price , as the Government at the time have fail to invest adequately in energy independence , or in measure such as home insulation . when the energy profit levy be introduce , an 80 % investment allowance be also introduce , and this be later reduce to 29 % when the levy rate increase from 25 % to 35 % in January 2023 . an 80 % decarbonisation investment allowance be later put in place for decarbonisation expenditure , which be money spend on the reduction of emission from the production of oil and gas . the levy be initially set at 25 % , but the previous Government increase it to 35 % and extend it beyond 2025 , first to 2028 , and later to 2029 . as I mention , the Government recognise the continue role for oil and gas in the UK ' s energy mix during the energy transition . we be commit to manage the transition in a way that support job in exist and future industry , recognise that our offshore worker have the vital skill to unlock the clean industry of the future . I put on record my thank to the offshore worker I meet in Aberdeen in August for give I some of their time and their view when I be there for a meeting with Offshore Energies UK and representative of the sector . as I mention , it be essential that we drive both public and private investment in the transition to clean energy . clause 15 therefore increase the energy profit levy by three percentage point — from 35 % to 38 % — from 1 November 2024 . the clause also set out the rule for apportion profit for accounting period that straddle the start date . as I have make clear , the money raise by these change will help to support the transition to clean energy , enhance our energy security and provide sustainable job for the future . clause 16 concern allowance in the levy . the clause remove the 29 % core investment allowance for general expenditure incur on or after 1 November 2024 , as I mention to the hon . member for Bath ( Wera Hobhouse ) . the Government have be clear about our intention to end unjustifiably generous allowance , and that be exactly what we be do by abolish the core investment allowance . we be bring the level of relief for investment in the sector broadly in line with the level of capital allowance available to other company operate across the rest of the economy through full expensing , which we have commit to maintain . the energy profit levy ' s decarbonisation allowance will be retain to support the sector in reduce emission . qualifying expenditure include money spend on electrification of production , or on reduce venting and flaring . the retention of the decarbonisation allowance reflect the Government ' s commitment to facilitate clean home - grow energy . however , in the light of the increase to the levy , clause 16 also reduce the rate of the decarbonisation allowance to 66 % in order to maintain the same cash value of the tax relief per £ 100 of investment . clause 17 extend the sunset of the levy by one year from 31 March 2029 to 31 March 2030 . to provide the oil and gas industry with long - term certainty and confidence in the fiscal regime , we be retain the levy ' s price floor , the energy security investment mechanism . Certainty be only good if it relate to a positive outlook , not a negative outlook . the hon . member for Gordon and Buchan ( Harriet Cross ) ask a clear question about the duration . it be not about whether the sector pay fair taxis ; we all believe that people should pay fair taxis . do the Minister still believe that the industry be make extraordinary profit ? I would like to explain to the hon . Gentleman how the energy security investment mechanism work , because that , to be fair , be put in place by the previous Government , and we be maintain it . it say that if price drop below a certain threshold for six month , the energy profit levy cease early . that give some certainty and predictability to the oil and gas sector . if price go below that level , the sector can have confidence that the energy security investment mechanism will end the levy early . if that do not happen , the levy will continue , as we have say , until March 2030 . I be keen — I will set out a few more detail later — to engage with the oil and gas sector on the regime post the energy profit levy , because it be important for oil and gas company make decision about investment to have certainty about what will happen up until March 2030 , and to understand what the regime might be like thereafter . that be why I be look forward to my conversation with the sector on what the post energy profit levy regime will look like . long - term certainty and confidence be be provide to the oil and gas sector by our retention of the levy ' s price floor , the energy security investment mechanism , which I be explain to the hon . member for Angus and Perthshire Glens ( Dave Doogan ) . it mean that the levy will cease permanently if oil and gas price fall below a set level for a sustained period . furthermore , as I also just say , to provide stability for the long term , the Government will publish a consultation in early 2025 on how the tax regime will respond to price shock once the energy profit levy come to an end . that will give oil and gas producer and their investor predictability and certainty on the future of the fiscal regime , which will support their ability to continue invest , while also ensure that the nation receive a fair return at a time of exceptional crisis . finally , clause 18 and schedule 3 relate to the decommissioning of oil and gas asset that be repurpose for use in carbon storage installation and pipeline . carbon capture , usage and storage , or CCUS , be likely to play an essential role in meet our net zero target . the UK ' s estimate 78 billion tonne of co2 storage capacity present an opportunity for we to become a global leader in the provision of co2 service and storage . the potential to make use of asset from the UK ' s oil and gas sector be an opportunity that will present cost saving and quick delivery time for certain ccus project . it be right that the oil and gas owner of an asset be repurpose for CCUS pay for the ultimate decommissioning of that asset . that approach ensure that fund be available to return the asset ' s environment to its natural state at the end of its use in CCUS . in such case , the Energy Act 2023 require the oil and gas company to pay an amount equal to the cost of decommissioning into a decommissioning fund to make provision for the repurpose asset ' s decommission liability when the CCUS project come to an end . the oil and gas company would be entitle to tax relief on the decommissioning expenditure if it decommission the asset itself , rather than sell it to be repurpose , yet there be currently no such relief for any payment make into a decommissioning fund , and that disincentivise the repurposing of asset for CCUS . in order to ensure that the tax be not a blocker to the repurposing of oil and gas asset , the change make by clause 18 and schedule 3 will bring the tax treatment of payment into decommissioning fund for repurposed asset into line with the tax relief available when oil and gas company decommission asset at the end of their production life . this will accelerate delivery time and reduce cost for ccus project , while ensure that the oil and gas company that support the transition by repurposing be not disadvantaged . the cost of decommissioning be not an allowable expense with the energy profit levy , so to reflect that , payment receive for these asset will not be subject to the levy . to conclude , the Government be commit to protect billpayer by secure our future home - grow energy supply . our plan will put we on track to deliver at least 95 % clean power by 2030 and help accelerate the UK to net zero . take together , the change make in clause 15 to 18 will raise an additional £ 2 . 3 billion over the scorecard period . that funding be crucial for the investment need in our future energy supply and to support our effort to deliver a world - class ccus industry in the UK . they represent a crucial investment in the future of our country . I commend the clause to the Committee . I call the shadow Minister . I rise to speak on behalf of the official Opposition on new clause 3 , which stand in the name of the shadow Chancellor , my right hon . friend the Member for Central Devon ( Mel Stride ) . clause 15 to 18 concern the taxation of the oil and gas industry , which meet 75 % of the UK ' s household and industrial energy need , with 50 % of that need be meet by the North sea . the sector support more than 200 , 000 high - skilled job in this country , and that talent , along with the rest of the supply chain , will be crucial to our domestic energy transition . these reality underscore the imperative of a smooth and efficient transition and a fiscal regime that facilitate that , not least because the timeline for investment in the oil and gas industry be so long . if the fiscal regime be not calibrate correctly , the damage may be irreversible and the cost will be significant . to recap the measure in the Bill , clause 15 increase the rate of the energy profit levy from 35 % to 38 % , bring the headline tax rate on the sector up to 78 % . clause 16 remove the 29 % investment allowance and reduce the rate of the decarbonisation investment allowance to 66 % , so that the cash value of that allowance remain the same . clause 17 extend the energy profit levy to 2030 , at which point the Government be commit to implement a successor regime to respond to price shock once the levy expire . clause 18 and schedule 3 legislate for certain payment into decommissioning fund to be treat as decommission expenditure so that they can attract tax relief . the question that many be ask be this : do these measure add up to a fiscal regime that facilitate a smooth and efficient energy transition ? not accord to the Office for Budget Responsibility , which conclude that on average over the forecast period , capital expenditure will be 26 % low , oil production 6 . 3 % low and gas production 9 . 2 % low compare with our March forecast . those be dramatic movement . the University of Aberdeen have warn : " a rise in the EPL and loss of investment and capital allowance may have the unintended effect of accelerate decommissioning and decelerate the energy transition as company face an additional cost burden . " the Government have thankfully carry out a partial u - turn , retain the decarbonisation allowance and the 100 % first - year allowance introduce by the Conservative party , but if they be persuade of the importance of those investment allowance and that remove they would do more harm than good , why persist with remove the main 29 % investment allowance ? what be it about that relief compare with the other that make they want to scrap it ? the Government talk about close loophole — we see how well that go with carry interest — but these measure will contribute just 1 % of the new revenue raise by the Budget across this Parliament . do the Minister really think it be worth jeopardise some 50 % of our domestic gas supply for that ? the measure in the Budget essentially throw a massive spanner in the work for oil and gas , and it be unclear exactly what the Government ' s rationale be for do that . when we bring in the levy , it be to tax extraordinary profit in extraordinary time . the revenue that we raise contribute to our effort through policy such as the energy price guarantee and the energy bill support scheme to reduce energy bill for the british people . today , as those extraordinary circumstance subside , Labour be ratchet up the levy . that send a mixed message to the industry ahead of the consultation on a successor regime . the term of that regime will supposedly be set by the need to respond to price shock , yet the Government ' s justification for these measure have nothing to do with price shock . instead , they be all dress up in language about the sector make a " fair contribution " , as the Minister say , to the Energy Secretary ' s environmental ideological ambition . what be the Government ' s vision for the taxation of oil and gas in this United Kingdom — temporary windfall taxis or permanent climate levy ? the Bill suggest the latter . I would be grateful for the Minister specifically comment on that when he respond . one way in which the Minister could give an indication and provide some long - term certainty would be to confirm far the future of the energy security investment mechanism , which he mention . as he kindly say , we introduce the ESIM so that when price return to normal level , the energy profit levy would end ; no more windfall profit would mean no more windfall tax . will he confirm that the ESIM will remain in place up to 2030 ? I think he say so at the Dispatch Box , but I would be grateful for his reconfirm its end date . will he go far and confirm that it will remain in the same condition as today ? will the price floor continue to be consumer price index - adjust ? the Treasury and the Minister have say that the ESIM will be retain , but the industry would like further confirmation , as I have set out . will he also write to I with the Treasury ' s late modelling of future oil and gas price to prove that the expect revenue be not at the expense of the ESIM ? that modelling will be important for we to understand and get that reassurance and certainty on the ESIM . have be in the Treasury , I know that that modelling be continually review and produce ; I would be grateful if he would write to I with that . these be not purely academic question . our concern be for the hundred of thousand of people employ by the UK oil and gas industry , for the UK ' s energy security and for the efficient and smooth energy transition that we all care about . the Government should be not ideological but empirical in their approach , which be why we have table new clause 3 , which would require a review of the impact of these measure on employment , investment , production , demand and the whole scottish economy . if the Government have already make detailed assessment on those specific area , we would be grateful for the Minister publish they . on every measure , the Budget have not survive contact with reality . growth have be downgrade , real income depress and business investment reduce , with broken promise and credibility completely shatter . it be not so much that the Labour Government take a different view on economic matter ; it be that they take the wrong view . labour be the party of the tax rise that lose money . we be the party of the tax cut that raise revenue . that be why Labour government always leave office with more unemployment , large debt and high taxis . they always run out of other people ' s money , and this Government be set to do so in record time . I call the liberal Democrat spokesperson once again . at the heart of the debate be a stark injustice , understand by every man , woman and child on the street of Great Britain . in the last few year , oil and gas giant have make eye - water profit — in many case , they be profit that they do not expect to make — and they have make they off the back of Putin ' s brutal invasion of Ukraine and global supply chain issue that cause energy price to soar . at the same time , people have see their living standard drop and their energy price soar . in too many case , people have have to choose between heating and eat . we Liberal Democrats be the first party to call for a tax on oil and gas windfall profit back in October 2021 , but it be not until May 2022 that the previous Government eventually introduce the energy profit levy . it be half - hearted and woefully late . if it have be bring in when we have call for it , there would have be additional revenue to reduce people ' s energy bill and launch an emergency home insulation scheme , reduce energy consumption , which would have be good for the climate , and reduce people ' s bill , which would have be good for their pocket . the previous Government effectively let oil and gas giant off the hook , by initially set the energy price levy at just 25 % and put in place a massive loophole in the form of the investment allowance . that allow the oil and gas giant to get away with vast sum at taxpayer ' expense , with the excuse of investment that they would have make anyway . in essence , the Conservatives give they tax relief on pollute activity when they should have be do everything to raise fund to reduce people ' s bill and urgently insulate home . thank to the investment allowance — the big loophole — in 2022 , Shell admit that it have pay zero windfall tax despite make the large global profit in its 115 - year history : a profit of £ 31 billion . as some colleague in the Committee have refer to , energy price have come down since those record level of 2022 , but the oil and gas producer have still see huge profit . in 2023 , Shell see its profit come down from £ 31 billion , but it still make £ 22 . 3 billion . how much of that profit be make in the UK versus globally ? to be honest , I do not know what the distinction be between global profit and UK profit . the point be that the levy be put on UK profit make out of UK operation . I hope that the hon . Lady will agree that when her constituent can not afford to put their heating on , she should not miss the opportunity to raise taxis from the big oil and gas company . as I say , Shell make a profit of £ 22 . 3 billion in 2023 , and BP see profit of £ 11 billion , its second high in a decade . I hope the Committee agree that where those profit be make on UK operation , they should pay their fair share . we be glad that the current Government have listen to call from Liberal Democrats and other and finally scrap the unfair investment allowance loophole , but we would like the Minister to give the Committee some clarity on how much money will be raise , particularly through the abolition of the carve - out . by extension , we would be able to see how much money could have be raise under the previous Government but be gifted to the large gas giant . [ interruption . ] conservative Members may not like it , but their constituent be choose between heating and eat . People should know just how much money could have be raise and how much will now be raise through this measure . I would like to press the Minister on the specific change to the EPL legislate for in the Bill . I understand that the headline rate of 78 % be select to match that in Norway , but I wonder whether the Government have consider go any far and look , for example , at a headline rate of 80 % . be there a cost - benefit analysis ? some of the big oil and gas producer in the world may well be able to afford to pay a little more , and the additional tax revenue would be a big help for our public service — it could have help avert the cut to the winter fuel payment . will the Minister confirm that the Government intend to publish Treasury analysis on how much revenue could be raise from each 1p increase in the headline rate of the windfall tax ? our constituent understand the stark injustice that the amendment will address . I hope the Minister will accept it , be transparent and show just how much money it will raise to help put public service back on their foot . I will speak to clause 15 to 18 briefly , but mainly to new clause 3 in the name of my right hon . friend the Member for Central Devon ( Mel Stride ) . it would require the Chancellor to publish within three month a review of the expect change introduce by the Bill on employment , capital expenditure , production , demand and the economy . it be inherently sensible , and consider the importance of the oil and gas sector to regional and national employment and economic growth in the UK . on the need to review the impact on employment , 82 % of direct job in the oil and gas sector be locate in Scotland . my Gordon and Buchan constituency be at the heart of that . new clause 3 would review the impact of the change to employment across the country , as it be not just direct job that be on the line but supply chain and other indirect job . of those , 90 , 000 be in Scotland and 200 , 00 be across the UK . the hon . member highlight the economic consequence of this head south on job in Scotland . be she surprised and disappointed , as I be , that not a single Scottish Labour MP have turn up to take part in this vital debate ? we be say a moment ago how extraordinary it be that they be not here to stand up for their main industry . that show how much they value or care about job across Scotland . we be see warning sign already of the impact of these measure . just a week after the Budget , Apache confirm that it would cease operation in the North sea , say : " the onerous financial impact of the EPL , combine with the substantial investment that will be necessary to comply with regulatory requirement , make production of hydrocarbon beyond 2029 uneconomic . " accord to the Aberdeen and Grampian Chamber of Commerce , 100 , 000 job may be at risk across the UK because of the change . offshore Energies UK say that 35 , 000 job directly relate to project that may not now go ahead be at risk . new clause 3 , which would allow the Government the opportunity to assess and account for the impact of the Bill ' s change on job relate to the oil and gas sector , the supply chain and the wide economy , should be welcome across the Committee . on the impact that increase tax on the industry will have on job , be my hon . friend as disappoint as I be to hear the Liberal Democrats talk only about how much cash can be raise from an industry , without ask how many job would be affect across Scotland and the UK , or about the impact on the economy as a whole ? absolutely ; sometimes there be a complete disconnect in this place between how much we can tax and squeeze something dry and what that do to investment . these company , especially the global one , do not have to invest in the UK — they can invest across the world . they be choose to invest here at the moment , and therefore we get job , opportunity and employment . that investment can go abroad , and if it do , it will take job with it , to the detriment of all of we , but particularly we in north - east Scotland . do the hon . Lady not recognise that we be in a transition period , which we need in order to get to net zero ? of course , we need to protect job , but the transition to net zero be essential . I recognise that , which be why it be so important that we protect the job and the investment . the company in our supply chain have the skill and expertise that will drive the transition , as will the investment that come in , and that be why we need to keep they . the hon . Lady make a good point about the mobility of investment in the oil and gas industry . be it not ironic that , since we will need oil and gas , if we tax company on production in the United Kingdom , they will simply produce elsewhere , other government will get the revenue from the tax on that production and we will pay more for import ? exactly . there must be a balance between production and demand — I will come to demand later . there be no point reduce our domestic production while our demand stay the same , because we will only fill the gap with oil and gas from abroad , which be produce with a high carbon intensity in poor working environment , where overseas job and investment will take precedence over investment at home . it make no sense that while we be use oil and gas — the Minister himself confirm that we will be for a while — we do not prioritise take it from our own North sea domestic basin . new clause 3 also ask for a review on capital expenditure and investment in the UK . in Scotland alone , oil and gas contribute £ 19 billion of gross standard volume . in the UK , it contribute £ 27 billion . a 2022 report by Experian show that for every £ 1 million of investment by the oil and gas industry , 14 job and £ 2 . 1 million of GVA be add . this industry be blatantly a net benefit to the UK and the Exchequer , and one in which we should encourage investment and capital expenditure , not an environment where the return do not justify the risk of investment . as my hon . friend the Member for Grantham and Bourne ( Gareth Davies ) say , the OBR ' s own figure show that capital expenditure will fall by 26 % , and therefore production of oil by 6 . 3 % and gas by 9 . 2 % , because of these change . we must ask , can the UK afford this ? maybe those be the parameter that the Exchequer and the Treasury be look for , if they see they as allowable . but if that be the case , what assessment have be make of the impact on the economy and job across the UK ? the OEUK have put the project drop in production down to a rapid decline due to underinvestment over the decade . under new clause 3 , we can assess the impact of the change to the EPL and head this off to begin with because , as I say , it be important that while we have demand , we have production . it have be confirm that we will need oil and gas in the UK for year to come , but through the change to the EPL in the Bill , in particular clause 15 and 16 , which increase the EPL by 3 % and remove the investment allowance , the Government be choose to make our homegrown domestic energy sector so uncompetitive that current investment fall away and future investment be no long on the card . we can not afford to lose investment because , as I say , it will drive the transition . it be so important that it be protect now , to help we bring the transition forward quickly and efficiently into the future . clause 15 to 18 be introduce without adequate consultation on the impact assessment . new clause 3 simply ask for proper scrutiny of their impact . if the Government be confident in their approach , why resist a responsible request for transparency ? my Gordon and Buchan constituent , and people in Scotland work in the oil and gas sector and across the UK , deserve to understand how these change will impact their livelihood . before I call Dave Doogan , I remind member that if they wish to speak , they need to be bob consistently — I can not read people ' s mind to put together a speaking list . the change to the EPL , particularly those set out in clause 15 and 17 , will have a hugely damaging effect on job and the scottish economy . this be also an inauspicious day for Scotland in this so - call United Kingdom as Norway ' s sovereign wealth fund record a € 1 . 7 trillion breakthrough , while Scotland ' s oil wealth have be squander by successive Westminster Governments . Norway get financial security in perpetuity ; Scotland get labour ' s bedroom tax , cut to winter fuel payment for our elderly and the high energy price in the G20 — that be the Union dividend wrap up and serve on a plate right there . More than £ 400 billion have flow from our water to the Treasury over the year , with very little come back in the other direction . rather than reverse the train , the Labour Government have , with this increase to the EPL , choose to accelerate it . the cumulative effect of clause 15 to 18 will sound the death knell for Scotland ' s hydrocarbon production in advance , crucially , of the transition — economically illiterate , fiscally incompetent and with industrial suicide as the result . a windfall tax be suppose to be a tax on extraordinary profit , yet the extraordinarily high global oil and gas price that precede the introduction of the tax have long since abate . through these change , the Labour party jeopardise investment in Scotland ' s offshore energy and risk the future of our skilled workforce and our ability to hit net zero while employ those worker . analysis from Offshore Energies UK show that the increase and extension of the EPL risk cost the economy £ 13 billion and put 35 , 000 job at risk . the analysis from OEUK also show a collapse in viable capital investment offshore under these change from £ 14 . 1 billion to £ 2 . 3 billion in the period ' 25 - 29 . it be increasingly apparent that the Government do not really understand how investment horizon work offshore . they be not on a month - to - month basis ; they take year to work up . this loss of economic value impact on not only the core sector , but domestic supply chain company , many of whom exist in my constituency , which have an essential role to play in the just transition . the Labour party promise that there would be no cliff edge , yet it have concoct one for the 35 , 000 worker whose job this EPL change put at risk . Labour have claim that these change would keep the UK in line with Norway , but the regime after Labour ' s change can not be compare to that of Norway , which allow company a maximum £ 78 of relief per £ 100 expenditure — in the UK , this relief would be £ 46 . 25 . after these past couple of week , I be give to wonder if those on the Treasury Front Bench can actually count . change to the EPL will hinder the just transition . the Government argue that the reduction in the rate of the decarbonisation investment allowance to 66 % will maintain the overall cumulative value of relief for investment expenditure follow the rate increase , reflect the fact that this relief will increase in value against a high levy rate . however , the policy still reflect a political choice by Labour to deprioritise investment in decarbonisation . rather than allow more valuable decarbonisation relief as the solitary positive by - product of its tax hike , Labour have strive to ensure that there be absolutely no silver lining to this fiscal attack cloud on Scotland ' s energy industry . at the heart of this , when we have comparison to Norway , be a sheer focus on try to squeeze as much taxation out of the industry as possible , without a focus on how to become more competitive . do the hon . Gentleman agree that what we need for job and for energy security in the UK be to compare ourselves to the most competitive oil and gas economy in the world , and not those that squeeze and tax the most out of the industry and kill job ? exactly . the hon . Gentleman raise the question of job , and the Government be play fast and loose with job in the oil and gas sector . they be play russian roulette . they do not seem to understand that when what they have get wrong come home to roost , they can not just say , " sorry , we get that wrong . " when it be go , it be go — they can not bring it back . this be 2024 , not 1972 . we be already in the close chapter of the sector ; it will not be come back . this Government seem to completely misunderstand that . the simple truth be that the UK state can not meet net zero or create green growth if labour ' s policy to hack away at investment in both the domestic workforce and the sector be allow to progress . it be clear that the Labour party be abandon Scotland ' s exist energy sector , and put at risk the just transition into the bargain . with these change to the EPL , Labour will be create the bad of all world : it will starve industry of investment , sacrifice the job of those who can deliver net zero , threaten energy security , keep energy bill high and harm the economy of Scotland , while at the very same time fail to invest the money require to truly deliver against a green transition . analysis from OEUK show that the UK oil and gas sector ' total tax yield under Labour ' s increase to the EPL will peak in 2026 before decline , compare with the previous scenario , which would continue to increase Treasury receipt over the period . the analysis show that while the expect tax take from Scotland ' s oil and gas producer would increase in the very short term , ultimately , over the remainder of the period , it will result in a £ 12 billion loss in receipt to the Treasury compare with the current regime . it be head the sector win and tail the Government lose . if the Labour party do not care about the job that will be cost by this policy , the harm it will do to our prospect for a just transition or the damage to the scottish economy , surely it can see that a tax increase that reek of incoherent desperation and reduce tax receipt to the tune of £ 12 billion be , at the very least , suboptimal . I do not expect the Government to take it from I , but they might want to pay attention to the first one head for the door , Apache , which say : " the onerous financial impact of the EPL , combine with the substantial investment that will be necessary to comply with regulatory requirement , make production of hydrocarbon beyond 2029 uneconomic . " OEUK have say that this policy " will undermine the UK offshore energy sector ' s ability to support the Government ' s overarch goal of drive economic growth " , and that it will trigger an " accelerated decline of domestic production and a corresponding reduction in taxis … and job support , and the wide economic value generate . " the chief economist at the Institute of Directors have say that the autumn tax rise have " dent confidence in the environment for business in the UK . " I do not expect the Government to listen to I , but they really should listen to those at the forefront of our invaluable energy sector . in closing , I ask the Minister to address this point directly : what impact assessment have the Government make of the investment horizon for oil and gas in the North sea ? I rise to speak briefly in support of new clause 2 . I welcome the Government finally scrap the unfair investment allowance loophole for the oil and gas giant , which the Liberal Democrats have advocate for and call for since the previous Government introduce the levy — too late , and half - heartedly — in May 2022 . oil and gas company make eye - water profit off the back of Russia ' s invasion of Ukraine and global supply chain problem that cause energy price to soar . while the oil and gas giant see record profit , my constituent in Bath and other across the country face a cost of living crisis . the previous Government have a lot to answer for . they sit and watch as the oil and gas giant line their pocket off the back of people struggle with their bill . it do not have to be that way . [ interruption . ] conservative member do not want to hear it , but it do not have to be that way . those be the political choice the previous Government make . the measure announce by the Government in this Bill be welcome , in particular the removal of the 29 % investment allowance except for investment on decarbonisation . this have be a liberal Democrat policy , and I be pleased the Government have pick up on it and that it will now become a reality . we Liberal Democrats be the first to call for a tax on oil and gas windfall profit back in October 2021 . while the previous Government do eventually introduce the energy profit levy , they do so half - heartedly and woefully late in May 2022 . it matter that we repeat that again and again : it be something that the previous Government fail to do . that Government let the oil and gas giant off the hook by put in place a massive loophole in the form of the investment allowance . it be thank to that allowance that in 2022 , Shell admit it have pay zero windfall tax , despite make the large global profit in its 150 - year history of £ 31 billion . that can not be right while our constituent have be struggle to pay their bill . my hon . friend the Member for St Albans ( Daisy Cooper ) have table new clause 2 , which would require the Government , as we have already hear , to produce a report about the fiscal impact of the Bill ' s change to the EPL and relief for investment expenditure . we can not lose sight of the big picture . to avoid a repeat of the energy crisis , we must end our reliance on oil and gas . invest in renewable would mean cheap energy across the country . we would no long be reliant on dictator such as Vladimir Putin who use natural gas as a weapon . as well as be more affordable , renewable be the good route to energy security . it be very disappointing to hear Conservative Members advocate for business as usual . we need to transition away from oil and gas . I thank the hon . Lady for give way . at what point do she believe we will be fully reliant on renewable ? I thank the hon . Lady for her intervention . it be absolutely by put in place the measure for transition that we will meet net zero . if we continue with business as usual and continue to listen to people who ultimately do not understand that unless we get to net zero our whole economy will suffer , then people will suffer . we will also have big , big problem with issue such as huge migration if climate change can rule unchallenged . this be why the Liberal Democrats believe the transition to net zero be important and why we need to put measure in place to make that happen . it be disappointing that the Conservatives , as the previous Government and now the opposition , still do not understand how urgently we require climate action . I be very grateful to the hon . Lady for give way . what be her understanding of what will happen to domestic consumption of oil and gas product in the United Kingdom if the domestic industry atrophy but domestic demand still exist ? what will happen in that scenario ? where will the oil and gas come from , or will we just give it up overnight ? I thank the hon . gentleman for that intervention . the whole argument be that we will continue to rely on oil and gas for the time being , but unless we start to change something , on the current projection we will not get to net zero as urgently as we need to . progress have be too slow , so the long we hesitate the more difficult it will become . the new Government have understand that urgency , and the Liberal Democrats support they in deal with this issue with more urgency than we see from the previous Government . I therefore repeat that we support the measure , but we would like the Government to support our new clause 2 . as I say , it will show what we can raise by close the loophole . it would by extension , as my hon . friend the Member for St Albans clarify , show what have be squander by the previous Government — money that could have be invest . accord to the New Economics Foundation , the previous Government ' s levy raise £ 10 . 6 billion for the oil and gas industry , but the industry invest only £ 3 . 6 billion of that in new capital project , take the remainder as sheer profit . do the hon . Lady agree with I that that be exactly why it be a foolhardy proposal ? the profit make do not go into investing in new capital asset , but largely go into shareholder ' pocket . indeed . I could not agree more and I thank the hon . gentleman for clarify the figure . that be why something need to change and something need to give . I repeat that I hope Government Members can support our new clause 2 , because it matter . it will lay open what have be squander and what difference we could make if we close the loophole . I call Yuan Yang . thank you , Ms Ghani . I apologise for my inconsistent bob . I be still learn when to stand up , but what have go up and stay up be the record profit of the oil and gas major . I will start my speech on that topic , and will go on to speak about where those profit have come from and , finally , what the proceed of our EPL will go to fund . first , on those record profit , I think all member of the Committee agree that the record profit in the oil and gas industry in 2022 be excessive . in 2023 , however , the profit for Shell , the large oil and gas major in Europe , barely decrease from the previous year . in fact , if we take its profit from the first half of this year , Shell look likely to eclipse even those of last year . in the first half of this year , Shell have have profit of $ 14 billion . half of that go to share buyback , which do nothing to fund the decarbonisation that be so necessary to secure the future of energy production here in the UK and around the world . those record profit , much of which have be hand back to shareholder , be go in the opposite direction of what ordinary family and work people need . rather than reinvest in the transition of the future , I would argue that the conservative party be look at the industry of the past and cling on to a past that be quickly fade from reality . secondly , let we look at where those profit have come from . the House of Commons Library state that generally low wholesale price in the last year lead supplier to start offer fix tariff , as of summer 2023 . however , they have be far more cautious in price those tariff , with price close to the level of the energy cap . any return to competition in the market be expect to be slow . that reflect the state of affair we face today . the wholesale price of oil and gas — as an example , look at the price of Brent crude in the market today — be back below the level they be pre the russian invasion of Ukraine , yet the retail price face ordinary work family in the UK be still far above those level . what happen in the middle ? the profit be be take by the oil and gas company . largely , they be not be reinveste in the productive sector of the future , but be pay back to shareholder . in any market where the return of competition be expect to be slow , there be a role for the Government to regulate the fair share of proceed — who get the surplus from that market . here I pause and say that when we look across the Committee to who be argue for the interest of work people and who be argue for the interest of the oil and gas profit - make giant , the political division be clear . there be school in my constituency that be fundraise to insulate themselves . the Maiden Erlegh school where I live be ask its parent association to provide well wooden frame for its window , because they leak in winter . that be the public estate that our Government have be elect to fix and repair . we will set about do so with the profit from the levy set out in the Bill we be discuss today . I thank the hon . member for give way . she say it be clear who be on the side of work people versus the company . my constituent be the people work in the oil and gas sector . they be the one most at risk of lose their job if the change bring in through the EPL go wrong . I be on the side of work people , and I be on the side of my constituent . no matter what mps across the House say , I will always fight for my work people in Gordon and Buchan who just happen to be work people in the oil and gas sector . I thank the hon . Lady for her intervention , and , at this point , refer to my entry in the Register of Members ' Financial Interests and my support from the unionised voice of those who work in the sector to which she refer . I commend the Government ' s green prosperity plan to initiate a skill transition , and provide funding for it , so that those worker can profit from the industry of the future rather than the industry of the present and the past . as the Minister say , the energy profit levy will raise £ 2 . 3 billion over the current Parliament , which will go towards the funding of , for instance , great British Energy . GB Energy , whose headquarters be in Aberdeen , will bring innovation in green technology not only to Scotland but to the whole of the UK . I will forgive , for a moment , the hon . member for Angus and Perthshire Glens ( Dave Doogan ) for perhaps not recognise my hon . friend the Member for Hamilton and Clyde Valley ( Imogen Walker ) — I know that an awful lot of new Scottish Members be elect in the last general election , and it must be difficult to learn all their face . I ask the hon . member to reflect on the possible reason for the election of a record number of Scottish Labour Members while he set about learn their name and face . the Government ' s auction of 130 wind , solar and tidal energy project in the late round of the contract for difference scheme point the way to the future . it point the way to the generation of 95 % of the UK ' s energy through green and decarbonise energy by 2030 ; to a transition that everyone in this Committee , and certainly everyone on the Government Benches , be look forward to see in the next 10 year ; and to the delivery of the local power plan , which will support local energy project in community such as mine . I welcome the funding of local project such as Reading Hydro , which take hydroelectric energy from the Thames , and the work of Reading Community Energy Society , which generate solar energy on the rooftop of the University of Reading and rooftop across my constituency . I look forward to all those project and to the project of the future , which be why I commend the measure that we be discuss today . the Government have set a number of objective that they wish to achieve over the next five year . central to those objective be growth , highly pay job , energy security , and increase investment . however , when I look at clause 15 to 17 , I ask myself , " have the Government go mad ? " they be undermine the very objective that they be seek to achieve through their policy of taxation , a policy that I believe be drive more by green ideology and by prejudice against some high - earn company than by any economic logic . the economic logic of these proposal , and indeed the prediction make by those who have feed in the datum and the information about they , indicate that , at least in our major oil and energy industry , investment will go down , production will go down , and highly pay job will go down . the hon . member for Earley and Woodley ( Yuan Yang ) say that her be the party that be interested in ordinary worker . as have already be point out , no Scottish Labour Members be take part in the debate . I suggest that the 100 , 000 worker in Scotland who depend on the oil and gas industry feel abandon today because there be no one here to defend they — although I have to say that if I be a Scottish Member I might not want to stick my head over the parapet , defend measure such as these , and then have to go back to my constituent to explain . I suspect that they will go through the Lobby and vote for those measure , but — [ interruption . ] the hon . member for Hamilton and Clyde Valley ( Imogen Walker ) be open her arm and say that she be from Scotland . I look forward to hear she speak later in the debate in defence of these measure , which will cost job . we have hear that those job will be replace by highly pay , skilled job in the renewable industry , but there be little evidence of that so far . indeed , if we look at the source of the material and the provider of , for instance , wind turbine , we see that the skilled job be not in Britain . we be make ourselves dependent on country such as China which have control of the earth metal and valuable metal that be require to provide the necessary equipment for the renewable industry . the right hon . Member have touch on an important point . meet the Government ' s 2030 target and create the green job to which he have refer will require two technology that have not yet be try and test at scale , carbon capture and battery storage . why would we gamble such an important 100 , 000 - job industry in favour of technology that have not even be try and test at scale ? it be not just that they have not be try and test . there be also an acceptance — indeed , it be the Government ' s own state position — that even with those technology , we will be reliant on , and will need , oil and gas not until 2030 and not even until 2040 , but beyond 2050 . if we do not extract as much oil and gas from our own resource here in the United Kingdom , where will we get it from ? we will get it from abroad , which bring we to the issue of energy security . the place where energy be likely to be produce will not be stable country , country that will always be favourable towards we , or country that be rule by rational ruler . it will come from country where ruler be irrational , and take political decision about who they do or do not trade with on a whim . the idea that we will rely on fossil fuel until well beyond 2050 but not produce they ourselves — in fact , we be go to discourage company from produce they in the United Kingdom , even though we know that we have the resource — and somehow or other we will still guarantee security of supply , and security of energy , for our constituent be just madness . I have a very simple question to ask the right hon . gentleman : do he believe that climate change be happen and that we need to get to net zero by 2050 , or do he believe it be all a hoax ? only a fool would say that climate change be not happen . climate change have occur in all the time that the earth have be in existence . of course it happen , and of course it be happen . the hon . Lady ask I a question to which I think anybody could give an easy answer . yes , climate change be happen , but do that mean that we have identify all the source of the change in our climate ? do it also mean that we should distort our economy , in such a way as she would suggest , to try to make change to the world ' s climate , especially give that other country be not make any change to their economy and be not follow our lead ? they be simply ignore we and do what they believe be good for their own economy . the second point I want to make be that we be leave ourselves open to a situation in which company that we need to invest in energy production will not do so . the OBR have make that quite clear , but even if it have not make its prediction , economic logic should make we understand that if we take investment allowance away from people and tax they , they will have less money to invest . the Minister make a great point : by put all these measure on the statute book , he create certainty for the industry . he do create certainty , because anybody look at the Bill know for certain what the future entail : they be go to be tax until the pip squeak , so they will look for other place to go and make their investment . he argue that put out a tax plan somehow give assurance to company , but sometimes it confirm their prejudice that Britain will not be a place where they have a future , or where they wish to invest . I turn to the third impact of these measure , build on a point make by the hon . member for Earley and Woodley . the Government ' s whole approach be to tax oil and gas company , get money , and help work people by put it into school and so on . but the prediction be that we will not get more revenue , because if there be less production , there be less tax to be pay . if there be less tax to be pay , the Government have less revenue to invest in the thing that hon . member on both side of the House would wish they to invest in . where do that tax go ? it will go to foreign country , because that be where production will take place and where the oil company will be tax . they will get tax where they make their profit . if they be not make any profit in the United Kingdom , they will not pay any revenue in the United Kingdom . they will take their production and tax revenue elsewhere . there do not appear to be any economic logic to this proposal , other than that the oil company be see as bad so the Government have to tax they , even though they be tax heavily already , and that the Government want to ensure that we have this transition to net zero , even though we know that we will still need the product that the oil company produce for many decade into the future and we will be turn our back on that production in the United Kingdom . if the Government be so sure that this cunning plan be go to work — I think Baldrick would have be embarrass by this cunning plan , I have to say — they should not fear any examination of it . they should welcome it . in fact , maybe once the assessment be do , they will be able to point to red face on the Opposition side of the House . if I be as certain as the Minister be that his plan be go to work , I would be say , " right , we ' ll do the assessment and we ' ll make you eat your word . " I suspect that the reason that new clause 2 will be reject today be that the red face and the eating of word be go to be on the Government ' s side of the House . unfortunately , the people who will suffer will be the hundred of thousand of people face rise fuel bill , the 100 , 000 worker who will face redundancy and an industry that we very much need in this country go into decline . on a point of order , Madam Chair . the last but one speaker , the hon . member for Earley and Woodley ( Yuan Yang ) , call I out regard my perfectly legitimate comment that there be not a single Scottish Labour MP in here . I choose my word carefully , take part in this debate . I appreciate that there be a Labour Member here who , unless I be very much mistaken , be fulfil the role of a parliamentary private Secretary and therefore will not be take part in the debate . I ask your guidance , Madam Chair , on whether it be legitimate to call somebody out in a debate and not give they an opportunity to respond . I try to intervene on the hon . member for Earley and Woodley to correct the record , but she refuse to give way . how can we correct the record to underline the fact that there be not a single Scottish Labour MP in here take part in this debate on Scotland ' s energy ? the hon . Gentleman will be aware that that be not a matter for the Chair , and therefore I can not provide advice as to how he can put that on the record . he will know as well as other hon . member do that it be entirely at the discretion of the individual contribute at that time whether or not they take an intervention , but he have do good work in put his point on the record via the mechanism of a point of order . I would like to echo the argument make by the hon . member for Earley and Woodley ( Yuan Yang ) and for Bath ( Wera Hobhouse ) . I rise to speak to whether clause 18 and schedule 3 should stand part of the Bill . I argue that both should be omit , to remove the propose new tax relief for carbon capture and storage installation as currently draft . the tax regime for oil and gas be riddle with relief , exemption and loophole . the windfall tax introduce by the last Government be widely report , but be slightly less reported be the increase tax relief that go along with it , which allow oil and gas company to deduct 91 % of their capital investment cost from their tax bill . we be now many year into an escalating climate crisis , and one that the oil company have know they be cause since at least 1977 . there be absolutely no excuse for public subsidy that incentivise fossil fuel company to expand their operation . so while I welcome the increase in the rate of the energy profit levy and the reduction of the investment allowance , I want to highlight the fact that , because of other relief that still exist , North sea oil and gas company will still be able to offset 84 % of capital expenditure against tax in relation to their expansion of operation . do the hon . Gentleman accept that capital relief be about attract investment that create job and secure energy security for this country ? if UK country be to make such investment , we have to be competitive in the global market . if we do not make those investment , what do he think will happen to the industry and the 100 , 000 job that go with it ? as we hear early , it be vital that there be strong Government support and a dedicated plan to ensure transition to alternative job opportunity for anyone work in the oil and gas sector . have a background in the renewable energy sector , I strongly support Government incentive and policy that will help that sector to expand , so that we create job and skill . my amendment would reverse the Government ' s tax relief on the conversion of oil and gas infrastructure to carbon capture and storage installation . there be many other relief in the tax regime that should be address , but they be out of the scope of the Bill . carbon capture and storage be a complex area . there be different type of technology that use different technique . I support further research and development in relation to the hard - to - abate sector , but CCS can not be use as a fig leaf to hide the expansion of fossil fuel operation . in reality , after year of hype , the result be very little carbon — less than 0 . 1 % of annual emission — be capture globally . Most of the carbon dioxide that have be successfully capture have be use to extract more oil . the UK have also be criticise for target most of its ccs at so - call blue hydrogen , the use of which would increase our long - term reliance on gas and generate more carbon emission . the propose tax relief be too blunt an instrument to make a useful contribution to decarbonisation . the role of CCS be still relatively untested , so it be vital that we do not bake in over - reliance on that technology . public funding for CCS should be restrict to research and development , and to project that would clearly help to decarbonise hard - to - abate sector . it absolutely must not be a green light for fossil fuel company to carry on with business as usual and an expansion of operation . will the Minister explore the idea of review the measure , in the light of what I have suggest ? in October 2021 , we Liberal Democrats be the first to call for a tax on oil and gas windfall profit , so I be glad that the Bill be finally scrap the unfair investment allowance loophole , after year of oil and gas company not pay their fair share under the Conservatives . I urge the House to adopt our amendment , which call on the Government to set out exactly how much money be be raise through the scrapping of the investment allowance loophole , and how much money be gift by the last government to the oil and gas giant . my constituent in Yeovil deserve full transparency . I encourage the Government to use the money raise by close the loophole to address energy and environmental issue impact my constituent in Yeovil , such as fuel poverty , particularly among pensioner ; the need to protect home and business from flooding ; the need to support farmer with green investment ; and help homeowner to install clean heating . in conclusion , we must ensure that our constituency get a fair deal out of the Bill . if the average taxpayer be expect to pay their fair share , then so must the wealthy individual and company in this country . there can not be one rule for they and another for the rest of we . I thank hon . member for their contribution to the debate . I will respond to some of the point raise , and set out the Government ' s view on the new clause . the Opposition spokesperson , the hon . member for Grantham and Bourne ( Gareth Davies ) , ask for confirmation of our decision to retain the energy security investment mechanism . I hope that he will take yes for an answer , because yes , I can confirm that the ESIM will remain in effect until 31 March 2030 , when the energy profit levy be due to end . it will continue to be adjust in line with consumer price index inflation in future financial year . I hope that set his mind at rest on that point . the hon . Gentleman ask about model the impact of the energy profit levy . I be sure that he will remember from his time in the Treasury the role that the Office for Budget Responsibility play . he will see that in the report that it publish alongside the Budget , it forecast £ 12 . 6 billion be raise from the levy over the forecast period . of course , the OBR will provide update forecast next year . the hon . Gentleman and other hon . member keep raise the phrase " extraordinary profit " when talk about try to understand the position that the oil and gas sector be in . that link directly to the energy security investment mechanism , because price remain high than the price floor that we set . the energy security investment mechanism mean that if price fall sufficiently and return to historically normal level , the levy will be disapplie . the relationship between the levy , profit and the maintenance of the energy security investment mechanism be key to understand the Government ' s approach . the Liberal Democrats spokesperson , the hon . member for St Albans ( Daisy Cooper ) , ask about our choose a 78 % rate , how we set the rate for the energy profit levy , and about other attribute of the system be set up by the clause under debate . we seek to achieve a balanced approach . we be raise the rate to 78 % , extend the levy for a further year and remove the investment allowance , which we deem to be unjustifiably generous ; yet we be maintain 100 % first - year allowance , the decarbonisation allowance , and the energy security investment mechanism . that strike the right balance between ensure that oil and gas company continue to invest in oil and gas for year to come , and ensure that they contribute to and support the transition to clean energy . the hon . member for Angus and Perthshire Glens ( Dave Doogan ) speak about the need for long - term stability . I entirely agree that we need it . that be precisely what we seek to achieve by say that the energy profit levy will come to an end in March 2030 , by have a price floor in the ESIM — we have mention that several time — and by proceed with our consultation on the post energy profit levy regime . that will give confidence to those think about invest in the oil and gas sector not just before the end of the energy profit levy , but post 2030 . the right hon . member for East Antrim ( Sammy Wilson ) also mention long - term stability . he seem distract right now , but I hope that will be of some reassurance to he . the hon . member for Angus and Perthshire Glens say that a £ 78 investment relief be available in Norway , whereas the figure be £ 46 in the UK . I want to put on record that in the UK , while the energy profit levy remain in place , the sector continue to benefit from an £ 84 . 25 relief for every £ 100 of investment . I hope that give he some reassurance on the point that he raise . I thank my hon . friend the Member for Earley and Woodley ( Yuan Yang ) for her thoughtful and informed contribution , which explain that our approach strike the right balance . I must say , however , that I be disappoint by the contribution from the hon . member for Waveney Valley ( Adrian Ramsay ) , because he seem not to support our move to ensure that tax be not a blocker to CCUS , which will play an essential role in our progress towards net zero . the UK have a chance to be a world leader in that sector ; I hope that he would support our effort to ensure that it be . two new clause be table , which hon . member speak about . they require report to be publish . I can remember table many such new clause over the last few year . new clause 2 , table by the hon . member for St Albans , would require the Government to produce a report set out the fiscal impact of the removal of the energy profit levy investment allowance and the change to the decarbonisation investment allowance rate . new clause 3 , table by the right hon . member for Central Devon ( Mel Stride ) , would require the Government to produce a report on the expect impact of the levy change in a number of area , include on capital expenditure in the UK oil and gas industry and on the scottish economy . the Government oppose new clause 2 and 3 on the basis that they be unnecessary . we have already set out the impact of our measure in a tax information and impact note , which be publish at the time of the Budget . that note state that the change make to the energy profit levy will raise an additional £ 2 . 3 billion over the scorecard , and further datum on the UK oil and gas industry be regularly publish on gov . uk . I hope that I have address some of the point raise by hon . member , and have reassure they that the new clause be not necessary . I urge the House to let clause 15 to 18 and schedule 3 stand part of the Bill , and to reject new clause 2 and 3 . question put and agree to . clause 15 accordingly order to stand part of the Bill . clause 16 to 18 order to stand part of the Bill . schedule 3 agree to . New Clause 2 - report on fiscal effect : relief for investment expenditure " the Chancellor of the Exchequer must , within six month of the passing of this Act , lie before Parliament a report set out the impact of the measure contain in clause 16 of this Act on tax revenue . " — ( Daisy Cooper . ) this new clause would require the Government to produce a report set out the fiscal impact of the Bill ' s change to the Energy Profits Levy investment expenditure relief . bring up , and read the first time . question put , the clause be read a second time . Gideon Amos Steffan Aquarone Josh Babarinde Alison Bennett Si â n Berry Alex Brewer Jessica Brown - Fuller Charlotte Cane Alistair Carmichael David Chadwick Wendy Chamberlain Ellie Chowns Chris Coghlan Victoria Collins Daisy Cooper Jeremy Corbyn Adam Dance Steve Darling Edward Davey Ann davy Bobby Dean Carla Denyer Sorcha Eastwood Tim Farron Richard Foord will Forster Andrew George Sarah Gibson Olly Glover Marie Goldman Tom Gordon Sarah Green Monica Harding Pippa Heylings Wera Hobhouse Christine Jardine Liz Jarvis Clive Jones Paul Kohler Ben Lake James MacCleary Ben Maguire Helen Maguire Mike Martin Brian Mathew Charlie Maynard Llinos Medi Freddie Van Mierlo Calum Miller John Milne Edward Morello Helen Morgan Tessa Munt Sarah Olney Manuela Perteghella Al Pinkerton Adrian Ramsay Joshua Reynolds Ian Roome Anna Sabine Roz Savage Liz Saville - Roberts Vikki Slade Lisa Smart Ian Sollom Jamie Stone Robin Swann Luke Taylor Cameron Thomas Caroline Voaden Max Wilkinson Munira Wilson Martin Wrigley Claire Young Tom Morrison Z ö e Franklin Diane Abbott Jack Abbott Debbie Abrahams Shockat Adam Zubir Ahmed Bayo Alaba Dan Aldridge Douglas Alexander Heidi Alexander Sadik Al - Hassan Rushanara Ali Tahir Ali Rosena Allin - Khan Jim Allister Mike Amesbury Callum Anderson Fleur Anderson Tonia Antoniazzi Scott Arthur Jessica Asato James Asser Jas Athwal Catherine Atkinson Lewis Atkinson Calvin Bailey Olivia Bailey Richard Baker Alex Ballinger Antonia Bance Paula Barker Lee Barron Alex Barros - Curtis Johanna Baxter Danny Beales Lorraine Beavers torsten Bell Hilary Benn Clive Betts Polly Billington Matt Bishop Olivia Blake Rachel Blake Christopher Bloore Elsie Blundell Kevin Bonavia Jade Botterill Sureena Brackenridge Jonathan Brash Phil Brickell Chris Bryant Julia Buckley Richard Burgon David Burton - Sampson Dawn Butler Ian Byrne Liam Byrne Ruth Cadbury Nesil Caliskan Alan Campbell Irene Campbell Juliet Campbell Markus Campbell - Savours Dan Carden Sam Carling Sarah Champion Bambos Charalambous Luke Charters Feryal Clark Ben Coleman Jacob Collier Lizzi Collinge Tom Collins Liam Conlon Sarah coombe Andrew Cooper Deirdre Costigan Pam Cox Jennifer Craft Mary Creagh Stella Creasy Torcuil Crichton Chris Curtis Janet Daby Ashley Dalton Emily Darlington Jonathan Davies Paul Davies Shaun Davies Alex Davies - Jones Josh Dean Kate Dearden Tan Dhesi Jim Dickson Anna Dixon Samantha Dixon Helena Dollimore Stephen Doughty Peter Dowd Graeme Downie Neil Duncan - Jordan Cat Eccles Lauren Edwards Sarah Edwards Clive Efford Damien Egan Maya Ellis Chris Elmore Kirith Entwistle Florence Eshalomi Bill Esterson Miatta Fahnbulleh Hamish Falconer Linsey Farnsworth Josh Fenton - Glynn Mark Ferguson Natalie Fleet Catherine Fookes Paul Foster Vicky Foxcroft Daniel Francis James Frith Barry Gardiner Anna Gelderd Alan Gemmell Gill german Tracy Gilbert Preet Kaur Gill Becky Gittins Mary Glindon Jodie Gosling Georgia Gould John Grady Nia Griffith Andrew Gwynne Amanda Hack Sarah Hall Fabian Hamilton Paulette Hamilton Emma Hardy Carolyn Harris Lloyd Hatton Helen Hayes Tom Hayes Claire Hazelgrove Mark Hendrick Meg Hillier Chris Hinchliff Jonathan Hinder Sharon Hodgson Rachel Hopkins Claire Hughes Alison Hume rupa Huq Patrick Hurley Imran Hussain Natasha Irons Sally Jameson Dan Jarvis Terry Jermy Adam Jogee Kim Johnson Darren Jones Gerald Jones Louise Jones Ruth Jones Gurinder Josan Sojan Joseph Warinder Juss Chris Kane Satvir Kaur Liz Kendall Afzal Khan Naushabah Khan Stephen Kinnock Jayne Kirkham Gen Kitchen Sonia Kumar Uma Kumaran Laura Kyrke - Smith Peter Lamb Ian Lavery Noah Law Kim Leadbeater Brian Leishman Emma Lewell - Buck Andrew Lewin Clive Lewis Simon Lightwood Rebecca Long - Bailey Josh MacAlister Alice Macdonald Andy MacNae Justin Madders Shabana Mahmood Amanda Martin Rachael Maskell Keir Mather Alex Mayer Kerry McCarthy Martin McCluskey Siobhain McDonagh Andy McDonald Chris McDonald John Martin McDonnell Blair McDougall Lola McEvoy Pat McFadden Alison McGovern Alex McIntyre Gordon McKee Kevin McKenna Catherine McKinnell Jim McMahon Anna McMorrin Frank McNally Kirsty McNeill Anneliese Midgley Navendu Mishra Abtisam Mohamed Iqbal Mohamed Perran Moon Jessica Morden Stephen Morgan Grahame Morris Joe Morris Margaret Mullane Luke Murphy Chris Murray James Murray Katrina Murray Luke Myer James Naish Connor Naismith Lisa Nandy Kanishka Narayan Pamela Nash Josh Newbury Samantha Niblett Charlotte Nichols Dan Norris Melanie Onn Simon Opher Abena Oppong - Asare Kate Osborne Tristan Osborne Taiwo Owatemi Sarah Owen Darren Paffey Andrew Pakes Matthew Patrick Michael Payne Stephanie Peacock Jonathan Pearce Matthew Pennycook Toby Perkins David Pinto - Duschinsky Lee Pitcher Luke Pollard Joe Powell Lucy Powell Gregor Poynton Peter Prinsley Richard Quigley Yasmin Qureshi Steve Race Andrew Ranger Mike Reader Steve Reed Ellie Reeves Joani Reid Emma Reynolds Jonathan Reynolds Martin Rhodes Bell Ribeiro - Addy Jake Richards Jenny Riddell - Carpenter Lucy Rigby Dave Robertson Tim Roca Sam Rushworth Sarah Russell Tom Rutland Oliver Ryan Sarah Sackman Jeevun Sandher Michelle Scrogham Mark Sewards Naseem Shah Baggy Shanker Michael Shanks Tulip Siddiq Josh Simons Andrew Slaughter John Slinger Cat Smith David Smith Jeff Smith Nick Smith Sarah Smith Karin Smyth Gareth Snell Alex Sobel Euan Stainbank Jo Stevens Kenneth Stevenson Elaine Stewart will Stone Alistair Strathern Alan Strickland Graham Stringer Peter Swallow Mark Tami Mike Tapp Alison Taylor David Taylor Rachel Taylor Fred Thomas Nick Thomas - Symonds Emily Thornberry Jessica Toale Dan Tomlinson Jon Trickett Henry Tufnell Matt Turmaine Laurence Turner Liz Twist Harpreet Uppal Tony Vaughan Valerie Vaz Christopher Vince Imogen Walker Chris Ward Melanie Ward Paul Waugh Chris Webb Michelle Welsh Catherine West Andrew Western Matt Western Michael Wheeler John Whitby Jo White Katie White Nadia Whittome David Williams Steve Witherden Sean Woodcock Rosie Wrighting Yuan Yang Mohammad Yasin Steve Yemm Daniel Zeichner Christian Wakeford Anna Turley the Committee divide : Ayes 74 , Noes 350 . question accordingly negative . New Clause 3 " the Chancellor of the Exchequer must , within three month of this Act come into force , publish a review of the expect impact of the measure in section 15 to 18 on — ( a ) employment in the UK oil and gas industry ; ( b ) capital expenditure in the UK oil and gas industry ; ( c ) UK oil and gas production ; ( d ) UK oil and gas demand ; and ( e ) the scottish economy and economic growth in Scotland . " — ( Gareth Davies . ) bring up , and read the first time . question put , that the clause be read a second time . Jim Allister Gideon Amos Stuart Andrew Steffan Aquarone Edward Argar Victoria Atkins Josh Babarinde Gareth Bacon Kemi Badenoch Harriett Baldwin Steve Barclay Peter Bedford Alison Bennett Saqib Bhatti Bob Blackman Kirsty Blackman Sarah Bool Andrew Bowie Karen Bradley Aphra Brandreth Alex Brewer Jessica Brown - Fuller Alex Burghart Gregory Campbell Charlotte Cane Alistair Carmichael James Cartlidge David Chadwick Wendy Chamberlain Danny Chambers James Cleverly Geoffrey Clifton - Brown Lewis Cocking Chris Coghlan Victoria Collins Daisy Cooper John Cooper Alberto Costa Harriet Cross Adam Dance Steve Darling Edward Davey Gareth Davies Mims davy Bobby Dean Charlie Dewhirst Caroline Dinenage Dave Doogan Oliver Dowden Iain Duncan Smith Alex Easton Luke Evans Tim Farron Stephen Flynn Richard Foord will Forster Ashley Fox Mark Francois Z ö e Franklin Louie French Richard Fuller Roger Gale Mark Garnier Andrew George Stephen Gethins Sarah Gibson John Glen Olly Glover Marie Goldman Tom Gordon Helen Grant Sarah Green Andrew Griffith Alison Griffiths Monica Harding Rebecca Harris John Hayes Pippa Heylings Damian Hinds Simon Hoare Wera Hobhouse Paul Holmes Nigel Huddleston Neil Hudson Jeremy Hunt Christine Jardine Liz Jarvis Bernard Jenkin Robert Jenrick Clive Jones Lincoln Jopp Alicia Kearns Paul Kohler Danny Kruger Ben Lake Katie Lam John Lamont Chris Law Graham Leadbitter Edward Leigh Julian Lewis Carla Lockhart Seamus Logan Julia Lopez James MacCleary Ben Maguire Helen Maguire Alan Mak Mike Martin Brian Mathew Jerome Mayhew Charlie Maynard Esther McVey Llinos Medi Freddie Van Mierlo Calum Miller John Milne Andrew Mitchell Gagan Mohindra Robbie Moore Edward Morello Helen Morgan Tom Morrison Joy Morrissey Kieran Mullan David Mundell Tessa Munt Jesse Norman Ben Obese - Jecty Neil o ' Brien Brendan O ' Hara Sarah Olney Priti Patel Manuela Perteghella Al Pinkerton Mark Pritchard David Reed Joshua Reynolds Joe Robertson Gavin Robinson Ian Roome Andrew Rosindell Anna Sabine Roz Savage Liz Saville - Roberts Jim Shannon Neil Shastri - Hurst David Simmonds Vikki Slade Lisa Smart Greg Smith Julian Smith Rebecca Smith Andrew Snowden Ian Sollom Ben Spencer Patrick Spencer Gregory Stafford Blake Stephenson Jamie Stone Mel Stride Graham Stuart Robin Swann Desmond Swayne Luke Taylor Bradley Thomas Cameron Thomas Nick Timothy Laura Trott Thomas Tugendhat Martin Vickers Matt Vickers Caroline Voaden Helen Whately John Whittingdale James Wild Max Wilkinson Munira Wilson Sammy Wilson Pete Wishart Mike Wood Jeremy Wright Martin Wrigley Claire Young Richard Holden Rebecca Paul Diane Abbott Jack Abbott Debbie Abrahams Shockat Adam Zubir Ahmed Bayo Alaba Dan Aldridge Douglas Alexander Heidi Alexander Sadik Al - Hassan Rushanara Ali Tahir Ali Rosena Allin - Khan Mike Amesbury Callum Anderson Fleur Anderson Tonia Antoniazzi Scott Arthur Jessica Asato James Asser Jas Athwal Catherine Atkinson Lewis Atkinson Calvin Bailey Olivia Bailey Alex Baker Richard Baker Alex Ballinger Antonia Bance Paula Barker Lee Barron Alex Barros - Curtis Johanna Baxter Danny Beales Lorraine Beavers torsten Bell Hilary Benn Si â n Berry Clive Betts Polly Billington Matt Bishop Olivia Blake Rachel Blake Christopher Bloore Elsie Blundell Kevin Bonavia Jade Botterill Sureena Brackenridge Jonathan Brash Phil Brickell Chris Bryant Julia Buckley Richard Burgon David Burton - Sampson Dawn Butler Ian Byrne Liam Byrne Ruth Cadbury Nesil Caliskan Alan Campbell Irene Campbell Juliet Campbell Markus Campbell - Savours Dan Carden Sam Carling Sarah Champion Bambos Charalambous Luke Charters Ellie chown Feryal Clark Ben Coleman Jacob Collier Lizzi Collinge Tom Collins Liam Conlon Sarah coombe Andrew Cooper Deirdre Costigan Pam Cox Jennifer Craft Mary Creagh Stella Creasy Torcuil Crichton Chris Curtis Janet Daby Ashley Dalton Emily Darlington Jonathan Davies Paul Davies Shaun Davies Alex Davies - Jones Josh Dean Kate Dearden Carla Denyer Tan Dhesi Jim Dickson Anna Dixon Samantha Dixon Helena Dollimore Stephen Doughty Peter Dowd Graeme Downie Neil Duncan - Jordan Cat Eccles Lauren Edwards Sarah Edwards Clive Efford Damien Egan Maya Ellis Chris Elmore Kirith Entwistle Florence Eshalomi Bill Esterson Miatta Fahnbulleh Hamish Falconer Linsey Farnsworth Josh Fenton - Glynn Mark Ferguson Natalie Fleet Catherine Fookes Paul Foster Vicky Foxcroft Daniel Francis James Frith Barry Gardiner Anna Gelderd Alan Gemmell Gill german Tracy Gilbert Preet Kaur Gill Becky Gittins Mary Glindon Jodie Gosling Georgia Gould John Grady Nia Griffith Andrew Gwynne Amanda Hack Sarah Hall Fabian Hamilton Paulette Hamilton Emma Hardy Carolyn Harris Lloyd Hatton Helen Hayes Tom Hayes Claire Hazelgrove Mark Hendrick Meg Hillier Chris Hinchliff Jonathan Hinder Sharon Hodgson Rachel Hopkins Claire Hughes Alison Hume rupa Huq Patrick Hurley Imran Hussain Natasha Irons Sally Jameson Dan Jarvis Terry Jermy Adam Jogee Kim Johnson Darren Jones Gerald Jones Louise Jones Ruth Jones Gurinder Josan Sojan Joseph Warinder Juss Chris Kane Satvir Kaur Liz Kendall Afzal Khan Naushabah Khan Stephen Kinnock Jayne Kirkham Gen Kitchen Sonia Kumar Uma Kumaran Laura Kyrke - Smith Peter Lamb Ian Lavery Noah Law Kim Leadbeater Brian Leishman Emma Lewell - Buck Andrew Lewin Clive Lewis Simon Lightwood Rebecca Long - Bailey Josh MacAlister Alice Macdonald Andy MacNae Justin Madders Shabana Mahmood Amanda Martin Rachael Maskell Keir Mather Alex Mayer Kerry McCarthy Martin McCluskey Siobhain McDonagh Andy McDonald Chris McDonald John Martin McDonnell Blair McDougall Lola McEvoy Pat McFadden Alison McGovern Alex McIntyre Gordon McKee Kevin McKenna Catherine McKinnell Jim McMahon Anna McMorrin Frank McNally Kirsty McNeill Anneliese Midgley Julie Minns Navendu Mishra Iqbal Mohamed Perran Moon Jessica Morden Stephen Morgan Grahame Morris Joe Morris Margaret Mullane Luke Murphy Chris Murray James Murray Katrina Murray Luke Myer James Naish Connor Naismith Lisa Nandy Kanishka Narayan Pamela Nash Josh Newbury Samantha Niblett Charlotte Nichols Dan Norris Melanie Onn Simon Opher Abena Oppong - Asare Kate Osborne Tristan Osborne Taiwo Owatemi Sarah Owen Darren Paffey Andrew Pakes Matthew Patrick Michael Payne Stephanie Peacock Jonathan Pearce Matthew Pennycook Toby Perkins Jess Phillips David Pinto - Duschinsky Lee Pitcher Jo Platt Luke Pollard Joe Powell Lucy Powell Gregor Poynton Peter Prinsley Richard Quigley Yasmin Qureshi Steve Race Adrian Ramsay Andrew Ranger Mike Reader Steve Reed Ellie Reeves Joani Reid Emma Reynolds Jonathan Reynolds Martin Rhodes Bell Ribeiro - Addy Jake Richards Jenny Riddell - Carpenter Lucy Rigby Dave Robertson Tim Roca Sam Rushworth Sarah Russell Tom Rutland Oliver Ryan Sarah Sackman Jeevun Sandher Michelle Scrogham Mark Sewards Naseem Shah Baggy Shanker Michael Shanks Tulip Siddiq Josh Simons Andrew Slaughter John Slinger Cat Smith David Smith Jeff Smith Nick Smith Sarah Smith Karin Smyth Gareth Snell Alex Sobel Euan Stainbank Jo Stevens Kenneth Stevenson Elaine Stewart will Stone Alistair Strathern Alan Strickland Graham Stringer Peter Swallow Mark Tami Mike Tapp Alison Taylor David Taylor Rachel Taylor Fred Thomas Nick Thomas - Symonds Emily Thornberry Stephen Timms Jessica Toale Dan Tomlinson Jon Trickett Henry Tufnell Matt Turmaine Laurence Turner Liz Twist Tony Vaughan Valerie Vaz Christopher Vince Imogen Walker Chris Ward Melanie Ward Paul Waugh Chris Webb Michelle Welsh Catherine West Andrew Western Matt Western Michael Wheeler John Whitby Jo White Katie White Nadia Whittome David Williams Steve Witherden Sean Woodcock Rosie Wrighting Yuan Yang Mohammad Yasin Steve Yemm Daniel Zeichner Christian Wakeford Anna Turley the Committee divide : Ayes 184 , Noes 359 . question accordingly negative . the occupant of the Chair leave the Chair ( Programme Order , 27 November ) . the Deputy Speaker resume the Chair . progress report ; Committee to sit again tomorrow . business without Debate Delegated Legislation Motion make , and question put forthwith ( Standing Order no . 118 ( 6 ) , Financial Services and Markets that the draft Financial Services and Markets Act 2023 ( addition of Relevant Enactments ) Regulations 2024 , which be lay before this House on 31 October , be approve . — ( Gerald Jones . ) question agree to Motion make , and question put forthwith ( Standing Order no . 118 ( 6 ) ) build Societies that the draft Building Societies Act 1986 ( Modifications ) Order 2024 , which be lay before this House on 14 October , be approve . — ( Gerald Jones . ) question agree to . motion make , and question put forthwith ( Standing Order no . 118 ( 6 ) ) Capital Gains Tax that the draft Double Taxation Relief and International Tax Enforcement ( Ecuador ) Order 2024 , which be lay before this House on 11 November , be approve . — ( Gerald Jones . ) question agree to . motion make , and question put forthwith ( Standing Order no . 118 ( 6 ) ) Criminal Law that the draft Home Detention Curfew and Requisite and Minimum Custodial Periods ( Amendment ) Order 2024 , which be lay before this House on 13 November , be approve . — ( Gerald Jones . ) diane Abbott Jack Abbott Shockat Adam Zubir Ahmed Bayo Alaba Dan Aldridge Douglas Alexander Heidi Alexander Sadik Al - Hassan Rushanara Ali Tahir Ali Rosena Allin - Khan Mike Amesbury Gideon Amos Callum Anderson Fleur Anderson Tonia Antoniazzi Steffan Aquarone Scott Arthur Jessica Asato James Asser Jas Athwal Catherine Atkinson Lewis Atkinson Josh Babarinde Calvin Bailey Olivia Bailey Alex Baker Richard Baker Alex Ballinger Antonia Bance Paula Barker Lee Barron Alex Barros - Curtis Johanna Baxter Danny Beales Lorraine Beavers torsten Bell Hilary Benn Alison Bennett Si â n Berry Clive Betts Polly Billington Matt Bishop Olivia Blake Rachel Blake Christopher Bloore Elsie Blundell Kevin Bonavia Jade Botterill Sureena Brackenridge Jonathan Brash Alex Brewer Phil Brickell Jessica Brown - Fuller Chris Bryant Julia Buckley Richard Burgon David Burton - Sampson Dawn Butler Ian Byrne Liam Byrne Ruth Cadbury Nesil Caliskan Alan Campbell Irene Campbell Juliet Campbell Markus Campbell - Savours Charlotte Cane Dan Carden Sam Carling David Chadwick Wendy Chamberlain Danny Chambers Sarah Champion Bambos Charalambous Luke Charters Ellie chown Feryal Clark Chris Coghlan Ben Coleman Jacob Collier Lizzi Collinge Tom Collins Victoria Collins Liam Conlon Sarah coombe Andrew Cooper Daisy Cooper Deirdre Costigan Pam Cox Jennifer Craft Mary Creagh Stella Creasy Torcuil Crichton Chris Curtis Janet Daby Ashley Dalton Adam Dance Steve Darling Emily Darlington Edward Davey Ann Davies Jonathan Davies Paul Davies Shaun Davies Alex Davies - Jones Bobby Dean Josh Dean Carla Denyer Tan Dhesi Jim Dickson Anna Dixon Samantha Dixon Helena Dollimore Stephen Doughty Peter Dowd Graeme Downie Neil Duncan - Jordan Cat Eccles Lauren Edwards Sarah Edwards Clive Efford Damien Egan Maya Ellis Chris Elmore Kirith Entwistle Florence Eshalomi Bill Esterson Miatta Fahnbulleh Hamish Falconer Linsey Farnsworth Tim Farron Josh Fenton - Glynn Mark Ferguson Natalie Fleet Catherine Fookes Richard Foord will Forster Paul Foster Vicky Foxcroft Daniel Francis Z ö e Franklin James Frith Barry Gardiner Anna Gelderd Alan Gemmell Andrew George Gill german Sarah Gibson Tracy Gilbert Preet Kaur Gill Becky Gittins Mary Glindon Olly Glover Marie Goldman Tom Gordon Jodie Gosling Georgia Gould John Grady Sarah Green Nia Griffith Andrew Gwynne Sarah Hall Fabian Hamilton Paulette Hamilton Monica Harding Emma Hardy Carolyn Harris Lloyd Hatton Helen Hayes Tom Hayes Claire Hazelgrove Mark Hendrick Pippa heyling Meg Hillier Chris Hinchliff Jonathan Hinder Wera Hobhouse Sharon Hodgson Rachel Hopkins Claire Hughes Alison Hume rupa Huq Patrick Hurley Natasha Irons Sally Jameson Christine Jardine Dan Jarvis Liz Jarvis Terry Jermy Adam Jogee Kim Johnson Clive Jones Darren Jones Gerald Jones Louise Jones Ruth Jones Gurinder Josan Sojan Joseph Warinder Juss Chris Kane Satvir Kaur Liz Kendall Afzal Khan Naushabah Khan Stephen Kinnock Jayne Kirkham Gen Kitchen Paul Kohler Sonia Kumar Uma Kumaran Laura Kyrke - Smith Ben Lake Peter Lamb Ian Lavery Noah Law Kim Leadbeater Brian Leishman Emma Lewell - Buck Andrew Lewin Clive Lewis Simon Lightwood Rebecca Long - Bailey Josh MacAlister James MacCleary Alice Macdonald Andy MacNae Justin Madders Ben Maguire Helen Maguire Shabana Mahmood Amanda Martin Mike Martin Rachael Maskell Keir Mather Brian Mathew Alex Mayer Charlie Maynard Kerry McCarthy Martin McCluskey Siobhain McDonagh Andy McDonald Chris McDonald John Martin McDonnell Blair McDougall Lola McEvoy Pat McFadden Alison McGovern Alex McIntyre Gordon McKee Kevin McKenna Catherine McKinnell Jim McMahon Anna McMorrin Frank McNally Kirsty McNeill Llinos Medi Freddie Van Mierlo Calum Miller John Milne Julie Minns Navendu Mishra Abtisam Mohamed Perran Moon Jessica Morden Edward Morello Helen Morgan Stephen Morgan Grahame Morris Joe Morris Tom Morrison Margaret Mullane Tessa Munt Luke Murphy Chris Murray James Murray Katrina Murray Luke Myer James Naish Connor Naismith Lisa Nandy Kanishka Narayan Pamela Nash Josh Newbury Samantha Niblett Charlotte Nichols Dan Norris Sarah Olney Melanie Onn Simon Opher Abena Oppong - Asare Kate Osborne Tristan Osborne Taiwo Owatemi Sarah Owen Darren Paffey Andrew Pakes Matthew Patrick Michael Payne Stephanie Peacock Jonathan Pearce Matthew Pennycook Toby Perkins Manuela Perteghella Jess Phillips Al Pinkerton David Pinto - Duschinsky Lee Pitcher Jo Platt Luke Pollard Joe Powell Lucy Powell Gregor Poynton Peter Prinsley Richard Quigley Yasmin Qureshi Steve Race Adrian Ramsay Andrew Ranger Mike Reader Steve Reed Ellie Reeves Joani Reid Emma Reynolds Jonathan Reynolds Joshua Reynolds Martin Rhodes Bell Ribeiro - Addy Jake Richards Jenny Riddell - Carpenter Lucy Rigby Dave Robertson Tim Roca Ian Roome Sam Rushworth Sarah Russell Tom Rutland Oliver Ryan Anna Sabine Sarah Sackman Roz Savage Michelle Scrogham Mark Sewards Naseem Shah Baggy Shanker Michael Shanks Tulip Siddiq Josh Simons Andrew Slaughter John Slinger Lisa Smart Cat Smith David Smith Jeff Smith Nick Smith Sarah Smith Karin Smyth Gareth Snell Alex Sobel Ian Sollom Euan Stainbank Jo Stevens Kenneth Stevenson Elaine Stewart Jamie Stone will Stone Alistair Strathern Alan Strickland Graham Stringer Peter Swallow Mark Tami Mike Tapp Alison Taylor Luke Taylor Rachel Taylor Cameron Thomas Fred Thomas Nick Thomas - Symonds Emily Thornberry Stephen Timms Jessica Toale Dan Tomlinson Jon Trickett Henry Tufnell Matt Turmaine Laurence Turner Liz Twist Harpreet Uppal Tony Vaughan Valerie Vaz Christopher Vince Caroline Voaden Imogen Walker Chris Ward Melanie Ward Paul Waugh Chris Webb Michelle Welsh Andrew Western Matt Western Michael Wheeler John Whitby Jo White Katie White Nadia Whittome Max Wilkinson David Williams Munira Wilson Steve Witherden Sean Woodcock Rosie wrighte Martin Wrigley Yuan Yang Mohammad Yasin Steve Yemm Claire Young Daniel Zeichner Christian Wakeford Anna Turley Jim Allister Stuart Andrew Edward Argar Victoria Atkins Gareth Bacon Kemi Badenoch Harriett Baldwin Steve Barclay Peter Bedford Saqib Bhatti Bob Blackman Sarah Bool Andrew Bowie Karen Bradley Aphra Brandreth Alex Burghart Gregory Campbell James Cartlidge James Cleverly Geoffrey Clifton - Brown Lewis cock John Cooper Alberto Costa Harriet Cross Gareth Davies Mims davy Charlie Dewhirst Caroline Dinenage Oliver Dowden Iain Duncan Smith Alex Easton Luke Evans Ashley Fox Mark Francois George Freeman Louie french Richard Fuller Roger Gale Mark Garnier John Glen Helen Grant Andrew Griffith Alison Griffiths Rebecca Harris John Hayes Damian Hinds Simon Hoare Kevin Hollinrake Paul Holmes Neil Hudson Jeremy Hunt Bernard Jenkin Robert Jenrick Lincoln Jopp Alicia Kearns Danny Kruger Katie Lam John Lamont Edward Leigh Julian Lewis Carla Lockhart Julia Lopez Alan Mak Jerome Mayhew Esther McVey Andrew Mitchell Gagan Mohindra Robbie Moore Joy Morrissey Kieran Mullan David Mundell Jesse Norman Ben Obese - Jecty Neil o ' Brien Priti Patel Mark Pritchard David Reed Joe Robertson Gavin Robinson Andrew Rosindell Jim Shannon Neil Shastri - Hurst David Simmonds Greg Smith Julian Smith Rebecca Smith Andrew Snowden Ben Spencer Patrick Spencer Gregory Stafford Blake Stephenson Mel Stride Graham Stuart Robin Swann Desmond Swayne Bradley Thomas Nick Timothy Laura Trott Thomas Tugendhat Martin Vickers Matt Vickers Helen Whately John Whittingdale James Wild Sammy Wilson Mike Wood Jeremy Wright Richard Holden Rebecca Paul the House divide : Ayes 424 , Noes 106 . question accordingly agree to . petition - pimp website and pay for sex I rise on Human Rights Day , the final day of the UN ' s 16 day of activism against gender - base violence , to present a petition on behalf of my constituent on commercial sexual exploitation . demand from man who pay for sex be fuel and fund a brutal sex trafficking trade , yet our law allow they to exploit woman with impunity . to stop the exploitation , we have to stop the demand . the petitioner therefore request " that the House of Commons urge the Government to outlaw pimp website and pay for sex , and provide support , not sanction , to victim of sexual exploitation . " follow be the full text of the petition : [ the petition of resident of the constituency of Monmouthshire , declare that demand from the minority of man who pay for sex be drive the prostitution and sex trafficking trade , and this sexual exploitation be be facilitate by pimp website that operate with impunity . the petitioner therefore request that the House of Commons urge the Government to outlaw pimp website and pay for sex , and provide support , not sanction , to victim of sexual exploitation . and the petitioner remain , etc . ] [ p003028 ] International Human Rights Day Motion make , and question propose , that this House do now adjourn . — ( Gerald Jones . ) I be delighted to have secure this Adjournment debate to mark international Human Rights Day , which we remember annually across the world on 10 December . I first declare an interest as chair of the all - party parliamentary human right group , whose purpose be " to raise the profile of international human right issue within Parliament and to investigate and publicise human right abuse occur " . the group be one of Parliament ' s most long - stand appg , set up in 1976 by the late human right champion Lord Avebury , and one of its most active , with at least one event a month and often many more . I also declare an interest in what I be about to say , as I be chair of the british group of the Inter - Parliamentary Union . last week , the all - party parliamentary human right group hold a reception organise jointly with Amnesty International UK to mark Human Rights Day . it be very well attend , show that the protection of human right across the world be an issue that transcend party politic and matter greatly to many of my parliamentary colleague right across the political spectrum . International Human Rights Day commemorate the adoption of the universal declaration of human right by the United Nations General Assembly on this day in 1948 . the universal declaration , whose 75th anniversary the human right APPG celebrate last year in Parliament , be found on the principle that " all human being be bear free and equal " . it have set the standard by which state must treat their citizen and provide the basis on which government can be call out and hold to account for not do so . the universal declaration have have a profound impact since , have inspire and pave the way for the adoption of more than 60 human right treaty at global and regional level and have provide the basis for the 2030 UN sustainable development goal . at the individual and collective level , the declaration have protect million and empower many to stand up against abuse and tyranny , and for equality and justice . first of all , I commend the hon . Gentleman . in all my time in this House — he have be here long than I have — I have always be impress by his commitment to human right issue . in every debate , he and I have be there together . I commend he for that , and put it on the record in Hansard . do he agree that today we should not simply reflect on how far we have to go , but celebrate how far we have come ? we should never grow weary of do good , for in due season we will reap as we diligently sow . those lovely word from the Holy Bible , which the hon . Gentleman and I both respect , must encourage we all to keep press , and keep win the small human right victory that literally save life , grant education and preserve innocence for child . I thank my friend , first for his generosity and secondly because he be an extraordinary performer in this House , not just on these green Benches but in Westminster Hall . I have sit around the table with he in many , many debate , and he always stand up for humanity and faith . I respect and thank he for that , and I agree with his quote from the Holy Bible . I thank he for quote it . in this year ' s commemoration , the Office of the United Nations High Commissioner for Human Rights be focus on the realisation of right as a pathway to solution to many real - world challenge , such as armed conflict , political and social exclusion , and economic inequality — and , goodness I , do we not need that in the world right now ? let I highlight a key provision of the declaration , the right to life , which be of course fundamental to the enjoyment of every other right that we be here to protect . categorical violation of the right to life include : extra - judicial killing ; the misuse of the death penalty , or , I would argue , the use of it at all ; life - threaten prison condition , which we have see in the footage from Syria in recent hour and day ; the use of live ammunition by police force against unarmed protestor ; serious violation of humanitarian law ; and environmental degradation and climate change , which give rise to serious threat to the existence of present and future generation . tragically , the right to life be violate in many country , by state and non - state actor , include China , North Korea , Myanmar , Afghanistan , Russia , Iran , Saudi Arabia , the Democratic Republic of Congo , Burundi , Eritrea , Sudan , South Sudan , Colombia and Mexico to name just a few , I be sorry to say . I would like to express the APPG ' s deep concern about the killing of human right defender , brave people from all walk of life : community leader , environmental activist , lawyer , journalist , trade unionist , academic and member of non - governmental organisation who be committed to promote and protect the human right of their community , in their country and the wide world . the APPG have be privileged to meet many inspire human right defender over the year . their work document violation , hold human right violator to account and tackle cycle of impunity may result in serious threat , include harassment , smear campaign , physical attack , arbitrary detention , torture , and in the bad case , murder . environmental and land right defender be at particular risk . the non - governmental organisation Global Witness estimate that in 2023 , 196 land and environmental defender be kill around the world . the high number by far be in Colombia , follow by Brazil , Mexico , Honduras and Nicaragua . during my time as shadow Minister for Latin America , I visit Colombia and meet trade unionist and human right defender who face violent attack every single day . two week ago , I meet representative of the Wiwa indigenous people of the Sierra Nevada de Santa Marta in northern Colombia to hear their testimony at first hand , here in our Parliament . I thank the hon . Gentleman — my hon . friend — for secure this debate on such an important day . he be right to draw particular attention to the experience of defender of indigenous community and environmental right defender in Colombia and elsewhere . back in October , in my capacity as a vice - chair of the all - party parliamentary human right group , I host a roundtable here in Parliament with speaker from the Colombia Caravana . it bring together lawyer from 24 country who have recently conduct a fact - find trip in Colombia . they highlight the increase power of illegal armed group , particularly in area with no or limited state presence , and the serious threat that those group pose to human right defender . we hear powerful testimony from the leader of an indigenous people ' s reserve , who speak of the threat to which his community be subject and call for the UK Government to do everything possible to ensure that UK company be hold to account for the impact of their action . would the hon . Gentleman support his call ? I thank the hon . Lady for her intervention , for her work as an officer of the APPG , and for chairing that meeting . I be slightly late for it , but I be there for most of it , and I hear those testimony . of course I would support that call . I think it important for we to recognise the extraordinarily brave and courageous work of people like those who be there on that day , such as the human right defender from Peru from whom we hear very recently , and the representative of the Wiwa people of Colombia , whom I mention . all over the world , human right defender be put their life , their safety and their freedom at risk to defend their land and their right against rapacious company that be exploit they because no one will protect they except themselves . I thank the hon . Lady for her support , and for all the work that she be do . with President Gustavo Petro , we have renew hope in Colombia , but sadly the attack continue . give that the UK be the penholder for Colombia at the United Nations , I should be grateful if the Minister reaffirm our commitment to what the Colombians call paz total , or total peace . as I have say , indigenous people continue to be disproportionately target , account for 49 % of total murder . the UK and like - minded country must help to support and protect human right defender . I understand that , to this end , the " UK Support for Human Rights Defenders " guidance , publish in 2019 , be be review , and I should be interested to know whether the Minister have an update on when we can expect that review to be publish . give the crucial role that human right defender play in foster peace , justice and inclusive development , I ask the Foreign , Commonwealth and Development Office to consider elevate the guidance to a more comprehensive strategy , with benchmark for official and post , which could then be adapt to specific country situation . I can not speak about the importance of the universal declaration without highlight another of its central provision : equality . article 2 state : " everyone be entitle to all the right and freedom set forth in this Declaration , without distinction of any kind , such as race , colour , sex , language , religion , political or other opinion , national or social origin , property , birth or other status . " I believe that all parliamentarian be horrify by the treatment of woman and girl in some part of the world , particularly Afghanistan . I congratulate my hon . friend on an excellent speech , and on secure a debate on such an important day . he rightly mention Afghanistan and the issue around the discrimination of woman and girl in that great country . should the UK consider join the 30 , I think , country that be involve in an action at the International Court of Justice , because of their concern about breach of the UN convention on the elimination of all form of discrimination against woman ? yes , and I would be interested to hear from our Minister whether we should join that action , because in some way or another , we really need to draw the world ' s attention more clearly , and in a more focused way , to the shocking , appalling and totally unjustifiable treatment of woman and girl in Afghanistan — and , indeed , other part of the world . until the sex in this world be equal , we will not have the peace , justice and development that all humanity deserve . under this Government , we rightly have a relentless focus on tackle violence against woman and girl in our country , but that focus should extend across the world , as I have say . it be simply incomprehensible — I stress this again — that in the 21st century , the Taliban can completely silence afghan woman and girl , almost erase their very existence and bar they from education and public life . extremely courageous woman who protest against these violation face the most terrifying consequence , include enforce disappearance , arbitrary detention and torture . just today , I hear an example of how this work on the ground in Afghanistan . I be tell by somebody who know the country well , and who be not an Afghan , that he recently speak to afghan doctor and midwife about the problem that many afghan woman experience when give birth , especially in remote rural area . birth complication can lead to all sort of other horror , include the death of baby at birth . under a special exception , the Taliban have allow woman to work as doctor and midwife , thank goodness , but a problem arise if a female midwife or doctor be stop by , as he put it , a " bearded man " while she walk to work from where she live . she will be stop and question , and sometimes return home . as woman and girl can no long get the training or education necessary to become gynaecologist , obstetrician , specialist , doctor , clinician or midwife , there be a time - bomb tick in this field of work , among other , in Afghanistan . it be extremely disturbing . our APPG be worried about democratic back - slide globally , and the consequent erosion of political and civil right , such as freedom of expression , assembly and association . accord to the Economist Intelligence Unit ' s democracy index , less than 8 % of the world ' s population live in a full , proper democracy in 2023 . almost 40 % live under authoritarian rule — a share that have be creep up in recent year . I do not need to remind hon . member that this be happen , because we be all aware of it . every single day , we hear story of Parliaments and parliamentary democracy under attack . electoral autocracy be become more prevalent ; sham election be hold , in a largely unsuccessful attempt to provide a veneer of political legitimacy . I will not name country , but we all know who they be . the increase in violent conflict , as see in Russia and the middle east , have stifle progress towards more meaningful political participation . it would be helpful to know more about how our Government will continue to promote and support democracy across the world and , close to home , whether the defend democracy taskforce still have a role to play in protect the UK ' s democratic integrity from threat of foreign interference . I really appreciate the hon . member bring this matter to the House today . it be incumbent on all of we to ensure that we do everything we can to stand up for human right , whether at home or abroad . the need to stand up for democracy , not only in the world in which we live physically but online , be also a real concern for I and many across the House . do he agree that we need to do everything we can to ensure that election , not just here but across the world , and the tenet of democracy be protect as we struggle to deal with those who would love to erode the fundamental freedom and human right that we hold dear ? I thank the hon . member for make such an important intervention . I would certainly agree that online interference be something we should be deeply concerned about . indeed , we be deeply concerned about it . we have see example of that interference , that hack and those bot , as they call they , create post for non - existent individual on our social medium , urge people to do something or to vote in a particular way , and quote sham fact and figure that be make up or invent to persuade people to make a decision that would be against their interest or inclination . in connection with the latter , I note a grow worry about transnational repression when authoritarian government reach across their border to silence dissent among diaspora community and exile , include through illegal deportation , abduction , digital threat , attack and family intimidation . indeed , we have hear example in recent year of BBC World Service correspondent in London have their family intimidate , harass or even arrest by the authority in Iran . those people have nothing whatever to do with the work that their family member be do here in London , but they be none the less pay the price for that freedom to broadcast , that freedom of information and the brilliant work that the BBC World Service do . the UK have not be immune to this , as I have just say , and I be pleased that our Government have recognise that . individual live here who have leave Russia , Hong Kong , China or Iran have be subject to surveillance , attack , confiscation of their property and bank account in their country of origin , and even assassination and attempt assassination . UK parliamentarian have be target as well , with foreign government impose sanction against they for call out human right violation . this will need to be more effectively address . I be sure I be not alone in the House in find out that all my asset and bank account in Russia , of which I have none whatsoever , have be confiscate or close down . in recent year , member of the Foreign Affairs Committee in the last Parliament be refuse visa to go to China because of what the Committee have say about Hong Kong and Taiwan . this be simply unacceptable , and we need to address it . as I say early , I be the current chair of the british group of the Inter - Parliamentary Union , and I would like to commend the human right work of the IPU , particularly that of its committee on the human right of parliamentarian — not the one I chair , but the international one — which be do a lot of work to defend the right of parliamentarian . the committee seek to defend they when they be under attack . every year , mps around the world face abuse , mistreatment , disappearance and sometimes death . the human right APPG and the british group of the Inter - Parliamentary Union work hand in hand in the belief that parliamentarian ' voice must be protect and allow to be hear , free from the fear of violence or harassment . parliamentarian be often the so - call canary in the coal mine . if the human right of parliamentarian be be violate , the situation of those in that country who do not have wide popular backing or the high profile of a local MP be likely to be far , far bad . I therefore urge my hon . friend the Minister to make it clear that this Government will put human right and peace building at the forefront of our foreign policy once again . that include a relentless focus on secure the release of arbitrarily detain national such as Nazanin Zaghari - Ratcliffe and Anoosheh Ashoori . Anoosheh speak extremely powerfully and beautifully at last week ' s event about his imprisonment in Iran , and I be pleased to call he a friend . he be a delightful man and I be amazed that , after the ordeal he go through , he be still able to campaign in the open and democratic way that he have . he really be a remarkable man . I would like to gain more support for victim of gender - base violence in conflict and modern - day slavery , and to encourage support for the International Criminal Court and the importance of international law . more specifically , parliamentarian have a key role to play in ensure government ' compliance with human right obligation , and hold those government to account for any violation ; in incorporate human right protection in national legislation ; in help to generate the necessary political will to bring about positive change domestically and internationally ; and in engage with , support and validate civil society , human right defender and inter - governmental and grassroots human right organisation . I pay tribute to all member of the House and the other place for their work on these issue , whether on Select Committees , with all - party parliamentary group or in their individual engagement with human right organisation and defender . I also pay tribute to my dear friend , Tony Lloyd , who die early this year , from whom I take over the responsibility of chair the APPG on human right . he be a spokesperson from his first election in 1983 , through his time as Minister of State at the Foreign Office in Tony Blair ' s Government of 1997 , for human right and for the prominence and importance of human right worldwide . not long before he die , he speak to a friend of mine and say , " in the event of my death , I would like Fabian Hamilton to take over the role . " I find that deeply move , so I undertake the role not just in the name of all those who be oppress , whose human right be not easy or clear , or whose human right be take away from they , but in the name of Tony Lloyd , to carry on the work he do . government , of course , have the ultimate responsibility for ensure their citizen benefit from their right , and for promote respect for human right internationally . I know this Government take that responsibility seriously . have work closely with the Foreign Secretary and his excellent team for several year , I can say with the utmost certainty that this Government be commit to protect the rule of law and the international rule - base order on which our security and prosperity rest . I therefore welcome the Government ' s unflinche approach to call out serious and systematic human right violation commit by state and non - state actor and , when appropriate , the imposition of sanction . I believe it would be beneficial for the Government to consider bring in legislation on mandatory human right and environmental corporate due diligence . finally , the debate could not come at a more appropriate time . democracy and freedom hang by a thread across the world : in Putin ' s Russia , there be force conscription for the illegal war in Ukraine ; the iranian regime be clamp down on legitimate protest with the most brutal force ; and China continue to lurch towards interference in our democracy , have all but destroy any semblance of it in Hong Kong , and wish to attack the democracy that be now evident in Taiwan . member of the all - party parliamentary group on human right and I hope to continue engage on these issue with the fcdo , and I be look forward to the Minister ' s response on this 76th anniversary of the universal declaration of human right . I call the parliamentary under - Secretary of State for Foreign , Commonwealth and Development Affairs . may I say how appropriate it be for you to be chair the debate , Madam Deputy Speaker , as you have be such a champion for woman since you come into the House , and when you be Chair of the Women and Equalities Committee ? the theme of woman and equality have be raise again and again by member during the debate . I be grateful to my hon . friend the Member for Leeds North East ( Fabian Hamilton ) for secure the debate , and for the fact he have secure it on Human Rights Day . we have just have a lovely occasion with Mr Speaker , where we celebrate the work of Parliamentarians for Peace , co - ordinated by my hon . friend the Member for Oldham East and Saddleworth ( Debbie Abrahams ) . I will attempt to answer the question she raise in her intervention later in my remark . I pay tribute to my hon . friend the Member for Leeds North East for his tireless work to promote the importance of international human right , include as chair of the all - party parliamentary group on human right . I congratulate he on his recent election as chair of the british group at the Inter - Parliamentary Union , stand up for democracy , free from fear of violence , for every country . the magic of the IPU be that it bring together member from so many different country , with their different version of democracy , all strain towards that common goal . I be strike by what the hon . member for Lagan Valley ( Sorcha Eastwood ) say about the importance of online safety and democracy . have take her seat in this House , I be sure she be aware now of the erosion of our right as member , bring here on the wind of democracy , be attack online , and how disgraceful that be . we must seek new and fresh way of tackle online abuse . I also appreciate the contribution of other hon . member , particularly the hon . member for North Herefordshire ( Ellie Chowns ) , who talk about the issue in Colombia , the indigenous group and the illegal armed group . human right defender have put their life at risk to defend their land and tradition , as other hon . member who share her interest , such as my hon . friend the Member for Leeds North East , and have go to Colombia and get to know the concern there , have make we aware . the UK Government ' s important work in Colombia on human right — which go back to before the peace process and include support the country as it bring that process in and monitor it , with its new government — start in this House and continue to have its support . my hon . friend the Member for Leeds North East also mention those who have go before we , such as Lord Avebury and the former Member for Rochdale . I may not have know he as well as my hon . friend , but he do a fantastic job of support the woman of Belarus who do not start out as politician or human right defender but whose husband be lock up in the summer of 2022 and who end up become public figure in their own right . once again , they be attack online and attack for all they have do to stand up for their country . as hon . member be aware , today mark Human Rights Day , commemorate the adoption of the universal declaration of human right in 1948 . my hon . friend the Member for Leeds North East be aware of and be invite to the celebration in the Foreign Office this afternoon to mark Human Rights Day . we would all have like to be there but we be do this debate instead , so we be celebrate it in our own way . the team , who I must commend for their excellence , have put on an important event to listen to those who work in non - governmental organisation , human right defender and other who care passionately about human right . the hon . member for Strangford ( Jim Shannon ) , who be no long in his place , celebrate how far we have come . today be a celebration of that and the UK ' s important role , but it be also a reminder that we must keep push forward where human right have not yet be achieve . as the hon . member for Oldham East and Saddleworth speak about woman in Afghanistan , we continue to call for the human right of all Afghans to be protect , include those of woman and girl and religious and ethnic minority . official at the Doha - base UK mission to Afghanistan regularly press the Taliban on human right . we be still make very limited progress , so we must continue to speak out in this House . that way , if there be any online coverage in Afghanistan today for Human Rights Day , those woman will know that we be talk about they , their education , their wanting to become midwife and nurse , which be be block by the Taliban , to be teacher , to work , or to have small business . instead , we be see a terrible deterioration of woman ' s right . I know , Madam Deputy Speaker , that that be a concern that you hold dear . as the Prime Minister say in his speech to the UN General Assembly this year , the declaration set out " the very essence of what it be to be human — of equal and inalienable right base on a foundation of freedom , justice and peace in the world . " as one of its original drafter , the UK must continue champion its importance and building upon its foundation , give the challenge that we face today . the Government will act to protect and promote human right , democracy and the rule of law around the world . the Minister ' s powerful speech highlight the responsibility that we all have to protect human right in the UK and around the world . early today , I be with Councillor Amjid Wazir from Stoke - on - Trent and a group of Kashmiris who be present a petition to Downing Street to highlight the ongoing human right abuse in Kashmir , the lack of self - determination , and the continue violation follow the suspension of article 370 of the indian constitution , which guarantee the political autonomy of Kashmir and Jammu . all too often , Kashmir seem to be forget about ; it be not talk about in this place nearly enough . may I ask what the Government ' s current view be on the ongoing issue in Jammu and Kashmir ? can she take back to her Department our wish to discuss this matter fully in this House , because it have be a while since those people be give a voice here and I think that they would welcome it ? I thank my hon . friend for his important point and for the work that he be do to represent his constituent , such as , for example , go to Downing Street with a petition . interestingly , the other Member who be very strong on Kashmir be my hon . friend the Member for Leeds North East who , like other member here , regularly bring group of constituent to the House . I know that the cross - party work that be do to promote human right and to ensure that we observe their importance in Kashmir be crucial . that situation be monitor by the fcdo , and I would be very happy to write to he in more detail about the exact way in which that be do , bear in mind , of course , that India and Pakistan play a crucial role in maintain the peace . I be grateful to my hon . friend for give way and for her kind word early . we know that human right defender have be detain without trial in many place — Khurram Parvez be just one example . the same be true of politician and political activist , such as Yasin Malik , whose condition we be very concerned about . it would not be appropriate if , today of all day , we fail to mention the situation in the middle east , particularly give what be go on in Syria , Israel , Palestine and Lebanon . I hope the Minister will be able to respond to those point in her closing remark . I thank my hon . friend for mention Yasin Malik , whose situation the fcdo be actively monitor . I know that she be aware of that , because she be a regular correspondent with the Foreign Office and a very active member of the all - party group on human right . on Israel and the occupied Palestinian Territories , we be , of course , monitor the humanitarian response there . on Syria , we all know how terrible the situation be , but to see the unspeakable condition in those prison , to see the newspaper picture of those noose cover in human blood , and to understand that people , include woman and child , have be bury six foot under in cell have be truly devastating . we do not know what the future hold for Syria , but it be a very fragile situation . what we do know be that this House , on Human Rights Day , have emphasise the importance of human right be at the heart of the middle east on several different front . as these different situation develop , human right must play a key role in any peace process and in how Syria be govern in the future . I will shorten my speech a little , Madam Deputy Speaker , as I know that people be keen to get on to human right and IPU event this evening . we want to maximise the impact of all the tool at our disposal , and our approach see the agenda in five theme , which I will quickly outline . the first be on defend civic space and fundamental freedom . today , a third of the world ' s population live in country with a closed civic space , which be clearly unacceptable . we will defend those space by change our fundamental relationship to enable grassroots actor in partner country to advocate for people ' s right . we will protect media freedom , build on the call from Commonwealth leader last month to implement the Commonwealth medium principle across our diverse family of nation , to which I refer the hon . member for Lagan Valley . as my hon . friend the Member for Leeds North East set out so clearly , the Government must continue to promote and support democracy in this world , and we be do so through the Defending Democracy Taskforce . the taskforce be an endure function of Government , which seek to secure the democratic integrity of the UK from the full range of threat , include foreign interference . it comprise Ministers , operational leader and senior official , and it bring together his Majesty ' s Government ' s work on defend democracy to ensure we have a whole - of - Government response to the threat we face . the taskforce be review the UK ' s response to transnational repression , which be eloquently lay out by my hon . friend the Member for Leeds North East . with his permission , I will write to he and all member of his APPG once the review be finish to give he a sense of where we be go on this important work , and so it can marry up with his early request that we look in an organised and systematic way at how we organise our work on human right not just across the Foreign Office , but across Government . we must have a robust and joined - up approach across government and law enforcement , not only on the human right agenda , but specifically on transnational repression . my hon . friend be right to highlight his concern about the killing of human right defender . they do inspire work , often put themselves in harm ' s way . we hear from the hon . member for North Herefordshire about human right defender and peacebuilder who put their life at risk to speak out . I confirm that our human right defender guidance be be review , and we expect it to be finalise and publish in the new year . we will certainly take account of the wise recommendation from the debate about what a review should cover and of the example use . meanwhile , we continue to work with partner to address the shocking level of reprisal against human right defender , include woman . our second theme focus on uphold the rule of law . my hon . friend the Member for Leeds North East mention critical right - to - life violation , such as the misuse of the death penalty and the use of excessive force against unarmed protester . we need to promote and demonstrate respect for the rule of law in address those and many other issue . we have lever within the multilateral system to promote and defend human right , include at the United Nations and through regional body , such as the Council of Europe and the Organisation for Security and Co - operation in Europe . my hon . friend make particular mention of attack against human right defender in Colombia , which I cover early . I be delighted that we have a renew parliamentary delegation to the Council of Europe , include a number of hon . member of this House , and I look forward to they report back and bring such matter to the House ' s attention . I be glad to share that we be seek election for another term on the Human Rights Council from 2026 to 2028 , where the UK lead negotiation on resolution that put in place accountability mechanism for priority country around the world , include Syria and Sudan . as I say , in Syria , Assad with support from Russia and Iran have commit brutal atrocity . our focus now be on work with the syrian people and the international community to move quickly towards an inclusive political transition . we be committed to tackle impunity and support an effective and independent International Criminal Court as the primary international institution for investigate and prosecute the most serious crime of international concern . promote compliance with international humanitarian law be the cornerstone of UK policy , and we call on all party to conflict to implement their obligation , reduce impact on civilian and other non - combatant . this autumn , we publish an update voluntary report on our domestic implementation of international humanitarian law , and we be support other state to do the same . as ministerial colleague have say in the House , we be clear about the unacceptable humanitarian situation in Gaza — a matter that many in this House have champion . we will continue to use all the diplomatic tool at our disposal to work with international partner to bring about a ceasefire and secure the release of hostage . accountability be not just about international process , and that be why we work in partnership with the USA and the EU to ensure that Ukraine can fully and fairly investigate allegation of war crime in its own judicial system . we have our good legal mind work on that . in other place , such as Nigeria , we be advise on deal with vulnerable witness , include child and survivor of sexual violence . our legal diplomacy be second to none . the third of our five theme focus on champion equal right for all . I have already speak about the Taliban ' s disgraceful exclusion of woman from all aspect of public life . we want to address the stall progress and roll - back on the right of woman , girl , LGBT + people , and those belong to other marginalised group globally . that be why we will continue to champion the right and freedom of woman and girl , include in sexual and reproductive health and right , and to support woman ' s right organisation and challenge harmful disinformation . we will support the Westminster Foundation for Democracy , work with female parliamentarian globally to address barrier to their political empowerment . we have announce a groundbreake global programme to prevent technology - facilitate gender - base harassment and abuse , back by over £ 27 million of funding . I hope that the hon . member for Lagan Valley will be pleased about that development . that programme will pilot innovative work with partner country to promote a safe online experience , counter extreme misogyny spread online , and support victim and survivor of online harassment and abuse . finally , we will defend the right of people belong to marginalise community — for instance , by fund the Commonwealth Disabled People ' s Forum to advocate for disability right . by champion freedom of religion or belief for all — if the hon . member for Strangford be in his place , he would be pleased to hear I say this — we be fight back against the threat that so many people face for simply what they do or do not believe in . the fourth theme focus on support accountable , effective and inclusive institution . sadly , we be see a drop in the quality of institutional life internationally . we want to work with partner to protect democratic process and strengthen Government legitimacy . in Moldova , for example , we have help President Sandu ' s Government to counter russian disinformation through the UK ' s Government Communication Service International . in Brazil , we be share UK expertise , as the Government there develop their own online safety Bill . in Nigeria , we be support Kaduna state to improve budget transparency . we be continue long - term work with Nepal , support the transition from conflict to democracy . the final theme focus on respond to share global challenge by prioritise human right and governance principle . this debate far challenge the Department to get that right . we be live in a rapidly change world that demand that we adapt , but we must do that while maintain our principle . we be take multiple step to do that effectively . we be conduct a national assessment of our approach to tackle business - relate human right abuse , include in global supply , and ensure that our action be firmly base on the evidence of what do and do not work . we be actively engage at the Council of Europe to address the impact of climate and nature emergency on human right . we be host the second democracy action partnership with Indonesia in Jakarta to support democratic resilience in the region . we be work with partner , such as the UK - base Centre for Information Resilience , to remotely verify and document digital content relate to the horrific violence in Sudan . those five theme lie a strong foundation for defend and promote human right around the world . I hope that my hon . friend the Member for Leeds North East will agree — base on what I have say , and indeed on the fcdo ' s early event to mark Human Rights Day , which sadly we both miss — that the Government do indeed see human right and peace building at the heart of our work . we recognise that many member share that commitment , and I thank they for attend today . ultimately , a free , safe and more just world be in everyone ' s interest , and this Government will work flat out with our partner to achieve that goal . question put and agree to . House adjourn .