I think the Climate Change Committee be actually say that its most ambitious scenario , which we should be aim for , be for we to cut the use of gas by 90 % . be we go to carry on use North sea oil and gas ? the question for the hon . Gentleman , and for the whole House , be this : do we choose , for the future , to carry on drill every last drop ? that be the Government ' s policy , in contravention of all the scientific advice , which be that we will end up in a 3 ° world — need billion of pound of taxpayer subsidy to bring about that investment through persuasion , and divert investment from the private sector . personally , I do not think that that be the right choice . the lesson of this crisis be one that the Government should have learn , and one that other country around the world have learn : the only way to get energy security be to sprint for clean power . that be why the Government ' s onshore wind ban be such a disaster . that be why their offshore wind auction be such a disaster . that be why their energy efficiency failure be such a disaster . this Bill neither protect we on price nor give we energy security . here be the thing , the Bill be not motivate by million of people lie awake at night , worry about the cost of living crisis ; it be motivate by a Prime Minister lie awake at night , worry about the conservative party crisis . the interesting thing be that this Bill be plan well before the right hon . member for East Surrey ( Claire Coutinho ) become Energy Secretary . it be the last desperate throw of the dice by what we might call the no . 10 galaxy brain , to use climate change as what they call a " wedge issue . " they say this to the newspaper all the time . series 1 of this new strategy be air in September , when the party of Churchill and Thatcher become the peddler of wacky conspiracy theory they find on the internet : abolish the mythical seven bin ; end the imaginary threat of compulsory car sharing ; say no to invent conspiracy theory on 15 - minute city ; and fight the fictional meat tax . and now we have a sequel . no long a few throw - away conspiracy theory , this be now the central strategy of their legislative programme . member should not take my word for it . it be what the Prime Minister ' s adviser brief to the paper day after day . one paper I read on Monday report that the Prime Minister want to " weaponise climate change " as a wedge issue . where the british people see an energy crisis force up their bill , the Government see a wedge issue . where the british people ask how they can have liveable town and city with good transport , the Government see a wedge issue . where the british people worry about the effect of the climate crisis on their kid and grandkid , the Government see a wedge issue . the point be that the Government can not really deny it , because they know this be what they be say every day . " we think there be a big opportunity for the conservative party to try to create division on climate change . " that be why the Prime Minister use word like " eco - zealot . " it be all very transparent . they be lock in the boot of a strategy . whether they agree with it or not , that be what be happen . certainly , and I will come on to just how much funding have be make available . I draw the hon . Gentleman ' s attention to the National Lottery Heritage Fund , which have provide £ 454 million recently to a couple of project . moreover , the Department for Levelling up , Housing and Communities , through levelling - up funding , have provide more than £ 33 million to another couple of project . that be perhaps an area that my hon . friend could also look into . I know very well that he have previously be incredibly successful in secure level - up funding . as a champion of the Morecambe Eden project , I understand that £ 50 billion have be raise through the levelling - up project in his area , so I be well aware of his capability in that field . in response to the hon . member for Reading East ( Matt Rodda ) , let I say that I would be delighted to look into funding opportunity , specifically around access . I will write to he about that , because I be not familiar with what might be available at this time . on the wide funding for canal and inland waterway , we know — because my hon . friend have just explain — how important these national heritage asset be , provide many public benefit . I be also fully aware of how important it be to have access to water and green space for our physical health and mental wellbeing , not to mention the benefit that they provide for nature . those benefit be set out in our Environmental Improvement Plan . halt the decline of nature by 2030 and increase its abundance thereafter be the apex priority follow the Environment Act 2023 . canal and waterway , river , lake , coastal area and stream be fundamental to that . People enjoy be by canal and waterway and use they for leisure and recreation , as well as , in the case of canal , for their historical value . they form an important part of our natural environment by provide the green corridor along which biodiversity can flourish , as well as contribute to the growth of local economy , such as through domestic tourism . the Canal & River Trust report that there be nearly 900 million visit to its canal last year , many of which be repeat visit — with around 10 million individual user each month . that give we a real sense of the scale and popularity of our canal . I pay tribute to the Canal & River Trust for the work that it do day in , day out to look after the network . our navigation authority have an important role to play into the future as well , because they will make sure that our nation ' s key infrastructure be resilient to climate change . as we have set out in our national adaptation plan of how we will mitigate and adapt to the risk set out by Climate Change Committee , these waterway may suffer the consequence of climate change more than other . importantly , the work that the navigation authority do will help we meet our net zero target through sustainable transport and energy generation , and help to achieve water security through flood mitigation measure and water transfer . I will write to my hon . friend the Member for Morecambe and Lunesdale with the specific of any funding analysis that have be do . as I say , I be not the Minister responsible for inland waterway , but I will take the time to write a detailed analysis if I can . I may require further information from the volunteer and the partnership that he mention . the Canal & River Trust and the Environment Agency be the two body that receive direct funding , and it be important to be clear that we will continue to provide significant funding . the Canal & River Trust be set up in 2012 as a charity independent of Government . the idea be to replace the publicly own british Waterways and free it from public spending constraint . the trust own and manage a network of some 2 , 000 mile of canal and river in England and Wales . the original endowment in 2012 be £ 450 million , but it be now worth £ 1 billion . from 2027 , £ 400 million be propose to be grant over a 10 - year period . we will continue to support the Canal & River Trust , but we certainly encourage it to work with other to make the most of the commercial opportunity as well . now that the trust be free of public sector financing constraint , it can source alternative revenue stream , include charitable donation and legacy , charity tax relief , third - party project funding and borrowing on the financial market , while continue to receive a substantial government grant . the trust be also endow by the Government with a significant property and investment portfolio from British Waterways . as I say , it be originally worth £ 450 million and be now worth over £ 1 billion . that be the result of sound investment management by the trust . to provide further support and financial certainty for the trust while it be become establish , the Government agree in 2012 to provide a 15 - year grant of around £ 740 million . an important part of the 2012 transfer from British Waterways be the memorandum of understanding sign by the Department for Environment , Food and Rural Affairs and the trust , which contain a clear objective that the trust would progressively move towards great self - sufficiency and reduced reliance on public funding , through its £ 1 billion property and investment portfolio and freedom from public sector financial constraint . follow a Government review of current grant funding that be announce in July this year , a further substantial grant funding package have be announce that will provide £ 400 million across the 10 - year period from 2027 . importantly , that will bring the total amount of Government support for the trust to around £ 1 . 1 billion since 2012 . I also want to discuss the funding for the Environment Agency ; as I mention , there be two body that look after the network of canal and river . the Environment Agency ' s 630 mile of navigation be fund in the form of an annual grant in aid . for the three - year period from 2022 - 23 to 2024 - 25 , that amount to £ 73 million . I hope I have set out that this government really have support canal and river , whether through the Canal & River Trust or the Environment Agency , but that there be other way in which those organisation can bring in additional funding , as we have hear . to focus on the project that my hon . friend be progress , which be the most important thing , I can not commend too highly the volunteer and their ambition for their area . the project have such importance for the local community , because it will not only bring back something that be last use in 1947 , but will bring benefit such as tackle climate change , improve people ' s physical and mental wellbeing , and support biodiversity . that be absolutely what we should be do . it support the target of the environmental improvement plan and the work of group such as Sustrans , public right of way and national trail . we all recognise the benefit of be near water and appreciate nature — and , goodness I , we all need to get a little bit more active . I confirm that I will write to my hon . friend with the detailed analysis of the funding for the project so far , and I will take a look at other funding stream as well . most importantly , I look forward to visit he , perhaps in Kendal , to congratulate the volunteer on their hard work and success to date . it be brilliant to end today ' s sit with some wonderful good news about a really successful big society mission . question put and agree to . House adjourn .