Oral Answers to Questions Northern Ireland the Secretary of State be ask — Energy Costs whether he have have discussion with the Northern Ireland Executive on recent trend in energy cost in Northern Ireland . although energy cost have come down , they remain too high . our priority be to ensure access to energy be affordable and secure for consumer . that be why this Government have establish Great British Energy , which will operate across the whole UK , include Northern Ireland . the Department for Energy Security and Net Zero and the Northern Ireland Department for the Economy be work together positively on the GB Energy Bill . it be a pleasure to see the Minister in her place and I wish she well ; we have be friend for some time . she will be aware of Northern Ireland ' s unique energy profile : we be more heavily dependent and reliant on oil than other nation in the United Kingdom , with some 68 % of people in Northern Ireland use oil . be that take into consideration when the Government determine to cut the winter fuel allowance ? what discussion be have with the Northern Ireland Executive in relation to do so ? I be aware that two third of Northern Ireland ' s home use oil . the decision to mean test winter fuel payment be not a decision the Government wish to make , but a result of the Conservative ' s £ 22 billion black hole . in Northern Ireland , the Executive have decide that winter fuel payment will continue to be pay to household where someone receive pension credit . I have check the figure ; in Northern Ireland it be estimate that over 26 , 000 people could be eligible for pension credit and the winter fuel payment but be not receive they . I encourage anyone who be eligible , or know someone who could be , to check and apply if they can . promote Business and Growth what step he be take with Cabinet colleague to help promote business in Northern Ireland . what step his Department be take to help grow the Northern Ireland economy . Northern Ireland be a great place to live , work and invest . that be something the Secretary of State and I have promote in our over 120 visit and meeting . growth be a key mission of this Government , which be why we be support UK business through secure further investment and through our industrial strategy . the Chancellor will set out the step this Government be take to support growth across the UK on 30 October . business in Northern Ireland be struggle to operate in a constantly shift regulatory environment that be deter investment and decrease business confidence . it be no wonder that a third of UK business want the Government to reduce Brexit - relate barrier , such as custom procedure , accord to a recent survey by Santander . a starting point would be agricultural trade . will the Minister update the House on progress in negotiate a new veterinary and plant health agreement with the European Union ? many business have secure excellent deal in Northern Ireland , include EY , which be bring over 1 , 000 job ; Wrightbus , at its bus factory in Ballymena ; and Hannon Pharma Link . we be work at pace on a veterinary agreement . we want to reduce check and the need for check , do all that we can to protect the UK ' s internal market . this government have bring in economic stability in place of the economic chaos we see up until now , and Northern Ireland business will benefit from that . it be all very well talk about an industrial strategy , but economist agree that increase national insurance contribution for employer reduce profit , reduce pay and lead to few job . do the Minister agree that if the Government decide to raise taxis , perhaps to fund union pay rise , then employer national insurance contribution would be the last tax to choose if they want to support Northern Ireland ' s economy ? it be hard to take lecture from the conservative party on investment and growth . we have have a change election . we will be invest in growth . the hon . Member have only a week to wait to listen to what will be happen in the Budget . in the meantime , we be go at pace . the international investment summit bring in considerable investment for company base in Northern Ireland . we be move on with our industrial strategy , Invest 2035 . we be invest in skill and get people into work , and transform our health service . that be essential so that people will want to come to Northern Ireland because of good health service , and so that they will be well enough to work . all of that be a package for investment in Northern Ireland . I call the Chair of the Northern Ireland Affairs Committee . at last week ' s international investment summit , the Prime Minister and the Chancellor announce a total of £ 63 billion of private investment into the UK economy . what step be the Secretary of State and the Minister take to ensure Northern Ireland be at the forefront of this Government ' s effort to stimulate the investment that be need ? the Secretary of State go to the international summit with the First and Deputy First Ministers and they be all work together on this . the Ballymena bus manufacturer , Wrightbus , recently sign a deal worth £ 100 billion to supply more than 1 , 000 bus to go - ahead . [ Official Report , 24 October 2024 ; Vol . 755 , c . 6wc . ] ( Correction ) that show real business confidence in Northern Ireland . we be also focus on the skill gap . I have meet wonderful skill provider across Northern Ireland to talk about how we can get people into well - pay job and to achieve fast growth . it be good to hear from the Minister about the work be do to close the skill gap . can she provide further example of that work and lie out her intention for the future ? my hon . friend be right to raise the issue of the skill gap and economic inactivity in Northern Ireland . I have meet wonderful skill provider across Northern Ireland , such as the Rural Women ' s Network , Bolster Community , the Superstars Club , Disability Action Northern Ireland , Ulster University and the King ' s Trust . a wealth of work be be do on good skill support , and we in the UK Government want to work with the Northern Ireland Executive to continue to provide support in that area . a reliable , bespoke skill offer be essential to futureproof Northern Ireland ' s key growth sector . I call the shadow Minister . the Minister talk about growth , but the Mid South West region growth deal , which be pause by this government , now lie inactive with no direction , and there be report that much - need private sector business involvement be now withdraw . will the Minister accept that this Government ' s handle and pausing of these growth deal be haphazard ? will she apologise to the people affect and enter urgent direct talk with business to get this deal back off the ground ? the Secretary of State and I be in constant talk about such deal and with the deal provider . I know the value of these deal not just to the region affect , but across Northern Ireland . however , the Government face a £ 22 billion black hole , and it be right that the Treasury consider all option on the table to address that . we will find out more in the Budget next week . the Mid South West and the Causeway Coast and Glens growth deal be be consider as part of the spending review , and the Government will continue to work closely with the deal ' partner and the Executive . the Secretary of State and I will continue to underline the importance of these deal to my ministerial colleague in the Treasury . I call the leader of the Democratic Unionist party . we look forward to a positive conclusion to those discussion next week . as the Minister know , both representative from the Mid South West region growth deal and the Causeway Coast and Glens growth deal be in Westminster today . will the Minister acknowledge that , in work with business and in try to encourage great trade within our own country , the appointment of a chair of Intertrade UK be an important first step , but work need to start , the term of reference need to be set and business need to be able to engage with that body establish to support trade within our country ? I agree with the right hon . member that Intertrade UK need to get go with its work to encourage investment between all of the region and nation of the UK . it be very important to set the term of reference , and we be work with the organisation as fast as we can now that the chair be in their place I thank the Minister for her reply . she will know from discussion with her Cabinet colleague that decision have be take to delay the agreement on parcel , to delay the agreement on custom , and to avoid take the decision on UK - wide labelling . myriad other decision be also make and support by this House , include Labour Members , that be require to be implement from the " safeguard the Union " document . she will know about the interface between trade and constitutional politic , so I urge she to engage with the Secretary of State , the Paymaster General and other within the Cabinet to get on and deliver what business and the people of Northern Ireland need ? we be not the only Ministers who come into office three month ago to have face all sort of decision that should have be take by the previous Government . we have take up those decision on parcel and on every aspect that the right hon . member mention . he be right to raise they , because we do need to work on they to ensure that we protect the UK internal market and that we create the good possible regime for business . Windsor Framework : travel with Pets what assessment he have make with Cabinet colleague of the potential impact of the Windsor Framework ( Non - Commercial Movement of Pet Animals ) Regulations 2024 on people travel with pet from Great Britain to Northern Ireland . the statutory instrument for the Northern Ireland pet travel scheme have now be lay . the scheme significantly reduce the requirement associate with the original Northern Ireland protocol and provide a stable and long - term arrangement for those travel with their pet within the UK . when the grip of EU law control even the movement of our pet within the United Kingdom , be it not clear that we have go far too far in regard Northern Ireland as EU territory ? for that be the reason for this absurd regulation , which , at the behest of the EU , impose pet passport if a person want to bring their pet from GB to Northern Ireland . there be no point the Secretary of State say that it could have be bad ; they should not exist at all . when will this Government get the EU off our back and liberate the people of Northern Ireland and our pet from EU diktat ? as I hope the hon . Gentleman be aware , Northern Ireland pet owner will not face any check and will not be require to hold a pet travel document . in discuss this matter , there be an obligation on he and all of we to ensure that we present the fact , so that people be not unnecessarily trouble . I call the shadow Secretary of State . the Executive ' s draft programme for government acknowledge that police number in Northern Ireland be at an all - time low , a situation that Chief Constable Boutcher have describe as dangerous . the draft programme commit to increase number in line with New Decade , New Approach . be the Secretary of State convince that the budget sustainability plan be sufficient to achieve that aim ? Order . I be not sure that fit with the question . I be intend to ask a supplementary to question 4 . well , I think we will wait then . let we move on . I call Dr Lauren Sullivan . question 4 , Mr Speaker . [ Laughter . ] budget sustainability Plan whether he have have discussion with the Northern Ireland Executive on the budget sustainability plan . whether he have have discussion with the Northern Ireland Executive on the budget sustainability plan . whether he have have discussion with the Northern Ireland Executive on the budget sustainability plan . where be we , Mr Speaker ? I welcome the publication of the Northern Ireland Executive ' s budget sustainability plan — a positive and necessary step towards sustainable public finance — and the Chief Secretary to the Treasury have agree with the Northern Ireland Finance Minister that discussion over a long - term fiscal framework for Northern Ireland can now begin . do the Secretary of State agree that to ensure sustainable finance the Northern Ireland Executive need to take step to reform the NHS and public service ? I share my hon . friend ' s view . as the House will be aware , people in Northern Ireland face the long waiting list in the whole United Kingdom , and all government , include the Northern Ireland Executive , have to balance the money come in and the fund that they can raise , and take decision about public service reform . I be very encouraged by the recent event organise by the Northern Ireland Health Minister , which Dr Bengoa , who produce a report on reform in Northern Ireland , return to Northern Ireland to attend , because there be now a commitment to take forward that process . what impact do the Secretary of State think that the UK leave the european convention on human right would have on the sustainability of Northern Ireland ' s finance and devolve government ? give that the european convention on human right be one of the foundation of the Good Friday agreement , I be frankly astonish that anyone who aspire to lead his Majesty ' s opposition should suggest that our country should leave the echr . it would be utterly irresponsible . I commend all those who work to re - establish devolved government early this year at Stormont . it be now vital that the Northern Ireland Executive ensure that they have sustainable finance . do the Secretary of State agree that revenue raising by the Northern Ireland Executive have an important part to play in deliver financial sustainability and stability to Northern Ireland ? I do . indeed , raise £ 113 million be part of the deal that the last Government put in place as part of the £ 3 . 3 billion package that lead to the restoration — well , that follow the restoration of the Executive . that include deliver a balanced budget in the current year , and I be very encouraged by the statement of the Northern Ireland Finance Minister in that regard . the budget sustainability plan be commendable , but do the Secretary of State agree that our public service be in crisis ? our road be crumble , we have the long health waiting list in the whole of the UK , and our school need investment . Northern Ireland need to be in receipt of a fair long - term funding allocation , base on Treasury need . will he confirm to the House that he be make the case for that to the Treasury for the people of Northern Ireland ? Northern Ireland ' s great spending need be recognise . the Northern Ireland Fiscal Council be establish to answer the question of what that additional funding should be , and it come to the conclusion that the figure should be 124 % , which will be meet this year in respect of the budget . the interim fiscal framework also say that if further credible source come along suggest that the figure should be different , the Government would undertake to look at that . but nothing take away from the Executive ' s responsibility to manage the budget that they have , and to take decision , include on reform . do the Secretary of State agree that the budget resource for the Northern Ireland Justice Minister be extremely short and that we be not able to recruit enough Police Service of Northern Ireland officer , and have he have any discussion with the Justice Minister about resolve that problem ? as the hon . Member will be aware , decision about the allocation of the Northern Ireland budget rest with the Northern Ireland Executive . fund go to the Justice Minister , who then decide principally how much to pass on to the police board for police cost and how much to deal with the justice system and the prison , which be also under pressure . I recognise the pressure that psni officer face , not least because I meet a number of those who be injure in the recent disorder . I call the shadow Secretary of State . it be very generous of you to call I again , Mr Speaker . the Executive ' s draft programme for government acknowledge that police number in Northern Ireland be at an all - time low , a situation that the chief constable have describe as dangerous . the draft programme commit to increase number in line with New Decade , New Approach . be the Secretary of State convince that the budget sustainability plan be sufficient to achieve that aim ? the hon . Gentleman raise an important point , as we discuss just a moment ago . I recognise the pressure on the psni , but it fall to the Executive to decide how much to allocate , from the fund available to they , to police and other public service in Northern Ireland . if they wish to allocate more , they be in a position to do so , but it involve make a choice . the Secretary of State be of course right that police in Northern Ireland be a devolved matter , but national security be not . if we look at police number right now , which be at an all - time low , we be remind that his party ' s manifesto make explicit commitment to improve public service in Northern Ireland . will the Government commit to ensure that police in Northern Ireland be sufficient to keep the people of Northern Ireland safe and maintain national security , and to protect the additional security funding of £ 32 million a year that come direct from his Majesty ' s Treasury ? on the latter point , the hon . Gentleman just have to wait a week to see what the Budget produce . I simply say to he that the PSNI , the security service and other do an outstanding job in protect the people of Northern Ireland from terrorist threat , and we should all support they in that endeavour . I call the liberal Democrat spokesperson . the budget sustainability plan highlight that Northern Ireland have be systemically underfunde , with the fiscal council estimate an annual shortfall of between £ 300 million and £ 400 million since 2022 . meanwhile , the Northern Ireland Executive report a £ 559 million overspend between 2022 and 2024 . what measure be the Government take to address Northern Ireland ' s immediate budgetary pressure , ensure long - term financial stability and equitable funding , and , crucially , guarantee sustainable public service ? in addition to the £ 3 . 3 billion package that follow the restoration of the Executive , the Executive gain £ 185 million in July when the main estimate be publish . in order to avoid have to repay the debt that the hon . member refer to , they have to put their finance on a sustainable path , deliver a balanced budget , and raise the additional £ 130 million revenue to which they commit when the deal be do . the fiscal council ' s view be that 124 % be the right funding . barrier to Trade what step he be take with Cabinet colleague to remove barrier to trade between Northern Ireland and Great Britain . the Government be commit to implement the Windsor framework in good faith , and to protect Northern Ireland ' s place in the UK internal market . we continue to take forward policy set out in " safeguard the Union " , include most recently the establishment of the independent monitoring panel and the publication of guidance under section 46 of the United Kingdom Internal Market Act 2020 . there be some concern regard the supply of medicine to Northern Ireland . the British Generic Manufacturers Association say that there be an " absurd situation " in which there will be shortage due to the bureaucracy of the " UK only " labelling require for medicine go into Northern Ireland . the Government say that they be relaxed that the deadline will be meet . be the Secretary of State relax about the continue supply of medicine come into Northern Ireland ? it be really important that the medicine that be require continue to be supply . the industry have have quite a period in which to make arrangement to ensure that the labelling rule be meet . I hope that , in the time available , those company that have not do so will do so . Windsor Framework : Labelling Requirements what discussion he have have with Cabinet colleague on implement the Windsor framework labelling requirement set out in his Department ' s Command Paper entitle " safeguard the Union " , publish on 31 January 2024 . have carefully consider the result of the consultation with industry , the Government decide not to proceed with the introduction of mandatory " not for EU " labelling in Great Britian from 1 October 2024 . instead , we will take the power necessary to apply " not for EU " labelling in the future , if that be require to secure supply in Northern Ireland . the result of the Northern Ireland protocol , sign by the previous Government , have be to create an economic border between Northern Ireland and Great Britain , and the imposition of EU law , which have create a problem for the supply of good to Northern Ireland . when in opposition , Labour support the idea of food labelling as a way of avoid an interruption in the supply of food good from GB to Northern Ireland , so why have the Government renege on that promise , and what will be the trigger for its imposition if need ? the consultation on UK - wide labelling lead the industry to say that such labelling would impose huge cost on industry , and therefore on consumer , through raise good price . the aim be to ensure that good be not delist in Northern Ireland . that be why we be take a power to ensure that if there be any evidence of that happen , the labelling requirement set out in " safeguard the Union " can be apply , include on individual product on a sectoral basis . I do not come back to Josh Newbury after Question 5 , so he will ask his supplementary question now . business in my constituency tell I that they face increase red tape and cost when import from or export to Northern Ireland . can the Secretary of State confirm that he be committed to unfettered access for good move from Northern Ireland to Great Britian ? I certainly can confirm that , and it be set out in the United Kingdom Internal Market Act 2020 . violence against Women and girl what discussion he have have with the Northern Ireland Executive on violence against woman and girl in Northern Ireland . I congratulate my hon . friend on her new role as leader of the Social Democratic and Labour party , and I thank she for raise this important issue . seven woman and girl have be kill violently in Northern Ireland this year alone . that be devastating . I have discuss the importance of action on violence against woman and girl with the First Minister and the Deputy First Minister , and I welcome the Northern Ireland Executive make it a priority in their programme for Government , as well as the new strategic framework . Mary Ward in my constituency become the fourth woman to be murder in just six week in Northern Ireland . it remain one of the most dangerous place in Europe to be a woman , with a femicide rate twice that of Britain . we need to think deeply about the type of society that we have create , and that be manifest in this way . the recent publication of the Northern Ireland strategy on violence against woman be overdue and very welcome . do the Minister agree that the funding and human resource attach to that strategy must be proportionate to the urgency and the deep root of the issue ? will she support the Executive as they review the sentencing and judicial process that be contribute to these very preventable death ? my thought be with the family and friend , and all those affect by the murder of Mary Ward . every woman deserve to feel safe . there be what have be call an epidemic of violence against woman and girl in Northern Ireland . I join my hon . friend in welcome the new strategy . we need strong action by the justice system and more support for frontline service in order to tackle harassment wherever it be — in home , school , workplace , and on our street . we need to challenge and change misogynistic attitude and behaviour . that will need urgent action , and we work together , and this Government stand ready to do that . psni : surveillance Powers whether he have have discussion with the Police Service of Northern Ireland on its use of surveillance power . I meet regularly with the Chief Constable and his team to discuss a range of issue . while the Chief Constable have operational independence , the Investigatory Powers Commissioner ' s Office provide oversight of those power to ensure that their use be necessary , proportionate and in accordance with the law . at a recent hearing of the Investigatory Powers Tribunal , it become apparent that the Northern Ireland police force have be catch surveille journalist ' telephone on the basis that they have receive secret document from whistleblower . the reason for the secrecy of those document be to cover up the embarrassment of the Royal Ulster Constabulary about its handling of the Loughinisland massacre . will the Secretary of State meet I to discuss the future use of surveillance power by the Northern Ireland police ? I be indeed aware of the background to this case . the original search warrant be quash and the police investigation be discontinue . as the right hon . Gentleman know , the Investigatory Powers Tribunal be currently look at this case , and it would not be appropriate for I to comment while that be ongoing . the Chief Constable have set up the McCullough review to look at the wide issue , and the right hon . Gentleman may well wish to make representation to that review . Prime Minister the Prime Minister be ask — Engagements if he will list his official engagement for Wednesday 23 October . I have be ask to reply , as my right hon . and learn Friend the Prime Minister be in Samoa to discuss share opportunity in the Commonwealth , include how we work together to deliver economic growth . with increase threat face Britain , it be vital that we also strengthen defence , security and co - operation with our ally . that be why today , this Government sign a landmark defence agreement with Germany that will help keep we safe and create hundred of job . I know the whole House will join I in send our good wish to Sir Chris Hoy and his wife Sarra . he be a true sporting legend , and the courage and positivity they have show will inspire many other . I also send our condolence to those affect by the train crash in Powys . this morning , I have have meeting with ministerial colleague and other . in addition to my duty in this House , I shall have further such meeting later today . for 14 year , my constituent in Newcastle - under - Lyme have to suffer flatline wage , in - work poverty , and a bust economy that serve nobody . can I urge the Deputy Prime Minister to use the Employment Rights Bill to turn the page on the last 14 year , give our business the support they need , and finally restore dignity , prosperity and opportunity to the good people of Newcastle - under - Lyme ? I thank my hon . friend for his question and welcome he to his place . when this Government take office , we promise the big upgrade to worker ' right in a generation — a new deal for work people . we say that we would introduce a Bill within the first 100 day , and we have keep that promise . this be a Labour Government lead by work people for work people . I call the deputy Leader of the Opposition . I join the Deputy Prime Minister in pay tribute to the bravery of Sir Chris Hoy — he truly be an inspiration to we all . I also echo her comment about the train crash in Powys . what be the Deputy Prime Minister ' s definition of work people ? let I start by welcome the right hon . gentleman to his new place . today be our first exchange since he push for a July general election , and if his own side have not offer he a peerage , I certainly would have . the definition of " work people " be the people who the Tory party have fail for the past 14 year . the Deputy Prime Minister stand on a manifesto promise not to raise taxis on work people . it now appear that she can not even define who work people be , so I will give she another go . there be 5 million small business owner in this country ; be they work people ? I do not know how the shadow Deputy Prime Minister can stand there with a straight face when it be the small business — the work people of this country — that pay the price of the Conservatives crash the economy , send interest rate soar . I think he need to learn his own lesson in opposition . I think the whole House will have hear the Deputy Prime Minister disregard 5 million hard - work small business owner . these be the publican , the shopkeeper , the family run a local caf é . none of those count as work people to she . labour give a clear commitment not to raise national insurance . the independent Institute for Fiscal Studies have give its view on this . it say that raise employer national insurance be " a tax … on work people . " even the Chancellor say that raise employer national insurance be a " job tax " that will " make each new recruit more expensive and increase the cost to business " . so do the Deputy Prime Minister agree with the IFS and her own Chancellor ? I remember what the Conservatives say to business . what be it ? " Eff business " , whereas this party hold an international investment summit last week , which put about £ 63 billion into our economy . we be pro - business , pro - worker and get on with fix the mess that they leave behind . I think we can take it from that answer that the Deputy Prime Minister do not agree with the IFS , and I suppose it should not come as a surprise that she do not agree with her Chancellor , but do she agree with this : " work people will pay … when employer pass on the hike in national insurance " ? those be her word , so do she at least agree with herself ? what I be incredibly proud of be that this week , this Government bring in a new employment Bill that will raise the living standard of 10 million worker . would the shadow Deputy Prime Minister like to apologise for the hike in taxis — they be at a 70 - year high — that he put on work people , the crashing of the economy and the disaster that he leave behind ? the Deputy Prime Minister mention her policy . let we be clear : it be a £ 5 billion hit to the british economy , and that be her own assessment . follow these answer , there will be million of work people even more worried about the tax rise come their way in next week ' s Budget . however , as this be our last exchange across the Dispatch Box , I would like to turn to somebody I hope we can all agree be a hard - work person — his Majesty the King . will the Deputy Prime Minister join I in send he well wish ahead of the Commonwealth summit in Samoa ? in particular , will she confirm that this Government recognise the unique role play by the Commonwealth , and will she commit to deepen that relationship , so that , under his Majesty ' s leadership , we build upon possibly the great legacy of the late queen ? I will miss our exchange — the battle of the ginger , the late night vote — and in that spirit , I will agree with my right hon . friend . the King do a tremendous job , and so do the late queen . the Commonwealth be very important , and that be why the King and the Prime Minister be work together at the moment . I thank the right hon . Lady for that answer . our Commonwealth family be bring together by historical and cultural tie — indeed , much like the pair of we . [ interruption . ] I will resist the temptation to replicate that . as we look to the Commonwealth ' s future , we have the opportunity to deepen our economic relationship . will she assure the House that the Prime Minister will use the summit to continue the work , begin by the last government , of build deep economic tie with our Commonwealth friend and ally ? we talk about economic ; the architect of the 2024 Tory general election campaign be do his victory lap before retire with the hereditary peer that he fight so hard to protect . he leave behind a Tory party in utter denial — head in the sand , refuse to accept their rejection by the british public . their plan for Britain include scrap the minimum wage , cut maternity pay and tax break for the big oil company . this Labour Government be elect — [ interruption . ] order . Dr Evans , you have get a sore neck ; I wish a little that it be your throat . Tory member do not like to hear it , but this Labour Government be elect to end the Tory chaos , and that be exactly what we be do , with £ 600 more in the pocket of insecure worker , 30 , 000 new dad give paternity leave and 10 million work people well off . while their so - call leadership candidate argue about what go wrong , this Labour Government be get on with rebuild Britain . I , like many mp , have hear many heart - rend story of constituent who have have poor end - of - life support . have palliative care be available alongside an end - of - life plan , their experience could have be so different . will the Deputy Prime Minister agree to set up a commission for palliative and end - of - life care , so that everyone can access the very good support when terminally ill and have a peaceful and dignified death , and will she meet to discuss that ? I thank my hon . friend for raise what be an emotive subject for member on both side of the House . from my work in this area before I be in this place , I know what incredible work this be , and what an honour it be to be there for somebody at the end of their life . discussion have begin on how to improve access to palliative and end - of - life care , and I will ensure that my hon . friend get a meeting with the relevant Minister to discuss this issue . I call the deputy leader of the Liberal Democrats . may I associate myself and the Liberal Democrats with the Deputy Prime Minister ' s remark about Chris Hoy , and about all those involve in the train crash ? our NHS be brace itself for a winter crisis . one of the cause of the winter crisis every year be that there be thousand of people in hospital who be fit to go home , but who can not be discharge because there be not the care worker in place to enable people to recover at home or in a care home . will the Deputy Prime Minister consider the Liberal Democrats ’ idea of an NHS winter taskforce to winter - proof our NHS , end the cycle of the winter crisis , and put to an end the scandal of hospital patient pay the price of the social care crisis leave by the Conservatives ? I thank the hon . Lady for her comment , and I share her desire to ensure that care worker be give the respect and importance that they deserve . they be critical to solve the problem in our national health service . the Labour party will create a national care service , and we be launch our first ever fair pay agreement for care professional to boost recruitment and retention . we must get the NHS back on its foot after the disaster of the Conservatives , and my right hon . friend the Chancellor will have more to say on that in the Budget . I thank the Deputy Prime Minister for her answer . we stand ready , as a party of constructive opposition , to work with the Government to fix our social care system . however , a measure that could make it hard for we to keep the carer that we so desperately need would be an increase in employer ' national insurance contribution . be that measure to go ahead , it would affect million of small business , include 18 , 000 small care provider . will the Deputy Prime Minister assure the House that nothing in the Budget will make it hard for vulnerable people to access the care worker and the care that they desperately need ? again , I will not speculate on the Budget , not least with the Chancellor sit beside I . to reiterate what the Chancellor and the Prime Minister have say , this Budget will recognise that work people of this country and enterprise in this country have be hard - hit by 14 year of the Conservatives . we will rebuild Britain , and we will grow our economy to pay for our public service . next year mark the 200th anniversary of the Stockton to Darlington railway , but the rail industry in my area be in peril . hundred of job be at risk at Hitachi Rail as a consequence of a lack of action from the previous Government . will the Deputy Prime Minister join I and our hon . friend the Member for Newton Aycliffe and Spennymoor ( Alan Strickland ) , along with worker , management and trade union , in ensure that no stone be leave unturned as we fight for the future of the Hitachi rail factory ? I welcome my hon . friend to his place . he have be a champion for worker at Newton Aycliffe from day one . I know he have meet the Transport Secretary , and I can assure he that we be in close contact with Hitachi on operation to secure a sustainable future for Newton Aycliffe . we be committed to a long - term industrial strategy for roll stock , seek to support british manufacturing and end the volatility of recent year . in the spirit of today ' s cross - party working , will the Deputy Prime Minister join I in applaud the brave Labour staff member who travel across the Atlantic to campaign against Donald Trump ? I be love this love - in ; I do not often get it . what I will say to the right hon . Gentleman be that people in their own time often go and campaign , and that be what we have see . it happen in all political party — people go and campaign , and they do what they want to do in their own time with their own money . like many in my constituency of Cowdenbeath and Kirkcaldy , my family know what it mean to raise and support a disabled child . charity such as the Yard in Kirkcaldy do an amazing job provide vital additional help for disabled child and their family . last month , a survey find that our country be so broken that three quarter of parent of child with special educational need and disability have be force to give up work or cut their hour . do the Deputy Prime Minister agree that our Labour Government must tackle this intolerable reality ? I absolutely agree with my hon . friend , and I pay tribute to those who work with child with special educational need and disability . I myself have my amazing son , who do tremendously well give the challenge he have face in life . I know from personal experience that the system be just not work for child and family . future funding decision will need to be take as part of the upcoming spending review , but we will work with the sector to deliver our share mission and restore parent ' trust . just three month into this Labour Government , we have see brutal cut to support for pensioner and the taxing of education , and just this week we have see £ 5 billion of additional pressure put on british business . why do this Government have such a problem with aspiration ? the hon . member might not have be in this place — I welcome he to his place now — in the last Parliament , but it be his Government who leave the £ 22 billion black hole , his Government who leave we with the big housing crisis , his Government who crash the economy and his government who see inflation go to 11 % , where pensioner be bad off than they be now . I watch in horror and condemn the act of 7 October by the terrorist group Hamas . a year later , I watch in horror as 42 , 000 people be kill in Gaza , 11 , 000 of they child . People have be burn alive attach to drip , aid worker have be kill and now family be starve . our right hon . friend the Prime Minister have say that the world will not stand by and see the lack of humanitarian assistance . if the israeli Government will not listen to our Prime Minister ' s word , what tangible , measurable action will we take as the UK Government ? I thank my hon . friend for raise this serious and important issue . the humanitarian situation in northern Gaza be dire . we need an immediate ceasefire , much more aid allow to flow in and an immediate release of all the hostage . we have suspend UK export licence to Israel for item that might be use in the current conflict . the Government have conclude that there be a clear risk that item export to Israel might be use in serious violation of international humanitarian law in Gaza . that do not change our position of steadfast support for Israel ' s security , but we will always do so in a manner consistent with our obligation under domestic and international law . our child protection service have have to deal with a number of case where parent and carer have argue that their fatal action be lawful punishment . will the Deputy Prime Minister bring forward legislation bring the rest of our country into line with Scotland and Wales , so that all child enjoy unambiguous protection in law against violence ? the hon . Gentleman raise a very important point . I will ensure that the Minister have a meeting with he . the first job of any Government be to protect their citizen and that include our child . we will make sure we work across the House to deliver that . last Friday be International Menopause Day and the Government announce Mariella Frostrup as the new menopause employment ambassador . Mariella will be work across Whitehall to ensure every Department recognise the need to support woman through their menopausal year . hopefully , the Deputy Prime Minister will join I in celebrate that appointment , and confirm that this Government will do all they can to keep menopausal woman happy , healthy and wonderful . absolutely , and I thank my hon . friend for all her work in this area . this government will boost protection for woman experience menopause symptom at work and I be proud that we have appoint Mariella Frostrup as the new menopause employment ambassador . she be a powerful champion who will work with employer across the country to raise awareness and improve workplace support for woman , and help they to stay in work and progress in their career . Charlie from my constituency be an eight - year - old boy with an autism diagnosis who have be out of school for almost a year . he be one of 1 , 800 child in Surrey miss school because of a lack of appropriate special educational need provision . will the Government commit to end this scandal by properly fund special educational need provision in next week ' s Budget , so that child like Charlie , in my constituency of Esher and Walton and beyond , be no long let down ? I thank the hon . member for her very important question . I be sorry to hear about what Charlie and many other child with special educational need have go through . we inherit a really dire situation and many member across the House have raise this issue . I be sure the Chancellor have hear what she have say about the upcoming Budget . this morning we wake to more tragic news of death in the channel , something we be hear far too often . just last month , we see the death of a pregnant woman and child — child , Mr Speaker . what be the Government do to take on the evil smuggling gang who be trade in human misery ? I thank my hon . friend and welcome he , and his expertise in the National Crime Agency , to this place . he know that we inherit an asylum system in chaos . as he rightly say , these be people — woman and child . we be put in place a credible plan to protect our border and remove those with no right to be here by set up our border security command , back by £ 75 million of investment . we be work with our international partner to target and disrupt the criminal smuggling gang . I call the Father of the House . will the Government please continue to work closely with I and West Lindsey district council to ensure that RAF Scampton be sell off in a timely fashion at a fair price , so that we secure the future of the runway , the spaceport and the heritage centre , rather than maximise value and cover it with housing ? I thank the right hon . Gentleman , the Father of the House , for his question . my right hon . friend the Home Secretary be take urgent action to clear the backlog of case and reduce the use of asylum accommodation , save million for taxpayer . I will ensure that he be keep fully update as the Scampton decommissioning and disposal process be follow . in my constituency , hundred of leaseholder , tenant and share owner be live in property with cladding and other defect . around the country , there be thousand . their life be on hold . many be face bankruptcy and delaying have child , unable to move . we have have another change in ministerial responsibility . will the Deputy Prime Minister take a personal lead on keep on top of this issue , as year since Grenfell people be still live in limbo and need some hope of change ? I thank my hon . friend for her important question . let I say from the outset that the pace of remediation have be too slow . I do take a personal lead : seven year on from the Grenfell Tower tragedy , it be unacceptable that so many building still have unsafe cladding . I be meet developer , mayor , regulator and national building safety body to press the urgency of this work , and I will ensure that action be be take to make home safe . Shropshire ' s farmer have be suffer from flooding follow 18 month of incredibly wet weather , top off last Wednesday by a month ' s worth of rain in 24 hour . they be not eligible for the farming recovery fund , and a freedom of information request by find that only £ 2 . 1 million of that £ 50 million have be hand out to farmer . will the Government consider extend the eligibility of that scheme so that we can keep farmer go when they be deluge by floodwater ? I be really sorry to hear the plight of Shropshire farmer . we inherit the flood defence programme in disrepair , and thank to 14 year of mismanagement and failure , community be unprotected and family and business be force to pay the price . we launch a flood defence taskforce to turbocharge the delivery and co - ordination of flood defence , and we be invest £ 1 . 5 billion this year to scale up flood national resilience . I will ensure that the hon . Lady get a meeting with the Minister . [ Official Report , 21 November 2024 ; Vol . 757 , c . 4wc . ] ( Correction ) the Government have deliver on their manifesto commitment to introduce the Employment Rights Bill . it include a historic fair pay agreement for care worker , which will benefit all those who care for old and disabled adult such as those in my constituency . do the Deputy Prime Minister agree that care worker deserve pay and condition that match the amazing work they do to support our love one to have a fulfil life ? I welcome my hon . friend to her place . as a biased former care worker , I will always champion carer and the complex quality and professional work that they do . I absolutely agree that care worker deserve the pay and condition to match their enormous contribution to our community . I be proud to say that we be deliver that fair pay agreement that will give carer the recognition that they deserve , and I will ensure that those carer be able to deliver the good possible care to our loved one . last month , a widely report study from Aston Business School show that UK good export to the EU be 27 % down , and import be 32 % low than they would otherwise have be , thank to the Conservatives ' fail Brexit deal . will the Deputy Prime Minister tell I what step the Government be take as part of their reset with the EU to cut Brexit red tape for small business , to help our economy get grow again ? I welcome the hon . member to his place . he be right to advocate for small business , which be the backbone of our economy . this government be turn the page on the relationship with Europe , reinvigorate alliance and forge new partnership rather than reopen the division of the past . we will improve the UK ' s trade and investment relationship with the EU , tear down unnecessary barrier to trade . that will not involve rejoin the single market and custom union or introduce freedom of movement , but we will make that relationship well . some 27 , 000 people in the Cities of London and Westminster live in the private rent sector . after 14 year of neglect and delay , they face damp and mould in their home , and risk no - fault eviction and out - of - the - blue rent hike . do the Deputy Prime Minister agree that the Renters ' right Bill currently in Committee will transform the life of private renter and finally rebalance power between tenant and landlord ? I welcome my hon . friend to her place . I be incredibly proud of the Renters ' right Bill that we be push through Parliament , because too many renter be be exploit by a minority of unscrupulous landlord , unable to challenge bad practice because they could be evict at any moment . [ interruption . ] opposition Members chunter , but they promise the electorate that and fail to deliver . we will deliver . community across the country , include in Bedfordshire , recently experience widespread flooding . the village of Maulden in my constituency have experience an increase in flooding follow cumulative housing development . as the Deputy Prime Minister require community across the country to build more home , will she also ensure that those new development do not increase the flooding risk ? I welcome the hon . member to his place . we recognise the devastating impact that flooding can have . I know that the flooding Minister visit Bedfordshire in September to meet volunteer and resident . we inherit flood defence in disrepair and behind schedule . we have launch the flood resilience taskforce , and when it come to the planning reform need to deliver the 1 . 5 million home this country need , we will ensure that the right infrastructure be in place and that community be resilient . Zoe ' s Place , in the West Derby area of Liverpool , be a hospice that provide support to sick child and their family . it have be threaten with closure and have to find £ 5 million by the end of the year . do the Deputy Prime Minister agree that such hospice need to be on a statutory footing and not reliant on charitable funding ? the hospice situation in this country have face significant challenge because of the 14 year of devastation under the Conservatives . the Health Secretary have already raise these issue and know that this be of importance ; I will make sure that my hon . friend get to meet he . the Deputy Prime Minister will know that my constituency , and Lincolnshire as a whole , be the breadbasket of Britain , produce 12 % of the food consume across the entire nation , include 30 % of the vegetable and 20 % of the sugar beet . that be because of the grade 1 and 2 land in Lincolnshire , yet Lincolnshire face an invasion of giant pylon down the east coast and huge solar development . will she meet a delegation of colleague from Lincolnshire and nearby , include my right hon . friend the Member for Louth and Horncastle ( Victoria Atkins ) , my hon . friend the Member for Sleaford and North Hykeham ( Dr Johnson ) and the Father of the House , my right hon . friend the Member for Gainsborough ( Sir Edward Leigh ) , so that we can establish that energy security must never be a competitor with food security ? I thank the right hon . member for his question . he know that we launch a consultation on the national planning policy framework . we will protect agricultural land , we will ensure that we have renewable energy so we have energy security in this country , and we will get Britain build again . Independent Water Commission with permission , Mr Speaker , I would like to update the House on the action that this Government be take to fundamentally transform our water industry and clean up our waterway for good . fourteen year of conservative failure have leave our water sector in disrepair . the river , lake and sea that we all love have record level of pollution . severe drought be set to leave part of the country face significant water shortage by 2050 , particularly in the south - east , and water company forecast that England will need to find an extra 5 billion litre of water a day to fill the gap between supply and demand by that same year . a rise population and the increase impact of climate change be put strain on the water system . firmer action should have be take by the previous Government to ensure that money be invest to fix the water and sewerage system . instead , they allow that money to be siphon off for bonus while our water infrastructure crumble . a secure water supply be essential for every home and business throughout the country . it be the foundation of our economy , our community and our global security . it be essential to life itself . we use water to cool power station , and it be vital to our electricity supply . we use water to grow the crop that provide the food on our plate , and we use it to supply our leisure industry . without a resilient water supply , we can not build the new home and critical infrastructure that we need to grow the economy . concern about pollution , water shortage , bill increase and the sector ' s financial resilience all point to the need for profound change . the water sector need a complete reset , with a reform water sector work in partnership with Government to bring in the investment we need . we need a clear long - term plan to ensure that the sector put customer and the environment first and can attract investment to upgrade our infrastructure . we need a water system fit for the future . we can not clean up our river , lake and sea overnight , but we have a plan , and the work of change have start . on 11 July , I make a statement to the House on the agreement that I reach with water company and Ofwat to ringfence money earmark for investment in water infrastructure so that it can no long be divert for shareholder payout and undeserved bonus payment . on 9 September , we introduce the Water ( Special Measures ) Bill , which set out new measure , include measure strengthen regulation to ensure that water boss face personal criminal liability for serious and repeat lawbreaking ; give the water regulator new power to ban the payment of bonus if environmental standard be not meet ; and boost accountability for water executive through a new code of conduct . today , I be pleased to announce the third stage of our plan . together with the Welsh Government , we be launch an independent commission that will lead the big review of the water industry since privatisation 35 year ago . the commission will ensure that we have the robust regulatory framework that we need to attract the significant investment that be require to clean up our waterway , build new infrastructure to address water scarcity , and restore public confidence in the sector . I be delighted that it will be lead by the former deputy governor of the Bank of England , Sir Jon Cunliffe , who have decade of economic and regulatory experience . Sir Jon will be support by an advisory group of expert cover area such as the environment , public health , engineering , customer , investor and economic . he will seek advice from wide group of stakeholder include environmental campaigner , consumer champion , water company , regulator and the public at large . the commission will conduct a root - and - branch review of the water sector ' s regulatory system . it will cover the water industry in England and Wales and the strategic planning framework under the water framework directive and river basin management plan to ensure that strategic water planning across sector be effective at catchment , regional and national scale . where housing , planning , agriculture and drainage interlink with strategic planning across the water system , they be also in scope . the commission will set a new framework for the future . it will not make recommendation that affect the current price review ' 24 process , in order to ensure that there be a stable climate for investment as that process conclude . it will be pragmatic and will focus on reform that improve the privatised regulatory model . nationalisation of the water sector will not be in scope , because of the high cost of buy out the current owner , lack of evidence that it would lead to improvement , and the long delay that it would cause in the process of clean up polluted water and serve customer well . the commission will make recommendation in the first half of 2025 , report to I as Environment Secretary and to the Deputy First Minister and Cabinet Secretary for Climate Change and Rural Affairs in Wales . once it have make its recommendation , the UK and Welsh Governments will respond and consult on proposal , include subsequent legislation . further detail of the commission ' s scope , delivery , approach and timeline be set out in its term of reference , which will be available on gov . uk today . this government will deliver an ambitious , long - term and collaborative approach to reform the water sector , create a strong new partnership between Government , water company , customer , investor and all those who work to protect our precious environment . the commission will set the groundwork for the reform water sector that we want to see . I thank Sir Jon for lead this important work . this be our opportunity to ensure that our child , and their child , have the chance to create memory that will last a lifetime — to splash about at the seaside , row on our river or enjoy a picnic on the lake shore . this be our opportunity to inject billion of pound into the economy and to power UK growth by attract global investment into a transform water sector . this be our opportunity to clean up our water once and for all . I call the shadow Minister . I thank the Secretary of State for prior sight of his statement . fourteen year in opposition — and this be what the Labour party have to offer . Labour Members have have more than a decade to craft a clear package of policy , listen to campaigner and prepare to govern , yet what they have bring to the House today illustrate no sign of any ambition . this be a sign of hesitation . it be a way to delay the difficult decision and buy themselves more time . it be part of a grow trend that unfortunately we be see consistently from this new Labour Government , across all Departments : announce a review , a taskforce and yet another commission , and hope the public do not notice that really they never have much of a plan at all . that approach be simply not go to wash with the bill payer . before the election , the Secretary of State tour the country with campaigner like Feargal Sharkey , promise radical change to the sector . he be now in power , and what have he actually achieve so far ? he spend the entire election campaign tell voter that he want to put water company boss in the dock , but we can see from the Government ' s announcement on the Water ( Special Measures ) Bill that it will achieve no such thing , as campaigner and industry expert have already point out . nor will the Bill provide any reassurance whatever for investor . rather marvellously , the Secretary of State have manage not only to frustrate campaigner , but to disenfranchise investor from any long - term aspiration to invest in the sector . the Secretary of State say that he have announce a ban on water company bonus . hang on : that be a policy that we bring forward in our time in government and that the Secretary of State be now attempt to reannounce and pass off as his own . it be the Conservatives who announce a ban on water company boss ' bonus , link shareholder dividend to environmental performance , quadruple water company inspection , fast - track investment to cut spill and launch a whistleblowing portal for water company worker to report breach . it be surprising to hear the Secretary of State claim that his Government be truly serious about this issue , when their proposal be less firm than the measure deliver by the previous Government . he could take real action right now by progress the last Conservative Administration ' s plan for an automatic ban on water company boss ' bonus when offence take place . rehash announcement already set in motion by the Conservative Government , put forward policy that will not actually put more pressure on water company boss and then simply press pause on a year - long review will not result in the widespread change that Labour promise its voter . the Secretary of State acknowledge that the announced review will make no recommendation that affect the current price review ' 24 process , mean that there will be no chance of the Government consider make any significant change until 2029 at the early . will he provide an outline of the timeframe associate with actual recommendation from the review be implement and put in place ? when be any real benefit from this further review , taskforce or commission likely to be experience , not only for the water industry , in term of infrastructure improvement , but for the bill payer and the environment ? it seem to I that the Secretary of State be just kick the can down the road with another review , another taskforce and another commission , and remove himself from any of the tough decision . the Secretary of State say that the review would have no impact on the price review ' 24 process . will he outline exactly when the positive impact will come ? by my calculation , it will not be until 2029 at the early . will he also outline the impact of the review on the measure propose in the Water ( Special Measures ) Bill ? what will be do if the recommendation do not sit comfortably with the current proposal ? one can not help conclude that the Secretary of State be out of depth on this issue , can not deliver on the tough language that he promise in the run - up to the general election and be now do nothing more than attempt to kick the tough decision down the road and into the long grass . this Secretary of State seem to be all bark and no bite . well , that be all a little bit embarrassing , wasn ' t it ? the previous Government have 14 year in power , our river , lake and sea be awash with record level of pollution , and that be all the Conservatives have to say . I take action seven day after the general election : I bring the water chief exec into my office , and we agree that money earmark for investment will be ringfence so that it can not be divert to pay multimillion - pound bonus to water chief exec who oversee failure in the water sector , as happen on the shadow Minister ' s watch . the commission will reset the sector that the Conservatives break , and clean up the water that they pollute . it will report to the Government in June and inform subsequent legislation . at the weekend , I go swim in the North sea — probably for the last time this year — have first check on the Surfers Against Sewage website that there have not be any legal or illegal spill . it be disgraceful that the last Conservative Government leave our sea and waterway in such as state , and it be notable that Water UK continuously blame the regulator for not allow it to raise price in order to invest far in our system . will the Secretary of State make sure that we assess the value extract by the water company ? they have take billion of pound in profit and hundred of million in bonus . we need to make sure that future investment add value and do not take it away . I thank my hon . friend for her comment . unfortunately , customer have be leave to pay the price of 14 year of conservative failure to secure investment in our water infrastructure , so it have collapse to such an extent that Ofwat now recommend eye - water bill increase . every penny of that be down to the failure of the conservative party . our reset will ensure that that kind of catastrophic failure can never happen again . I call the liberal Democrat spokesperson . I be grateful to the Secretary of State for advance sight of his statement . to a large degree , I welcome it — or at least the intention behind it — but water company dump 54 % more sewage into our lake , river and coastal area in 2023 than in the previous year . that amount to 464 , 000 spill , include many in the lake and river of Westmorland . my constituency be the most beautiful part of England and also the wet , so water be deeply personal to we . do the Secretary of State understand my worry that we might have go from have a Conservative Government who would not face up to this outrage or tackle it , to have a new Labour Administration who have acknowledge this outrage and decisively resolve to have a jolly good think about it ? while Thames Water crumble as we speak and water company seek bill increase of 40 % , despite such poor performance across the country , do he really think that have a commission be necessary , give the urgent need for action ? we have a fragmented , under - resource and under - power regulatory system , which allow powerful water company to play regulator off against each other while our constituent pay the price . be the solution not obvious ? as the Liberal Democrats propose , we should create a new , unified and far more powerful clean water authority . do the Secretary of State share my deep concern that the current regulator have to give 25 year ' notice in order to strip a water company of its licence for environmental failure ? will he ensure that this ludicrous protection for fail company should be replace by a six - month period of notice instead ? we be already more than 5 % of the way through this Parliament , and this issue be one of our constituent ' most press concern . do we have to drag our heel like this ? I thank the hon . gentleman for his comment . he be absolutely right to point out that last year we see the high level of sewage ever record in our river , lake and sea . no wonder the public be so angry , include in his constituency . tragically , Lake Windermere , an iconic and beautiful site , have be pollute with sewage and agricultural run - off because of the failure of the previous Government . I have take action already . we have a reset moment just seven day after the general election , when we carry out within a week thing that the Conservatives fail to do in 14 year in power . the Water ( Special Measures ) Bill be go through the Houses of Parliament right now to ban the payment of unfair bonus to water boss . the commission , lead by Sir Jon Cunliffe , will look at the entire sector — root and branch — include governance and regulation , which the hon . Gentleman point to . it will look specifically at the point that he have raise , so that we end up with a system of regulation that be fit to clean up our waterway and then to protect they for the decade to come . I thank the Secretary of State for his statement and his announcement of this important review . to have Sir Jon Cunliffe , a long - term public servant , run it be very welcome indeed . will my right hon . friend say a bit more about how the close work between the Welsh Government and the UK Government will work , because that will be important in determine how this announcement affect my constituent ? my hon . friend allude to an important point . river and water catchment be no respecter of boundary , and it be important that we have a model that work within catchment , include where they cross boundary , as they do in some case between England and Wales . the review have be jointly commission by the UK and Welsh Governments , and it will jointly report to both government . it will seek a well model for structuring and support our water sector , so that we can ensure that we clean up all our river , all our lake and all our sea ; so that the public can get back to enjoy they ; and so that we can bring in the investment to support the infrastructure , which will be deliver at pace , to drive economic growth in every single part of the United Kingdom . we come to the Chair of the Select Committee . the Secretary of State be quite right to point to the role of the payment of bonus and dividend in bring we to this point , but he must surely acknowledge that that be far from be the whole story . there be a number of business and accounting practice in company such as Thames Water that have bring we to the stage we be at today . if he be serious about have a water system that be fit for the future , he have to understand properly what have go on before . will he therefore confirm that the commission will be properly resource with the necessary forensic accounting resource , so that those who have be responsible for the most egregious practice in the past and who now seem to be appear in other water company around the country will not be allow to do the same thing there ? I thank the Chair of the Select Committee for the point that he make . of course , he be right . the Water ( Special Measures ) Bill , with its ban on bonus , will not be sufficient to reset the sector , although it be an ask that the public be rightly make because of the unfairness of people who be oversee failure be richly reward for that failure . that should not have be allow to go on under the previous Government , and it will not go on under this new Government . the reason we have set up the commission be to address the very point the right hon . Gentleman make about financial and environmental sustainability and viability . I look forward to work with he and his Committee as the commission carry out its work , as we review its finding in the summer of next year , and as we then shape what will be significant new legislation to reset the sector — a reform sector — in a new partnership with Government to bring in the investment that will finally clean up our waterway . I declare an interest as a customer of Southern Water who lose my water supply for five day early this year , as do 30 , 000 of my constituent . as the Secretary of State know well from his visit to Hastings and to Rye , we have major issue from flood to sewage to water outage . I welcome the water commission . how can my constituent , particularly volunteer group such as the Clean Water Action group , have their voice hear , particularly their concern about ensure that the regulator have the power and resource to clean up our sea ? my hon . friend be a powerful campaigner for clean water . in fact , it be hard to think of anybody who have campaign hard on the issue . the commission will seek to engage the public at large , as well as a wide group of stakeholder who will be represent on an advisory group , which will include a customer voice . once the commission have report , the Government will consult on those finding and that will inform the subsequent legislation that will reset this sector once and for all . order . I say gently to the Secretary of State that I be here and he should be speak through the Chair , not to the Member , as he have do for the last two question . we can work together to get everybody look the right way . I call Sir Gavin Williamson to set a good example . in my constituency we have beautiful river , include the great and mighty River Trent and the River Penk . over the last few year , as more transparent datum have become available , we have be able to see the number of sewage discharge go into those river . will the Secretary of State promise the House that look at how we can reduce sewage discharge into the Trent and the Penk will be at the heart of what the commission do ? it be always a pleasure , of course , to gaze at you , Mr Speaker , rather than elsewhere in the Chamber . the right hon . Gentleman make an important point . the point of the commission be to identify way in which we can strengthen regulation and operation so that we can bring in the investment , clean up our water sector once and for all , and reduce and remove the pollution that be destroy so many beautiful river , include those in his constituency . I congratulate the Secretary of State on the commission that have be set up today — it be absolutely fantastic . Gower be the first area of outstanding natural beauty in the whole of the United Kingdom , and the bathing water there be second to none , but some of they be less so . I would like to highlight a campaign I have set up to test the bathing water in the winter season , with my constituent , local business and the Gower Society , because datum be key — it be what will drive the improvement of our bathing water . will he congratulate Surfers Against Sewage , which have be really supportive , and everybody in my constituency who be take part and take control ? my hon . Friend represent an incredibly beautiful part of the country in the Gower , and her constituent and the many people who visit those beauty spot will want to know that their child can enjoy the water without risk of contamination from polluted water . of course I congratulate Surfers Against Sewage and the many campaigner who have push for reform . they will be invite to participate in the work of the commission — they have huge expertise . I hope that , before long , her constituent who be test the quality of the water will start to see improvement until it be pure and crystal clear , as it should always have be . the Secretary of State highlight the scandal of sewage in our sea and river . indeed , raw sewage be dump into our river and sea for 3 . 6 million hour last year . since privatisation , £ 72 billion have be pay to shareholder in dividend , while his Department highlight that it would cost £ 56 billion to carry out the necessary investment , so privatisation have fail as a model for get the investment in place . will he therefore confirm that the commission will look at what ownership model for water will be effective in address this scandal , include the option of bring water back into public hand ? the reason I have rule out nationalisation be that it would not resolve the problem we face . we see in the Olympics in France that the River Seine be not able to be use for swimming because of pollution . that be a state - own water system . we see the problem in Scotland . that be a state - own water system as well . the problem be those of governance and regulation . nationalisation would cost towards £ 100 billion of public money — money that do not exist — and the time it would take to unpick the current model of ownership , during which time investment would be choke off , would see our river , lake and sea fill with even more sewage and pollution , rather than less . I be more interested in the purity of our water than the purity of our ideology . I will do what work well as quickly as possible . the commission will give we guidance on how we should change the system to make sure it work for everybody . for the last few week , I have be conduct independent test , with colleague from Bournemouth University , for nitrate and bacteria in the lovely Poole harbour and the surround water . I have notice , from talk to colleague , that the frequency of official testing and the number of site at which those test be carry out have be reduce significantly by the Environment Agency over the year . will the commission look at those issue ? will test and the frequency of testing be include in its work ? I recognise what my hon . Friend say about Poole harbour . it be , indeed , an incredibly beautiful part of the country . I have visit it several time and , sadly , I have also see the extent and impact of the pollution . we be make sure that all sewage outlet be monitor through compulsory mean , which be not the case currently . the commission will look at how we can improve the testing and monitoring of water quality as part of the strengthening of regulation , which will form a key part of its work . the Secretary of State mention the importance of drainage in reduce incident of pollution cause by flooding . will he therefore commit today , while we await the outcome of the commission , to distribute the £ 75 million allocate by the previous Government to internal drainage board , so that farmer in my constituency and other in the River Hull catchment do not have to spend another winter under water ? unfortunately , the hon . Gentleman be refer to commitment to spend money that do not exist . we be wait for the Chancellor to announce her Budget from this Dispatch Box in almost exactly one week ' s time , and we will find out much more then . last year , sewage be dump 57 time along the precious coastline of my constituency — the equivalent of 594 hour of sewage spillage . our constituent be rightly disgust by this state of affair . the Conservatives cover up this scandal for 14 year . will my right hon . friend tell I what this new Labour Government will do to hold company to account ? I thank my hon . friend for her question . I have the pleasure of visit Bournemouth West with she , and I see for myself the impact on business and tourism in that part of the world . parent be frightened to let their kid go in the sea at certain time of day , when the water contamination have reach unacceptable level . the commission will look at how we can strengthen regulation and governance to ensure that the practice that water company have get away with over recent year can no long happen . it will also look at how we can bring in the investment need to repair our broken water infrastructure , so that we can drive economic growth in every part of the country , include , of course , in Bournemouth West . the use of storm overflow in place such as Skegby in Ashfield be absolutely disgusting and it pollute my river , so will the Secretary of State commit to give the water company a deadline for end their use ? it will be for the commission to look at what we need to do to improve infrastructure and fix the broken system that we have at the moment . we be make sure that every overflow have monitor on it , so that we know exactly what be come out of it . we can therefore take action against the water company that might be responsible . in my constituency this week , as well as have sewage in our bathing water , we have have sewage on the street in Penryn . the conservative party cut funding to the regulator in 2015 . will the Secretary of State please confirm that the review will completely reset the role of the regulator ? I thank my hon . friend for her question . I have the pleasure of visit Truro and Falmouth during the election , and I see for myself the problem there . it be disgusting to see sewage bubble up into the street and even into some people ' s back garden because the sewage infrastructure be so broken after the previous Government fail for 14 year to bring in the investment necessary to upgrade it . the commission will look at how we secure funding and get that infrastructure rebuild at pace , so that we can improve the situation we be hear about . it will also look at regulation and the role of the regulator and make proposal as to how we can improve those , so that we have regulation that be fit for purpose . in Kingsbridge , in my constituency , the resident be literally wade through sewage , which seep out of the drain in heavy rain due to a mixture of increase sewage from new house and ancient culvert that can not cope . I do not think that those resident will be encourage by a review and a commission , which will not solve the problem they will face this winter . will the Minister therefore meet I to discuss the particularly difficult and chronic problem in Kingsbridge ? we need to find a solution , because we have not have one for a long time and we desperately need to sort this out . I have , of course , already take action myself . I have the water chief executive into my office just seven day after the general election , and we agree a programme of initial reform , include ringfence customer ' money that be earmark for investment , so that it can not be divert and spend on undeserved multimillion - pound bonus or dividend payment . we also have the Water ( Special Measures ) Bill go through the House of Lords right now , which will ban the payment of those undeserved bonus . it be important that we understand exactly what have go wrong in the sector that have lead to a situation where regulation do not meet the requirement of the public , business , the economy or the environment . key proposal will be come out of the commission on those issue , and I hope the hon . Lady will welcome they when they come forward . today , a report find that river in the east and in London have the bad water quality in the UK , with an alarming amount of chemical find . citizen science have play a key role up to now in monitor the quality of our water , so will the Secretary of State join I in pay tribute to citizen scientist and volunteer and assure we that their voice will be hear in this important work ? my hon . friend make an important point . the many campaign group and citizen scientist have have a huge impact on raise the profile of the sewage scandal affect our country and in point to some of the way in which we can start to fix thing . Sir Jon ' s commission will have an advisory group with representation from campaign group and consumer . there will also be wide engagement with the public , both through the work of the commission itself and subsequently , as we work towards the reform legislation that will reset the sector once and for all . in the absence of a plan , it be always a good idea to do a review . my constituent be be fail by our local sewage infrastructure — Thames Water be a total and utter disgrace . however , I really welcome the Secretary of State ' s statement , because I think I have find an unlikely ally . the Labour Government will force through building on the green belt in my constituency , with a whole host of new house — a situation exacerbate by the failure of the Liberal Democrat administration in Elmbridge to deliver a local plan . give the time it will take the commission to report back , and give that these new house will require more sewerage , do the Secretary of State agree that we should pause and think again about the house building target until the review have be complete ? I think the hon . Gentleman be stand up to apologise for the fact that the Conservative Government do absolutely nothing for 14 year , other than watch the torrent of effluent go into our river , lake and sea increase and pollute they . my hon . friend the Water Minister would be more than happy to meet he to discuss the issue that he raise in his constituency . I welcome the commission announce by my right hon . friend . last week , six beach in my constituency be affect by raw sewage dumping , with two of they — Joss Bay and Stone Bay — experience a bad effect on their bathing water quality , but the verdict be that they be still within Environment Agency permit limit . will my right hon . friend confirm that the commission will investigate regulatory standard , so that when raw sewage be dump , there be actually a fine and a punishment for the water company ? I must also make a declaration as a customer of Southern Water and a sea water swimmer . I thank my hon . friend for her question . she be , of course , a well - know environmental campaigner who stand up for her constituent and for the many business , include tourism business , that be adversely affect by the appalling state of our water . it be clear that regulation and governance have be inadequate for a long time . this be a reset moment , where we can finally strengthen those thing and deliver the clean water that her constituent , mine and those of all member across the House expect to see . Diolch , Mr Llefarydd . water be devolve , but we in Wales do not have the full range of power need to address this scandal . for example , the Senedd can not regulate the transfer of water by private company whose catchment area straddle the border , which of course include the like of Hafren Dyfrdwy . will the Secretary of State ensure that the commission consider the full devolution of power over water and sewage licensing to Wales to empower the Senedd to set high target ? Diolch yn fawr . the commission be jointly set up by the UK Government and the Welsh Government , and it will report back to both . it will inform the action that both government take subsequently , include look at infrastructure and how we make catchment area operate well , particularly when they cross border , as so many do between England and Wales . I congratulate the Secretary of State on the launch of the independent water commission . I know my constituent in Sheffield Central will welcome the review . they be see a 25 % rise in their bill , but that do not make sense to they when shareholder continue to receive profit . will the Secretary of State provide an assurance that as an outcome of the review there will be transparency , water company will be hold to account and we will reset the focus on consumer instead of company profit ? my hon . friend make an important point . consumer must have a strong voice on the commission . they will gain that through consumer representation on the advisory group that will be work with Sir Jon , as the commissioner . she point to the eye - water level of bill increase already propose by Ofwat ; alas , they be the price of Tory failure . the Tories allow the water infrastructure to collapse to such an extent that it cost much more to fix it now than it would have cost have it be maintain properly through those 14 year . I can not undo the damage they cause , but I can draw a line in the sand to ensure it never happen again . when the Conservatives privatise water , they create risk - free , money - print emporium that could pollute our coast , include my west Cornwall coast , at their convenience . although the Secretary of State say that nationalisation be not in scope — one can understand why — to what extent will company governance be in scope ? will it be possible to move company close to become community benefit society , or at least to instal a community environmental champion , not in the pay of the company , on every board , to keep watch on the company ? the hon . Gentleman make important point . the area he refer to will be in scope for the commission . I hope he will make his own representation to ensure those point be hear and fully consider before we get the finding in the summer of next year . resident in my constituency have be disgust by the degradation of our rural waterway across the east of England , as well as by the hollowing out of reservoir capacity across the country . I welcome the new Government and the new Secretary of State ' s renew leadership on these issue , but it be clear that under the previous Government weaken regulation and regulator play their part in facilitate the mess we have inherit . what assurance can he give my constituent that we will be beef up the regulator and give they the power they need to take the action we all want to see ? my hon . friend be absolutely right that the previous Government deliberately weaken the regulator . they keep regulation too weak to hold the water company to account and to ensure that we get the investment which could have maintain a well standard of infrastructure and stop the level of pollution that his and everyone else ' s constituent have have to face . we have already take step through the Water ( Special Measures ) Bill to give the regulator more tooth . the commission will be look root and branch at the role of regulation , governance and the regulator , to ensure we have a system that be fit for the future that will guarantee clean water for decade to come . if I hear correctly , at the start of his statement the Secretary of State refer to the River Lugg , which run through the centre of my constituency . its catchment have be subject to a plan moratorium for more than five year , because of excess level of phosphate in the river . the Secretary of State will be well aware that the reason for that be not primarily sewage pollution , but agricultural run - off ; more than two third of the pollution be from agricultural run - off and only a quarter from sewage . however , the term of reference for the Government ' s water commission essentially make no mention of agriculture , with only a pass reference and nothing specific about address that problem ; likewise the Water ( Special Measures ) Bill . with such a narrow approach to address water pollution , the Secretary of State will not be able to achieve his aim of clean up our river and sea . do he agree that the term of reference need to be change to incorporate full attention on agricultural pollution as well as sewage ? I hope the hon . Lady will look at the term of reference , which be available at gov . uk . they focus on the whole catchment area of river and include agricultural run - off , which account for 45 % of water pollution . where there be an interface between agriculture and polluted water , that be indeed in scope for the work of the commission . I thank the Minister for his statement . the contamination and destruction of our waterway , and even of our high street , as we see with sewage pollution in Newquay the other week , be an absolute disgrace that the previous Government fail to address . with Pennon Group , the owner of South West Water , pay £ 112 million in dividend and over £ 160 million in other finance cost , will the Secretary of State ensure that the independent commission , which I greatly welcome , address whether we have effective funding model for our water industry ? my hon . friend be absolutely right ; it be disgusting for people to see sewage bubble up , and not just in their high street but even in their garden , because of broken water infrastructure . we will be look for a reset so that we can have a water sector that work for customer and the environment , as well as investor . the year 2 pupil of Bishop Tufnell school in my constituency tell I how disappointed they be not to be able to swim in the sea on their summer day out last year . as a fellow sea swimmer , I share their disappointment . winter be come and there be no time to waste . push the can down the track with this commission be not good enough . have review the activity in my constituency , I want to know how the Secretary of State will provide a strategic overview that bring together all the different agency that impact this matter , and not some time next year but before the real issue hit every single constituency around the coast of the country right now ? I be very sorry for the year 2 pupil at the school the hon . Lady mention . I respectfully remind she that she represent the party that sit back and do nothing for 14 year , while the level of pollution in our river , lake and sea get far bad . that , I venture to suggest , be why those year 2 pupil can not go in the water . sewage pollute cornish beach such as those in my constituency — specifically , St Agnes , where Surfers Against Sewage have its head office , Perranporth and Portreath — be yet another conservative scandal that have damage our economy and society for year , and that a Labour Government will now have to clear up . do the Minister agree that as well as the economic damage , the damage to the mental health of those of we who can not regularly use the sea should not be underestimate ? will the commission consider the mental health benefit as part of its work ? I have the pleasure of visit my hon . friend ' s constituency with he during the summer . I see for myself the impact of sewage in the sea on the beautiful beach around his part of Cornwall . of course , it be not unusual for a Labour Government to have to come in and clean up the Tories ' mess , but rarely quite so literally as in the case of sewage in our waterway . he make an important point about mental health . I hope he will feed that back to the commission because it be important it hear all sort of view about the impact of polluted water as it consider how we can well clean it up . since I be elect in July , Exmouth and Exeter East have be hit by significant sewage issue . I be sure the Secretary of State will understand that and I have write to he recently outline some of those issue . although the commission may bear fruit in future year , there be area of the country , such as my constituency , that need immediate fix . will the Secretary of State meet I and the chief executive of South West Water to ensure that immediate fix be put in place and maximum pressure be apply , so that we have the fix we need and do not have to endure another summer like the one we have just have ? I welcome the hon . gentleman to his place and to this House . I hope Conservative Members will engage constructively with the commission , so that he can feed in his view directly . my hon . friend the Minister for Water and Flooding be happy to meet he to discuss his local issue . my constituent do not think that Yorkshire Water be do a good job . last year , sewage be discharge into the River Calder 4 , 125 time . the same year , Nichola Shaw , the boss , choose to take home a bonus of £ 371 , 000 — or £ 90 per discharge . we have also have three major flooding incident in Calder Valley over the past 15 year . regulation do not cover water company act against flooding . will my right hon . friend look at the breadth of the current regulation and at what water company can do about flooding ? my hon . friend make an important point . the Water ( Special Measures ) Bill , which be currently go through the House of Lords and will soon be in this House , look at how undeserved bonus can be ban . the public quite rightly feel a sense of injustice that failure be be reward , when clearly it should not be . the point he make about flooding be well make , and I hope he will feed those into the work of the commission as it start its work . the Environment Agency use to be responsible for monitor sewage discharge , but for more than a decade now the water company have have the responsibility for monitor release via storm overflow . in the previous Parliament , the Environmental Audit Committee hear that illegal spill may have be 10 time great than that declare by the water company . will the new commission consider remove from water company the monitoring of sewage discharge , or will it let they mark their own homework , as the previous Government do ? there have be a wide failure in the regulation of water . that be why I have ask Sir Jon Cunliffe , as part of the commission that he be lead , to look at regulation and the role of the regulator — not just one of they — to ensure that we have a system that be fit for purpose . we be ensure that , outside the commission , there be mandatory monitoring of what be come out of all overflow , include emergency overflow . in the Water ( Special Measures ) Bill , water chief executive will be require to be open and transparent about the extent of pollution ; otherwise , they will face personal criminal liability for the first time . in 2024 alone , Hartlepool ' s beautiful coastline have be mar by 49 separate incident of sewage be discharge into our sea . at the same time , the water company be make billion in profit . whatever the outcome of the commission , can the Secretary of State commit to put people in Hartlepool and across the country ahead of profit in clean up this mess ? my hon . friend be absolutely right ; this sewage scandal affect the entire country , include his constituency of Hartlepool . it be important that this commission focus on ensure that consumer and the environment come first , and that we have a water sector that serve their interest primarily . I hope that he will make his point directly to the commission , because they will value hear from he . I be a brand - new parent when South East Water cut off the water for six day for I and for thousand of my constituent . South East Water be 74 % in debt — it be the second most indebted company in the land . its current investment plan rely on take on more debt , which be then pay for through increase customer bill . clearly , that be unsustainable not just for the company , but for the customer because of their ever - rise bill . will the Secretary of State assure I that this commission will make suggestion for reduce the indebtedness of water company ? that be an important point . the commission will be look at the financial viability of water company , include their level of indebtedness . the hon . Member also make the important point about what happen when water company cut off supply , because , frankly , compensation to individual household and business have be inadequate . that be something that we seek to address through the Water ( Special Measures ) Bill , which be go through Parliament right now , so it need not wait for the commission . the village of Upper Tean , which the Secretary of State may remember , have experience flooding , burst drain , and sewage flooding into river and stream , kill they , for many year . and recently resident have to turn out en masse in the middle of the night to divert traffic away when the village be overwhelm by quite a serious and urgent flood . follow meeting with the Environment Agency , the parish council be look into develop a flood action group , so that it can provide the resilience and the powerful voice to take action against water company such as Severn Trent . will the Secretary of State assure I that the commission will look at how community such as that of Upper Tean can build the resilience they need and also help they develop a flood action group ? I remember very well and with pleasure the visit to which my hon . friend refer . I also remember how distressed resident be to see their home flood and their possession destroy . very often their home be uninsurable , because of where they be locate . the commission will consider all those factor . my hon . friend the Water and Flooding Minister and I be also look at what can be do separately to tackle the scourge of flooding to well protect community now and into the future . I will try to get in as many people as I can , so can we please keep the question and answer as snappy as possible ? the statement from the Secretary of State be welcome , but passionate campaigner in my constituency will be concern that , when we already know the dire state of our river and water course , a review will potentially push the can down the road and delay the change that we so desperately need . will the commission set a deadline by which water company have to prevent all sewage discharge in sensitive site , include chalk stream such as the Lavant and Ems in my constituency ? we certainly know the dire state of our waterway . we also need to know in detail the root and branch reform require to make the correction . we will have that from this commission by next summer , and I hope the hon . Lady will take part in that . we need to clean up all of our waterway , include those very important one to which she refer . this weekend , I meet the Fillongley flood action group , a small group of brave man and woman who , when they receive notification about flood , put on their wader in the middle of the night and go out and clear a culvert that be not fit for purpose . will the Secretary of State join I in applaud their effort ? will he also reassure they that this commission will look across all Departments to see how we can well ensure that those culvert can accommodate the overflow from thing such as smart motorway , as I be hear that the flood have get bad since the m6 be allow to become a smart motorway . will it also consider the economic impact on those village when shop , hairdresser and the local pub close , sometimes on a permanent basis ? I thank the resident of my hon . friend ' s constituency and those in other constituency who be take action for themselves against flooding . we have already set up and hold the first meeting of the flood resilience taskforce , which will be seek to provide well co - ordination between central Government — where the resource be hold — and those local agency on the ground charge with improve work to protect people from the very damaging effect of serious flooding . last year , water company boss in England and Wales be pay £ 9 . 1 million in bonus . that be while Thames Water propose a 59 % increase in customer bill by 2030 . do the Secretary of State therefore understand why many resident in our constituency have lose faith in the regulator ' s ability to control these powerful firm and will he commit to replace the regulator with one that have some tooth ? I certainly agree that resident have lose confidence not just in the regulator but in the water system at large , which be why we have set up this commission to look at how we can get regulation that be fit for purpose for the future . Diolch , Secretary of State . Monmouthshire must be one of the only constituency in the UK that do not get a visit from the Secretary of State , but we do get a visit from Feargal Sharkey , which be great . I really welcome the announcement today , especially this new partnership between the Welsh and UK Governments , which , unfortunately , the Conservative Government completely fail to achieve . for example , they bring out the River Wye action plan , which fail to include Wales and have no new money . may I ask the Secretary of State to relook at that action plan , commit to a new one that use the River Wye catchment partnership group , the friend of the River Wye , and all the different civil servant from both side of the border . let we then use that group and help clear up the River Wye . Diolch yn fawr I chi . I would be very happy to visit Monmouthshire . it be important that we look at the situation with water across catchment , particularly where it be cross border between England and Wales . the fact that this commission be jointly commission by both government and will report to both government will ensure that be what happen . I be pleased to see action come forward from the Government on this , but we know that they need to go far and fast on this issue . in North Norfolk , much of the infrastructure date from the 1970 and 1980 . then , a just - about - manage approach be take to construction and clearly it be no long manage the situation . can the Minister confirm that this commission will look specifically at direct investment from water company to infrastructure upgrade as and where they be need ? we certainly need fast action after 14 year of absolutely nothing . the commission will point the way to reset the sector for the future , and will seek to establish a system that will do exactly what the hon . Gentleman talk about . hundred of resident in Ruislip Gardens and Ruislip Manor in my constituency have be flood in recent week . I have meet many of they who have have to move out of their home . they be frustrate by poor regulation and buck - passing between the water authority and the local council , the flood management authority . this welcome review , after 14 year of dither and delay , be good news for my resident , but will my right hon . friend assure I and my resident that it will look specifically at the adequacy of governance and accountability mechanism between flood management authority and water management organisation , and will he meet with I and my constituent to discuss these issue ? I have have the pleasure of visit my hon . friend ' s constituency many time over the past year , and I know what a concern flooding be to people live there . we have already set up a flood resilience taskforce , which will ensure well co - ordination between the centre , where resource be hold , and agency on the frontline , include those to which he refer , to ensure that people be well protect from the impact of flooding . I be sure that my hon . friend the Water Minister will be happy to meet with he to talk about local flooding . rise — order . if we be short and sharp , we can probably wrap up proceeding on this statement in the next several minute , with everybody get in . Jim Shannon , show we how it be do . short and sharp — my goodness , what a challenge . it be great news that accountability will , at last , be at heart of this review . Northern Ireland be in a similar situation regard water , though it be a slightly different scenario , with a government - own operator . will the Secretary of State indicate how the review can help to deliver a UK - wide water service that be truly fit for purpose ? it be always a pleasure to hear from the hon . Gentleman . of course water be devolve in Northern Ireland . it will be for the local authority there to make their own decision about how to correct problem in beauty spot such as Lough Neagh . my constituency be make up of 21 local government ward . one of they , Bagots and Needwood , be subject to 3 , 000 hour of sewage spill in just one year . can the Secretary of State assure I that , after 14 year of failure from the Conservative party , the commission will leave nowhere to hide for criminal water boss ? that be absolutely the intention . as a whitewater kayaker , I spend countless hour on river and stream up and down the country , so I know that both the Environment Agency and Ofwat need to be properly resource if we be to clear up the toxic legacy leave in our waterway by the last government . can the Secretary of State reassure my constituent that the newly announce independent water commission will look at resource to ensure that the water firm responsible for pollute our waterway be hold to account ? the commission will look at identify a model of appropriate and effective regulation for precisely the reason my hon . friend outline . my constituent in North East Derbyshire be rightly disgusted that water boss receive over £ 41 million in bonus and other incentive under the previous Conservative Government . can the Secretary of State assure I that every penny of my constituent ' hard - earn money will be spend where it be need ? we have already announce plan to ringfence money earmark for investment so that it can not be divert for undeserved multimillion - pound bonus , as happen so frequently under the previous fail Conservative Government . the chalk stream in North East Hertfordshire and across England be of international significance , but too often these waterway be not just polluted , but run dry . will the Secretary of State assure I that the commission will look at the regulation need to bring an end to not only sewage spill , but the over - abstraction of aquifer and chalk stream ? the commission have a wide remit , and will look at the wide impact of damage to the water system , which get much bad under the previous Government . as a coastal city , we welcome the commission . it be vital to sort out sewage and flood . in my constituency , part of Drayton and Farlington be affect by flood — not from river or the sea , but because water pump up through the drain . while it be not sewage , the water cascade down the street into house and shop , force holidaymaker to check whether they need to get people to put sandbag out to protect their property . will the Secretary of State ensure that those type of flood be include in the remit of the commission , and that water company take responsibility ? we have also set up a flood resilience taskforce , which be look precisely at those kind of problem relate to flood so that we can take action immediately . toothless water regulator have be leave up the creek . can the Secretary of State confirm that Sir Jon Cunliffe will look at scrap and replace Ofwat ? it will be for the commission to look at how we get to an effective and appropriate model of regulation , include the role of the regulator . the River Weaver , which run through the town of Nantwich in my constituency , suffer from a spate of devastating pollution last year , kill hundred of fish and blight our beautiful market town . it be believe that the cause of the pollution be slurry dump from intense agriculture . can the Secretary of State confirm that the engagement and support that farmer need to dispose of slurry mix in the appropriate way will form part of the review ? yes , the impact of run - off from agriculture will be in the scope of the commission ' s work . do my right hon . friend agree that , have the conservative party put as much energy into protect our river , lake and sea as it have into fill its reservoir of chutzpah , my constituent in Rugby would not be live with the consequence of ineffective regulation , undue profit and unearned bonus , and that , as in so many area , the Labour party be clear up the mess that we inherit ? the short answer to that be yes . Police accountability before I call the Home Secretary to make her statement , I inform the House that the inquest into the death of Chris Kaba have be open and adjourn . the matter be therefore technically still before the court . however , Mr Speaker have grant a waiver in relation to the House ' s resolution on matter sub judice , so member may refer to it in the House ' s proceeding . with permission , Madam Deputy Speaker , I will update the House on Monday ' s verdict in the trial of Sergeant Martyn Blake , on the accountability review into police use of force , and on confidence in police . Chris Kaba be kill in Streatham two year ago . his parent and family of course continue to experience deep grief and distress . a year ago , Sergeant Martyn Blake be charge with murder , and on Monday , the jury return its verdict and Sergeant Blake be acquit . it be imperative that the jury ' s verdict be respect , and that Sergeant Blake and his family be give the time and space that they will need to recover from what will have be an immensely difficult experience for they during both the investigation and the trial . for an armed police officer to be prosecute for action take in the course of their duty be very rare , so of course this case have raise considerable concern for the public and for the police . the decision make on any individual case , be it by the police , the Independent Office for Police Conduct , the Crown Prosecution Service , the court or a jury , be rightly independent of the Government , so it would not be right for I to comment far on the detail of the case . however , the case have happen against a backdrop of wide and long - stand concern about accountability , standard and confidence — a backdrop in which police officer and force have raise long - stand concern about the way in which the accountability system currently operate , particularly in case of specialist policing such as firearm and drive , where we ask officer to do incredibly difficult and dangerous job to keep we safe , and a backdrop of fall community confidence in police and the criminal justice system across the country , with , as the Metropolitan Police Commissioner say this week , low confidence among black community . the british policing model rely on mutual bond of trust between the public and the police . for our policing model to work , it be essential that the police have the confidence of the community they serve , and that officer have the confidence that they need to do their vital and often extremely difficult job of keep we all safe . too often in recent time , both element of that confidence have become fray . the Government have make it a mission to put confidence back into policing . as part of that work , I want to update the House on new measure that we will take forward in response to the accountability review and follow ongoing work to respond to issue raise by the Angiolini and Casey review . that will be a package of reform to rebuild confidence for police officer and for community , to tackle the unacceptable delay and confusion in the system , and to ensure that the complexity of specialist operation be consider at an early stage and that the high standard be uphold and maintain . twelve month ago , the previous Government launch a review into the accountability system for police use of force and police drive . the previous Home Secretary set out an interim response in March , which the Labour party support , and I welcome his work . the review be not complete by the election , and although we have continue to draw on evidence from police and civil society organisation , we be unable to say more publicly in the run - up to the trial , so today I will update the House . the accountability review find that the current system for hold police officer to account be not command the confidence of either the public or the police . accountability and misconduct proceeding be too often plague by delay stretch for year , which be damage for complainant , police officer and police force alike . the system have become more complex , with confusion over multiple threshold for different investigation , and a lack of clarity , especially on specialist capability . there be also wide concern about the misconduct system . the focus when thing go wrong can end up be entirely on the decision of the individual officer , so system failing such as poor training , unmanageable caseload or wide force practice be not sufficiently consider or follow up , mean that too little change . at the same time , as we see follow the Casey and Angiolini review , in case where someone be not fit to be a police officer , it be too hard for force to remove they , and community feel that no one be hold to account . the public must be able to expect that when officer exceed the lawful use of their power or fail to meet proper standard , there will be rapid and robust process in place to hold they to account . Police officer who act with integrity and bravery to keep we safe each day need to know they have strong public support . if officer lack the confidence to use their power , follow their training and the law , public safety be put at risk . let I turn to the policy measure . first , we will take forward the three measure propose by the previous Government in March to strengthen and speed up the system . we will align the threshold for the referral of police officer from the Independent Office for Police Conduct to the Crown Prosecution Service to that use by the police when refer case involve member of the public . currently the threshold be low for police officer — that be not justified . we will allow the IOPC to send case to the CPS where there be sufficient evidence to do so , instead of have to wait for a final investigation report . and we will also put the IOPC victim ' right - to - review policy on a statutory footing to ensure that there be an appeal mechanism for bereaved family when a decision be make not to seek a charge decision . then we will go far . when officer act in the most dangerous situation on behalf of the state , it be vital that those officer and their family be not put in further danger during any subsequent legal proceeding . we will therefore introduce a presumption of anonymity for firearm officer subject to criminal trial follow a police shoot in the course of their professional duty , up to the point of conviction . we will also ensure that the highly specialist nature of particular policing tactic and tool be reflect in relevant investigative guidance . that include ensure that in investigation of police - drive incident , evidence from subject - matter expert and in - car video footage be consider at the early possible opportunity , and , more widely , that an officer ' s compliance with their training and guidance be appropriately take into account in investigative decision making . I also have establish a rapid review of two specific area where recent legal judgment have mean that we now have different threshold for criminal , misconduct and inquest investigation , add complexity , confusion and delay to the system . in particular , that review will consider the legal test for use of force in misconduct proceeding , and the threshold for determine short - form finding of unlawful killing in inquest . the independent review will be conduct by Tim Godwin and Sir Adrian Fulford , and will report jointly to I and the Lord Chancellor by the end of January . I have ask for further work to be do on timeliness , standard and misconduct procedure as part of our wide police reform . my right hon . friend the Attorney General have invite the Director of Public Prosecutions to examine the CPS guidance and process in relation to charge police officer for offence commit in the course of their duty . follow call from civil society organisation , we will ask the College of Policing to establish a national " lesson learn " database for death or serious injury arise from police contact or police pursuit , so that when tragic incident occur , there be a responsibility to ensure that lesson be incorporate into the development of police training and guidance , and to prevent the repetition of such event . to rebuild public confidence in the wide standard regime for police , we also need to ensure that there be fast progress in respond to the finding of the Angiolini and Casey review on vetting and standard . we will therefore take forward in this parliamentary Session previously agree proposal to ensure that officer convict of certain criminal offence be automatically find to have commit gross misconduct ; to create a presumption of dismissal where gross misconduct be find ; and to change regulation to enable chief constable to promptly dismiss officer who fail their vetting — there have be a glare gap in the system there for far too long . we will go far to ensure that standard be uphold : we will ensure that there be a statutory underpinning for national vetting standard , and strengthen requirement relate to the suspension of officer under investigation for domestic abuse or sexual offence . finally , we need wide measure to restore confidence in police and the criminal justice system across all community . that must include further work to take forward the Met ' s London race action plan , on which action have already be take , though the Met commissioner and the Mayor for London have make it clear that there be much more work to do . we need progress from the National Police Chiefs ' Council on the national police race action plan . the Government be also determined to take forward further measure , range from the introduction of neighbourhood police to new police force performance standard , to strengthen confidence in police in every community across the country . the measure that I have outline be practical step to rebuild confidence , tackle delay , provide clarity and ensure that high standard be maintain . for almost 200 year , police by consent have be the bedrock of british policing . the Government be determined to take the necessary action to strengthen public confidence in the police , and to strengthen the confidence of the police when they be out on the street every day , do the difficult job of keep we all safe . those be the twin goal that we must all work towards . I commend this statement to the House . I call the shadow Home Secretary . I thank the Home Secretary for advance sight of her statement , and for the recent Privy Council briefing that I receive from she . I very much welcome what the Home Secretary have set out . I agree with almost all of it and disagree with almost none of it . as a society , we demand that our firearm officer put themselves in dangerous and difficult situation to protect other . every firearm officer in the UK be a volunteer , and although we rightly value have have a predominantly unarmed police force , we do of course need a cadre of armed police officer across the country . I have have the privilege of visit the police firearm train centre in Gravesend , and I have see at first hand just how rigorous that firearm training regime be — not just in marksmanship , but in the use of judgment . split - second life - or - death decision must be make , often in circumstance in which the risk picture be incomplete and the cost of not act be considerably more severe than the cost of act . in all our debate and conversation about the use of force by police , that fundamental truth should be at the forefront of our mind . as the right hon . Lady say , we rightly expect that all officer will act with restraint and professionalism at all time , but we can not allow circumstance to be create in which officer be disincentivise from be decisive , or become unwilling to take the right action for fear of trial by medium or a long period of suspension under investigation . I be grateful to the Home Secretary for acknowledge in her statement that when my party be in government — under my predecessor and lead predominantly by my right hon . friend the Member for Croydon South ( Chris Philp ) — we initiate a review of the use of force by police officer and the accountability regime . I be genuinely grateful that , under the Home Secretary ' s leadership , the review be continue . as she say , give confidence to police officer , so that they can act in accordance with their training and not be penalise for those action , be absolutely key . simultaneously ensure that the public have confidence that police officer still have an appropriate accountability framework be equally important . she make the point that both those aim be be pursue in the accountability review that she be take forward . the commitment that such investigation will be more speedy be key . specifically , it be important that the Home Secretary continue with the Conservatives ' proposal to allow the IOPC to refer case to the CPS early . prolonged period of uncertainty undermine the confidence of both police officer and the public they serve . I be pleased to see that the Government be continue with our reform to ensure that when police officer act in accordance with their training , and in the line of duty , they be not subject to a low threshold for prosecution than member of the general public . I ask the Home Secretary to seriously consider ensure that training in those role form a legitimate part of the defence of officer if and when criminal prosecution be bring forward . I particularly welcome the move to introduce a presumption of anonymity for firearm officer subject to criminal trial follow a shooting . we now know that Chris Kaba be involve with a violent gang , and that Sergeant Blake and his family have — and still have — a well found fear of violent reprisal . that fear be amplify when Sergeant Blake ' s name be put in the public domain . in the light of the review by Dr Gillian Fairfield , what further recommendation be the Home Secretary mind to take forward ? do she recognise that in the era of social medium , all people of public profile , include member of this House , should be very thoughtful and careful about make public statement when fact be unknown or contest ? the police should know instinctively that they will have the backing of both their chain of command and the politician involve in their governance , at all level , when they do the right thing at our behest , and that they will be back by their chain of command even if those action be not popular or convenient . we have too often see police leadership bend to inappropriate level of public pressure . in conclusion , I welcome the statement from the Home Secretary , and her commitment to take forward the reform of the police accountability review . conservative Members will work constructively with she to ensure that the appropriate balance be strike to reinforce confidence in policing , and the confidence of police . I thank the shadow Home Secretary for his response . I hope that there will be widespread agreement on both side of the House on the importance of these issue , which go to the heart of the british tradition of police by consent . all of we want to know that there be proper accountability for decision that police force and officer make , but also that the police have the confidence to take what be sometimes the most difficult decision of all to keep the rest of we safe . the shadow Home Secretary be right that firearm officer have to deal with some of the most difficult part of policing , sometimes have to make split - second decision in fast - move and difficult circumstance that none of we would want to be in . frankly , if any of we be in those situation , we would want to know that there be firearm police officer there to protect and support we . in the UK , police officer discharge firearm be very rare , particularly compare with other country . that reflect the nature of our unarmed policing tradition , as well as the professionalism and training of the police , and the different way in which they manage often very difficult situation , but of course they need to know that when they follow their training and operate within the law , they will have our support for the difficult decision that they have to take , and will not find their life upturned as a result . the anonymity provision be important , and I hope that they will have support from the whole House . the Government want to bring in the presumption of anonymity in the forthcoming crime and police Bill . the shadow Home Secretary also raise the issue of training . I want that to be look at when the investigative guidance be update ; that way , it can be address relatively quickly to ensure that issue around police drive and train more widely be take into account in early investigative decision before case be pursue . on the Fairfield review , we be take forward further measure , and will look , in wide police reform , at how the IOPC need to work . it be important that we continue to have an independent process . that have to be set against the backdrop of the wide police reform that be need to ensure that we strengthen confidence for both officer and community . that be how we will maintain for the new generation the proud british tradition of police by consent . I call the Mother of the House , Diane Abbott . first , I express my sympathy for Chris Kaba ' s family and his mother . whatever he be or do , he be her son , and she deserve our sympathy and respect . I also acknowledge my hon . friend the Member for Clapham and Brixton Hill ( Bell Ribeiro - Addy ) , who have work hard to support the family in challenge circumstance . in the past few day there have be an avalanche of information about Chris Kaba , but I say to those who be ask why that information be not make available to the jury : that be the decision of the judge , and they should put their complaint to he . the Home Secretary will know that over the year there have be a series of death at the hand of the Metropolitan police that have lead to deep unhappiness and even riot . one death that come to mind be that of Cynthia Jarrett in 1985 , who die of a heart attack when four policeman burst into her house , and whose death trigger the Broadwater Farm riot . do the Home Secretary accept that nothing could be more damaging for police - community relation than if the idea take hold that in some way the police be above the law ? I thank my right hon . friend for her point . I know that she have work on and address these issue over many year , and how important she see they as be . she be right to raise concern around incident where life be lose , and to recognise the distress that will be feel by Chris Kaba ' s mother and family . I also recognise the work that my hon . friend the Member for Clapham and Brixton Hill ( Bell Ribeiro - Addy ) have do to support the family in difficult circumstance . my right hon . friend make an important point : at every stage in the process , these decision have to be for the independent judiciary , the court and the police prosecutor . our role in this House be to provide the framework within which those individual decision be then make , but I also agree that ultimately , all these measure have to have the confidence of community across London and across the country . if they do not , that proud british tradition of police by consent be lose , which be deeply damaging for police officer and policing , as well as for all our public safety . I call the liberal Democrat spokesperson . I also thank the Home Secretary for advance sight of her statement . any case in which a young person ' s life be cut short be a tragedy , and my thought be with all those who be impact by this awful situation . it be crucial that we in this place respect the judiciary and their right to make decision without political interference . however , a case like this one do not happen in a vacuum — we must remember the wide context . as Baroness Casey say in her review , black londoner be " under - protect and over - policed " . a huge and radical step be require to regain police legitimacy and trust among London ' s black community . those finding can not and should not be ignore , which mean work together to rebuild community relationship and trust in the police , something that be vital to the very fabric of police by consent . with that in mind , I welcome the Home Secretary ' s commitment to pick up the accountability review . when it come to firearm officer ' accountability when operate under enormous pressure , ambiguity benefit nobody — not police officer , and certainly not our community . I would , however , welcome more detail from the Home Secretary about how those community with the least trust in the police , especially ethnic minority community , will be consult in this review . these question extend past the Met , so will other police force — include my own Greater Manchester police — be involve in the review , and will the Home Secretary commit to commission an independent review of the implementation of the Casey review ' s recommendation ? rebuild trust in the police have get to be our priority , for the sake of our whole community and for ethnic minority community , and for the officer who be work hard to keep we safe in difficult circumstance . I thank the hon . member for the important point she have make . she be right that lack of clarity , uncertainty , and the long and damaging delay that we have have in the system benefit no one , but she be also right to say that part of the sensitivity around this case — part of its long - stand backdrop — be the much low confidence in police among black Londoners and the different level of confidence around race . that be highlight as part of the Casey review , and it be why the Met police have set out a race action plan , but both the Met commissioner and the Mayor of London have be clear that there be significant additional work to do . if any measure do not have the confidence of all community that the police serve , that will ultimately undermine the crucial principle of police by consent . we continue to work to ensure that some of the measure recommend by the Casey review that have national implication , as well as the Angiolini review , be take forward as part of this package . those include issue with vetting and misconduct process — it be important that we make progress on those measure , as well as on some of the issue that arise from the accountability review . we will also ensure that all community be involve in the way in which measure be take forward . the fatal shooting of Chris Kaba cause pain to his family and considerable fear and anger , not only in my community but across London . this House must understand that the concern be raise be not anti - police , but pro - accountability . we must respect our legal process , and it be extremely rare that police officer ever face such prosecution . the Home Secretary clearly agree that while police officer work under exceptional pressure , any loss of life follow police contact must be properly investigate , so be she concern by comment from the Metropolitan police commissioner regard disciplinary process , include that firearm officer should be exempt from criminal charge over fatal shooting ? that would do nothing to rebuild broken trust and confidence , particularly within the black community , who have be disproportionately impact . follow the Angiolini and Casey review , be less accountability the route that the head of the Met should be ask for ? I thank my hon . friend for her question — as I say , she have work hard to represent her community . it be clear that there must be a proper framework for legal accountability for police force and individual officer . there must always be investigation where there be loss of life follow police contact — that be always appropriate . although we want investigation to take place much more swiftly , all the police chief whom I have talk to as part of this work feel strongly that there must be a clear accountability system , which provide confidence to community and to police officer who make difficult decision in the line of duty . Police , Parliament and the public will recognise that we need to have the confidence of community , as well as police officer who be confident that they will be able to do their job . I call the Chair of the Home Affairs Select Committee . I thank the Home Secretary for her statement and for advance sight of it . although the measure that she have announce be welcome , many of they will take time to introduce . in the meantime , what be she do to ensure confidence throughout the system , and will she ensure that the Home Affairs Committee be keep update on progress in make these welcome change ? I thank the Chair of the Home Affairs Select Committee for those important point . we be work at pace : we have set out plan legislation in the King ' s Speech — the crime and police Bill — and there be a series of area where we believe these measure can be take forward as part of that process . in some area , we may be able to make progress through regulation ; in other , it be simply about change the guidance . we have set out some timetable as part of the briefing , which will be make public . everybody who want more detail on the individual measure will be able to find that information on the Home Office website . this afternoon I will ensure that all those detail be send to the Home Affairs Committee . I thank the Home Secretary for her statement , and I also commend my hon . friend the Member for Clapham and Brixton Hill ( Bell Ribeiro - Addy ) . shortly after the tragic shooting , she organise a meeting with the family of Chris Kaba . no matter what we think about an individual , we must remember that for any parent , bury their child be tragic ; I meet Prosper and Helen , and the pain in their eye at what have happen will not leave I . I also pay tribute to our officer across Lambeth and Southwark , who work very hard with our community to build community relation . in our borough , often some of the issue be cause by police officer who come in from outside , but the police officer who know our patch work very hard . against the backdrop of long - stand concern about accountability , and follow the Casey review ' s finding on the issue of institutional racism , will the Home Secretary continue to hold the Met police to account for their progress on the race action plan ? my hon . friend make an important point : we need to see progress on the Met police ' s race action plan , which respond to serious finding in the Casey review . that review raise wide issue as well , but it be essential that that action be take . both the Mayor and the Met commissioner have make strong commitment to ensure progress continue to be make , and I know that London mps will also want to see that action take . we can not have report release without follow - up . I very much welcome the Home Secretary ' s statement . there be a lot of concern in my constituency about the fact that Sergeant Blake be prosecute in the first place . we be all conscious of the amazing work of our wonderful police to keep we safe every day , so will the Home Secretary set out in more detail what additional protection will be introduce to ensure that our police be protect as they go about their job of protect we ? I thank the right hon . member for his question . under the reform that we have set out follow wide examination of the different evidence , where there be investigation — and there will need to be investigation in individual case — they can happen much more speedily . the threshold for refer case from the Independent Office for Police Conduct to the CPS be no long low than it be for member of the public when they be investigate for a crime . that be not justified or appropriate , and it be right that that threshold should be bring back in line . we also want to ensure that issue of training and specialist capability be take into account at a very early stage in investigation , and we will be revise the guidance for investigation to ensure that happen . the Attorney General have ask the Director of Public Prosecutions to review CPS guidance on charge in case where officer use force in the line of duty , as I say in my statement . there be a series of area where we be ensure that the system can work more effectively , but , crucially , this be about raise confidence for the public as well as for police officer . I thank the Home Secretary for her statement . I also send my condolence to the family , friend and love one of Chris Kaba , particularly this week while the medium be use racist gang trope to justify his killing . some 1 , 900 people have die in police custody since 1990 . the police have protection , while our black community be over - police and under - support . will the Home Secretary give assurance that we and our community will be keep safe and that the police , who already have the protection they need , will not be give extra protection ? the framework I have set out be about ensure a proper system of accountability for police force and police officer — I think that all police officer will support it as immensely important — for how they use their power . however , we also must tackle the hugely long delay , and the complexity , in the system . the different threshold and the concern that specialist capability , such as driving and firearm , be not take into account at an early stage in investigation , end up with serious problem much later , as firearm officer or other police officer feel that they do not have confidence or clarity about their responsibility or how they can use their power . equally , community must not feel that they be be let down because they do not have timely investigation , and conclusion and answer , to their concern . Sergeant Blake have go through two year of live hell for simply do his duty and keep the british public safe . will the Home Secretary join we at Reform UK in commend his bravery to send out a clear message to all our brave police officer that this place have their back ? police officer , who do immensely difficult work across the country every day to keep we safe , deserve our strong support . they often show huge bravery in the most difficult circumstance . I have attend the police bravery award every year for 14 year to recognise and support the work that police officer do , often in the most difficult of circumstance . I think those officer all believe it be important that we have a system in which community can feel confident in the work that police officer do , and that they as officer can continue to do that work to keep we safe every single day . I pay tribute to the majority of police officer , who go to work and do a decent job . often , police officer themselves be as disgusted as the general public when misconduct take place in police force . do my right hon . friend the Home Secretary agree that there be a connection between the delay in police investigation , the delay in the criminal justice system and the delay in misconduct hearing , and that these thing have to be take in the round ? in my community , we have the case of Dalian Atkinson , who be kill by a police officer who be now serve time in prison after use a Taser . will the review look at the use of Tasers as part of its work ? we want the College of Policing to be able to set up a lesson learn database to make sure that action be take when , for example , there be death or serious injury follow police contact . even when such case be investigate and reform , measure or recommendation be make , too often those be not follow up and be not actually implement . as a result , bereaved family can feel badly let down . it be important not only that we have a clear framework of standard , but that when thing go wrong , a proper system be in place to ensure that lesson be learn and thing can be improve for the future . I be sure most fair - minded people will feel that the Home Secretary have get the balance exactly right , particularly as she have now bring in the presumption of anonymity . may I draw her attention to a surprisingly detailed report by the court correspondent of the Evening Standard ? he seem to have have access to police intelligence report about a £ 10 , 000 reward be offer by gang to identify , and presumably wreak reprisal against , the sergeant concern . what be concern to I be that a Metropolitan police spokesman say : " this be investigate and protective measure take . the investigation be now close . " I would have think that , if there be intelligence indicate that a hit be be arrange , the investigation should not be close until the perpetrator be themselves arrest . I thank the right hon . member for that question . it be clearly important that police officer who face threat or risk as a result of the job they do and the difficult situation they find themselves in because of their work to keep we safe have strong protection and support . he will know that I can not comment on an individual case and certainly not on an individual investigation . those be rightly independent operational decision for police force . however , I think more widely that everyone will want to make sure that officer who do difficult job do have the support that they need . the balance between ensure that our police have the power and tool they need to keep our street safe and ensure that they be not above the law be a delicate one . in that light , I welcome the Home Secretary ' s statement , and indeed the response of the shadow Home Secretary . do the Home Secretary agree , however , that some of the comment in the medium yesterday — and , indeed , from member of the House such as the right hon . member for Newark ( Robert Jenrick ) — be unhelpful ? we need to consider all the evidence carefully , in a constructive and calm way , when consider this really important issue , and should not rush to conclusion on the back of medium report . my hon . friend make an important point . it be an important british tradition that we respect the rule of law , which mean that individual decision be make by the police , prosecutor , the court and jury independently of anything that the Government do and independently of anything that politician do or say . we all operate within legal framework , as you remind we at the beginning of the statement , Madam Deputy Speaker . I be sure all of we would want to respect that , but also to support all of those independent institution in the complex and challenging work that they do . we can set the framework , but they have to take the individual decision . when I first start my work support young people in London to get out of crime and gang , 75 % of violent crime in London be commit by people age under 30 and people in that age group be four time more likely to be victim of crime themselves . for the police to get on top of this , there must be restore confidence between young people and the police , which have be so erode in recent year , but we must also invest in community policing , which be cut so much by the last government . what will the Home Secretary do to rectify those thing and to give young people the trust in the police that they need and deserve ? the hon . Member make an important point , because often when we talk about trust and confidence for community , young people , who be frequently those who have the most contact with the police , feel leave out of those discussion . it be important that they , too , have confidence in the police to keep they safe . restore neighbourhood police and have back in our community police officer who know the local area , and whom young people can get to know , be one of the most important and powerful way to rebuild trust and make sure that everybody have confidence . that be also how we prevent crime and damage in community . it be important that such officer remain anonymous until conviction , and I fully back this statement . as the Home Secretary will know , it be not just the officer face trial who have to go through intimidation and threat , but their family . justice be essential , as be protect our brave officer . will the Home Secretary join I in acknowledge the huge toll that these police role can take not just on officer , but on their family ? I agree . family often face some of the most challenging burden and pressure , and we hear from police officer that their concern about the impact on their family often affect they strongly . that be why the presumption of anonymity to the point of conviction be really important to support family , as well as officer . first , I put on the record my support and gratitude to all our frontline police officer in the firearm department for the difficult , challenging and high - pressure work that they do , include Sergeant Blake and his family . there be much to commend in your statement , Home Secretary , so I welcome it , particularly the anonymity for officer face investigation and the timeline for the review , which be really important . two critical word come up in your statement : " confidence " and " accountability " . there be a lot of concern that confidence in the Independent Office for Police Conduct and in the Crown Prosecution Service be fall . in fact , among police officer , particularly those in the firearm department , confidence be frankly collapse , and that be not a good place to be . even the jury in the Chris Kaba case write a letter to the judge — they want it to be read out , but he decide not to — in which they express astonishment and a lack of confidence in the IOPC and the CPS . the point about accountability relate not just to police officer , but to the IOPC and the CPS . do the Home Secretary still have confidence in the leadership of the IOPC and the CPS , or should that be change ? order . before the Home Secretary respond , I remind member that when they use the word " you " , they be speak to the Chair . please be short and sharp , Home Secretary , so that we can get everybody in . thank you , Madam Deputy Speaker . the accountability review find that the accountability system do not currently have confidence among community or policing . that be why we be set out very practical reform . it be important that the work of the IOPC and the CPS be do independently of politician , police officer and community . they have to take decision within the law and within the framework that Parliament set . that be why this review and this announcement be about how we amend that framework so that they can do their job . last Saturday in my constituency of Portsmouth North and Paulsgrove , I hold a joint coffee morning with the local police to give resident an opportunity to raise concern directly with officer and to encourage people to sign up to the let ' s talk platform , which allow Portsmouth police to share information and concern directly with the public . do the Home Secretary agree that one way to rebuild public confidence in policing be to restore visible local patrol and rebuild the community police that have be erode over many year ? I agree with my hon . friend . neighbourhood policing have to be at the heart of restore or rebuild the confidence of community in police . I welcome much of what the Home Secretary have say . the police officer we be talk about , include Martyn Blake , be often deploy to protect local community from violent criminal gang member , as he be do . do the Home Secretary agree that for a local MP to describe one such violent gang member as a " well - love " member of the community , and for the Runnymede Trust to describe as unaccountable a police officer who be subject to a full court hearing and process undermine , rather than build , community confidence ? it be really important that we have the full confidence of community in the police and the confidence of police to be able to do their job . decision on individual case be rightly for independent organisation , whether that be the court or the misconduct process , but those have to operate within a framework and it be our responsibility to make sure that the framework be right . it be currently not right and that be why we have set out the reform within which those organisation need to take decision . I thank my right hon . friend for her timely and important announcement . my former colleague in the police service up and down our country run towards danger on the public ' s behalf , pursue dangerous criminal on the public ' s behalf and — very rarely , as we have hear today — have to use lethal force on the public ' s behalf . do the Home Secretary agree that if our police officer do not have the confidence to do those thing , the law - abide public will ultimately suffer ? my hon . friend be right . we must maintain everyone ' s confidence — the police must have confidence , as must community . ultimately , if community do not have confidence , policing be undermine , but if police officer do not have confidence , our public safety be undermine , because it mean that they can not do their job . that be why we have put confidence at the heart of our mission for safe street . I , too , welcome the Home Secretary ' s statement and plan . firearm officer be highly skilled specialist , and my constituent be concerned that case like this one will disincentivise our brave police officer from take the additional responsibility of carry firearm . will she comment on what she be hear about the recruitment and retention of firearm officer , so that we can reassure the public that armed police officer will be available , should we need they ? the hon . Member make an important point . as part of the accountability review , concern be raise around recruitment and retention , especially from people concerned about the impact on their family . that family issue be so important . that be why we have the presumption of anonymity to the point of conviction and some of the wide reform , which will , I hope , maintain confidence among community and police officer . an armed robbery be report at our new Thorne banking hub last week ; I send my warm thought to the staff who endure that terrible event . will my right hon . friend join I in thank the officer who respond to the situation ? do she also agree that public confidence in policing will grow with more patrol in neighbourhood in the future ? I agree with my hon . friend that people feel more confident if they know who their local police officer be . that build a sense of confidence , which also help to prevent crime . I thank the Secretary of State very much for her statement and for the confidence that she be clearly put in her police officer . we all admire their courage and bravery in what they do . policing be devolve in Northern Ireland , as she know , but the ramification of this decision could be far - reach . last week , I have the opportunity to speak to the Chief Constable of the Police Service of Northern Ireland , and this issue be part of our conversation . every police officer in Northern Ireland carry a weapon because of the high threat level from terrorism . their life be on the line every day they be on the beat — that be the life of a police officer in Northern Ireland — so it be very important that we recognise the threat . will the Home Secretary have discussion with the Chief Constable and the Policing and Finance Ministers in Northern Ireland about how we can move forward on these issue to protect our police officer ? that be critical . I thank the hon . member for the question . interestingly , some of the accountability issue be very similar or the same for England and Wales and for Northern Ireland , but there be difference in some area . we have look at those and I hope that they will be look at far as part of the ongoing work and review that I have raise . however , this be all fundamentally about how we make sure that we raise standard and raise confidence across the board , include for officer and community . do my right hon . friend the Home Secretary agree that the overwhelming majority of police officer be a credit to our community and our country ? in my constituency of Rugby , I have always find that the commitment of senior and rank - and - file officer to protect the public and take on criminal be match by their understanding that they must be hold to the high standard . do she agree that our responsibility as politician in this House and in our constituency be to help all involve in achieve both those important and interlinked objective ? I agree . Police officer across the country do a totally amazing job . it be often a difficult job : they keep we safe , and they have to face difficult situation that none of we would want to be in . they also believe in high standard , which be why so many police officer and police chief want to ensure that the system be more effective at root out those who badly fail those standard and who should not be serve in the police . Police officer want to maintain high standard , but they also want to know that where officer be do their duty to keep we safe and operate in line with their training and the law , they have our strong support . we must ensure that confidence work both way : that we have confidence in police and that the police have the confidence to do their difficult job of keep we safe . rise — order . the hon . Member be not here for the absolute beginning , but she make it just in time for the opening statement , so I will call she . I be grateful , Madam Deputy Speaker . build trust and confidence in the police require time and honest reflection about the challenge , alongside meaningful step to improve thing . often , when there be high - profile incident , there be a knee - jerk reaction and a national debate be spark . do the Home Secretary agree that we must avoid knee - jerk reaction , that there need to be a long - term commitment to build trust and confidence , and that trust and confidence be build through effective policing not just for serious violent crime , but for so - call low - level crime such as antisocial behaviour and theft ? I agree that some of the issue around confidence be actually about the responsiveness of police and about have neighbourhood police and a local response . my hon . friend be right . we need to respond to major review such as the Casey review and the Angiolini review , which find failing around standard , system and vetting , for example . we must ensure that everything we do respond to those broad review , as well as recognise difficult individual incident , to boost confidence . point of order on a point of order , Madam Deputy Speaker . my constituency of Richmond Park , be both particularly attractive and within easy reach of Westminster , be a popular spot for visit by right hon . and hon . member in all part of the House . in fact , it be so popular with the right hon . member for Newark ( Robert Jenrick ) that he have visit twice in the past week . I seek your guidance , Madam Deputy Speaker : as the Conservative party leadership contest reach its exciting final stage , should those of we who be lucky enough to play host to its husting in our constituency expect prior notification of candidate ' plan to visit ? I be grateful to the hon . member for notice of her point of order . may I check whether she notify the right hon . member for Newark ( Robert Jenrick ) of her intention to raise the matter in the Chamber ? indicate assent . I see the hon . member nodding . as Mr Speaker have repeatedly tell the House , a member who intend to visit another Member ' s constituency other than in a purely private capacity must first make every reasonable effort to inform that Member . that apply whatever the purpose of the visit . I hope that all hon . member will observe that important courtesy . bill present Rough Sleeping ( decriminalisation ) Bill Presentation and First Reading ( Standing Order no . 57 ) Layla Moran present a Bill to decriminalise rough sleeping ; and for connected purpose . Bill read the first time ; to be read a second time on Friday 11 July 2025 , and to be print ( Bill 111 ) . Non - Disclosure Agreements Bill Presentation and First Reading ( Standing Order no . 57 ) Layla Moran present a Bill to make provision about the content and use of non - disclosure agreement ; and for connected purpose . Bill read the first time ; to be read a second time on Friday 11 July 2025 , and to be print ( Bill 112 ) . Palestine Statehood ( Recognition ) ( no . 3 ) Bill Presentation and First Reading ( Standing Order no . 57 ) Layla Moran , support by Alex Sobel , Kit Malthouse , Calum Miller , Andy McDonald , Ellie Chowns , Mr Alistair Carmichael , Tom Morrison and Andy Slaughter , present a Bill to make provision in connection with the recognition of the State of Palestine . Bill read the first time ; to be read a second time on Friday 11 July 2025 , and to be print ( Bill 113 ) . business of the House ( today ) order , that , at today ' s sit : ( i ) notwithstanding Standing Order No . 16 , proceeding on the Motion in the name of Nick Thomas - Symonds relate to Payment Scheme may continue , though oppose , after the moment of interruption ; Standing Order No . 41a ( defer division ) shall not apply ; and the Speaker shall put the question necessary to dispose of proceeding on the Motion not later than three hour after the commencement of proceeding on the Motion for this order ; ( ii ) the Speaker shall put the Questions necessary to dispose of proceeding on the Motion in the name of Lucy Powell relate to Independent Expert Panel not later than one hour after the commencement of proceeding on that Motion ; such Questions shall include the Questions on any Amendments select by the Speaker which may then be move ; proceeding on that Motion may continue , though oppose , after the moment of interruption ; and Standing Order No . 41a ( defer division ) shall not apply ; and ( iii ) the Speaker shall put the Questions necessary to dispose of proceeding on the Motion in the name of Lucy Powell relate to voting by Proxy ( serious long - term illness or injury ) not later than one hour after the commencement of proceeding on that Motion ; such Questions shall include the Questions on any Amendments select by the Speaker which may then be move ; proceeding on that Motion may continue , though oppose , after the moment of interruption ; and Standing Order No . 41a ( defer division ) shall not apply . — ( Lucy Powell . ) infected Blood Compensation Scheme I beg to move , that the Infected Blood Compensation Scheme Regulations 2024 ( SI , 2024 , no . 872 ) , date 22 August 2024 , a copy of which be lay before this House on 23 August , be approve . let we start by remind ourselves why we be here today . the infected blood scandal be a mark of shame on the british state . the infected blood inquiry ' s final report , which be publish on 20 May , shed light on the trauma inflict on thousand of people across the country through no fault of their own . People be give contaminate blood or blood product and contract HIV , hepatitis C and hepatitis B , and then for year they have their voice ignore . those who be affect — the people who love , know and care for someone who be infect — similarly have their voice ignore . that do nothing but compound the trauma for all involve . the infected blood inquiry ' s second interim report , publish in 2023 , set out 18 recommendation on compensation , inform by Sir Robert Francis KC ' s 2022 compensation scheme study . the inquiry be unequivocal that a compensation scheme must be set up immediately . the regulation before the House be essential for deliver that compensation scheme and get money to people as quickly as we can . in May , when the now Prime Minister and I respond to Sir Brian Langstaff ' s inquiry , we be absolutely clear . I say : " one of the most powerful conclusion in this report be that an apology be meaningful only if it be accompany by action " . — [ Official Report , 21 May 2024 ; Vol . 750 , c . 748 . ] today , with the regulation and the compensation scheme , we be deliver that action and take another step on the road to the justice that have be so cruelly delay . my constituent Alex Robinson lose her father to this scandal in 2006 , have be his carer since the age of 13 . in her word : " he never get to walk I down the aisle or hold his grandchild . " she be incredibly concerned about get justice . can the Minister confirm that my constituent , along with all the family , will receive legal support to ensure that they can make their application to the compensation scheme successfully ? I be sure the whole House will join I in express our sympathy with the situation that my hon . friend ' s constituent and her family have be through . the Infected Blood Compensation Authority will aim to ensure that appropriate advice and support be available to assist people in manage their compensation award , in access financial service and , where relevant , in access benefit advice . Sir Robert Francis KC recommend in his report that legal support be available to people who want to claim compensation ; the Government and I have accept that recommendation . we will work with the Infected Blood Compensation Authority to develop the package of support service . one of the report ' s recommendation be that charity and support organisation that provide advice to victim and their family be place on a statutory funding basis . can the Minister confirm that the Government ' s intention be to implement that recommendation ? if I understand the hon . Gentleman ' s intervention correctly , he be talk about the different organisation that already exist . we will consider all the recommendation in the round , but he be absolutely right to highlight the hugely important role of those organisation . the Infected Blood Compensation Authority will look to work with the different support organisation . that be vital . the scheme be base on the recommendation and principle put forward by the inquiry . in line with those , and support by advice from the inquiry response expert group , it be update follow the engagement exercise that Sir Robert Francis KC undertake in June with victim and representative of the infected blood community . the Government have seek to design a fair and comprehensive compensation scheme , which will also be quick and simple for eligible applicant to access . I turn first to eligibility . the scheme and the regulation define people who be eligible as infected people , in line with recommendation 2 of the inquiry ' s second interim report . that cover people infect with HIV , hepatitis C and hepatitis B , and it include people directly infect by treatment with blood as well as people indirectly infect via transmission from a directly infect person . secondly , the regulation establish a core route for claim compensation as an infected person . the core route provide for compensation to be award under five category or head of loss , as set out in recommendation 6 of the inquiry ' s report : an injury impact award , a social impact award , a care award , a financial loss award and an autonomy award . together , they will comprise the total compensation award to infected individual , or to the estate of any deceased infected individual , to recognise the wide - range harm result from their infection . early this year , the Victims and Prisoners Act 2024 establish the Infected Blood Compensation Authority in law to deliver the scheme . I be proud to have campaign with many member across the House to have deliver that change in legislation ; I pay tribute to the right hon . member for Salisbury ( John Glen ) for his role . I be proud that this Government be now deliver on that commitment . the regulation before the House will provide the Infected Blood Compensation Authority with the legal power that it need to begin make payment . they also provide further detail on how it will accept application and pay award . the authority , under the chairmanship of Sir Robert Francis , have be work hard to design and implement effective , simple and secure process that put the infected blood community at the heart of its work . last week , the Infected Blood Compensation Authority reach out to the very first claimant under the scheme . the authority be take a test - and - learn approach that will ensure that it can take feedback on board and improve the service before it open its full compensation service . I hope that that step provide confidence that we be absolutely committed to drive forward progress to meet our share intention of begin payment by the end of this year , as I have previously say to the House . I will do everything in my power to ensure that all those who be entitle to compensation receive it as soon as possible . I be grateful to the Minister for give way . I commend he for the way in which he be handle this very sensitive matter ; he have get the tone just right . on behalf of a constituent , Mr A , who be infect by be bear of a mother who be infect , I have correspond with Sir Robert Francis KC . if my constituent be here , he would be keen to know that the compensation scheme will cover people in his circumstance , both for their physical and mental distress . for the avoidance of doubt , could the Minister please confirm that those people will be cover by the scheme as well ? yes . first of all , and I be sure I speak for everyone in the House , I express my sympathy to the right hon . Gentleman ' s constituent and his family . the right hon . Gentleman be entirely right to raise the case directly with Sir Robert Francis . I urge member across the House to look up the detail of the Infected Blood Compensation Authority on the gov . uk website and point their constituent in that direction — the authority be already set out newsletter — and to do as the right hon . Gentleman have do and write directly to the authority . on the basis of be infect through transmission from his mother , his constituent clearly fit the category of an infected person under the scheme . he be precisely the kind of person the scheme be design to help . the right hon . Gentleman be right to raise the case on the Floor of the House today in this debate . I be very grateful to the Minister for give way . this have be a long , long journey for the people who have be affect by this scandal — and that be exactly what it have be . can he clarify an issue that have be raise about inheritance tax ? give that many payment will be pay to the very elderly , many second generation recipient be worried about inheritance tax . will they be exempt from inheritance tax ? be that possible ? yes , the award be exempt from inheritance tax and capital gain tax . that be precisely how the scheme have be design . I hope that give reassurance to the hon . Gentleman . let I move on to the point raise by the Secondary Legislation Scrutiny Committee , as it be important that I address they . as the Committee note , the infected blood scandal stretch back over many decade , and access to record , in particular medical evidence , will be very challenging — I acknowledge that . that be at the very heart , as I be sure hon . and right hon . member will understand , of the challenge of try to address an injustice that have be allow to continue for so many decade . where that be the case , the authority will need to make objective decision rely on the evidence that be available in order to determine , on the balance of probability , that treatment with infected blood occur . the authority will — I expect it to do this — provide assistance to those who believe that their medical record have be lose or destroy , and evidence eligibility will be easy , fast and more compassionate than , for example , one would experience through any court proceeding . the Committee highlight the complexity of the regulation . that be why , alongside the publication of the regulation and the explanatory memorandum , the Government publish a detailed policy paper in August on how the compensation scheme will operate , set out what individual can expect to receive , include case study example . additionally , the Infected Blood Compensation Authority will ensure that appropriate advice and support be available to assist people with manage their compensation award , access financial service and access benefit advice where relevant , as I set out in response to an early intervention by my hon . friend the Member for Hartlepool ( Mr Brash ) . thirdly , the Committee raise question on how claimant will receive payment . as set out in recommendation 10 of the infected blood inquiry ' s second interim report , the regulation include a mechanism for elect for periodic compensation payment or a lump sum . that be respond to the wish of those who have tell we that they want that option to be available to they . we have also provide an alternative for those currently receive support scheme payment through the infected blood support scheme . the so - call IBSS route be develop follow the recommendation of Sir Robert Francis KC , follow his engagement with representative of the infected blood community . the clear finding from that engagement be around the continuation of the exist support scheme payment . the Government have listen , and we have agree and accept that support scheme payment will continue for life for those who elect the IBSS route . the route will be available for those who apply to be register on a support scheme on or before 31 March 2025 , and deliver as part of the compensation package . the tariff - base scheme be design to be fast , fair , consistent and secure . we hope that people will be satisfied that they have be provide with full and fair compensation , as the scheme set out . however , should that not be the case , the regulation make provision for review of decision make by the authority and for appeal to the first - tier tribunal . Michael in my constituency will benefit from the compensation , and I commend the Minister and the Government for their swift action . how do we ensure that we maintain trust in the process ? be there an opportunity for victim to review any aspect of the compensation scheme that may not be work ? my hon . friend make a powerful point about trust in the process . the scheme be design to have a core route , and a supplemental route for particular issue around care claim or financial loss that be not appropriately capture in the core route . there be also provision around review and appeal to the first - tier tribunal , which be important . one of the purpose of have a tariff - base scheme be to try to make it simple and easy to access , so that the need for subsequent appeal be minimise . I know that the House speak as one when it come to pay long overdue compensation to those impact by this harrowing scandal . follow the passing of the Victims and Prisoners Act , these regulation be the next substantial step towards get money to people who rightly deserve it . however , although there have be progress , the work be far from finished . a second set of regulation will provide for other element of the compensation scheme , include compensation payment to those who be affect and for claim outside the core route . subject to parliamentary approval , the Government aim for the second set of regulation to be in place by 31 March 2025 , to support our intention — as I have previously tell this House — for those affect to start receive payment next year . there be share determination across the House to deliver compensation as swiftly as possible and with the minimum delay . I hope that today , hon . member across the House can agree that these regulation be a significant step towards that . I thank the Paymaster General for advance notice of the statutory instrument be lay , as he have always give . he rightly remind the House of the injustice that victim of the infected blood scandal have be subject to — one that have span several decade . I hope that we be now in rapid delivery mode . my role be to ensure that the Government be do all they can to deliver compensation as swiftly and effectively as possible for the infected and affected , follow the passage of the Bill under the previous Government . as the right hon . Gentleman know , it be also my duty to work collaboratively with the Government on this matter , support they and scrutinise they where appropriate . to that end , I wish to set out some issue raise with I by representative of the infected and affected community . first , I draw the right hon . Gentleman ' s attention to the Secondary Legislation Scrutiny Committee ' s second report of the Session , which find the explanatory memorandum to be " overly complex and technical , while lack basic information about the policy " . to some extent , I very much sympathise . this be a very complicated matter . I suspect that the right hon . Gentleman will agree that this critical information should be easily accessible to all . can he assure the House that he will do everything he can to ensure that the explanatory memorandum to the second set of regulation will be much clear in language and in outline how the policy will work practically ? he rightly refer to the detailed policy paper that he publish in August , with the case study and the reference to advice and support , but the implication of what have be say be that an improvement can be make . on the Infected Blood Compensation Authority , I echo my previous comment in welcome the Government ' s pledge to deliver the first payment by the end of the year . I know that the Paymaster General and I align in recognise the paramount importance of deliver this compensation as quickly as possible . however , currently , there be no define timetable for when application can be make and when payment will be process . furthermore , I know the Paymaster General will find it as troubling as I do that group of victim have previously describe meet the end - of - year deadline as " nigh on impossible " . we need to solve these trust issue . can he outline the step the Government and the ibca be take to ensure that payment will be make by the end of the year — just 10 week away ? can he confirm what proportion of the eligible infected community will receive their payment by the end of the year ? there be a suspicion , of which I be sure the Paymaster General be aware , that achieve payout for the previously mention user group of 20 individual by the end of the year will be use to technically satisfy the obligation he undertake to get money out of the door by the end of the year . the infected community as a whole will want to know that all of they — beyond the 20 — will receive their payment in their bank account , and what will be the interval between the end of the year and that happen . please could the Paymaster General explain how the user group of 20 people have find the new scheme , and how quickly their lesson can be apply to the rest of the infected community ? I understand that the ibca recently confirm its intention to invite increasingly large group of people to test the service before it open to those who be eligible . can the Paymaster General confirm when the scheme will open to large group ? how many will be involve ? will they include all victim , include those affect from the infected estate ? the right hon . Gentleman mention issue around the burden of proof . I seek clarification on the proof that victim need to provide . it appear that the burden of proof once again fall to victim , which risk go against the letter and spirit of both Sir Brian Langstaff and Sir Robert Francis ' s recommendation . I recognise and be sympathetic to the challenge , give Cabinet Office official ' advice to I when I be in his position . locate medical record could be an issue , give that the late case date specify in the regulation be more than 30 year ago . can the Paymaster General outline the decision - make process of the ibca in circumstance where medical record be apparently unavailable ? what step be he take to ensure that rightful compensation be receive when proof of infected condition be not readily available ? I would like to move on to affected person . in his report in May , Sir Brian Langstaff make it abundantly clear that both infected and affected person be to be give interim payment as quickly as possible . I be therefore concerned that part 3 of this instrument define eligible infected person but not the affected person . can the Minister offer some reassurance to the affected community and confirm that he have not ignore Sir Brian Langstaff ' s recommendation for the affected community ? the affected community be concerned that the Government ' s delay in lay the second set of regulation for they mean that many elderly parent of infected victim or bereaved partner will not live to see their rightful payout as affected individual . I acknowledge the drafting and timetable challenge , but it will be 10 month from the final report this May to the end of next March without any define regulation or timetable for make a claim as an affected person . that will distress many in the affected community . I be absolutely sure that the Paymaster General do not think it be fair for those affected people to feel like second - class citizen , but will he explain what process will be under way between now and the end of March , and will he look to publish , even in broad outline , a timetable for affected community ' application and the interval before payment will be receive ? I be also concerned that no impact assessment have be publish for this statutory instrument . parliamentary scrutiny from all side need to be balance , and fair legislation will ensue if we can have maximum information on impact in advance , so that the evaluation process can be well informed . I know the Paymaster General have previously say that the cost of the infected blood scheme will be recognise in next week ' s Budget . can he confirm whether the Government have calculate the impact and cost of the regulation ? I shall conclude by thank the Paymaster General for his work in this area and his transparency with I . this legislation be very technically challenging and difficult to get right . I have enormous sympathy and respect for he . however , I urge he to ensure that critical information be as readily accessible as possible to all victim , infect and affect alike , bring as much specificity as possible to the timeline for those different community to this House as quickly as possible , and outline the cost of the scheme . for many of these victim , time be of the essence , which be why we must do all we can to deliver justice as quickly and effectively as possible . I remain committed to support the Government where I possible can and ask question that be as reasonable as possible where answer still need to be provide . I be really pleased to see these regulation return to the House . although there be still much to do , it mark a significant milestone in ensure that the Government deliver on their promise to work at pace to establish the ibca and give it the necessary power to start make compensation payment . as hon . member have say , we need to do this to ensure that payment be make as quickly as possible to people who have wait far too long for justice already . I thank the Paymaster General for the sense of urgency that have characterise his work to progress this issue to date since return to Government . I know that in that work he will have be mindful of the many story of injustice from this long - run scandal . my right hon . friend the Paymaster General , as my constituency neighbour , will know that my constituent , the Smiths , lose their son Colin to AIDS at just seven year old . Colin contract it from infected blood from Arkansas prison , age just 10 month . it emerge during the inquiry that Colin ' s doctor know about the infection risk associate with use import blood treatment on child , but break his own NHS department ' s guideline to do so anyway . not only do the Smiths lose their very beloved son , but because of the stigma surround HIV at the time , the family be ostracise by the local community , harass and abuse , lose employment , and even have " AIDS dead " write in black paint alongside their house . that be why we be here today . there be so many story . they illustrate why this be so important . when the final report of the infected blood inquiry be publish , I say to the now former Minister that the Smiths want Colin to be remember , and for " sorry " to turn into concrete action on compensation , without add far to the decade of painful delay that so many victim have have to endure . progress be clearly be make . my right hon . friend the Paymaster General also know that there be many question that come up along the way . a lot of people be get their information online . I agree that we need more information for affected family such as the Smiths . on their behalf , I reiterate that there be still much confusion among the affected community about what the regulation will mean for individual people make compensation claim . there be a bit of a feeling that compensation for bereaved parent be low . it would be really helpful if more could be do to explain how compensation will be calculate . it be also important that the Government engage on an ongoing basis with all the many charity who have be involve , as the ibca have do . we should recognise — a point make by the hon . member for Aberdeenshire North and Moray East ( Seamus Logan ) — the massively important work that those charity have do to help the infected and affect . the charity do a fantastic job , but it be important to know from today exactly how family will be individually support , and whether they might be offer caseworker to get they through the process . perhaps my right hon . friend will say something about that . my right hon . Friend also know that many of those affect , like the Smiths , have wait year for compensation . it be not just about the compensation ; it be also about justice , but both matter . my right hon . friend have announce previously that application for interim payment to the estate of deceased infected people will open this month . can he confirm when that will be ? could he also set out whether affected parent who be not the beneficiary of an estate will be eligible for those interim payment ? the Smiths also understand that those application should be process , and payment make , within 30 day . if my right hon . friend would address that in his closing remark , it would be great . the scheme , the system and the framework be clearly very complicated , as hon . member have say . we should acknowledge that today and do as much as possible to help people through that process . my right hon . friend talk about the second set of regulation to enable compensation payment to begin for those affect . could he say more about the progress of the work be undertake to that end , when he expect those regulation to be lay , and when he estimate application will open ? I think the date of 31 March be mention . it be vital that once the ibca begin its work , application be swiftly process without unnecessary delay . will my right hon . friend talk about the resource available to support that ? my right hon . friend be obviously aware of the vital work of small charity and support group to support those affect , like the Smiths . I echo the point raise by the hon . member for Aberdeenshire North and Moray East that those group ' resource have be hugely stretch . it would be really helpful to know what funding might be available to enable such group to continue their important work . I thank the Minister for his important work so far . I hope that we have future opportunity to keep raise these issue as the process continue , on behalf of those who have wait so very long for this . we need to get it right , but we also need to get it do . rise — there be many valuable contribution still to be make during the course of this debate . I just want to remind member to be mindful , during the debate on the infected blood compensation scheme , that the contaminate blood product group litigation be still before the court . the resolution relate to matter that be sub judice do not apply when the House be discuss legislation , as we be do today , but I would none the less invite member to exercise caution and avoid any unnecessary comment on active legal proceeding . I now invite the liberal Democrat spokesperson to speak . the Liberal Democrats be glad to see the introduction of this legislation and the establishment of the infected blood compensation scheme . we be glad that it will move the victim of this atrocity , both those infected and affected , close to long - overdue justice and compensation . victim and their family have be wait decade for answer and for recognition of the suffering that they have endure . liberal Democrats welcome the finding of Sir Brian Langstaff ' s report , which vindicate so many of those people affect . we vote last December for the amendment to the Victims and Prisoners Bill , require the Government to set up the compensation scheme , and we be glad that this motion establish that . this be a deeply sad scandal . do my hon . friend agree that we need reassurance from the Minister that there be adequate capacity to process the application at pace ? I thank my hon . friend for that intervention . it go very much to the heart of the remark that I shall make about ensure that the compensation scheme establish through this legislation be indeed adequate , not just in its resource but in its power to fully address the magnitude of the justice and compensation that be owe to the family who have suffer . although we be grateful that the Government have bring this legislation before Parliament at such an early stage , we want to ensure that these proposal go far enough , and ensure that all those affect get the justice they deserve . the Liberal Democrats will work with the Government to ensure that the provision for fair and proper compensation be implement as quickly and effectively as possible . More than 3 , 000 death be attributable to infect blood and blood product , over 30 , 000 people be infect with hepatitis C or HIV after receive infected blood transfusion , and many thousand more have be affect by the suffering that have be cause . this scandal be a chilling story of people be fail , not only by the medical professional who treat they but by the NHS — which should have be responsible for the safety of their treatment — and by a series of government whose integrity and diligence should have preclude such an atrocity from ever take place . over the decade when this be happen , child be subject to unsafe and deeply unethical clinical testing . senior doctor in british hospital administer experimental treatment while know the significant risk of contaminate product , and staff in haemophilia centre across the country use blood product even though it be widely know that these product be likely to be infect , as be so vividly highlight by the hon . member for Newport East ( Jessica Morden ) . the scope of the negligence go far beyond the medical administration ; the infected blood inquiry report reveal a culture of cover up . we must ensure that there be transparency in governance , especially give the disregard with which the last Conservative Government treat the public ' s trust . the Liberal Democrats support the survivor ' call for a duty of candour on all public official , as well as the introduction of increase legal protection for whistleblower . we must do all we can to ensure that we have an honest political culture in which concern be listen to and question answer , so that nothing of this nature can ever happen again . we be glad that the report have make public the extent to which people be fail , and that there be support across the House for acknowledgement of the injustice that have be suffer , which this legislation begin to rectify . however , while we be grateful for the Government ' s action in response to Sir Brian ' s inquiry , particularly the Minister ' s extension of the scheme beyond the initial commitment from the previous Government , we be concerned that the legislation do not go far enough . financial compensation can not make up for the year of injustice and the unimaginable distress that so many thousand of people have go through . the compensation scheme be an important step in acknowledge their suffering , but I urge the Minister to see it as the first step in the process of compensate victim . we want to see legislation that compensate the child who , without consent , be test on with contaminate blood but do not go on to develop a disease . we want to see recognition of the family member who see love one suffer , and in some instance pass away , but who will receive no compensation because they be over the age of 18 at the time of infection . we want to see a clear and explicit explanation of the payment banding that have be set out , and we want to see engagement with the affected community at all stage . it be vital that the scheme acknowledge the trauma experience beyond the physical suffering cause by the infected blood . not only be so many life cut short or destroy by the hideous physical illness that contaminate blood cause , but unimaginable psychological distress have be cause by experimentation on unconsente and often unaware patient . we urge the Government to ensure that this scheme encompass all those who suffer owe to the infected blood scandal , and that any further legislation be develop with the close engagement of those who well understand that suffer . our principal concern lie with the transparency of the calculation of compensation payment . it be crucial that the scheme do not establish a hierarchy of suffering , and I ask the Minister to outline the process by which these tariff be decide . the compensation for people treat with infected blood product who " self - clear " hepatitis C be very low , and do not account for the health impact that they have experience or the psychological damage that they have experience . there be also a significant discrepancy between those infect with hepatitis C and those infect with HIV . although we welcome the initiation of compensation payment , we believe that there must be great transparency over how they have be calculate . we urge the Minister to engage with the affected community , and to ensure that there be clear communication explain how these decision have be reach . the complication cause by the decade of defensive cover - up have not only exacerbate the trauma experience by victim , but affect the estate of those who have die . in the intervene decade , some estate have become contentious and the question of the rightful recipient of compensation have therefore become unclear . in some case , the compensation could be entail away from those on whom a person ' s infection or death have have the great impact . it be vital for the ibca to have the necessary resource and power to support victim through the process , to ensure that appropriate compensation be receive by all those affect . the burden of the administrative concern and query from affected family be currently fall on overstretch charity . have the Minister consider the creation of a dedicated unit to deal with inquiry , work alongside the ibca ? we must support the work of these vital organisation — the charity provide support — and engage with they to understand exactly the need of those affect . the motion set out the possibility of future legislation , and we hope that the Government will follow up this legislation with vital community engagement . we urge they to ensure , as the scheme progress , that there be mechanism in place to enable the concern of charity , organisation and affect individual to be hear . we be also cautious about the structural limitation of the ibca . give the many year over which the scandal take place , the six - year timeframe of the authority as a legal entity do not seem appropriate . the equivalent scheme set up by the Irish Government in the 1990s be still active , and it be crucial that the IBCA exist for long enough to ensure that the full compensation scheme and associate process can be carry out effectively . the Liberal Democrats be glad to see the introduction of this legislation . we welcome the Government ' s swift creation of a compensation body , the IBCA , to implement the report ' s recommendation and begin payment to the victim of this scandal . it be essential that people begin to receive the compensation that be so long overdue , and it be vital that that be do in the most compassionate and effective way . while we hope that the Government will go far in ensure that the affected community be fully engage and consult in this process , the infected blood compensation scheme will allow victim , both infected and affect , to move , at last , towards justice . let I finally take this opportunity to thank Emily , Eleni , Pipsy , Claudia , Harry and Orlando , who be a - level student in my constituency and have be gain work experience in my office this week . it have be a pleasure to host they , and they have work very hard in help I to put my speech together . I have speak in the House on numerous occasion about this desperately sad scandal , and I have frequently mention the number of people who be die while we seem to have inquiry after inquiry , and ask question after question . the stage that we have reach today be long overdue . the motion go some way towards allay my concern , and the concern of those who be still suffer as a result of one of the big scandal in NHS history . this be a tragic miscarriage of justice that have destroy the life of many individual and family up and down the country . I have the utmost faith in my right hon . friend the Paymaster General , and I know that he be aware that many people believe that the proposal before we be incomplete and do not go far enough — hence his announcement that , hopefully , the second tranche of compensation proposal will come to the House before 31 March 2025 . that be certainly good news . nevertheless , there be people who be still wait , and who will be lead a life of uncertainty between now and then , so we must ensure that we step up to the challenge . this be the first step take by a Government who have act within month of take office , and this legislation be the beginning of justice for those who have suffer for so long . along with , probably , every other Member present , I have speak to many campaigner and many infected or affected victim and family , and my good friend and constituent Sean Cavens , who be infect with hepatitis C as a baby , have be a great help to I in this regard . however , we still have many concern , although I repeat that the progress make in the first 100 day of this Labour Government have be fantastic . there be still confusion about the impact that the scheme will have on individual claimant . there be also concern that there have be a lack of engagement generally in order to understand and act on potential weakness in the scheme ; there need to be far more engagement . I be sure that my hon . friend , or right hon . friend , the Paymaster General will take step to constructively involve the charity and individual with an interest in this before 31 March next year . that be not just my view ; it be the view of individual and organisation that I have spend hour and hour with , listen to their concern . the Haemophilia Society and other campaigning body have be absolutely fantastic , and very patient in many way . as the hon . member for Aberdeenshire North and Moray East ( Seamus Logan ) mention , these organisation really need to be finance from central Government , if that be at all possible . they have use their resource and campaigning finance every which way they can to try to get justice , and now not only be they totally exhausted , but they have exhaust their finance as well . the core route for compensation have be lay out today , but there be concern that there be little information on the supplementary route . my hon . friend , or right hon . friend — I keep demote he ; I promise I do not mean to do that — will be acutely aware that many suffer from haemophilia believe that they will need to apply through the supplementary route ; I hope that he can give more detail about how that will work in practice . there be further concern about the amount of compensation and the compensation period for those impact by the infection and subsequent death of a love one . also , how be the infected victim who will first get compensation choose ? there be more than 5 , 000 register , so if 20 be compensate before the end of the year , that do seem to be a drop in the ocean . can we have a clear timeline , set out how many claim the Infected Blood Compensation Authority expect to process per month in 2025 ? as be mention , one victim of this scandal die every four day . the hon . Gentleman highlight one of two fundamental element of the issue — and I thank the Government for what they be do , which build on the work of the previous Government . the first element be information for the family and the individual affect . clearly , the provision of information will affect exactly what the hon . Gentleman describe : whether people come forward , and whether the rate of payment be maintain at its current pace . the second issue be alacrity . very often with these thing , get money out quickly matter most , because there be a rate of attrition . without be macabre about this , some of the people affect will die before they get the money , so alacrity be critical in deal with this kind of challenge . I thank the right hon . gentleman for his intervention . I have cover a number of the issue that he raise , and will cover more as my contribution continue . there be other huge issue of major concern ; that be be relay to we by the group and individual we have be in constant contact with . for example , they believe that the £ 10 , 000 and £ 15 , 000 award for unethical research and testing be far too low . there be no recognition that people with chronic hepatitis C undergo interferon treatment , or of the additional impact that have on their life . there be also concern that hepatitis c payment banding do not reflect the suffering cause . bereaved parent and child will receive very low compensation payment if they be not a beneficiary of the estate of their bereaved family member . there be no compensation for the loss , psychological impact and suffering cause by exposure to variant Creutzfeldt Jakob Disease . the list be endless . I think my right hon . friend the Paymaster General have receive a letter from the Haemophilia Society outline the vast majority of the issue that it want to raise . I want to mention the scandal of child be select for dangerous medical research . child be give the factor concentrate , despite knowledge of the danger pose . this be very eerie . it be not british - like . it have be describe to I as organise child abuse . the sum of money suggest — £ 15 , 000 or £ 10 , 000 — for compensate victim seem paltry give the horror that abuse cause . we should think about what happen only a few year ago at Treloar , a school set up basically for haemophiliac . we have have institution up and down this country experiment on child . that do not sound like the UK , do it ? they have be experiment on child , unknown to those child and their family . I simply can not get my head around this sinister issue . there need to be a lot more focus on what happen back in the day when this country , and the great NHS , be experiment on young kid . it be not just Treloar ; it have receive a lot of attention , but there be other such institution up and down the country . we need to get to the bottom of this , and the country and the Government need to send a clear message that this experimentation be wholly unacceptable . I know that the Government will look into the issue and act on it with the utmost haste . it be absolutely critical that those who have suffer this injustice — this scandal — for so long get the redress that they sorely deserve . as we discuss this scandal , we should not forget those who have suffer , such as my aforementioned constituent Sean Cavens , who continue to be an inspirational campaigner on the issue , stand up for those who be unable to do so and all those who , tragically , have lose their life . every member speak in the debate will no doubt mention individual in their constituency who have be campaign ; they have do a fantastic job , and good on they . the Labour Government have take giant step to address the scandal . I would like to thank personally , and on behalf of the people I have speak to , my right hon . friend the Paymaster General and his team , and I urge they to consider the many outstanding issue before this matter come back to the House on 31 March 2025 . I be conscious of your warning about the sub judice rule , Madam Deputy Speaker , as there be ongoing litigation on this issue , but I hope and believe that nothing I say in my brief contribution will in any way overshadow the prerogative of the court . this have go on for far , far too many year . I have deal with two constituent in particular , both of whom come to my constituency surgery to explain to I as their Member of Parliament what they have go through and how it have affect they — and it clearly have , in both case . I hope the House will forgive I if I judge that it be not right to go through their case in detail , but they be both extremely polite and eminently reasonable in what they be ask for , and both be deeply frustrated by how long the process have take . I will send they both a copy of the Government ' s regulation and , because they be rather complicated , a copy of the explanatory note , which I hope they will find to be of as much use as I have . as result of this afternoon ' s proceeding , I hope not just that they will be able to achieve some financial redress , to which I be certain they be absolutely morally entitle , but that they will be able to achieve some peace of mind , because it be very clear to I that both those people ' s life have be materially affect by the issue . one of they say to I , " it ' s not about the money . I just want to be able to bring this to a close . " I hope that the House will understand that sentiment . if hon . member have hear it in the way I hear it face to face , I be sure they would have be as convince as I be . I want to say a few brief thank yous , because , as we all know , this have be a very long and complex journey — not just for those who be affect by the scandal , but for those who have have to deal with the consequence many year later . this be not the national health service ' s fine hour , and it take a great deal of campaign by many people to get the system to put its hand up and admit that something have go wrong — in fact , dreadfully wrong . have it not be for the persistence of some of those individual , we would not be have this debate this afternoon . however , someone have to deal with the consequence . I pay tribute to two brilliant public servant : Sir Brian Langstaff and Sir Robert Francis — there be other — who have both , in their own way , have to attempt to exercise what one might call the judgment of Solomon in deal with this extremely detailed and complex issue . they have both do their country a service . I also commend my right hon . friend the Member for Salisbury ( John Glen ) and the former right honourable Member for Horsham , who be no long a Member of the House . when they be in government , they both attempt to deal with this very complex issue . have have some private conversation with the former right honourable Member for Horsham , with whom I serve on the Defence Committee in the previous Parliament , I know that this matter preyed on his mind and that he really try to do his good . my last thank you go to the current Paymaster General , who be clearly try to achieve a resolution as speedily as possible and who have deal with this issue in a very empathetic manner this afternoon . I speak for two constituent , but I be sure that we all have constituent who have be affect by the scandal , and many people across the country will be grateful for the way in which he be evidently attempt to handle it . I wish he godspeed in all his endeavour . this go on for too long and affect too many people but , hopefully , at last , we can collectively begin to put this right and give those people not just redress , but some sort of peace of mind . I know that a few member who be not here for the opening speech have just turn up . if they can make their way to the Chair , I can have a conversation with they about contribute to the debate . I be grateful for all the work that my right hon . friend the Paymaster General and this Labour Government have do to move quickly , and to deliver on their commitment to provide compensation to both the infected and affect . today , we have an opportunity to support the first of those payment be make . as we have hear from other member , the infected blood inquiry reveal systemic failure that lead to 30 , 000 patient be infect , and more than 3 , 000 people have die as a result of those infection . one of these be Jane Fitzgerald , the mother of my constituent Ronan Fitzgerald , who be in the Gallery today . I want to put on the official record the horror that Jane , her family and other victim have suffer . in 1978 , when Jane be 17 year old , she have an ectopic pregnancy and be diagnose with anaemia . her GP advise she to have a small blood transfusion to make she feel well , and Jane be give just one unit of blood at the Royal Victoria hospital in Boscombe . it be not until more than two decade later that she discover , at the age of 42 , that she have be infect with hepatitis C . Jane and her family seek treatment , but by the time she be able to find a suitable option , her cirrhosis be too advanced . her infection cause untold physical and emotional damage , and subject she to numerous indignity , include the stigma relate to her condition . Jane be tell on at least two occasion that she be clear of the disease , only to find that her condition have actually worsen . her condition cause fluid to collect in her abdomen , leg and foot , which require regular draining , and she often spend hour wait for hospital treatment when there be no bed or equipment to treat she . on one occasion , her stomach split open while she be wait for treatment , but she be send home because the hospital do not have the drainage equipment . eventually , the toxin in her liver carry cancerous cell to her lung and brainstem . Jane die in 2015 , at the age of 54 . Jane be take away from her family in the bad possible way , and they suffer the consequence every day . Ronan have speak candidly about the irreversible impact that lose his mother have have on he , and be powerless to prevent her untimely death have affect his mental health and cause he debilitate physical illness . Ronan be a british Army veteran and serve in the Royal Corps of Signals , but he be leave unable to climb a flight of stair or even leave bed ; he be bed - bind for long period at the age of just 29 . in his mother ' s final moment , Ronan make a vow that he would continue to fight for justice for she , and for all the family affect . thousand more be live with illness and fear , in full knowledge that , even now , somebody die every three and a half day . when I first meet Ronan , he ask I whether I would be willing to stand up in the House of Commons to speak up for his mother , and for all the other people who have be infect and affect . he have be a stalwart campaigner for the affected child and have strive to ensure that their voice , and the impact of this scandal on their life , be account for . he now co - chair the support group taint blood - affect sibling and Children , represent 400 member . although he be grateful for the progress that have be make , he have ask I to share his concern and to be his voice . the community of affected child have call for the removal of the discriminatory age restriction that be place on sibling over the age of 18 who do not live at the same address as their infect love one at the point of infection ; for affected child and sibling to not be exclude from any head of loss ; and for all infected and affected person to have equal access to supplementary route across all head of loss , whereby they may provide further evidence of their individual circumstance to ensure that compensation reflect the severe impact of this travesty on their life . far , payment to estate should be give the same priority as payment to live infected person . any process that delay these payment create the high probability that some elderly affected member might die before the payment be make , give the time take to process they . currently , the Government have no safeguard or protection in place should that happen , whereas protection be offer to those live with infection who die before their payment be make . family have be wait too long for justice , and they now run the risk of miss out on this justice and the compensation they deserve . the infected blood inquiry report confirm that Jane be a victim of medical malpractice through the single unit of non - lifesave blood she be give , and this be cover up for decade . today be an important day on the long road to justice traverse by family affect by the infected blood scandal , and I pay tribute to the victim and all the campaigner who have fight so hard . I be grateful that the Infected Blood Compensation Authority have agree to meet the affected child and sibling . in the spirit of test and learn , may I urge the Government to ensure that all effort be make to deliver justice to the community and to take their voice into account at all stage of the process ? my very first contribution in this place be to raise the issue of the infected blood scandal and its impact on sibling . I raise it in a question , as it have be raise with I directly while canvass during the general election campaign , and I be glad that we have the opportunity now to raise those issue again in this debate . we on the liberal Democrat Benches absolutely welcome the opportunity to recognise the victim of this historic failure . the tragedy of history be that we can not change it , but at least the House now have the opportunity to give victim and their family the recognition and recourse that they have be strip of for far too long , by learn lesson from this terrible episode and ensure that history be not repeat . the administration of high - risk blood transfusion to vulnerable child and adult , carry out by the very medical professional their family trust , stand out as one of the most shocking miscarriage of justice in healthcare in our lifetime . the infected blood scandal have leave behind a wake of mourn family forever change by the loss of their love one . today I share the concern of just one of those thousand of family . a constituent of mine who lose a sibling to the scandal write to I recently to say that he be deeply worried that his 87 - year - old mother may not live to witness justice be serve through the Government ' s compensation scheme . I echo the hon . member for Bournemouth West ( Jessica Toale ) in strongly urge the Government to go far in the scheme to include the family and sibling of victim who be currently exclude from support because they be over the age of 18 or do not act as carer for the victim . that be a clear exclusion that we need to revisit , and I hope it can be include in further phase of the scheme . no amount of money can ever make up for the grief , but it be our responsibility in this Chamber to ensure that the british state recognise and begin to tackle historical injustice such as this one with a comprehensive scheme . to ensure that the scheme do that properly , the Government must also ensure full transparency over its progress and open ongoing communication with all those affect . further administrative delay will undermine this vital work , and that can not be allow to happen . I be reassure to hear about the work be do to expedite the claim and to hear the date for the opening and the first phase of the scheme . the scheme be not just a financial obligation but a moral imperative . we owe it to the victim and their family to act decisively and transparently . justice can not be delay . when the story of this scandal be tell , let today be the first page of the final chapter in which we right a historic wrong , take stock of what it have teach we about the failure of our system and provide , at long last , some level of closure for victim and their family . I thank the Minister again for his work on this issue , and encourage he to continue to refine and develop the scheme to ensure that no one affect or infect be leave out or leave wait for justice . first , I want to express my gratitude to member of the House who have elect I as the designate chair of the all - party parliamentary group on haemophilia and contaminate blood . I say " designate " because we be lack a conservative officer in the group , so we can not register it in the normal way — I would be delighted to volunteer to fill that gap for the hon . Gentleman . the right hon . Gentleman would be most welcome , and I will pass on that information . I be hope to tease someone out by say that ! it be an honour and a challenge to follow on from the excellent leadership of my right hon . friend and colleague , the Member for Kingston upon Hull North and Cottingham ( Dame Diana Johnson ) . she will be an extremely tough act to follow . she be force to stand down from the role because she be appoint to the Government . I welcome the progress that the Government be make and I welcome today ' s regulation . for many , however , the victory that be celebrate when Sir Brian Langstaff make his final report and Sir Robert Francis be appoint to lead the Infected Blood Compensation Authority , be , rather than the beginning of the end , mere milestone on a path with many mile still to go . the fear among many campaigner be that the Cabinet Office , which be responsible for delay and obfuscation over decade , be now back in charge of the compensation scheme . I know that the Minister be earnest in his wish to see the victim of this scandal give the justice they deserve , and that he understand that we be where we be because the campaigner refuse to be silence . they take on the establishment and win , and my right hon . friend the Member for Kingston upon Hull North and Cottingham and I cheer they on and promise to deliver for they without equivocation should we get into government . there have be progress , and we welcome today ' s regulation , but for too many the euphoria have be replace by frustration , lead to anger and a grow fear of betrayal . that stem from the fact that the campaigner feel that they be exclude from the process they bring into being . decision that they insist should not be make without they be be make without the openness and candour the Government be legislate for . the Government have an excellent opportunity , ahead of that legislation , to show what candour mean in public office . that be particularly true of how the tariff have be arrive at . for the campaigner , it be like they have win the war , only to see those they vanquish put in charge of deliver the peace . there be grow unease that this be lead to the same tactic as before : delay , lack of information about how decision be arrive at and lack of communication from the Cabinet Office . that lack of communication be cause people to look to small charitable organisation for advice , as they struggle to understand the complex compensation process . will Ministers commit to provide support to those organisation , so that they can continue that work , as be recommend by Sir Brian Langstaff ? I understand that the Infected Blood Compensation Authority be start to engage with the Haemophilia Society and campaign group about the process and technical matter , but there be an urgent need for much more engagement than have happen thus far . we be tell that the Infected Blood Compensation Authority intend to settle 20 case by the end of the year . why only 20 ? how will they be select ? the victim call these the Willy Wonka golden ticket . in the meantime , while these 20 case be complete , another 14 people be likely to die — one victim die on average every four day . justice delay be justice deny . when Sir Brian Langstaff publish his interim report in April 2023 , he appeal to the Government to get on with the compensation scheme , because he be alarmed that so many people be die without receive the justice they deserve . that make it imperative that people , whether infected or affected , receive the interim payment without delay . regulation for those affect by the scandal will not be publish until March 2025 — yet another year on from Sir Brian ' s final report . yet again , justice be delay ; yet again , victim will die without receive compensation . these be people who have suffer unspeakable harm : bereaved parent who lose child ; bereaved child who lose parent and suffer bullying ; bereaved partner who could not have family or who be advise to abort baby for fear they may have HIV ; sibling who be bully ; and sibling who , under the tariff , be currently rule out because they be over 18 . there be so much more . it be not possible to deal with these case without understand each individual ' s circumstance and the suffering they endure through so many year . what be need be a bespoke system that meet individual ' need , but that require far more engagement than be currently happen . the lack of engagement with victim be lead to a lack of understanding about how decision be reach and how compensation be calculate , fuel mistrust in the process . many victim , whether affected or infect , have lose their faith that the full extent of their suffering will be recognise through the compensation scheme . indeed , some campaigner have conclude that their suffering will not be recognise through the compensation scheme and that they must return to court to get the compensation they deserve . those suffer from hep C do not understand why their experience mean they receive different treatment from those with HIV . that require urgent explanation . again , the scale of the suffering need to be look at case by case , and there need to be great engagement , so that both side understand the concern . why be people with hep C be offer much low rate of compensation unless they be near death ? similarly , the additional payment for those experiment on , of £ 10 , 000 or £ 15 , 000 , have be meet with widespread derision . my constituent , Mr Lee Moorey , be a pupil at Treloar school . have read his testimony to the inquiry , I share his sentiment . will the Minister guarantee that that will be look at ? we need to remind ourselves of the scale of the scandal and just how many people have die without justice . all along , people have have to fight to get justice , but they will only believe in justice if they have faith in the process . that require the decision to be make about they to be make with they . we have to restore their faith in the process . I understand that Sir Brian Langstaff have keep his inquiry open so that he can keep a watching brief . it would be a shame if the Chancellor , the Paymaster General or even the Prime Minister find themselves summon before he . finally , my right hon . Friend promise that there will be a full debate in Government time on the scandal . when will that take place ? I call the spokesperson for the Scottish National party . it be a pleasure to follow the hon . member for Eltham and Chislehurst ( Clive Efford ) . in I , he have another willing volunteer to assist he in the group , as he know . he be absolutely right to pay tribute to our former colleague , the right hon . member for Kingston upon Hull North and Cottingham ( Dame Diana Johnson ) , who lead the group with such distinction and energy in the last Parliament . she be almost personally responsible for ensure we have the legislative solution to take forward the compensation scheme . I also pay tribute to the right hon . member for Salisbury ( John Glen ) , who make a significant difference when he take leadership on this issue for the last government , after year of obfuscation , delay and dither . the right hon . Gentleman get to grip with the matter and all the campaigner recognise what he bring to the role . I hope that this Minister do the same . we all acknowledge that he have make a good start . the point that the hon . member for Eltham and Chislehurst make as chair as the all - party parliamentary group on haemophilia and contaminate blood be absolutely right . if he continue in that curious and investigatory style , we will continue to encourage the Government to do the right thing by the infected and the affected . I be happy to say , with a great deal of satisfaction , that we have make significant progress . we be at the point of be able to deliver the scheme , and we will start to see payment to those who have need support and compensation so badly throughout all these decade . my only slight criticism of the right hon . member for Salisbury be that it be a pity that we do not get the opportunity to debate the issue in the last Parliament . there be an unsatisfactory statement from the former Prime Minister , who then just disappear . there be no real opportunity to ask question properly . I know he make an effort to address some of the concern , but it would have be good to hear more at that point about how the scheme be be take forward . the general election create a massive gap , after all the energy and activity that have be summon up to resolve the issue , but we be where we be . the final report by the infected blood inquiry be a fantastic piece of work . I pay tribute to everybody involve in it . they go about their job diligently and comprehensively , and we end up with a wide - range report that shed a dramatic light on all the thing that have go wrong . it pave the way to create a positive way forward that be now begin to deliver . we must remember why we be here : thousand of people be catch up in probably the bad health scandal this country have ever endure . it be a failure of the british state that we end up in a situation where people , through no fault of their own , contract HIV , hepatitis B and hepatitis C . when those who be care for they raise concern , they be constantly ignore and tell , " there ' s nothing to see here . " the inquiry be unequivocal that a compensation scheme must be set up immediately . the regulation we be debate today be essential for deliver that compensation scheme as quickly and effectively as possible . I have be support victim of the infected blood scandal for about 20 year , since it be first bring to my attention by a constituent , who die about 10 year ago and be no long with we . I remember the frustration of those early year when I be constantly write on behalf of this constituent just to be stonewall — to be tell that there be nothing to see and nothing furth to be consider . it be that reluctance to take these issue seriously that define those early year . I say to the former Minister , the right hon . member for Salisbury , that I hope we would get some sort of separate investigation into why Members of Parliament be consistently deceive and — I shall say this — lie to by people work in the Department of Health . we be constantly write letter on behalf of our constituent , and the reply be clearly rubbish . as a recipient of several of those letter from Ministers , I want to know why I be deceive in the way that I be . I pay tribute to Andy Burnham : he recognise this and he actually sign many of those letter as the former Health Secretary . I want to know how this come to his desk and why he actually do this . the key thing be , as other member have say , that the group that be represent the community be properly listen to and be engage in the construction of the regulation . it be too late for the regulation we be debate , but when it come to the affected , the representative group have to be central to the design of the new regulation . I say that because they have real life experience of this matter . they know what the issue be . they have fight for decade to get to this stage to secure this justice and compensation . I know that there be frustration . I see the Minister screw his face in response to the hon . member for Eltham and Chislehurst , but those group do feel frustrated . they feel that they be be ignore , that their concern be not be take seriously , and that they be get generic general reply from the Minister instead of detailed , proper response to their issue . rise — I will give way to the Minister if he will explain to I exactly why that be happen . I just want to say that the hon . Member should read nothing into that facial expression . when I close this debate , I shall talk in detail about the consultation that have take place . that include the extensive consultation that Sir Robert Francis undertake during the election campaign — the period between I and the right hon . member for Salisbury be in office . that be hugely important . the Government have listen and have make significant change to the scheme . it be not about give generic reply , as the hon . Member have suggest . the Government will continue to move extremely carefully and listen to concern , and the Infected Blood Compensation Authority will do the same . I be to grateful to the Minister for his response . I look forward to his sum up , as I know that he will sincerely try to address these matter , but I say to he that all I be do be reflect the concern that I have hear from the group that I have work with so closely over the year . there be a sense that they be not be take all that seriously and that they be not get the response and the information that they think be important . the Minister mention Sir Robert Francis . there have be nothing other than glow praise for the way that Sir Robert have carry out his business . I know that he have a useful and productive meeting with representative of Haemophilia Scotland where everything be air and properly discuss . there be absolutely no complaint from anybody in this House about the way that Sir Robert Francis have go about his business . he have be up and down the country listen to the group . but there be certain thing that only the Minister can respond to , particularly when it come to policy decision . that be why I encourage he to hold a debate on they . he have say that he be prepared to do so , which I be grateful for , and that he have perhaps be misunderstood . the community must be give the information and advice that they require . there be a couple of matter that I hope the Minister will address in his closing remark . I will not repeat some of the point that have already be raise , as I know he have take a note of they . Sir Robert Francis propose an additional autonomy award under the supplementary route for those who have be subject to the unethical treatment and experiment that have be describe . although that be welcome , it be not clear how the figure have be arrive at , so I would like a little more clarity on that . how have these figure be calculate ? one issue that possibly have not be raise today be those with hepatitis C who be treat with interferon . early treatment method for the eradication of hepatitis C have many negative side effect , which be extremely difficult to go through and have a lasting effect on those treat . be that a group that the Minister will consider ? the future operation of support scheme be also important . the decision to continue exist support scheme payment for life for those who be register with a scheme before 1 April 2024 be a welcome development . the House will know how important that be to I as a Scottish Member of Parliament , as we have a very effective , productive and useful support scheme that I think will now be conclude and no long open to new member . I would like to hear a little more on that point . Sir Robert ' s report say : " the benefit offer by the scheme to eligible recipient for financial and other support service should be no less than those offer by any of the current support scheme . " I want to know whether that be still the Government ' s position . it be also assume , base on Sir Robert ' s recommendation , that all the benefit of the support scheme will continue . it would be good if the Government could confirm their position at an early date so that individual have clarity on their future entitlement . under the regulation , the Minister have the power to make arrangement for the provision of support and assistance to applicant or potential applicant for compensation under the infected blood compensation scheme . Sir Robert Francis have identify three group to which the Minister might usefully apply that prerogative : ibca - fund legal representation , ibca - fund financial support from an independent financial adviser and ibca - fund legal support to executor of estate where there be complex matter to resolve in determine entitlement and access to an independent mediation service . my hon . friend the Member for Aberdeenshire North and Moray East ( Seamus Logan ) speak about the need to ensure that representative group be properly support and resource to continue their vital advocacy work on behalf of so many in the community . I would like the Minister to say a little more about the willingness of the Government to ensure that those group be properly fund . the effort that they have put in over decade — sometimes in a solitary exercise by two or three people — be extraordinary and should be recognise as part of the scheme . we be look forward to the next round , and it be important that we go forward . I have query , which I know the Minister will probably address , about why only 20 people have be contact , as the hon . member for Eltham and Chislehurst mention . I have no idea why it be only 20 , so perhaps the Minister can tell we a little more about the rationale . it be right that the system be test to see whether it be robust before it be open to a wide community , but he have to say a little more about why it be those 20 . I be not have a go at the Minister , who I think be do a good job ; I be here to congratulate he and encourage he ever so gently to get move just that little bit fast . we have have decade of obfuscation , a lack of progress , and people die as they wait for compensation . this matter now sit on the Minister ' s shoulder . we will be watch he and keep an eye on it . I know that there will be regular update to the House . believe I , we will all be here to ensure that he be do the right thing by the victim . I congratulate the Minister on the way he speak to the House . he speak firmly , with a sense of urgency and great clarity in his use of English , which be very much appreciated . the truth of the matter be that there be a deeply ingrain scepticism in the community we be talk about . word , in the end , will not count ; action will . of course , today we be take significant action on the road . when we reflect on the view of victim and their relative , it be hardly surprising that there have be a breakdown in trust . it always seem to be the case that the british establishment ' s first reaction when there be a disaster be to close rank , deny the truth and not listen to the victim . it be only in recent time that victim ' voice have begin to be hear . with disaster such as the Post Office scandal , the policing of the miner ' strike or Hillsborough , the establishment always close rank . the Langstaff report be very clear . first , it say — this go to the root of the scepticism that people feel — that , from the 1940 , government of different party be fully aware of the scientific opinion that these action could infect recipient of blood transfusion . Sir Brian Langstaff say that the disaster do not happen by accident . he try to imagine what it must be like for those suffer the agony of be victim , and then be refuse the truth that a wrong have be do by successive government . my constituent Katie have be in touch with my office . her dad die in the 1980 when she be an infant . imagine live life with a cloud upon you after lose your father when young , because of negligence by operative of the state and the cover - up that follow . the only way we can reduce the scepticism be for the payment to begin to flow through . in the meantime , there be clearly a wish for some reassurance from the Minister today . he have make some of these point already , but I will go back to they . first , someone who lose her father in the ' 80 when she be two will probably struggle to find the appropriate evidence , as she be not necessarily skilled enough to search for it forensically . Langstaff discover — this be shocking — that document be destroy knowingly by the Government of the day because they think that it might incriminate they . it be an establishment cover - up of some scale . how can victim establish that they deserve justice if document have be lose or even wilfully destroy ? the Minister mention that , but we need to hear more from he about it either today or in the come period . secondly , as other member have say , civil society group have the confidence of the victim — the Haemophilia Society be one , but my constituent mention Tainted Blood , of which the Minister be probably aware . it would be helpful if the Minister say that he and the Government be open to further conversation with civil society group , which can speak on behalf of victim . it be important that the victim ' voice be hear , and because those group have the confidence of victim , those exchange and that dialogue would be very helpful . the Minister refer to one of the central request that have be make . we be deal with people who do not necessarily have large resource to employ representative such as lawyer and other adviser . the Minister indicate that the Government be open to victim have their own representative . however , if the Government be to encourage the appointment of such representative , it must be clear that they be not appointee of the Government ; they must see themselves as representative of the victim . otherwise , people will not have the necessary trust in they . that bring I to my final point . I can imagine the kind of conversation that the civil service have have with Ministers about this matter over decade : " Minister , you may be deal with billion of pound . you have a duty to ensure that every single penny be properly spend , so please exercise care in any announcement you make . " I imagine that those conversation happen on most day . of course we have a duty to protect money , and very significant amount will have to be spend to compensate people properly , but equally there be a duty to deliver justice to the people who be treat by state actor in a shabby and disgraceful way over decade . when there be a lack of paperwork and victim be perhaps very ill or die , how will we secure value for money for the taxpayer while deliver justice for people who have struggle for decade as a result of Government negligence ? I leave those thought with the Minister and hope that he will address they in his reply . like other member , I hope that as the scheme be roll out and we establish confidence among the victim , the Government will organise opportunity for the Minister to come back to the House so that we can raise constituent ' question and establish a more trust relationship between the Government , who be do dramatic work on this matter , and the people who have suffer for decade . hon . member on both side of the House have make many fine contribution , some of which have be very detailed . you will be pleased to know , Madam Deputy Speaker , that mine will hopefully be quite simple . there be two word that I would like everybody to consider : urgency and trust . those be the word that summarise the feeling of my Burgess Hill constituent Graham Knight when I speak to he recently . Graham be not sure precisely when he be infect , but he think it be probably in 1987 while he be have his appendix remove . it be not until 2002 that he be finally diagnose with hepatitis C . he tell I that every day he have wake up since then have be a bonus . needless to say , there have be a vast impact not only on his health , but on his professional life , his personal life and relationship and his social life . in 2003 , Graham lose his business ; the next year , as a consequence , all the family saving be go . there have be an enormous impact on Graham ' s marriage to Sue . Graham and Sue be fearless , determined , strong people . he tell I that before he become poorly they have two to three good year of happy , healthy marriage ; I be pleased to say that they be still happily married , but Graham ' s hepatitis C have have a profound impact on they in the year since . Graham say that Sue do not deserve that in her marriage , but she have be steadfast and loyal throughout . Graham also have high praise for the team who have care for he at Guy ' s and St Thomas ' hospital : the care he have receive have be incredible . Graham ' s ask be about urgency . he say that there have be a profound loss of trust among the infected blood community , and that nothing — nothing — will restore that trust until the payment be forthcoming . victim need certainty , because they can not plan for the future . trust and urgency be certainly raise by my constituent John , who email I recently follow a meeting between legal representative and member of the IBCA team to get an update . he say that " big and elaborate apology be not what be need , it be what be promise regard compensation settlement that we want to see action without further delay . " it be clear that my hon . friend agree , but I would like to hear her response . I do agree . my hon . friend be right that ensure that compensation come forward be of the utmost importance . I be sure it will be come forward , but the urgency with which it do so be the key point here . I end by emphasise the anguish that Graham and countless other victim still hold and carry with they every day . it be deep - seated , and it will not go away until the matter be settle and the payment be conclude . Urgency be now require to right this 40 - year wrong . I call Katie White to make her maiden speech . it be an honour to make my maiden speech , particularly on this critically important debate on the infected blood scandal . I ask the House to allow I a temporary shift in tone , so that I can celebrate the community that send I here . like many hon . member ' constituency , the constituency I have the privilege to represent , Leeds North West , be a new seat with a long history . I be sure most member know where Leeds be , but I describe it as be right at the heart of the UK . I be deeply grateful to the thousand of voter who have put their trust in I , and as I say on election night , regardless of how they vote , I be determined to represent and serve our community in this place . I begin by pay tribute to my immediate predecessor , both of whom be still member of this House . I thank the right hon . member for Daventry ( Stuart Andrew ) for be gracious and friendly and for his commitment to our community , especially Guiseley , and I thank my hon . friend the Member for Leeds Central and Headingley ( Alex Sobel ) and his fantastic team for their commitment to our community and to tackle climate change . I also pay tribute to those who come before : Greg Mulholland , Paul Truswell and the late Harold Best , who all have a continued presence in the constituency . those esteemed gentleman have all fight for our community , and I be honour to stand on their shoulder , but I say " gentleman " for good reason : I be proud to be the first woman ever to represent Leeds North West , the place where I be bear and raise , as be my parent before I . see more woman elect to Parliament than ever before matter . it matter to the woman and girl across our community — to Alice in Otley , Navdeeb in Adel and Chloe in Horsforth . we have not have enough female mps in my home city , but we be make up for lost time . leed now boast the first female Chancellor ever , so there be progress , friend , progress . leed North West have an incredible history . the stunning Norman church in Adel date back to the 12th century ; it be where my parent be married , where I be christen , and where my grandfather lie at rest . far west be Otley Chevin . member may not yet have have the chance to visit Otley Chevin , but we would not be here without it . the stone from the Chevin provide the foundation for this very Parliament when it be rebuild in the 1840 . it should not be a surprise that it be Yorkshire that keep this House ground . in Leeds North West , our foot be always plant firmly on that bedrock , but our eye remain on the horizon , ready to embrace the future . our constituency be a vibrant hub of entrepreneurship and creativity , a legacy that continue to thrive today . Abraham Moon in Guiseley , a fabric company establish in 1837 , still supply international fashion house today , while EMIS — which begin in the 1980 in Horsforth — now flourish in beautiful Rawdon as the lead provider of datum support to the NHS . we be home to West Yorkshire ' s only airport , Leeds Bradford , and I be pleased to meet with Jet2 ' s chief executive officer Steve just this week to discuss how the aviation sector can innovate to decarbonise . should member wish to stop for a bite to eat , they should look no far than the thrive bar and restaurant of vibrant Horsforth . it be a constituency burst with joyful community fair and fete , from Guiseley festival to Yeadon carnival and from Rawdon summer gala to the Arthington and Bramhope show — that last one come complete with a human fruit machine . there be no strong pride than Yorkshire pride , and our community spirit be a great source of strength . however , as in many place , people be feel overwhelmed and concerned about their future and that of their child and grandchild . many of the people I have meet on the doorstep also feel let down — let down by politician and by the institution they have put their trust in over decade . the infected blood scandal be the most extreme and harrowing example of such systematic failure : people place their trust in doctor and the Government to protect they , and that trust be betray . I be proud that this Government and this Prime Minister will introduce a duty of candour law to prevent future cover - up like the infected blood and Post Office scandal . I also share deep concern about the other great challenge face our community . mental health figure be horrify . the Global Mind Project have reveal that the UK have the high rate of mental distress in the world and rank second worst in overall mental health . People be work hard , yet get unhealthier and unhappy , and of course , the climate and nature crisis loom . we need thing to change ; the country vote for change , and it be change that propel I into politic . my journey begin with the climate crisis . we know that if we get it wrong , we face disaster — particularly for the most vulnerable among we — but if we get it right , we unlock enormous opportunity for our society . in 2003 , I join the local Leeds branch of Friends of the Earth and launch a campaign for the UK ' s first climate change Bill . everyone tell I that it be impossible ; that it be too ambitious and too radical . there be no way that the Treasury would ever allow a carbon budget — but , friend , they do . we turn that campaign into the fourth most support campaign in Parliament ' s history , with cross - party backing from member across the House . the last Labour Government turn that Bill into an Act in 2008 , under my right hon . friend the Member for Doncaster North ( Ed Miliband ) , whom I be honour to be work with again . under this Act , Britain decarbonise fast than any other rich country . this Act have now become a global benchmark adopt by other nation — and that , I say to my hon . friend , be what global leadership look like . why be I share this ? it be because politic must be about real change or it be about nothing . I want to serve our community , and improve our school , healthcare and public service . when I think about change , I think about my grandmother , Marjorie Simms . she challenge the status quo . she live in Horsforth in the1950s . there be not that many woman drive then , but Marjorie do . there be not that many woman wear trouser , but Marjorie do . Marjorie develop breast cancer , and most parent in the 1950 avoid talk to their child , but Marjorie show they her mastectomy so they could understand . she die at 43 , the age I enter Parliament . Marjorie do thing differently and her spirit live on in I . we have see too much promise and too little delivery in recent year — endless debate about challenge , but a lack of energy for real solution . politic should be about action , not just word . the seed of change can be see within our community . as a Government , our role be to water they and create the condition for they to flourish . leed North West be willing to play its role in full . we have the leader , we have the idea and we have the " get stuff do " attitude that personify Yorkshire — like the student I meet recently at Ralph Thoresby and Green Meadows or the cadet in my constituency , who be ambitious about the difference we can make ; like the Horsforth shed set up a couple of year ago by ex - teacher base on the national man ' s shed model and support male mental health , but expand to include many other vulnerable member of the community ; like those from Otley 2030 who decide they want to be a beacon of hope and create a live laboratory in the town to create climate friendly and sustainable solution where people and nature thrive ; and like Brian who , after a death in morrison car park in Guiseley , set up defibrillator all over the community so that lifesave equipment be on hand and there be a network of community activist service they . let we not forget the gold medal Olympians in our community — the Brownlee brother and the cyclist Tom Pidcock — who inspire we all with their dedication and achievement . we be indeed a hotbed of world - class talent . People in Leeds North West do not wait for change to come to they ; they make it happen . they be the doer and the problem solver , and I will play my role in that same way . I will champion the green agenda by focus on practical solution that carve a british path towards a successful green transition . we will leverage our strength , whether it be world - lead research , support our good business mind , or unlock the public and private investment need to turbocharge a green economy . I will support the health of our community — mental health , physical health , community health — and I want to support our entrepreneur and creativity to grow our region . I promise to be a ferocious champion for my community , my beloved Yorkshire and our country , and I will do it with joy . it may recently have become more fashionable across the pond , but I have be measure with joy for year , and there be always space for a little more joy . finally , I promise to listen , learn and reflect . no one have all the answer , but all of we have some of they . I commit to work constructively and collectively . I will endeavour to arrive with curiosity and non - judgment , because if we want to change the way we do thing , we must start in this moment , in this place and with these action . have be a student at Leeds , I look forward to an invitation . I congratulate the hon . member for Leeds North West ( Katie White ) on an excellent maiden speech , and I have no doubt that Marjorie would be extremely proud to see she here . I thank the Minister for bring this motion before the House . as my hon . friend the Member for Richmond Park ( Sarah Olney ) graphically illustrate early in the debate , the trauma of this shameful scandal go way beyond physical suffering . indeed , it have go through generation as people have sadly pass away from the infected blood that they receive . I welcome the Government ' s bring this motion to the House fairly swiftly after the general election , because it be high time that this shameful episode be finally bring — appropriately and comprehensively — to some kind of conclusion . I be here to put on the record the story of my constituent Philip , who , after 50 year , tell I that he want his story to be share publicly for the first time . I meet his wife on the doorstep when I be canvass for the general election , and she ask I whether , if I win the seat , I would raise the issue of the infected blood scandal when I arrive in this House . Philip be diagnose with haemophilia B at the age of 11 . he say that by the late 1970 , he be probably infect via contaminate blood product , although he be not diagnose with hep C until the late 1980 . although very ill , he have a demanding job and a young family , so he keep work . Philip say : " the illness and the subsequent aggressive treatment with the then experimental drug interferon be only half the issue for haemophiliac like I . the world be scared of AIDS and other viral infection and the press and politician at the time make it bad with doomsday advertising ' Don ' t die of ignorance ' . in hindsight this slogan be a cruel irony as we only find out 30 year later that our ignorance be engineer by those in power . as a haemophiliac I could not discuss or disclose my condition . my boss at the time would not shake my hand or consume food or drink I have prepare . I eventually move job to get away from the ignorance . I continue to keep knowledge of my haemophilia to close family and friend . " Philip eventually leave his job because of fatigue cause by the hep c infection , and even at that point in 2008 , he be not able to give the true reason for leave to his employer . he say : " as an infected person , this have have a physical and mental impact on I for decade . the impact of the delay to the compensation scheme on I , my wife and two child as affected people continue . as a community we have wait over 35 year for recognition , compensation and closure . during that time over 3 , 000 haemophiliac have die and more continue to die every week without know their family be secure . I consider myself to be one of the lucky one that have survive , but why be we continually subject to more stress cause by government deadline that pass and communication update that say the same as the last one ? the payment scheme be already detailed , so why be there any further delay ? the late delay be whilst the IBCA test the compensation framework on a small group to check it work . do the government have any idea how this make infected people feel ? some of we be guinea pig all over again . " I have use Philip ' s word because they be much strong than anything that I could say on this subject . although I welcome the Minister ' s statement and be pleased to hear that some payment have begin , I urge he to ensure that progress be swift and that those who have be affect by the scandal will also receive compensation swifty . we have hear a lot from hon . member about sibling and the child of people who be infect . application must also open for the estate of those who have sadly not survive long enough to outlive this process , which should have be resolve many year ago . we have talk a lot this afternoon about the feeling of shame that this terrible tragedy happen in the first place . I add my voice to those of other in the House urge swift compensation not only for everybody who have be infect by this scandal , but for affected family , include sibling of love one who have die . as my hon . friend the Member for Mid Sussex ( Alison Bennett ) say , trust be the most important thing , so we need to make sure that there be clarity , that people can understand exactly what be happen , that they can find information online and can apply easily , and that once they have apply , they will be assure of swift compensation payment . they will never get true justice , but compensation be the good that we can do in this circumstance . there have be many story tell of infected blood in this debate , include from my hon . friend the Member for Bournemouth West ( Jessica Toale ) , who tell a very similar story to that of the constituent I will talk about this afternoon . these be story of pain , injustice and , ultimately , state failure . I come to the Chamber to give the account of my constituent , Brian , and his late mother , Roberta Wilson Murray . in the mid - 1980 , Roberta enter hospital to receive treatment for an ulcer in her stomach . complication in that procedure mean that she require a blood transfusion , and on 13 and 15 July 1985 she receive 30 unit of blood . those unit contain infected blood , which lead to Roberta contracting hepatitis c . at that time , her daughter be just 10 year old , and her son be just six . even though in that moment Roberta ' s life have change forever , she do not know , because it be not until 2002 — 17 year later — that she find out her condition . in a routine test for high blood pressure , she be casually but devastatingly inform that she have hep C . ever since that fateful visit to the hospital , and for the rest of her life , she be in and out of hospital . in July 2020 Roberta pass , just two month before her 49th wedding anniversary with her husband . for 35 year , Roberta ' s health be plague by a virus that for more than half of that time she do not even know she have contract . when she do find out , as in other case that member have speak about , she live with great stigma in work and in her social life . the truth be that the state fail Roberta , and not just in 1985 but at every single step of the way since . the scandal of infected blood transfuse into patient be , as we have hear in this debate , one of the great injustice of our time . for more than half a century , ten of thousand of people , include my late constituent , have suffer . they be let down by the very institution that we be suppose to trust and rely upon most . nobody would think that in an NHS hospital the treatment that someone be receive would be a death sentence , but that be what it be for many people . as be so often the case with such scandal , the initial injustice be worsen by the cover - up and obstruction of truth that follow . whether it be infect blood , the Post Office scandal more recently or the collapse of a stadium , these injustice must never be allow to happen again . it be one of the core duty of a Member of Parliament to identify and expose failure in state bureaucracy . that be why it be so important that this Government will bring forward a legal duty of public candour . the pain and injustice that these act have foster must never be allow to happen again , but the truth be that for family such as Brian ' s , the damage have already be do . there be ultimately nothing we can do to fully compensate they for the pain and trauma they have endure , but we all owe it to the thousand impact to make sure that the compensation process be swift , transparent and fair . I be pleased that the Government have make it a priority to get this compensation scheme under way , and it be critical that these measure can pass through Parliament quickly . there can be no more delay . in that spirit , I ask the Minister to write to I to give an indication of when my constituent and his family can expect to see the compensation they be owe . the Murray family , like everyone else impact by this horrendous injustice , deserve nothing less . I thank all member for their move contribution , especially those who have advocate for constituent impact by this terrible injustice and share their story . I welcome the pledge to deliver this important payment scheme swiftly . however , I urge the Minister to look at the loss of those family member who provide care . in many case , include that of my constituent Debra , who care for many year for her husband Barrie , bereaved partner and family carer give up career , sacrifice pension and face many additional cost . concern about the care award have be express by organisation such as Tainted Blood , which be mention early . a just care award must take all those factor into account . will the Minister ensure fair care cost for the bereaved ? we have hear some incredibly eloquent , move and substantial speech today , and I pay tribute to all of they . I also congratulate my hon . friend the Member for Leeds North West ( Katie White ) on a fantastic maiden speech , which be a celebration of woman in Parliament , all her work on the climate and , of course , Yorkshire . in my first few month as the Member for Welwyn Hatfield , nothing have leave a great mark on I than meet Mike and Diana Blake . the Blake family be victim of the contaminated blood scandal who have be fight for justice with grace and determination for nearly four decade . as I tell the House in July , Stuart Blake , their son , be infect with contaminate blood in 1985 , when he be just six year old . Stuart be infect with HIV and hepatitis C . he suffer throughout his childhood and pass away in 2006 , age just 27 . Stuart be infect two year before I be bear , but 39 year later his parent be still wait for compensation . the agonising story of the Blake family will be all too familiar to hon . member across the House who , as we have hear today , represent constituent who have suffer tragic loss and then see the state close rank about the depth of the crisis . as Sir Brian Langstaff conclude in his infected blood inquiry : " a lack of openness , transparency and candour , show by the NHS and government , such that the truth have be hide for decade . " those of we who sit on these Benches today can never undo the suffering , but we can speak the truth about the experience of our constituent and demand that long - overdue compensation flow to their family . in that spirit , I commend my right hon . friend the Minister for the decisive action he have take since assume office and echo his recent comment on compensation , when he say " it mean nothing if people don ' t get their compensation quickly and efficiently . " I welcome the news that he expect payment to begin to be make by the end of the year , but echo the call make on all side of the House that those who be affect , not just infect , receive their payment as soon as possible . I would also be grateful for some further clarification on how the Infected Blood Compensation Authority will work with individual and family to help they navigate the system . specifically , I want to put on record my request that Mike and Diana Blake be assign a dedicated case worker , a single point of contact to guide they through the application for compensation and ensure that , after all the year of turmoil , they finally receive what they be owe . early this year , the Prime Minister say that as a society we have collectively fail to protect some of our most vulnerable people . he be absolutely right . the state fail thousand of family for decade , and whether they be infect or affect , the duration of their suffering be unimaginable . we can not ever put it right , but this Government will have my support in do everything in their power to offer compensation and , where possible , some closure to those who have endure so much . like other , I welcome the progress on the compensation scheme . also like other , I would like to draw attention to two of my constituent who have suffer , and continue to suffer , because of the infected blood scandal . first , there be my constituent who be infect with hepatitis C in 1993 , two year after the cut - off date for the infected blood support scheme . as she tell I at my surgery last week , her life have be utterly devastate . her sense of betrayal be feel even more keenly because at the point of her infection all blood should have be test for hepatitis C by law . she have suffer terrible physical and mental illness for most of her life , include infertility and anxiety from the stigma of her illness — which be why I do not mention her name — and she have experience an impact on her personal relationship and career . it be a cruel insult that my constituent , because she be infect after 1991 and be therefore not eligible for the infected blood support scheme , have be unable to access the crucial help that she need to deal with the impact I have mention . I welcome the removal of those cut - off date in the new scheme , but I urge the government urgently to provide proper clarity on how the new scheme will work for she and other like she who be infect after 1991 . they need the detail of exactly how it will work for they , and when they can expect to review the compensation that they so greatly deserve . secondly , I would like to mention the case of my constituent whose mother sadly die from hepatitis C in 1998 . in his communication with I , he have point out that the information available on the gov . uk website be very confusing , as other have mention . he find it often poorly write , which only add to his frustration and emotional stress . understandably , his main concern be that payment to the estate of those who have die from be give infected blood will be deprioritise and not exclude from any head of loss . as other have point out , process that delay these payment will result in many elderly affected people die before receive anything . can the Government give assurance that sibling and child leave behind now and in future will have the compensation safeguard and will also receive what they rightly deserve ? like so many today , I welcome this Government act to ensure that the infected blood victim receive the compensation that they have long be owe . not long after be elect , I meet one of my constituent who be a victim of the scandal . he be a core participant in the inquiry , and his case be reference anonymously in the report . meet he and hear his story , about his fight for justice and the impact it have have on his life and his family , will forever remain with I . as a teenager , my constituent , who be be treat for haemophilia , go in for his annual health check . he be ask to wait outside by the doctor , who he trust to act in his good interest . the doctor inform my constituent ' s father that his son have HIV and do not have long to live . his father be task with convey this earth - shatter news to his son . I be relieved that he have defy the odd and be still here today , but let we be clear that the word " scandal " do not do justice to what happen to these people , who be simply access healthcare . my constituent welcome the recommendation of the inquiry , the work by Sir Robert Francis and the action that this Government take immediately upon take office to work to provide swift compensation to those impact . he far welcome the statement from the Paymaster General and the Prime Minister , and the acknowledgement that the state , through successive government , fail to protect some of the most vulnerable people in this country . that acknowledgment be really important to he , because he and other — all those who have be reference today and beyond our door , both infected and affected — have wait far too long for justice . it be welcome that , follow feedback , the Government have make a series of change , include the regular support payment , new route for those seek bespoke compensation claim and package for those subject to unethical testing . it be positive that the Infected Blood Compensation Authority have begin the step to deliver this scheme and ensure that compensation payment be make as soon as possible , and that the payment will start by the end of the year , because victim have already wait too long . as Sir Robert Francis have say , that can provide a credible mean of offer significant and , in many case , life - change sum to person infect and affect by this terrible scandal . I thank the Paymaster General for his recent response to query that I raise on behalf of my constituent , and for the assurance that he give in that correspondence , which my constituent very much appreciated . might I ask a final question , though , that my constituent have put to I on the legal fee that those campaigning have accrue ? be there potential for those to be cover , rather than their be cover by people ' s compensation payment ? although I welcome the swift action we have take , we should never , ever have be in this position , and no amount of compensation can ever match the distress and the pain that this scandal have cause , compound by the long delay in access justice . I will end by reiterate what other have say , because the motion before we be a testament to those , include my constituent , who have fight for decade to bring justice to those impact . I pay tribute to all of they , as it be their work that have bring we to where we be today . I can not imagine how it will feel to finally receive the recognition and the acknowledgment of what have happen . it be incumbent on we to ensure that it happen swiftly and provide proper recourse . I hope that , as a result of the action that we be already take by introduce the Hillsborough law and the wide duty of candour , we can deliver a culture change so that no one will ever have to fight for justice like that again . I note that time be short . I will get through as many of the point that have be raise as I can , but I say to all right hon . and hon . member that my door be very much open ; please do follow up with a letter to I if there be specific point that you want I to provide a more detailed response to . I would be more than happy to do that . in this debate we should always start with the victim at the forefront of our mind — what they go through , and how long , unfairly , they have to fight for justice . several member have raise the excellent work that support group do , in support victim and provide advocacy for they . the Government will be engage with those group . the Government will be ask what more support be require . several Members ask about that ; the Government will take that work forward . I will try to move through the point on the basis of the order in which they be raise , start with the right hon . member for Salisbury ( John Glen ) . he can certainly take my assurance that the Government be in rapid delivery mode . the point he make about complexity be a fair one . in addition to the explanatory memorandum there be an explainer , and there be case study , publish on gov . uk . I know , too , that the ibca will provide direct support to each individual who apply for compensation . there will be caseworker to seek to ensure that individual understand how the scheme work and the choice they can make . work be under way on the second set of regulation . in draft the new explanatory memorandum I will take on board the point that be make by the Committee , and by the right hon . member for Salisbury , and use plain and simple English wherever possible . I have set out a number of time in the House that payment will be begin by the end of 2024 . a number of member ask about the initial 20 . the reason for that be that the IBCA be adopt a test - and - learn approach . take an initial representative group be the good way subsequently to ramp up the process to be as swift as possible . that have be do with the objective of get money out of the door as quickly as possible . of course it will now be for the ibca to build a service that balance speed with ease of use — and of course data security , which I know would be another concern for the House . on the second set of regulation about the supplemental route in respect of the infected and the affected , I be say not that they will be lay by 31 March 2025 but that , subject to the vote of this House , I want they to have pass through the House by that date . I want we to move as swiftly as we possibly can . the decision on the sequencing — the split between the infected and the affected that the Government have adopt in these regulation — be make on the basis that it would allow orderly implementation of the legal framework without impact or delay the delivery timetable for payment to the infected and the affected . as I have say , I hope for , and be sure that I will have , the House ' s assistance in ensure that the regulation can be approve by 31 March next year . I may have misunderstood the point make by the right hon . member for Salisbury about an impact assessment , but the equality impact assessment be on the Government website . as for the question of cost , he have not long to wait now ; he will be able to study the Budget Red Book next week . my hon . friend the Member for Newport East ( Jessica Morden ) have be an extraordinarily powerful advocate for the Smith family . I do not think any of we can ever imagine the pain of lose a child in those circumstance . I hope that she hear my reassurance about the work of charity , and the work that the Government will now do to engage with the group . I have be ask a number of time about our next action , which involve the interim payment for the estate of the deceased infected . I promise that the deadline of the end of October will be meet , and I will update the House tomorrow during Cabinet Office question . I have also be ask about further opportunity to debate this issue . I have already promise that there will be a debate this year about progress on the implementation of Sir Brian Langstaff ' s 12 recommendation . compensation be obviously one of they , and I be sure that the House will understand why I be try to drive that forward as quickly as I can , but the other be hugely important as well , and will be debate in the House . one recommendation be for the establishment of a memorial , or memorial , in all the country of the United Kingdom . can my right hon . friend update I on where we be with that ? I hope to be able to make an announcement about it shortly . I have tell the House previously how important I think the memorialisation proposal be , and they will certainly form part of the update that I will give the House before the end of the year . I join the Liberal Democrat spokesperson , the hon . member for Richmond Park ( Sarah Olney ) , in congratulate the student whom she have have with she and on the work that they do in research this subject for her speech . what she say about a culture of cover - up be important . what Sir Brian Langstaff say be not that there be some specific conspiracy between individual , but that there be something far more pervasive , which he describe as a culture of " institutional defensiveness " . People and institution put their own reputation above the public interest , and to tackle that the Government will be push forward with a duty of candour . that , in my view , will be a powerful lever that the House can pull for change , but it be not just about a change in the law . it be about leadership as well , and it be about culture and change the culture , in order to bring about a system in which the public interest be put first and we collectively do all that we can to minimise the chance of a repetition of what have happen in relation to not just this scandal but other , such as Horizon and Hillsborough . the hon . Lady and a number of other member ask about the severity band . the scheme be tariff - base , and the tariff be develop through the work of the infected blood inquiry response expert group , whose member be appoint by the right hon . member for Salisbury when he be Paymaster General . they be clinical and legal adviser , assist by social care specialist . the Government then choose to improve the scheme after the engagement exercise that Sir Robert Francis carry out , as I mention to the right hon . Gentleman during the general election campaign . the comparison between HIV and hepatitis C have be raise . for people infect with hepatitis C there be four severity band , and they be design in line with clinical diagnostic marker . recognise health condition , for example liver damage , have , therefore , be inform by the work of the expert group . it be correct that in comparison there be a single severity band for people infect with HIV . that be because HIV be a lifelong infection . the vast majority of people infect with HIV through blood product have experience progression to advanced symptomatic HIV disease , include AIDS condition , and have die as a consequence of the infection . those who survive continue to be severely impact by the infection , and the view of the expert group be that it be disproportionately complex and onerous to disaggregate that category into different experience , and that contrast with hepatitis , where there be a wide range of experience , include both acute infection with long - term limited impact and very serious and ultimately fatal infection . that be the approach , base on the expert group , that the Government have adopt . similarly , on sibling , which several member have raise , the scheme be base on recommendation from Sir Robert Francis ' s framework compensation study . it do not exclude sibling over 18 who may have be carer and provide care . will the right hon . Gentleman confirm that when he assess the June engagement exercise that Sir Robert Francis supervise , he do not resist any of the recommendation from the expert group that interrogate the scheme — apart from four or five where he think the Government could do well — and there be no attempt either by the previous Government or his to resist the advice of the expert group who be engage with the community ? the right hon . Gentleman be absolutely right . he take exactly the same approach that I do to the expert group . I accept , as I tell the House , 69 of the 74 recommendation , include , crucially , the continuation of the support scheme . on the other five , there be reason of simplicity or speed — of get compensation to people more quickly . I hope the House will take the assurance that there be that imperative to act as quickly as possible . I be exceptionally grateful for the right hon . Gentleman ' s explanation of how the different tariff have be arrive at , which aid comprehension . however , will he also explain a little more about what the expert group do to engage with the affected community so that they can well understand the tariff for themselves ? as the right hon . member for Salisbury ( John Glen ) and I have indicate , Sir Robert Francis engage extensively around the country during the general election . the point the hon . Lady make about continuously try to make what be a complex scheme open and transparent be entirely fair and I share the desire to do that . my hon . friend the Member for Blyth and Ashington ( Ian Lavery ) have constantly be a powerful voice for victim of the infected blood scandal . I have indicate in previous remark that we will engage with the charity and group on what more support we can give to they . on the 20 case , that be about a test - and - learn approach to try to be able to ramp up the scheme and make it operate more quickly . on the unethical research — an appalling and dreadful practice — the Government have accept the amount of money that be suggest , but it should be emphasise always that these be not payment in isolation ; they be just a part , and in the vast majority of case will be a small proportion , of the amount of money that will be pay out . the right hon . member for Rayleigh and Wickford ( Mr Francois ) speak powerfully , and I echo his word about the former right hon . member for Horsham , with whom I have a number of conversation about this matter . I know that he be concern and want to drive the matter forward . the right hon . member for Rayleigh and Wickford speak powerfully about the two case in his constituency and the need for closure , which be a hugely powerful emotion . my hon . friend the Member for Bournemouth West ( Jessica Toale ) speak powerfully about Jane Fitzgerald . she also speak about Ronan Fitzgerald , who I understand be in the Gallery today and who be continue the extraordinary fight for justice in which he have be engage for so long . my hon . Friend ask a series of question . if she write to I with each of they , I will ensure that she receive a response . the hon . member for Sutton and Cheam ( Luke Taylor ) , who be back on the liberal Democrat Benches , raise the issue of sibling , which I address a moment or two ago . he be entirely right to highlight the importance of communication and transparency . my hon . friend the Member for Eltham and Chislehurst ( Clive Efford ) step into giant shoe as the chair - designate of the APPG , because my right hon . friend the Member for Kingston upon Hull North and Cottingham ( Dame Diana Johnson ) do an extraordinary job in take this matter forward . he talk about different Government Departments . the Cabinet Office have lead on this issue because of the history of the Department of Health in the 1970 and 1980 . that be why I and the previous Paymaster General take on this responsibility . my hon . friend be right to emphasise that we should continue to engage with the infected blood community ; that be a discussion I frequently have with the chair of the Infected Blood Compensation Authority , who I know share my hon . friend ' s desire to do so . the hon . member for Perth and Kinross - shire ( Pete Wishart ) ask I about legal support , and we have accept that it should be provide . he talk about my power in that regard , which have be exercise . that legal support will happen , and it be hugely important that it do . we want the tariff scheme to be as quick and accessible as possible , and we want people to have that level of support . my hon . friend the Member for Normanton and Hemsworth ( Jon Trickett ) speak powerfully of people ' s scepticism about state institution . the introduction of a duty of candour be hugely important with regard to not only this scandal , but other such as Horizon and Hillsborough . his point about document destruction be very well make , but one of the reason for use a tariff - base scheme , rather than have thousand of individual court case , be precisely that the document that be available can be treat more sensitively and on the basis of the balance of probability . the hon . member for Mid Sussex ( Alison Bennett ) speak extraordinarily movingly about her constituent Graham Knight , his wife Sue and the support that she provide . it be a privilege to listen to a fantastic maiden speech by my hon . friend the Member for Leeds North West ( Katie White ) , who be the first female Member of Parliament for her constituency . she speak with great Yorkshire pride and about her constituent understandably feel let down in the past . she certainly do not let they down today with her maiden speech , which be positive about the way that politic can deliver real change . I be sure it be the start of a very fine parliamentary career . her grandmother , Marjorie Simms , would have be extraordinarily proud of she today . the hon . member for South Devon ( Caroline Voaden ) speak about her constituent Philip , who sum up one chilling aspect of this scandal when he say , " our ignorance be engineer by those in power . " it be worth reflect on that sentence as we look at the change that we will need to make , beyond ensure that people receive compensation . my hon . friend the Member for Glasgow South ( Gordon McKee ) speak powerfully about his constituent , Roberta , and the stigma that she suffer . he also speak about the Murray family , and if he write to I about their specific circumstance , I will ensure that he get a response . the hon . member for Stratford - on - Avon ( Manuela Perteghella ) speak movingly about family member and carer , and I agree with she about their huge importance . my hon . friend the Member for Welwyn Hatfield ( Andrew Lewin ) speak about the Blake family . I think that caseworker will be hugely important in the work of the Infected Blood Compensation Authority . I note that , understandably , the first constituent the hon . member for St Neots and Mid Cambridgeshire ( Ian Sollom ) mention do not even want her name to be mention . that be an indication of the ongoing pervasive nature of this scandal . my hon . friend the Member for Cramlington and Killingworth ( Emma Foody ) speak for all of we when she say it have take far too long to reach justice . she be welcome to write to I about the point she raise . I think she be talk about legal fee that have already be incur , but if she write to I I will ensure that she get a response . I be grateful to my right hon . friend for his answer . notwithstanding his reassurance , widespread concern be still be express by those who have be affect or infect as a result of this scandal , so will he agree to a meeting with the all - party parliamentary group on haemophilia and contaminate blood , in his Department , to discuss the issue that they still want to raise ? I would be only too delighted to engage with the all - party parliamentary group , and I be sure that if my hon . friend send an invitation in the usual way , we can find a mutually convenient date . my hon . friend have just refer to the all - party group , and the spirit in which this debate have be conduct be really important . it be crucial that that cross - party approach continue . we be deal with people who have be fail by the state , and we must acknowledge that . the regulation we be debate ensure that we can finally deliver compensation to those who have fight so hard and wait so long for justice in the most harrowing of circumstance . they deserve nothing less , and I hope that colleague across the House will join I in support the regulation . I commend they to the House . question put and agree to . resolve , that the Infected Blood Compensation Scheme Regulations 2024 ( SI , 2024 , no . 872 ) , date 22 August 2024 , a copy of which be lay before this House on 23 August , be approve . sanction : Iran I beg to move , that the Iran ( Sanctions ) ( Amendment ) Regulations 2024 ( SI , 2024 , no . 944 ) , date 11 September 2024 , a copy of which be lay before this House on 12 September , be approve . these regulation amend the Iran ( Sanctions ) Regulations 2023 . the instrument be lay before Parliament on 12 September under power contain in the Sanctions and Anti - Money Laundering Act 2018 , and the measure enter into force the following day . as the Minister responsible for sanction , I would like to start by set out the Government ' s priority in this area . since come into office , I have be clear that we must have the necessary power and tool to implement and enforce our sanction regime effectively . the proper implementation and enforcement of UK sanction be critical to maximise their impact , and this Government be commit to improve the UK ' s track record on sanction enforcement . that be why , on 10 October , we launch the Office of Trade Sanctions implementation — OTSI — which enhance civil enforcement power to maximise the impact of the UK ' s trade sanction . these power include the ability to issue civil monetary penalty for sanction breach , and for OTSI to make detail of breach public . there be also new reporting requirement on sector that be well positioned to find evidence of trade sanction breach . we have put in place similar civil enforcement power for transport sanction , align the enforcement of trade and transport sanction with our approach to financial sanction . I have also bring together ministerial colleague on sanction enforcement , and colleague in the Treasury , the Home Office , the Department for Business and Trade , the Department for Transport and the Department for Energy Security and Net Zero be work towards a share vision of how to enhance it . that will include way in which we can far support UK overseas territory and Crown dependency with their sanction enforcement . we plan to be transparent on what we be do , and I look forward to update Parliament on enforcement action in due course . the Government have deploy sanction in innovative and impactful way , include in the sanction package we be put forward today . we have take swift and decisive action to increase pressure on Russia ' s war machine , spearhead a call to action at the European Political Community in July to tackle Russia ' s shadow fleet . we have sanction 43 oil tanker that be transport russian oil , as well as nine liquefy natural gas vessel involve in ship russian LNG , include from Russia ' s flagship Arctic LNG 2 project , to target the Kremlin ' s energy revenue . we have also enhance our response to the threat from the iranian regime , and I will now turn to the detail of the instrument before we . it contain measure to deter the Government of Iran from cause regional and international instability , by disrupt its unmanned aerial vehicle and missile industry and its access to item critical for military development . I hope the House will support these important measure today . the iranian regime ' s development and proliferation of large volume of advanced conventional weapon , include uav and missile , continue to destabilise the middle east and also prolong Russia ' s illegal war in Ukraine . Iran ' s use of an unprecedented number of uav and missile during its attack on Israel on 13 April demonstrate how iranian weapon development and proliferation be fuel conflict and escalation in the middle east . the iranian regime also use hundred of these arm in its attack against Israel on 1 October , which we condemn in the strong term . that attack once more endanger the life of innocent civilian and escalate an already incredibly dangerous situation , and that can not be tolerate . in response to Iran ' s 1 October attack on Israel , the UK have designate nine individual and entity involve in facilitate Iran ' s destabilising activity . that include senior military figure and the Iranian Space Agency , which develop technology that have application in ballistic missile development . we be deeply concerned about the prospect of further escalation , and all effort must now be concentrate on break the cycle of violence . at this moment , when tension be at their peak , calm head must prevail and all side must take immediate step to de - escalate . a regional war be , of course , in no one ' s interest . however , this be the late incident in the long history of Iran destabilise the region , include through its political , financial and military support for its proxy and partner , such as Hezbollah , Hamas , the Houthis and its aligned militia group in Iraq and Syria . we have be clear and consistent that Iran must cease this support . I thank the hon . gentleman for his generosity in give way . do he accept that the Islamic Revolutionary Guard Corps be a key component of the destabilisation sponsor by the iranian regime ? will he update the House on the Government ' s think on proscribe that organisation ? I think he would find many ally across the House who would be keen to see that happen . I thank the right hon . gentleman for his comment . we of course recognise the huge threat that the irgc pose , and we will take the necessary measure to counter it at home and around the world . he will understand that the Government keep the list of proscribe terrorist organisation under careful review , and we do not , of course , comment in the House on whether an organisation may be under consideration . as I say , Iran be now one of Russia ' s top military backer and have supply it with hundred of uav since 2022 , include different model of drone . Russia have use those to target Ukraine ' s critical infrastructure and to kill innocent civilian , prolong the suffering of the ukrainian people . in September , Iran supply Russia with hundred of close - range ballistic missile . that be a further escalation of Iran ' s military support for Russia ' s war of aggression against Ukraine and will far enable Russia ' s invasion . in return , Iran be receive russian military and technological support , enable it to far develop its military capability and enhance the risk it pose to the region and beyond . the legislation before we expand the UK ' s trade sanction against Iran , with the aim of disrupt its UAV and missile industry and its access to item critical to military development . it include sanction in relation to the item on the Russia common high priority list . the list , which be jointly agree by the UK , the EU , the US and Japan in the context of Russia ' s war against Ukraine , identify item that Russia be use in its weapon system , range from semiconductor to machine tool . those item be also significant in Iran ' s production of advanced conventional weapon . as the House will know , there have be many public report about Iran ' s supply of weapon to Russia . through the instrument , we be therefore prohibit the export , supply , delivery and make available of those item to Iran . we be also prohibit the provision of ancillary service associate with the good , such as brokering service , technical assistance , financial service and fund . all the item prohibit by our partner in the EU in May be also prohibit by the instrument . in addition , prohibition will be apply to some item identify by the Ministry of Defence as significant to Iran ' s UAV and missile industry . we have also take the opportunity to simplify some of the exist trade sanction on Iran so that business be well able to implement they . these trade restriction complement our exist export control and sanction , ensure that no UK business or person , wherever they be in the world , can facilitate the export , transfer , supply , delivery and make available of these item to Iran without prior authorisation . I hope that the House will support these measure . I commend they to the House . rise — order . may I remind member that if they intend to speak in a debate , they need to be here for the opening ? it be a particular discourtesy to the House if the Front - Bench spokesperson be not here at the beginning . the conservative party support the regulation , which extend the Iran sanction regime to drone and drone technology as well as financial service , fund and brokering service relate to item of strategic concern . however , these sanction seek to address issue emblematic of a far large threat . the Government should be in no doubt that Iran ' s malign influence be one of the big challenge to both global and british security . for decade , Iran have deliberately undermine the rule - base international order , destabilise its neighbourhood and fund terrorism globally , all while brutally repress its own people and commit a femicide . for year , the iranian regime have create asymmetric threat , co - opt exist movement and provide weapon , money and training to its proxy and ideological partner . be they Hamas in Gaza , Hezbollah in Lebanon , the Houthis in Yemen or Shi ' a militia and the popular mobilisation force across Iraq and Syria , they be terrorist organisation that have no interest in their local people and instead pursue the aim of the ayatollah ; hostage captor and committer of the bad atrocity against the jewish people since the Holocaust ; and actor disrupt maritime traffic in the Red sea , a sea link that be vital for the delivery of food and fertiliser to country face serious hunger crisis in east Africa and south Asia . as the Minister set out , Iran be now embed itself in conflict on our own continent , transfer hundred of attack drone and , as we now know , ballistic missile to Russia to prop up its barbaric , illegal and unprovoked renew invasion of Ukraine . they be fuel a war machine that seek to dismantle a sovereign democratic state in Europe and enable the murder of Ukrainians every single day . the Government must now allow Ukraine ' s use of long - range weaponry on strategic target . escalation warrant a response or further deterrence will be undermine . the invasion of Ukraine be an attack on we all . Iran be that hand in glove for Russia , the perpetrator . here at home , there have be numerous iranian plot to assassinate british or UK - base individual whom the regime consider its enemy . the UK have have to respond to more than 15 such plot since 2022 . we have see iranian cut - out investigate for spread IRGC propaganda and for glorify sanction individual and terrorist . we have see irgc general provide radicalise lecture here in our capital city . even on our street , we have see people glorify organisation such as the Houthis and other who be not act in defence of Gaza and who be not progressive movement ; they be terrorist . Iran have also arbitrarily detain and imprison british citizen , include Nazanin Zaghari - Ratcliffe , whose shocking ordeal prove beyond doubt Iran ' s disdain for human right and human dignity . as the Conservative Government demonstrate , we can take a muscular approach . we introduce the extensive sanction regime to disrupt Iran ' s hostile behaviour , target its decision maker along with those who do its bidding . we impose measure to help choke off the funding flow from Iran to Hamas and palestinian Islamic Jihad , as well as sanction on Iran ' s drone programme ; indeed , 400 sanction be in place on Iran by the time we leave office , and in 2023 alone we make 154 new designation . alongside the US and with support from ally , we carry out strike against the Houthis in Yemen to degrade their capability , aid and support ally across the world . british military personnel and equipment help to defend Israel from an iranian attack in April , and we tell the regime in Tehran in no uncertain term that it must rein in its proxy . when the Government propose measure such as the regulation before the House to counter Iran ' s appal behaviour , we will support they , but we be also very clear that the Government need to maintain the pressure and look at the big picture in equal measure to respond to the ever - grow threat . that point take I on to the strategy that we be pursue . we must stop compartmentalise our response and approach to Iran . we need to work out how we will measure success in reduce the threat of Iran to our people and our interest . the Government must do this work . Iran do not currently pursue active and direct confrontation with we , but its threshold for chaos be too high . we must work out how we will reduce that threat . Iran will continue to do as it see fit — its priority be the survival of the regime , and it have strategic patience — but we need to shape a strategy not in response to Iran , but in the pursuit of our ambition , protect our people and our interest . unfortunately , we can not rely on the USA to lead . we need a new Euro - atlantic focus , but the UK must decide what our priority be . we must also be prepare for fracture within the regime . we must recognise that although Iran rarely change its behaviour , it have a cycle of boom and bust and we must be prepare for what may fall out . I urge the Minister to take the opportunity to restructure ; I recognise that he be the Minister for sanction rather than for north Africa , but I know that he will take these word back to the Department . it be time for we to rethink our strategy on Iran and move from be reactive to be proactive . we need long - term thinking on how we restore state control over area abuse by Iranian - back non - state actor . that include the implementation of UN resolution 1701 and the removal of Hezbollah military position from southern Lebanon , with the lebanese military be able to reassert sovereign control . we also need a strategic approach to the Houthis that prioritise the restoration of proper governance in Yemen , include payment to public servant and protection against Houthi embezzlement of public fund . domestically , we must bolster our resilience and protect our society from corrosive iranian influence and transnational repression , which be extensive . the National Security Act 2023 should be implement in full as quickly as possible , include the register of foreign lobbyist , which shamefully the Government have delay . I urge they to put it in place as soon as possible . there be no reason for it not to proceed at speed . internationally , we must work with our partner to contain the loom threat of a nuclear Iran . the joint comprehensive plan of action need revisit . there be no perfect deal , but the current situation be untenable . the JCPOA be on life support . we need a new Euro - Atlantic approach . Antony Blinken ' s comment that Iran ' s nuclear break - out time be now one to two week should concern we all . it be a nuclear threshold state . we have the agency to disrupt Iran ' s malign plan and to lead the international community in do so if we have the courage to act and be prepared to develop a hard edge . the time to act must be now . I will be grateful if the Minister answer the follow question . when will the Government proscribe the irgc ? that be a promise that Labour make in opposition , and promise matter . will he work with ally to ensure that sanction be international and ensure their effectiveness in curb iranian drone development export ? individual sanction programme do not work ; they must be do on a multilateral basis . will the Minister work to ensure that the Office of Financial Sanctions Implementation be pursue penalty against those who breach sanction ? we have not see any being pursue when there have be breach of sanction around Russia . we must see that happen on both Iran and Russia . do he agree that in addition to use sanction , we must buttress Ukraine ' s military capability requirement so that it can take down iranian drone in the sky and match the weapon range of Russia ' s armed force ? that mean the use of storm Shadow missile . finally , with proxy such as Hezbollah be degrade , will the Minister commit to work towards free capture society from iranian influence and help state such as Lebanon to reassert their independence and state effectiveness ? will he assert in clear term that the Government condemn all iranian proxy and will assist good - faith actor in resist their proliferation , political entrenchment and military expansion and pursue a new UK coherent strategy to protect our people , our country and our interest from an increasingly belligerent Iran ? the Government ' s message to Iran at all time must be that its threshold for chaos be too high . they must step back , because the current approach be not work , but that start with we recognise that we can be in the drive seat and stop react to Iran . I thank the Minister for his speech on this really important issue . the continued instability in the region be of grow concern to many of we , not just because of the immense loss of life but because of the ever - grow security risk for this country . the Government have be clearly lead call for de - escalation in the region . do the Minister agree that it be time once again to redouble our effort with those call , so that all party in the region show restraint ? I call the liberal Democrat spokesperson . thank you , Madam Deputy Speaker . I appreciate your early guidance and apologise to you and the House . I rise to speak on behalf of my party in support of today ' s measure . the Liberal Democrats have for a long time support a strengthening of UK sanction against the iranian regime , not least in the light of the murder of Mahsa Amini just over two year ago . after Mahsa ' s brutal murder by the iranian morality police , Iranians take to the street in their hundred of thousand . violence be mete out by the iranian authority against those brave individual . More than 20 , 000 be detain , with woman and girl particularly target , and ultimately some be execute by the iranian authority . such behaviour be characteristic of the iranian regime . the Foreign , Commonwealth and Development Office ' s own human right and democracy report , in its most recent iteration , label Iran as one of the bad executer globally . More than 500 people be execute in 2022 , include two young offender . the report also identify the continue erosion and systematic violation of human right and fundamental freedom such as freedom of expression and belief , the tightening of restriction against woman and girl and , chillingly , the use of facial recognition software to identify those deem to be improperly dress . just as the iranian regime see fit to violate the basic right of its own citizen at home , its influence abroad be similarly malign , both in the middle east and close to home . it be iranian drone — more than 8 , 000 of they — that have come to Vladimir Putin ' s aid and be launch continually into Ukraine since the start of the war . we support the strong condemnation by the UK and our E3 partner of the news that iranian ballistic missile be also now be export to Russia for use against our ukrainian ally . to that end , we welcome today ' s sanction , which extend exist sanction against uav to other good and technology of strategic concern , from camera design for uav to microwave amplifier . we trust that the Minister will keep the list under continual review , not least to ensure that we be prevent the future supply of anything that Russia might seek to procure from the Iranians . will he update the House on what discussion he or his colleague have have with E3 counterpart or other regard the status of the JCPOA ? what be the Government ' s stance on the JCPOA , give Iran ' s seem disregard for international law ? the Liberal Democrats also urge the Government to go far on sanction . the past few week have serve as a demonstration of Iran ' s terrible influence within the middle east , and in particular the role of the irgc . we condemn the barrage of ballistic missile fire against Israel by Iran ' s irgc at the beginning of the month . the irgc continue to supply rocket and weaponry to its terrorist proxy , Hamas , Hezbollah and the Houthis , who have cause so much death and misery in the middle east . in 2022 , security service reveal 10 plot organise by the irgc in that year alone here on british soil where the intention be to kidnap or kill british national or UK resident . the previous Conservative Government do not proscribe the irgc . in opposition , the now Foreign Secretary say : " the irgc be behave like a terrorist organisation and must now be proscribe as such . " I agree , so will the Minister take that long overdue step and proscribe the irgc as a terrorist organisation ? not only will that have a positive impact in the region , but it will make the iranian diaspora in the UK safe and more secure . I be sure that member on both side of the House have british - iranian constituent who be deeply concerned about how the irgc have be able to operate with limited constraint in this country . we welcome any step forward to strengthen our sanction regime against Iran , but we will continue to make the case to the Government that the single most effective thing that they can do be proscribe the IRGC . I have two remain point . recall the case of Nazanin Zaghari - Ratcliffe , who be thankfully now back in the UK with her family follow the six year that she spend in prison in Iran , the Labour party commit in its manifesto to introduce a right to consular assistance in case of human right violation — a measure that we support . I raise yesterday the case of british - egyptian dual national Alaa Abd El - Fattah , who be be hold without consular access in Egypt . will the Minister update the House on when the right to consular assistance will be introduce ? I would be interested in hear what difference the hon . Gentleman think proscription of the Islamic Revolutionary Guard Corps would make . on Alaa Abd El - Fattah , the problem be that the Egyptians do not recognise dual nationality , so a right to consular access would make no fundamental difference . have lead an inquiry on this , I would be grateful if he explain why he think a right to consular access would make a fundamental difference in any such hostage case . on the irgc , we believe that proscribe that terrorist organisation , which run a state in the region , would put considerable constraint on its ability to operate around the world and prohibit many of its action , include those in the UK and threat against british citizen , to which I refer . I know that the hon . Lady have take a strong interest in the case that I mention — indeed , she mention it in the House yesterday — and be also work on the denial of consular access . it seem to I that consular access be a critical role of the Foreign , Commonwealth and Development Office . in the case that we be discuss , it be not clear to the family of Alaa Abd El - Fattah that the Foreign Office have make sufficient effort to secure that access in Egypt , and it be in that context that I raise this particular question . I would be interested in the Minister ' s response on when consular assistance will be guarantee to those who have suffer human right violation . secondly , as we use sanction against those with link to the iranian regime , we urge the Government to look closely at where those individual , and other with link to the regime , have stash their money . have some of that money be funnel into London , as be the case with so many other kleptocratic regime , and will the Minister commit to carry out an audit so that we know where those asset be — include those that have be entrust in the name of family member — and can freeze they accordingly ? I hope that the Minister will update the House on whether the Government be consider any plan for a third piece of economic crime legislation to close loophole in the two previous act , include by finally deliver a comprehensive approach to the register of beneficial ownership . finally , my right hon . friend the Member for Kingston and Surbiton ( Ed Davey ) have set out how , in this Parliament , the Liberal Democrats will act as a constructive opposition . this be my first contribution to a debate on legislation as the party ' s foreign affair spokesperson , so I put on record that that approach apply as much to the international sphere as it do to domestic policy . we welcome only yesterday the Government ' s measure on use frozen russian asset to the benefit of Ukraine , which we have call for over many month . we also urge the Government to go far by seize those asset in their entirety . it be in that constructive spirit that I put forward my party ' s proposal for take further step on Iran . in that area , too , I urge the new Government to be ahead of event , not behind they . I thank the Minister for his statement , which I welcome both for its steadfast support of Ukraine and for its action on Iran . as we have hear from everyone in the debate , Iran pose a threat to both regional and global stability . the iranian regime be not just export weapon to support Russia ' s despicable illegal war in Ukraine ; it be export terror — we have hear mention of the Houthis and various other group . it be — and I thank the hon . member for Bicester and Woodstock ( Calum Miller ) for mention this — commit savage repression against its own people . over 230 people have be execute in Iran in the past few month alone , and I know that the iranian community in Hendon be incredibly worried about the horrific repression that the iranian people face . we know that Iran pose a threat , and we know that that threat be grow , so I welcome the cross - party consensus that the measure make real sense . I thank the Minister for introduce the regulation , and I ask that the fcdo keep a close eye on the threat that Iran pose so that we can take further measure if need , to back up the Government ' s strong action to confront the threat of Iran head on . I strongly welcome the regulation . as my hon . friend the Member for Rutland and Stamford ( Alicia Kearns ) and the Minister have make clear , Iran be a malign influence that be fuel many of the most serious conflict around the world . there be Iran ' s horrendous attack on Israel recently , but there have also be its supply of weapon to Hamas , Hezbollah , and the Houthis — and particularly to Russia , in its invasion of Ukraine . we have debate Ukraine many time , and will continue to do so . the Minister have take a close interest in the issue , and I thank he for his support in opposition — both side of the House be unite in support for Ukraine . the measure will help a little , but the Minister will know that Ukraine be suffer desperately . the casualty , which be be inflict in part by the weapon that , hopefully , this measure will help to stop reach Russia , be horrendous , and stop those attack be part of President Zelensky ' s victory plan . I echo the comment of my hon . friend the Member for Rutland and Stamford that we need to do more to support Ukraine to implement its victory plan , particularly by allow it not only to shoot down attack from drone and missile over its own territory but to attack where they originate , outside the border of Ukraine in Russia . it be not go to be enough just to stop the supply of weapon from Iran . we know that they be be supply by other country , in particular North Korea — and not just weapon , but potentially troop as well . therefore , I hope that we will look at sanction enforcement across all the country that be give succour to Russia . I want to touch on one or two other aspect of iranian behaviour . the Minister know that sanction be use to try to put an economic squeeze on country that have breach international rule , and also to uphold human right . in particular , the use of Magnitsky sanction be now well establish . the Minister may be aware that I chair the all - party parliamentary group on media freedom . Iran ' s record in that area be terrible : it be 176th out of 180 on the index of press freedom . as RSF — reporter without Borders — have point out , more than 100 journalist have be interrogate , detain or imprison since the start of the protest movement in 2022 ; 16 remain in prison due to their work , alongside another 19 who be there before . we be not just talk about within Iran ; the Minister will know that the irgc lie behind the attack on journalist in London . Iran International have have to have protection and move office because of a continue threat by the irgc against its journalist . I have talk to the management of Iran International and some of its very brave journalist , one of whom be attack in the street of London . we be not just talk about Iran International , either . member of the BBC Persian service continue to be subject to threat and harassment , and their family in Iran be be pressure by the regime to try to reach those journalist . for those reason , I echo the call that have be make already by my hon . friend the Member for Rutland and Stamford and the Liberal Democrat spokesman , the hon . member for Bicester and Woodstock ( Calum Miller ) : the IRGC must be proscribe . that be the view of the Minister ' s colleague when they be in opposition , and it be the view of America and Canada . we await to hear as soon as possible the Government ' s decision . impose sanction be clearly an important part of put pressure on Iran , but they need to be enforce . one of the benefit of have professional investigative journalist be that they be sometimes able to expose thing that otherwise remain hidden . if the Minister have not do so , will he study carefully this week ' s edition of the Economist ? the Economist have carry out an in - depth investigation of the enforcement of the sanction impose by America on Iran , and the way in which those sanction be be completely bypass . apparently , Iran be currently sell 1 . 8 million barrel of oil per day , almost all of which end up in China . they do so through a whole host of front organisation . individual component of the iranian regime , include the irgc and the Quds Force , be give crude oil to market and they then set up their own front organisation . they use shadow organisation to procure tanker movement ; they have bank that support that activity ; and as I say , a large part of that oil end up in China , which be the main purchaser . the money then flow back through that network directly to Iran . although I do not necessarily believe that that be do knowingly , the Economist also state : " London be the world ' s sixth - big base by number of iranian - link entity blacklist by America . " as such , I hope the Minister will look carefully at not just tighten the noose around the regime , but make sure that the loophole that be currently be exploit to get around sanction be properly close down , in this country and elsewhere . as I have say , today ' s motion be very welcome , but we need to do a lot more . I welcome the opportunity not just to give my support to the proposal to continue and extend sanction , but to put on record my condemnation of the iranian regime and to give my support to the woman and girl of Iran , who have be so brave in fighting for their right in the face of brutal suppression . sanction impose on Iran come as we see increase hostility by group associate with Iran , or by Iran itself , at an international level . most recently , Iran ' s two direct attack on Israel this year , which the UK and western ally have condemn as escalatory action in an already precarious situation , speak volume about the threat that the regime represent . one of the purpose of the UK ' s sanction on Iran be to deter its government , or an armed group back by that Government , from conduct hostile activity against the UK or any other country . the removal of sanction should come only when there be evidence that Iran have disengage from that hostile activity , yet all we have see be the opposite . since May 2019 , Iran have continue to violate the joint comprehensive plan of action implement to limit the iranian nuclear programme in exchange for sanction relief . furthermore , it be well know that Iran fund multiple group across the middle east designate by the UK as terrorist organisation . those proxy act to destabilise the region as a whole , but Iran ' s activity be not limit to the middle east . as have be say in the Chamber already , there have be a number of threat to individual in the UK emanating from Iran , and as the Minister outline , it be now provide extensive support for the illegal war in Ukraine — both military and logistical — which be impact directly on the life of brave ukrainian soldier seek to defend their country . as I say at the start of my speech , Iran ' s terrorist action sadly extend to its own people . we know that Iran ' s people currently live under a violent , oppressive regime . in September 2022 , Mahsa Amini , a 22 - year - old iranian - kurdish woman , be arrest by Iran ' s morality police for allegedly not comply with the country ' s islamic dress code . three day later , she tragically die in police custody , spark a wave of protest across Iran and draw the attention of the international community . despite iranian official claim that Mahsa Amini die of natural cause , the widespread protest that follow be a clear response to year of repression , with demonstrator demand justice , freedom and accountability . the bravery of these protester can not be overstate . the iranian Government ' s heavy - handed response be brutal , with the UN fact - find mission and Iran Human Rights report that over 550 protester be kill by security force . those death represent the high death toll see in any protest since the Islamic Republic ' s found in 1979 , and be a stark reminder of the danger face by those who dare to voice dissent . sadly , the plight of woman in Iran be not limit to the enforcement of hijab law , but extend to many aspect of daily life , root in systemic discrimination that be codify in law . the situation become even more alarming when we consider the lack of protection against domestic violence . Iran currently have no law to safeguard woman from abuse or femicide , and between March 2021 and June 2023 , at least 165 woman be kill by male family member in honour killing . that remain an ongoing and disturb tragedy . I be also deeply concerned by Iran ' s treatment of follower of the Baha ' I faith , which the UN have refer to as " the most egregious form of repression , persecution and victimisation . " in February 2022 , iranian authority allow only recognise religion to be state on the new national ID card . in do so , they deprive unrecognised religious minority of access to many basic service . without that ID , iranian national be unable to obtain credit card , driver ' s licence or passport ; nor can they buy property , cash cheque or apply for loan . that be clear evidence of serious discrimination against minority group . I be proud that , at the 78th UN General Assembly under the last government , the UK co - sponsor the Iran human right resolution call for Iran to eliminate in law and in practice all form of discrimination on the basis of thought , conscience , religion or belief . although that be a strong message from international partner , it fall on deaf ear , but the UK Government , alongside ally such as Australia , Canada , New Zealand and the United States , have make their stance clear . in September , our Foreign Secretary call on the iranian Government to end human right abuse and to cease the use of force to impose the hijab . we should continue to press the iranian regime to respect the right of its citizen , and we remain committed to hold it to account for violation through sanction and international pressure . we must not turn a blind eye to human right abuse in Iran . we stand in solidarity with the iranian people , especially the woman and other minority group who be lead the fight for dignity , equality and justice . our sanction regime be an important part of how we stand up for our value and for the victim of the iranian regime both in Iran and abroad , and I enthusiastically support the motion secure their continuation and expansion . like all other member , I rise in support of these important regulation . they of course expand exist sanction , target additional good and technology relate to the iranian military development and Iran ' s production of unmanned aerial vehicle and missile . in recent week we have all see not only that Iran have launch yet a further unprecedented missile attack on Israel , which have rightly attract universal condemnation , but that the UK Government have announce further aid to Ukraine in its struggle against russian aggression . as we all know , Russia ' s war effort and its breach of international humanitarian law be support by the supply of iranian uav and missile . I agree with those who have speak that Iran , in both instance , through its supply of uav and missile to various state and non - state terrorist organisation , be prolong the war in Ukraine and risk the further escalation of conflict in the middle east . in a speech to the UN Security Council last month , the Foreign Secretary rightly emphasise the importance of uphold a rule - base international order , especially international humanitarian law . in both those respect , I be sure we can all agree that Iran be a destabilising influence in the region and far afield . as we have hear say so eloquently by the hon . member for Bexhill and Battle ( Dr Mullan ) , it also run a very savage and repressive regime against iranian civilian . if we hope to see a more peaceful future , we must ensure that all nation adhere to international law and , where necessary , act to enforce such compliance . sanction such as those before we be very important tool that the international community can use to apply pressure on regime , such as Iran ' s , that contravene international law . I be particularly pleased that the Minister outline how the Government co - ordinate the effort on these sanction with international partner such as the European Union , the United States and Japan . it be clear that , if these be to be effective , there need to be a co - ordinate effort across the globe . although I acknowledge that the Government have previously introduce a separate sanction regime and financial sanction to encourage Iran to comply with international human right law , I think it be important to refer to the long - stand concern about the state ' s atrocious human right record . to echo the word of the hon . member for Bexhill and Battle , we will all be familiar with the Woman , Life , Freedom movement and the protest that follow the tragic death in custody of Mahsa Amini , who be arrest by the iranian morality police for improperly wear she hijab . Amnesty International and other have note grave human right violation in Iran since these protest , include further suppression of the right of freedom of expression , association and peaceful assembly , and the intensification of the iranian regime ' s crackdown on the right of woman and girl . thousand be subject to interrogation , arbitrary detention , unjust prosecution and imprisonment for peacefully exercise their human right — right that we take for grant in this country . these be all reason why we should take a firm approach to any contravention of international law by the iranian regime , and I would welcome the Minister ' s assurance that the Government continue to monitor the effectiveness of sanction introduce to encourage the iranian regime to comply with international humanitarian law . in return to the dreadful consequence of Iran ' s supply of uav and missile to various state and non - state actor across the world , we should also bear in mind that sanction can form only part of any strategy . as the United Nations state : " sanction do not operate , succeed or fail in a vacuum . the measure be most effective at maintain or restore international peace and security when apply as part of a comprehensive strategy encompass peacekeeping , peacebuilde and peacemake . " the sanction must therefore fit into a wide approach that the UK take towards the situation in the middle east , where we also support de - escalation and peacebuilde initiative as they arise . we must be firm and fair . where there be opportunity for de - escalation , we must take they , while remain steadfast in our support of international law and preparedness to sanction state such as Iran that act to undermine it . I welcome today ' s motion to approve iranian sanction ; it mark an essential and targeted response to Iran ' s grow military threat . by expand sanction to cover these additional good and technology , particularly those contribute to Iran ' s uav and missile , we be strike at the core of Iran ' s military - industrial complex . that be crucial in disrupt Iran ' s capability to continue not just fuel conflict in the middle east , but aid Russia ' s war against Ukraine . Russia ' s recent desperate procurement of weapon from North Korea show that Russia be struggle . by cut off Iran ' s support , we far tighten the pressure on Russia ' s war machine , limit the lifeline that Iran provide and squeeze their ability to continue the brutal conflict in Ukraine . since August 2022 , Iran have supply Russia with hundred of Shahed - 136 drone , which have be use extensively to target ukrainian civilian and infrastructure . last month , the US confirm that Iran have transfer shipment of Fath - 360 ballistic missile to Russia . those missile , with a range of 75 mile , allow russian force to conserve their more advanced long - range missile for other strategic target . the Fath - 360 missile will undoubtedly be employ within week , which I fear could lead to more civilian casualty in Ukraine . Russia have already deploy iranian drone to strike critical infrastructure , and the missile that be be transfer will clearly have a similar role . dozen of russian personnel have be train in Iran to use these system , deepen the co - operation between the two regime . Iran have already show we its character by strike at the heart of the UK . as we hear from the right hon . member for Maldon ( Sir John Whittingdale ) , the March attack on the iranian journalist Pouria Zeraati be a stark reminder of the grow threat pose by the iranian regime to the UK . over the past 18 month , iranian journalist in the UK have be under sustained threat from the irgc , which have target reporter and their family in an attempt to silence critical voice . we can not allow a regime that silence its critic with violence and fear to intimidate those who seek to expose the truth here in the UK . I really want to be here for this debate , but I would have have to be in two place at the same time and I can be in only one , so I apologise for that , Madam Deputy Speaker . as the chair of the all - party parliamentary group for international freedom of religion or belief , I want to put the following on the record . do the hon . Gentleman agree that the suppression of human right , the persecution of Christians , Shi ' as and Baha ' be , and the denial of education , job and the right even to have a life put Iran in one of the four top country in the world where the right to live be suppress to such level ? I be grateful to the hon . member for point that out ; he be absolutely right . not only be there no tolerance for alternative view or belief , but Iran be mention in the FCDO human right report in 2022 , and on the basis of that report the Liberal Democrats call — and have do for year — for we to withhold arm licence to Iran , most obviously , and also to Israel and the occupied Palestinian Territories . our stance on the export of arm to the region be of long standing and very much in line with the human right report produce by the fcdo in 2022 . we need to take strong action on iranian asset here within the UK . we call for the wide use of Magnitsky sanction . we should specifically target the relative of sanction individual who have transfer wealth in order to avoid the measure . in the past few week we have witness just how easy it be to dodge sanction on russian oil . we must cut off those financially support Iran from London , block their access to the world ' s second - large financial hub . that will help stop the flow of dirty money and ensure that those who support Iran ' s military operation directly or indirectly be punish . I will draw to a close . will the Minister comment in his summing up on whether the Government will continue to monitor the export of some of the good we be talk about today , in particular to state that neighbour Iran ? with the sanction impose on Russia , we have see a subsequent uptick in the export of machine tool , for example , to some of the state that surround Russia . will the UK monitor that ? we stand ready to support any further step that will limit Iran ' s capacity to cause harm in the middle east and Ukraine . in the face of Iran ' s continued support for Russia ' s brutal war , these sanction send a clear message . we must keep up the pressure and not let up until Iran ' s threat to global security diminishe . I thank all right hon . and hon . member for their contribution . they have make some important point , and I thank they for their wholehearte support for the regulation . it be important that we maintain unity in the House on these measure to tackle these regime , whether it be Russia or Iran . as I say early , these measure represent a step forward in our capability to restrict Iran ' s proliferation of advanced conventional weapon , which continue to fuel the conflict we have be discuss in the middle east and to support Russia in its illegal war in Ukraine . we be firmly committed to use sanction to hold the iranian regime to account for its malign activity in the UK and elsewhere . I should point out that we do not just have these regulation . continue on from measure under the previous Administration , on 2 September we sanction four IRGC Quds Force target who have a role support iranian proxy action in Iraq , Syria and Lebanon . we announce sanction against 15 iranian and russian target on 10 September , cancel our bilateral air service arrangement with Iran Air and target those who be involve in a series of action . we have consistently raise our concern directly with the iranian regime and , indeed , with a range of partner . on 14 October we designate nine individual and entity involve in facilitate Iran ' s destabilising activity . that include senior military and IRGC figure and entity involve in Iran ' s ballistic missile programme . those be just some of the example since this government come in , but they be among more than 460 iranian individual and entity that have be sanction due to Iran ' s malign activity in the region and internationally . that include 94 human right - specific sanction on individual and entity , to respond to many of the significant and rightful concern raise by colleague today . it be clear from the tenor of the House — I have to say as a woman that I find it incredibly move to hear my hon . friend the Member for Bexhill and Battle ( Dr Mullan ) and the hon . member for Ceredigion Preseli ( Ben Lake ) speak so strongly for the woman who continue to be rape and blind by the iranian regime — that the House be say that we want to see more effort on this . I would be grateful if the Minister commit to take that away . I be not ask for he to predetermine what he will do on sanction , but it be incredibly powerful to hear so many man speak up for iranian woman , and they need to hear our voice or they will lose hope . I wholeheartedly agree with the hon . Lady ' s comment . as she know , we do not comment on future designation , but I have certainly hear the strong voice across the House today , which reflect the horrific reality for woman and girl — ordinary iranian civilian — under that repressive regime . I thank she overall for her support . she rightly highlight a series of Iran ' s malign action . I agree with she that those promote proscribe organisation in the UK should face the full force of the law . that be for our law enforcement agency , but the Prime Minister and other have make that absolutely clear . the hon . Lady raise concern in relation to the foreign influence registration scheme . I assure she that we remain absolutely committed to that . we will far strengthen our national security while maintain the UK as an international hub for business . announcement on the tier will be make at a later stage , but we be absolutely committed to it — it be not go anywhere . we be committed to move forward with that agenda and I have be discuss it with colleague across government . the hon . Lady and other mention the JCPOA . let I be clear : snapback remain an option . we remain in close contact with E3 and other partner , and I will say a little more on that in a moment . I refer she to my previous comment on the irgc as a whole . she and other hon . member ask I about the internationalisation of sanction . absolutely , this be about work with partner . be we look at how we can increase penalty and enforcement ? absolutely , whether that be OTSI or other . obviously , I can not comment on future investigation and designation . the hon . Lady ask about wide UK military support to Ukraine . I point to the very important announcement yesterday , on top of exist commitment . the extraordinary revenue acceleration will deliver an additional £ 2 . 26 billion to Ukraine for crucial need , work with our partner across the G7 . I will come on to Lebanon in a moment , but do I condemn all the proxy that Iran be support ? absolutely . we have be very clear about that . other right hon . and hon . member make important point . my hon . friend the Member for Barking ( Nesil Caliskan ) and the Liberal Democrat spokesman , the hon . member for Bicester and Woodstock ( Calum Miller ) , rightly refer to issue around human right and repressive action within Iran itself . he ask specifically about one case . I know he receive a specific answer from the Under - Secretary of State for Foreign , Commonwealth and Development Affairs , my hon . friend the Member for Lincoln ( Hamish Falconer ) on that yesterday in fcdo question . he ask about the wide issue around illicit finance and kleptocracy . these be significant priority for the Foreign Secretary and I . I assure he and the House that we be work at pace on these issue and will be announce further measure in due course . he ask about public register of beneficial ownership and ensure transparency . I be in close contact with our overseas territory regard these issue and have make it clear that we expect to see progress at pace . I will make that clear to leader before the joint ministerial council in a few week ' time . my hon . friend the Member for Hendon ( David Pinto - Duschinsky ) rightly refer to the heinous execution and internal repression , although , as I say , I will not comment on further designation . I thank the right hon . member for Maldon ( Sir John Whittingdale ) for his kind remark about the cross - party support we have have for Ukraine . he rightly raise issue relate to the democratic People ' s Republic of Korea . he will have hear in recent day the Foreign Secretary , with his counterpart in the Republic of Korea , state our absolute condemnation regard DPRK ' s involvement in Russia ' s illegal war in Ukraine . I will certainly take a look at the Economist article he mention . we will seek to do everything we can to close down loophole and ensure the effectiveness of our regime . the hon . member for Bexhill and Battle ( Dr Mullan ) make some very powerful point , in particular highlight the impact on woman and girl , and minority group — that be also touch on by the hon . member for Strangford ( Jim Shannon ) — within Iran . the Government remain absolutely committed to freedom of religion or belief , and target religious minority or repressive action against they can not be tolerate . the hon . member for Ceredigion Preseli ( Ben Lake ) also highlight the internal oppression . the hon . member for Honiton and Sidmouth ( Richard Foord ) range over a whole series of issue , but speak in particular about third - country circumvention . address this issue be a key priority for the Government . it be one that form a regular part of my conversation with third country identify . I have have numerous such conversation in recent week and we will , with our ally , continue to do so . we must close down all loophole and all route , whether in Russia or Iran , to ensure our sanction regime be effective . before conclude , let I briefly touch on a couple of the specific theme that come out of the debate . let I be clear : Iran ' s action in relation to Israel be completely unacceptable . the Prime Minister and the Foreign Secretary have be absolutely clear that we stand with Israel and recognise its right to self - defence in the face of iranian aggression . we absolutely condemn in the strong term its attack against Israel . we designate individual specifically in response to the attack on Israel , include senior military figure and entity involve in Iran ' s ballistic missile programme . I refer to the JCPOA , but let I be clear that Iran ' s nuclear escalation since 2019 have go far beyond JCPOA limit and be undermine the deal . alongside our E3 partner , we will use all diplomatic option available to ensure that Iran never develop a nuclear weapon , include trigger the snapback of all UN sanction lift under the JCPOA if necessary . I mention the action that we have take against regional proxy , but let I remind the House that the UK proscribe the entirety of Hezbollah as a terrorist organisation , and have an asset freeze in place against the entire organisation . we assess Hamas in their entirety to be concern with terrorism , and therefore proscribe the organisation in full . the Houthis be sanction in their entirety by the UK and be subject to a target arm embargo . on human right , as I say , there be 94 human right sanction on iranian individual and entity . the horrifically high rate of execution be a deliberate attempt to instil fear and stifle dissent in Iran . as a government we remain opposed to the death penalty in all circumstance , as a matter of principle . the situation for woman and girl be truly horrific . we condemn Iran ' s appal treatment of woman and girl , include through its repressive policy . we will work with international partner to engage with the finding of the UN special rapporteur on iranian human right . medium freedom be also mention ; as a member of the Media Freedom Coalition , we be determined to ensure that journalist be able to do their job without fear of retribution . give the situation for detainee and the historical case involve Nazanin Zaghari - Ratcliffe and other , we continue to believe that british national and british - iranian dual national be at significant risk of detention in Iran . british national be advise not to travel to Iran , but we do not and never will accept our national be use as diplomatic leverage . again , I apologise for not be here early to ask the Minister a question directly . the irgc be quite clearly the leader of Iran ' s private army . it be involve in some of the bad repression , murder and despicable act across all of Iran . be it not time to collate all this information and put it together to hold those people accountable for what they be do , and for human right abuse in Iran ? I make clear our position on the irgc early , but as I point out , we have sanction directly a number of individual involve with that organisation . we recognise the threat that it pose and will take the necessary measure to counter it at home and around the world , but obviously we do not comment on future designation . the safety and security of the United Kingdom from Iran ' s malign action have be raise on a number of occasion . it be rightly point out that the UK have identify at least 15 threat towards UK - base individual . our police , intelligence and security agency have be confront these threat for many year , but their seriousness have increase in recent month . let I be clear : we will always stand up to threat from foreign nation , and we will continue to work closely with our international partner to identify , deter , and respond to those threat . lastly , on Lebanon , we have be very clear that a political solution consistent with resolution 1701 be the only way to restore its sovereignty , territorial integrity and stability . we have be call for an immediate ceasefire between lebanese Hezbollah and Israel , and a political plan that will enable civilian on both side to return to their home . nobody want further escalation , and we will continue to work with partner across the region on that . these new regulation will increase the pressure on Iran ' s defence industry . they will disrupt Iran ' s production of uav and missile that could be supply to proxy in the middle east or Russia . we will continue to work with likeminded partner . the regulation send a clear message to the Government of Iran and those seek to harm the UK ' s security and that of our partner : we will not stand idle in the face of this aggression . I commend the regulation to the House . question put and agree to . resolve , that the Iran ( Sanctions ) ( Amendment ) Regulations 2024 ( SI , 2024 , no . 944 ) , date 11 September 2024 , a copy of which be lay before this House on 12 September , be approve . Independent Expert Panel [ relevant document : House of Commons Commission , Independent Expert Panel : nomination of candidate , HC 282 . ] I beg to move , that , in accordance with Standing Order no . 150C ( Appointment of Independent Expert Panel Chair and Members ) and for a period of 6 year from 25 November 2024 : ( 1 ) Sir Adrian Fulford be appoint as Chair of the Independent Expert Panel ; and ( 2 ) Lyndsey de Mestre , Andrew Hoyle and Wendy Williams CBE be appoint as member of the Independent Expert Panel . the motion , which stand in my name , nominate a new Chair and three new member of the Independent Expert Panel . the IEP be establish in 2020 to hear appeal and determine sanction in bullying , harassment and sexual misconduct complaint against current and former mps . in 2022 the IEP ' s remit be expand to include hear appeal from the Committee on Standards . the IEP have eight member , appoint follow fair and open competition . the Commission ' s report of 9 October set out the detail of the recruitment process . in 2020 the House appoint four member for a four - year term , and four for six year . we be therefore appoint four new member today , to join the four exist member whose term expire in 2026 . before turn to the new member , I would like to thank the outgoing Chair , Sir Stephen Irwin , and the outgoing member , Lisa Ball , Johanna Higgins and Clare McGlynn , for their service to the House . with their colleague , and under Sir Stephen ' s leadership , they have create — from scratch — a body that I know be widely respect across the House for its rigour , fairness and independence . Sir Stephen will be especially greatly miss by those who have work closely with he for his wise counsel , generosity , and commitment to change the culture in this place for the well . a measure of the esteem in which the IEP be now hold be the quality of the candidate that it have attract to join it . the nominee for Chair , Sir Adrian Fulford , have a long and distinguished judicial career culminate as vice - president of the Court of Appeal criminal division , as well as be the first Investigatory Powers Commissioner and be elect to the International Criminal Court in 2003 . many in the House will know Wendy Williams CBE from her review of the Windrush scandal , but she also bring her experience as one of his Majesty ' s inspector of constabulary and fire & rescue service . Lyndsey de Mestre KC have extensive experience in chair professional disciplinary panel cover the clergy , police and the Bar as well as be the Chancellor for the diocese of York and St Albans . Dr Andrew Hoyle be currently an assistant director in fitness to practise at the General Medical Council . in combination with the continue member of the panel , these appointment will ensure that the IEP continue to have the range of skill and experience to ensure that the House and parliamentary community can have confidence in its rigour , independence and fairness . I hope that member will support the motion , and I commend it to the House . I call the shadow Leader of the House . I will not detain the House long , member will be delighted and relieve to hear — I can see that be a popular position . I simply echo the sentiment that the Leader of the House express . the Independent Expert Panel obviously play an extremely important role in scrutinise allegation of misconduct , and it be right that there be an independent mechanism to do that , free from political interference . I add my thank to the thank that the Leader of the House have express already to the outgoing member , and in particular to Sir Stephen , the inaugural Chair of the IEP . I add my commendation for the newly nominate member . as the Leader of the House have say , Sir Adrian Fulford be an extremely distinguished , very senior member of the judiciary , and the other three member be appoint have extremely impressive professional and legal background as well . I particularly add my endorsement to Wendy Williams , who I work with at the Home Office when I be Minister of State for Police and Crime and she be one of his Majesty ' s inspector of constabulary and fire & rescue service . she certainly discharge those duty with great effectiveness , as I see during my time as a Minister in that Department . I be only too pleased to endorse the remark that the Leader of the House have make . question agree to . resolve , that , in accordance with Standing Order no . 150C ( Appointment of Independent Expert Panel Chair and Members ) and for a period of 6 year from 25 November 2024 : ( 1 ) Sir Adrian Fulford be appoint as Chair of the Independent Expert Panel ; and ( 2 ) Lyndsey de Mestre , Andrew Hoyle and Wendy Williams CBE be appoint as member of the Independent Expert Panel . vote by Proxy I beg to move , that , for the remainder of the current session of Parliament , the follow amendment to Standing Order no . 39A shall have effect : in paragraph ( 2 ) , insert " ( d ) serious long - term illness or injury ; " . under the Standing Order , member be currently eligible for a proxy vote in the event of childbirth , care of an infant or newly adopt child , complication relate to childbirth , miscarriage or baby loss , or risk - base exclusion from the parliamentary estate . however , the temporary arrangement relate to proxy vote for member suffer from long - term or serious illness expire at the end of the last Parliament . I therefore table this motion to reinstate eligibility for proxy vote to member with long - term illness or injury until the end of the current Session . permanent change to the rule govern the House must be introduce with due care , and it be important for we to ensure that the right balance be strike . before ask the House to consider make these arrangement permanent , I have ask the new Chair of the Procedure Committee , my hon . friend the Member for Lancaster and Wyre ( Cat Smith ) , to provide recommendation on the operation of the proxy voting scheme . I hope that member will support the motion , and I commend it to the House . once again , I find myself in agreement with the Leader of the House on the substance of this issue . perhaps it will become a habit ; I do not know . the opposition support the intention behind the motion . clearly , if a Member of Parliament have a serious long - term illness or injury , it be reasonable that that Member can still exercise his or her vote even if absent . however , I should like to know how the threshold will be define . who decide whether a particular Member have or have not meet the threshold , and what sort of evidence will be require ? might it be , for instance , a doctor ' s certificate ? that may be the kind of question that the Procedure Committee will answer . I should be interested to know the thought of the Leader of the House on those specific practical question , but in principle we support this change . I shall not detain the House for long . I welcome the motion . the House prove itself when member be experience adverse circumstance because of covid and all the associated problem : it step up and make sure that member have the opportunity that they ought to have to use their franchise . it be only right that , in a new session , this arrangement should be extend for a five - year period . I think we should be demonstrate that ours be a kind workplace , and I think what the Leader of the House say have show that it be . some of we be bind to be under pressure sometimes , whatever that pressure may be , and it be good to know that we can go and have a chat with someone who can help we to get through the process . the House enable we to do that , and I commend what the Leader of the House have do . I thank the shadow Leader of the House for his comment and , as ever , I thank the hon . member for Strangford ( Jim Shannon ) for his attendance and his contribution . I echo what the hon . Gentleman say about the need for we to be considerate and caring , and to allow member , when they absolutely can not be here , to continue to represent their constituent by have their vote count . that be an important principle , which the proxy voting scheme be design to implement . the shadow Leader of the House ask some important question about issue that I have , in fact , ask the Chair of the Procedure Committee to consider far . require note from consultant - level doctor about reason for absence be fairly onerous . there be certain illness that fall into the category , and question have be raise in the past by member and other about how some of those decision have be reach , so I think it important that we maintain this option . I certainly do not want a situation where a member undergo treatment for cancer , for example , be unable to apply for a proxy vote . I think it right for the Procedure Committee to consider exactly how this should be deliver in the long term , and permanently , to ensure that in circumstance when we would all feel it fair for someone to be eligible for a proxy vote , that person be give one , and that in circumstance when many of we would feel it a stretch for someone to be give a proxy vote , they do not get it . I think we need a short review of the arrangement to ensure that we proceed with confidence and on a permanent basis . question put and agree to . business without Debate Delegated Legislation Motion make , and question put forthwith ( Standing Order no . 118 ( 6 ) ) , Retained EU Law Reform that the draft Human Fertilisation and Embryology ( Amendment ) Regulations 2024 , which be lay before this House on 15 May , in the last Session of Parliament , be approve . — ( Andrew Gwynne . ) question agree to . Petition - NatWest bank closure in Angel Edmonton 6 . 20 pm I rise to present a petition concern the closure of the NatWest Angel Edmonton branch . the closure will significantly impact the local economy as many business have rely on its service for year . additionally , it will far marginalise those who be digitally exclude . the petitioner therefore request that the House of Commons urge the Government to take action to protect face - to - face banking service , halt the decline of bank branch and ensure banking service remain accessible to all . follow be the full text of the petition : [ the petition of resident of the constituency of Edmonton and Winchmore Hill declare that petitioner have significant concern about the propose closure of the NatWest branch in Angel Edmonton and its impact on reduce access to face - to - face banking service locally and leave worker at risk of redundancy ; note that the Government be a significant stakeholder in NatWest ; further note that the closure of bank branch especially impact old and disable people , those who be digitally exclude without access to internet banking and small business owner ; and far declare that this can make it hard for many people to manage their finance at a time when million of family be already struggle to make end meet . the petitioner therefore request that the House of Commons urge the Government to act to protect face - to - face person banking service , ensure that the decline in bank can be stop and even reverse and that accessibility to banking service be keep accessible to all . and the petitioner remain , etc . ] [ p003012 ] Antisocial Behaviour : Leyton and Wanstead Motion make , and question propose , that this House do now adjourn . — ( Vicky Foxcroft . ) I be grateful to have this opportunity to address the House on an issue of press concern in my constituency . persistent and serious pattern of antisocial behaviour have a profound impact on community . I will talk about the nature of these challenge , the admirable patience and resilience of my constituent in the face of these issue , the strong leadership demonstrate by our local council and police , and how the Government ' s plan will be instrumental in turn the tide . at the outset , I want to express my gratitude to the Minister for her attention to these matter , her willingness to engage with I last week and her offer of a further meeting to give I confidence that we can make progress on some of the difficult issue that I will outline today . I must also take this moment to commend the exceptional leadership show by Waltham Forest council leader Grace Williams , Kam Rai at Redbridge council , Superintendent Claire McCarthy and Chief Superintendent Dan Card . they be lead the charge in keep these issue from become even more severe , and I be confident that with continued support we can make real progress . the problem I be go to raise be the manifestation of 14 year of underinvestment in the police , the decimation of our council service , a funding model that do not recognise the disproportionate population growth in east London borough and a criminal justice system that be feed people back into our community without rehabilitation . turn to the specific challenge , it be essential to understand that antisocial behaviour be more than a series of isolated incident . it be often concentrate in area of deprivation and exclusion , such as the Avenue Road estate in Leytonstone . here , we be see a tragic cycle of drug misuse , criminality and social breakdown that threaten to undermine the fabric of our community . public space be be vandalise , bin be be set on fire , and needle and drug litter be be leave where child can find they . user be shoot up and smoke crack in full public view . they be force entry to use drug in people ' s front garden and communal hallway and stairway , where resident have to get past they . resident be see drug user have sex in public space or lie unconscious . it be incredibly distressing , particularly for resident with young family . public space , include park and playground , be become unsafe due to open drug use and vandalism . despite these troubling condition , the resident of these area have show incredible tolerance and dignity . first , may I commend the hon . gentleman for secure this debate ? he refer to public park , playground and main street as place where antisocial behaviour take place . it be take place in my constituency and I want to add to this debate by say what we do . we have community police officer on the street and we also have an organisation call Street Pastors ; it be very active and it involve all the church come together voluntarily to try to engage with those on the street who might cause some of the antisocial behaviour . those two objective of more community police and more street pastor seem to have reduce the large number of antisocial behaviour issue in my constituency . I be try to be helpful in this debate — I always try to be constructive — and hopefully that be something the hon . Gentleman will think about . I thank the hon . gentleman for his intervention . as he will learn , a number of scheme have aim to tackle antisocial behaviour in the community . however , the size of the problem tend to bubble up , and I will come on to that . resident who speak up for their right to live in peace in their own community face serious intimidation , harassment , verbal abuse and threat . many have tell I that they fear that violence will be next . it be vital that we recognise and appreciate their tolerance . it be not only that resident be endure such problem ; the viability of the estate itself be questionable , and the council ' s inability to regenerate the area contribute to their marginalisation . their lack of opportunity far add to the problem . resident tolerate antisocial behaviour with remarkable respect and humility , and a sense of self - worth . however , their patience must not be mistake for complacency or acceptance . they deserve solution , and I hope the Minister will tell we how the Government ' s approach to tackle antisocial behaviour will provide the framework we need . I be sure that this be something on which the council will continue to actively engage with resident , include at the meeting later this month , so that I can communicate back to they . my hon . friend be make an excellent speech . he be speak very powerfully from his experience of deeply troubling issue in his constituency . other mps , include I , have experience similar issue in our own constituency , and I pay tribute to resident who endure terrible asb problem . the Government be do excellent work on this issue , and I look forward to much more action come forward , such as the introduction of new order , other power and more police community support officer . my hon . friend be right to point to the importance of resident work with local authority and the police . may I commend the resident in read town centre who recently remove several tonne of rubbish in a massive community clear - up , which be part of the work to tackle ASB in the area ? I thank my hon . friend for his apposite intervention . People in both our constituency have tolerate 14 year of failure , and 14 year of all our system and service be significantly erode . that be why it be imperative that the Minister explain to we how she will go about address the issue that be face , and tolerate , by our constituent . I know that the Minister will understand just how damaging these issue can be for our community . when there be a sense that people be damage other with impunity , fear and mistrust can escalate . I have meet the ward officer team locally , and they be aware of the problem and keen to support the resident affect , but no matter how attentive they be , the persistence of these issue erode trust in the police , which be already in a bad way across many area of London . the reality be that few resident attend the ward panel and raise their voice , partly because they be afraid of be see engage with the police , and partly because they have little trust that effective action will be take . resident have tell I that they now feel like drug user have take over the territory . they be scared to go out at night and almost feel as though they be squatter and intruder , even in their own home , estate and neighbourhood . I be pleased to support the Government ' s plan to place 13 , 000 more neighbourhood police and pcso on the street as part of the neighbourhood policing guarantee . this will be a game changer for Leyton and Wanstead , where our overstretched resource have leave community feel abandon . the additional officer have a clear local mandate and will bring a much - need visible presence to our street , rebuild trust and confidence in the police . I also want to highlight the Government ' s propose respect order , which will be crucial in empower the police to take strong action against the persistent offender who make life unbearable for the ordinary resident . by address the small group of individual responsible for much of the antisocial behaviour , we can restore public space and ensure that they be safe for family once again . I would therefore be grateful for any more light that the Minister can shed on the respect order that the Secretary of State have rightly propose . in Leyton and Wanstead , we be already see positive example of multi - agency working , include initiative such as Project ADDER , which focus on tackle antisocial drug - relate crime in hotspot area . it have be demonstrate that when resource be properly target , they can make a difference . last year , there be an operation focus on the Grove Green area of my constituency . the data show that it work , with a steep and sustain 75 % fall in drug - relate report in the hotspot area from the peak in the previous year . however , due to its apparent success , the operation be then wind down and the resource be reprioritise . sadly , I believe that the group of drug user and the criminal who supply they have not really go away ; they have disperse to a somewhat large area . it may be report that drug - relate offending and ASB in Leyton and Wanstead have not yet increase back to where they be last year , but that be not how it feel to our resident . that be perhaps down to two factor . first , the multi - agency action that have be take clearly disperse the activity away from the hotspot around Grove Green to a range of small area , particularly in south Leytonstone . secondly , I fear that in some case resident no long believe that reporting will lead to a long - term solution . we have to change that , so I be engage closely with all the affected agency and resident ' group to try to rekindle the hope that solution can be find . the success of initiative such as Project ADDER show that we be on the right track , but the work must be sustain . the long - term commitment of resource and multi - agency collaboration will be vital in break the cycle of addiction and criminality that trap individual and destabilise community . I would also like to address the challenge that we face in report and respond to these issue . too often , the distinction between antisocial behaviour and crime be blur , lead to confusion about what should be report and to whom . it be a particular issue where organised criminal network seem to be involve . resident describe it as live like they be in " the Wire " , because there be obvious co - ordination between drug user who know each other well . they report user post lookout on the street and in upstairs window to identify police and ASB team and cover up the evidence before they can act . as we know , these gang do not just fuel addiction , self - destruction and antisocial behaviour . they be also involve in further crime , include shoplifting , violent robbery and burglary and the selling of steal good alongside the drug . resident be understandably cautious about make report , fear retaliation ; some of our current reporting mechanism inadvertently put they at risk . we must improve communication channel and ensure that reporting be safe and effective . I know that the Minister be committed to this . I would welcome any update on how we can well support resident who want to help but fear the consequence . we must also consider the impact of police abstraction on local community . the significant amount of officer time divert to central London for public order duty be place immense pressure on our local service . in Waltham Forest alone , over 26 , 000 hour of officer time be unavailable in our neighbourhood because of abstraction to aid with central policing duty . whenever there be an abstraction , community response be the first thing to go , because 999 response be rightly prioritise above all else . in some period during the summer , some ward have no community response officer because the level of abstraction be so consistently high . although I fully support the right to peaceful protest in a safe environment , the impact on local policing be unsustainable . I urge the Minister to review the system , especially as our neighbourhood bear the brunt of such abstraction . we need to be honest with resident that these problem will not go away unless the resource be in place to sustain multi - agency work over a long time . we need the council to be able not just to identify when a vacant flat have be break into and use as a drug den , but to take possession , put security in place , make repair and then get that home to one of the decent family who deserve it and desperately need it . we also need the police to be able to escalate ; to focus on organise crime link , when they be there ; and to effectively disrupt and break down the criminal force that trap drug user in addiction , generate antisocial behaviour and create such fear in our community . we need to deliver on our commitment to tackle the housing crisis and drive forward economic growth that reduce poverty , create more opportunity to get on in life and bring hope back to our community . we need to repair our public service and economy after 14 year of conservative failure , chaos and destruction . we need to divert ordinary user who be not yet catch up in gang and ensure that they have multiple consistent , genuine route to take back control over their life and seek positive change . the people of Leyton and Wanstead be resilient and commit to their community . they deserve a future in which they feel safe in their home and public space . with the Government ' s investment in neighbourhood policing , strong penalty for antisocial behaviour and more target approach to drug - relate crime , I believe we can make significant progress . I will continue to work closely with local leader , the police and the Minister to ensure that we deliver the solution that my constituent desperately need . I congratulate my hon . friend the Member for Leyton and Wanstead ( Mr Bailey ) on secure this important debate and on his excellent speech . he be already demonstrate that he will be a doughty champion for his constituent , and I very much look forward to work with he and discuss this important topic over the month ahead . I know my hon . friend ' s constituency a little and have spend a bit of time there . I know what an attractive part of east London it be , with many shop , restaurant and bar and a strong and vibrant community , so it be really concern to hear what he say about the level of antisocial behaviour . it be absolutely right that that be put in the context of 14 year of under - investment in local council and public service . antisocial behaviour affect all our constituency and have far - reach consequence . it be good to hear the experience of the hon . member for Strangford ( Jim Shannon ) and my hon . friend the Member for read Central ( Matt Rodda ) — this be happen in everyone ' s constituency . I want to start by say unequivocally that any form of antisocial behaviour be unacceptable . it be not merely a low - level nuisance ; it hit the poor and most vulnerable community hard . if leave unchecked , it lead to far more serious offending , which be why crack down on antisocial behaviour be a top priority for this Government and a key part of our safe street mission . this government will ensure that we restore public trust in police and local partner to tackle antisocial behaviour and create real , impactful change . I turn to recent trend in antisocial behaviour . the crime survey for England and Wales show that in the year end March 2024 , 35 % of respondent personally witness or experience antisocial behaviour in their local area . as my hon . friend the Member for Leyton and Wanstead describe in reference to his area , that include group hang around on the street , vehicle - relate ASB and people use or deal drug . those be the most common type of antisocial behaviour report . sadly , that figure have gradually rise by 7 % in the past decade . we must aim to reduce those statistic significantly through the consistent join - up work of police and local partner . I be pleased to hear about the local leadership provide by the police and the council in my hon . friend ' s constituency , and how that be work well . as my hon . friend will know , this Government have commit to five core mission that seek to address some of the fundamental challenge society will face over the next 10 year . the safe street mission will tackle serious crime : it will halve violence against woman and girl , halve knife crime , and restore confidence in police and the criminal justice system . it be focus on address both harm and confidence in parallel , by take a whole - system approach . tackle antisocial behaviour be at the heart of the safe street mission . it will rebuild confidence through the investment in neighbourhood police officer , who will be at the forefront of the fight against antisocial behaviour . the past decade have see a decline in neighbourhood police to such an extent that many of the bond of trust and respect between the police and local community have sadly be lose . we be go to bring back neighbourhood policing , ensure that thousand of additional officer be out patrol in our town centre and community as part of our mission to make the street safe . through the new neighbourhood policing guarantee , we will ensure every community have a name police officer to turn to . we also want to ensure neighbourhood policing be protect . I note very carefully what my hon . Friend say about level of abstraction and how that can affect neighbourhood policing . we recognise that no single agency can reduce antisocial behaviour alone . achieve the goal we have set ourselves will rely on the police , local authority , charity and the health service work effectively together . there be lot of example across the country where that already happen . agency at the local level be well place to understand what be drive the behaviour in question and the impact it be have , and to determine the most appropriate response . we will legislate to ensure that antisocial behaviour power be as effective as they need to be to tackle repeat offending . I reflect on the fact that under the coalition Government we see a downgrading in the antisocial behaviour power available to the police and council . my hon . friend talk about the Government ' s plan to introduce respect order to help ensure that persistent adult antisocial behaviour offender be ban from public area where they be cause harm to community . these change be long overdue . I look forward to far address the House about respect order in the month to come . I want to talk about victim of antisocial behaviour and refer to the recently publish report by the Victims ' Commissioner , Baroness Newlove , call " still live a Nightmare " . the helpful and insightful report look at the experience of victim of persistent antisocial behaviour , and highlight a number of recommendation for the Government , include on improve the identification of persistent antisocial behaviour , support for victim and improved utilisation of the antisocial behaviour case review . as we know , the case review give victim the right to request a review of their case and bring agency together to take a join - up approach to find a solution for the victim . it be vital that we enhance collaboration and communication between statutory agency to create a holistic approach to deal with antisocial behaviour . I be carefully consider Baroness Newlove ' s recommendation and what more we can do to support victim of antisocial behaviour . I be particularly strike by what my hon . Friend say about how member of his community do not feel safe to report issue and about how they feel that the drug dealer have take over their street and be in control . that worry I a great deal , and it worry I especially that people do not feel safe to report , because report on issue be just so important . I wish to say something about drug , because my hon . friend talk a lot about the problem around drug . again , tackle those problem be not something police can do on its own . I recognise that tackle illegal drug must be a key part of deliver the Government ' s mission to make our street safe . we know from the Crime Survey for England and Wales that people use or deal drug be in the top three antisocial behaviour issue that resident most commonly think be a problem in their area . I be particularly concerned to hear about what be happen on the Avenue Road estate . it be clear that half of all crime , such as shoplifting and burglary , be drive by drug , which be why the Government be determined to crack down on antisocial behaviour and drug misuse . the police have a critical role to play in this area . where individual be find in possession of drug , they must face appropriate sanction . we be work with the police and the National Police Chiefs ' Council to support voluntary referral into treatment . we firmly believe that divert those who use illegal drug into intervention such as drug treatment service be key to reduce drug misuse , drug - relate crime and reoffende . we support the use of drug testing on arrest and out - of - court resolution to ensure that individual who commit drug and related offence be give the opportunity to change their behaviour and to be divert into meaningful and appropriate intervention . I be pleased to hear from my hon . friend about Project ADDER , which we know expand to Waltham Forest in March this year . he also tell we that the police in Leyton be use power to tackle drug misuse and related offending . through Project ADDER , police in Waltham Forest be use proactive operation to close county line and disrupt organise criminal gang . I also note what my hon . Friend say about operation that seem to work in one area , but when resource be move on , people resume the activity in which they be previously engage , so I be very well aware that we need to address that . I also note that Leyton be pilot community protection notice , which will include , in appropriate case , a new mandatory positive requirement for individual to attend drug awareness programme to tackle drug - relate antisocial behaviour . that mean that the police and local authority can require that attendance to change behaviour , and if the individual do not attend , that can result in an arrest . beyond enforcement , we know that treatment work to reduce reoffende . give offender great access to treatment service help to break the underlying cause of their reoffending and increase public safety . we be committed to ensure that anyone with a drug problem can access the help and support that they need , and we recognise the need for evidence - base , high - quality treatment . prevention of drug and alcohol - relate harm be vital to save life and make our street safe . I be delighted that the public health Minister , my hon . friend the Member for Gorton and Denton ( Andrew Gwynne ) , be on the Treasury Bench this evening , because I know that he be particularly interested in this whole area of drug and alcohol treatment . the Department of Health and Social Care be continue to invest in improvement to local treatment service , particularly for child and young people , as well as adult with drug or alcohol problem , to ensure that those in need can access high - quality help and support . in addition to the public health grant , the DHSC have allocate local authority a furth £ 267 million in 2024 - 25 to improve the quality and capacity of drug and alcohol treatment and recovery , alongside £ 105 million that have be make available by various Government Departments to improve treatment pathway and recovery , and such thing as housing and employment outcome , which need to be part of the solution if we be to deal with people with drug and alcohol addiction . I will conclude by repeat how grateful I be to my hon . friend the Member for Leyton and Wanstead for bring this debate to the House . antisocial behaviour be a key issue for this Government , and we have a very ambitious programme to make our street safe , restore neighbourhood policing — the bedrock of police in this country — and reduce the misery that antisocial behaviour cause for victim and community . question put and agree to . House adjourn .