thank you , Mr Deputy Speaker , for call I . I congratulate the hon . member for Moray West , Nairn and Strathspey ( Graham Leadbitter ) , for Bolton North East ( Kirith Entwistle ) , for Wolverhampton West ( Warinder Juss ) and for Southport ( Patrick Hurley ) on make excellent maiden speech today . I be so honoured to be here in this historic Chamber today as part of a brand - new group of Green colleague , who I must now call my honourable friend . we be very pleased today to hear a wide range of new Bills be propose . we welcome some measure . some we will seek to improve and some we will seek to change or add to . listen to people in my constituency during the election , it be hard not to be affect by the strength of public feeling and distress about the climate emergency and the degradation of our natural environment , and by the huge desire to defend social justice and public service . this Parliament must seek to deliver for they . this be my maiden speech ; I stand here thank to the vote and value of the fantastic people of Brighton Pavilion . they have put their trust in I and the Green party , and for that I extend my heartfelt thank and appreciation . Brighton have always be a truly special place , from its origin as a fishing village and roman villa complex , to its regency and railway boom , with its huge sense of spirit and a warm welcome to every visitor to our famous beach . but Brighton have always be so much more than a seaside resort . the richness and variety of our culture and entertainment be legendary . from victorian innovation , through the 1960 of my parent and my own decade of youth in the far away 1990 , to the present day , our music , theatre , comedy and literary tradition have always blend with cutting - edge , creative and exciting counter - culture movement to reflect and enrich the modern world . our cultural richness have survive , strive , struggle and then thrive through many turbulent time , not least the recent pandemic , and I be confident it will continue to do so for many century to come . I be proud that the late census confirm that nowadays my city be home to one of the UK ' s large population of LGBT + people , and that we host the big and good Pride celebration , include Europe ' s large Trans Pride , which will be this weekend . Brighton and Hove be a welcoming city in so many way , and I be very proud we be a city of sanctuary , commit to a culture of hospitality and welcome for those seek refuge from war and persecution . Brighton Pavilion have a history of dedicated , long - serve mp . from its first election as a single - member constituency in 1950 , it be represent until 1969 by Sir William Burke Teeling , an irish writer and self - describe " amateur tramp " , who walk from London to Newcastle to explore how council be tackle unemployment . our MP be then Julian Amery for 23 year and Derek Spencer for five year , before David Lepper serve in this House as a highly - respected and hardworke MP for 13 year . and , of course , I have one of the easy and most pleasurable job among new mps in pay tribute to my immediate predecessor . Brighton be also a special place because it have be at the heart of the green movement in England and Wales , and that continue when our own , belove Caroline Lucas win the seat for the Green party in 2010 . Caroline hold the seat through three further election , leave a 14 - year legacy that I look up to as a shine mountain to climb , as I take my very first step here today . as well as be an excellent constituency MP , of the many way in which Caroline influence policy , I be most charm by her success in work with the nature writer Mary Colwell to win a new GCSE in natural history . help to inspire and train up a generation of new David Attenboroughs be a real national service . Most impressive have be Caroline ' s steadfast and long - stand opposition to threat to the public ' s right to protest . Caroline live that principle and through it play a key role in end fracke in the UK . I know that all of we sit here today be humbly aim to live up to the high standard , value and work ethic that she represent , and to serve here with the same energy and enthusiasm . it be those principle that will guide my work as an MP , as well as some of my own value and enthusiasm . People who know my work in other place will be aware that listen to and support young people be something I feel very strongly about . with huge pleasure , I commend to the House the incredible work of Brighton and Hove Citizens , which have just win a huge campaigning victory with a beautiful example of raise up and empower young people and their voice to make change happen . with school across Brighton and Hove work with college , religious group , worker , university and the charity sector , Brighton and Hove Citizens have this year win a big new commitment from the council . after a long and engaging campaign , sixth former Fi Abou - Chanad and Tally Wilcox present a 2 , 000 signature - strong petition and win a pledge for hundred of young people in Brighton school to benefit from investment in mental health support and counselling . that be just one group of young people among many inspire organisation across our country that I can not wait to hear more about in this job . they include Green New Deal rise , the UK Youth Climate Coalition , YoungMinds , People & Planet , the National Society of Apprentices , the National Union of Students and many more . young people should have a loud voice wherever decision be be make , not just when they organise . I be therefore disappointed to see no specific Bill in today ' s list remove barrier to vote for young people , include voter ID and age limit for election to this House and English local council that do not apply in Wales and Scotland . our 16 and 17 - year - old , and our young people , need a real voice and need those measure in this Parliament . I hope that , when we debate the Bills put forward in today ' s King ' s Speech , the voice of young people be seek out and listen to , and that many change and addition be make where they be need most , include remove the two - child benefit cap . I be grateful for the patience of hon . member in listen to I . I greatly look forward to see the impact of the young voice I plan to raise up in this Chamber be grant the same attention and respect .