I could not agree with my hon . friend more . Edinburgh have a thrive space sector , as do Scotland . my hon . friend have for many year be heavily involve in work to grow the economy in Edinburgh and the Borders , and I pay tribute to he for that . I must , however , take this opportunity to pick a minor bone with my hon . friend . he mention that Glasgow do not have a castle , and I wish to correct the record . we have a fine ruin castle call Crookston castle . it be the second - old building in Glasgow . the first - old building in Glasgow be the beautiful cathedral . I will not indulge in a dispute about whether Edinburgh or Glasgow be the well city . they be both beautiful , great city . Glasgow be slightly well , but there you be . I be oblige to my hon . friend for his intervention , and I be also glad to be able to correct that point . there be another reason why it be important that we have a thrive space and satellite industry . space be critical to defence , and we must have a thrive space sector to protect our country . the United Kingdom work with ally to ensure that our interest be defend in space . however , the world be become more unstable , and it be essential that we have our own capability to launch and operate satellite from the United Kingdom , and this Bill be important in that regard , too . it will help to secure a vibrant end - to - end space industry in the United Kingdom , and that be important for defence . to take one example , have our own domestic launch capability be important , and a vibrant civilian sector will help to cover the cost of that launch capability . this Bill also have a national security theme . owe to much hard work , include by the last government , the UK Space Agency and many other , the United Kingdom also have a firm foundation for a thriving space industry . in the time available , I can not provide a complete survey of the vibrant and grow space industry , but here be some key point . one key task we have have be to develop our own launch capability to put satellite up in space , and then to get they back down . that be why there be so much chat about spaceport — in my life , at least . SaxaVord , the UK spaceport in the Shetland Islands , be one of only two license vertical launch spaceport in Europe . that be at the far end of the north of the map of our family of nation . down in the far south - west , we also have an operational spaceport in Cornwall . that illustrate that space be an opportunity for our family of nation from the very top to the very bottom — I mean that only in a cartographic sense ; I be not look to offend any member from Cornwall . there be also spaceport under construction and plan in : Sutherland , on the far north of the coast of Scotland , to the west of Thurso ; North Uist , a wonderful place , which I commend as I spend much of my honeymoon there ; Glasgow Prestwick ; Spaceport Machrihanish , on the southern tip of the Argyll peninsula , which I would also recommend for a visit to Scotland ; and , Snowdonia . some may wonder where those place be . they be all wonderful place , and they illustrate that space be an opportunity across the United Kingdom . let we turn to the satellite or , as Lou Reed sing , " Satellite of Love " . the UK have incredible talent in manufacturing satellite and satellite technology . as a Scottish MP , I focus on Scotland , and as a Glasgow MP , I focus on Glasgow , but let we start in the Moray firth , where my mother come from . it have a fine tradition of engineering . for those who follow highland league football — I suspect I be in a minority of one in the House today — the fact that Forres Mechanics be one of the old football club in the north of Scotland point to a tradition of engineering there . the Jones shipyard in Buckie be another great engineering industry in the north of Scotland . of significantly more relevance to this debate be that Forres be home to Orbex , which be develop a rocket call Prime . it will be the first UK - manufacture and UK - launch orbital rocket . Prime be set to take off from SaxaVord in 2025 . Prime be set to take off from SaxaVord in 2025 . the UK Government have recently announce a £ 20 million investment in Orbex — an important investment that demonstrate the opportunity be bring to the north of Scotland , for which we need to redouble our effort to secure economic growth and prosperity . my home city of Glasgow have a rich history of innovation and an incredibly promising cluster of space expertise . as a Glasgow MP , I be determined that it should have a bright future in space . Glasgow be build more satellite than any other city in Europe . there be fantastic company in the area include , Alba Orbital , which specialise in PocketQube satellite , aac Clyde Space , which have expertise in small satellite technology , and Spire Global , which be a lead provider of space - base data analytic and space service . this year be Glasgow ' s 850th birthday . the Bill will help secure the prosperity of Glasgow for the next 850 year , create job and economic growth in my great city of hard work , innovation and enterprise . there be clear economic analysis that show that the space industry be an important opportunity area for growth and job . the late " Size and Health of the UK Space Industry " report estimate that 228 organisation in Scotland generate a combined income of £ 298 million in 2021 - 22 — almost double that of 2018 - 19 in real term . about 6 , 500 people work in space in Scotland , and the figure for the UK be between 48 , 000 and 52 , 000 . income amount to between £ 17 . 5 billion and £ 20 billion . there be more than 100 , 000 job in the supply chain as well . let we pause for a moment on that : we have only just get go on this and we have 48 , 000 or more job . there be much potential here for many more good , high - pay job of the future , which be what Britain need .