Oral Answers to Questions Housing , Communities and Local Government the Secretary of State be ask — Housing Supply what step her Department be take to increase the supply of housing . what step her Department be take to increase the supply of housing . what step her Department be take to increase the supply of housing in town in the Makerfield constituency . this Government be commit to deliver 1 . 5 million quality home over this Parliament . under the Tories , house building plummet as they bow to pressure from their Back Benchers to scrap local housing target . we be take bold action to reform our planning system , deliver a new generation of new town and unblock stall housing site . I recently meet member of Dover district council , who tell I that they be keen to help the Government where they can to deliver our ambitious housing target . around the edge of Dover High Street we often see consistently empty unit . what can the Government do to help we turn those into the housing that our community so badly need , and will the Minister meet I to discuss how we can help ? my hon . friend be absolutely right . compulsory purchase order can be use by local authority to acquire empty property where the authority can demonstrate that the acquisition would be in the public interest . I be also aware that there be a problem with home build under section 106 agreement be leave empty . the Government will continue to work with house builder , local authority and affordable housing provider to tackle the problem . I be sure that the Housing Minister will be happy to meet he . will the Secretary of State consider allow council the ability to buy land for house base on current use rather than hope value , and commit to reform the Land Compensation Act 1961 ? the hon . Member will know that we be look at a number of measure to help council house to be build . further measure will be announce in the Budget , as I have mention in a write ministerial statement today . we want council and social housing provider to be able to build those home , and we will help they as much as we can . we know that the barrier to build more house in town such as those I represent in Makerfield be often political , not technical . for year , Conservative Members allow themselves to become mouthpiece for the blocker and the naysayer , which be why , as co - chair of the Labour Growth Group , I welcome the commitment by the Secretary of State to back builder . what step be her Department take to increase the supply of housing in town such as those I represent in Makerfield ? I welcome my hon . friend to his place , and the reason he be here — he be absolutely correct on this — be that the previous Government do nothing to help house building , and we do not see growth either . this government will reform our planning system , deliver a new generation of new town , unblock stall housing site and reform the housing market , as well as deliver the big increase in social and affordable house building in a generation . I call the Father of the House . with so much good agricultural land now cover by solar panel , how will the Government incentivise builder to build on brownfield rather than good agricultural land , thus ensure regeneration rather than imperille food security ? the right hon . Member will know that we have already set out a number of step , include the brownfield passport and the national planning policy framework , and the use of local housing target to ensure that brownfield be use first and we get the house that we desperately need . for the last 14 year , the Conservatives fail to meet their housing target every single year . this Government be determined to meet our target . I call the shadow Minister . Certainty for council be vital for housing delivery , but give the uncertainty create by the Government ' s new top - down target , which will delay the implementation of local plan and therefore planning decision , how confident be the Government of meet their housing target ? Britain be face the sharp housing crisis ever because of the failure of Conservative Members . we will ensure , through our mandatory housing target and in the announcement that have be make , and that will be make in the Budget , that we get the house that Britain need . [ interruption . ] order . I do not want to hear a conversation all the way through . in the rush for number , we must not ignore the need to ensure that new home be build to appropriate standard . give that the Under - Secretary of State for Housing , Communities and Local Government , the hon . member for Bethnal Green and Stepney ( Rushanara Ali ) , have be strip of responsibility for build safety because of conflict of interest , can Ministers assure the House that the haste for target will not undermine building safety ? we will ensure that house be build to decent home standard , which we have already set out , and that we meet those target — unlike in the 14 year under the Conservatives . Local Authority Funding what assessment she have make of the potential implication for her policy of shortfall in council budget . what assessment she have make of trend in the cost of deliver statutory local government service in rural area . what step she be take with local authority to help ensure that they have adequate resource to fund local service . what step she be take to help ensure the financial sustainability of local authority . council across the country , of all political stripe , work hard to deliver vital public service in our country . we know that 14 year of mount pressure be bite hard . we be committed to move towards a multi - year funding settlement , end wasteful bidding competition that essentially set one council against another . last week , I meet political group leader at the Local Government Association conference to understand what specific demand pressure they be face , and we be commit to work together on those big issue . member will know that we can not pre - empt the Budget statement due later in the week , but we be of course fully engage in that process . we stand ready to speak to any council experience financial difficulty , as I confirm in my letter to mps just over a week ago . as the Minister know — I have meet he to discuss this subject — my local authority , Woking borough council , effectively go bankrupt last year . it have have to cut service that many consider essential , and it will have to consider cut other . do the Minister agree that it be time for Government and Parliament to review which service be class as statutory and non - statutory ? I thank the hon . member for meet I at one of our regular drop - in session . his concern be reflect across the country . local community recognise that their council be be force to choose vital neighbourhood service against target for adult social care , child ' s service and homelessness service . in the end , we need to rebuild the foundation from scratch , and that be exactly what we be commit to do . my constituency be largely rural and , as in many rural constituency , parish council play an important role in local government service delivery . do the Minister agree about the importance of parish council to rural community , and what role do he see for parish council as part of the Government ' s devolution agenda ? we will of course publish a White Paper on the english devolution Bill . it will set out an ambitious programme for a power shift from this place and whitehall to combined authority , to local government and , of course , to community . we be absolutely committed to that top - to - bottom power shift . we recognise that parish and town council have a role to play . rise demand , rise cost and 14 year of conservative public sector cut mean that many local authority and service be at break point . my own borough of Lambeth , a deprived inner - London area with high demand for social housing and temporary accommodation , and for social , public and youth service , have be particularly affect , which have be quite challenging . will the Minister commit to an emergency increase in funding to combat the immediate crisis for local authority , and , in the long term , to a much - need update of the funding formula to well reflect local need ? like every Member of the House , my hon . friend will know that those 14 year have take their toll , and that it will take more than three month to repair that , but we be absolutely committed to repair the foundation , and our multi - year financial settlement will give security . of course , we recognise that the demand - lead pressure in many place be the back - end of a big problem . temporary accommodation relate to the housing crisis that need fix . the same apply to child ' s service and adult social care . the financial future of West Sussex county council be bleak : it face a cumulative budget gap of over £ 200 million for 2029 - 30 . at present , 64 % of the council ' s budget be be spend on adult and child ' s social service , and that be set to rise . how will the Minister ensure that West Sussex county council and other do not have to close library , cut bus route or reduce road repair in order to meet the grow demand for the most vulnerable member of our community ? we always say that local government be pay for one way or the other : either we pay at the front - end through fair funding be fairly distribute across the country , or we pay at the back - end because eventually the system fall over and we must repair the damage . if we take ourselves back to the coalition year , when austerity first come in , the cruelty be that we do not reform public service , repair they from the ground up , to get ahead of those system change . that be a waste opportunity . this year , Hartlepool borough council be set to overspend on child ' s social care by some £ 5 million , due in no small part to the outrageous charge levy by private sector child ' s home . what can the Minister do to cap those provider ' charge to ensure that local government can continue to deliver its statutory obligation ? I recognise that , in large part , child ' s service be the funding pressure that be drive council budget . we can not forget , though , that behind every one of those number be a child who often be not get the outcome they need . far too often what we be see in the system be that high cost be not just send council to the point of bankruptcy , but deliver bad outcome for young people . we want to see far more resilience build back into the system , and there be example today of council that be build that public sector provision back into the marketplace . the previous Government cut County Durham ' s budget by 60 % , and we have all see the Royal Tunbridge Wells video in which the Leader of the opposition boast about that act . that be have a real impact on my constituent and the ability of Durham county council to deliver vital service , so will the Minister consider a discussion with Cabinet colleague about revise those funding formula to take account of social care cost and deprivation ? we do see the former Prime Minister take great credit for essentially shift money from primarily urban and deprived community into rural shire in an overtly political way . I want to ensure that in the funding review we be carry out , whether that be the initial rescue operation that will take place this year or the recovery operation through the multi - year settlement , we do not pit one council against another , but take an approach that genuinely understand the need , cost demand and cost pressure face by local authority . in the end , though , we have to accept that there be no fair funding at all if funding do not reflect the deprivation in an area . I call the shadow Secretary of State . at the last oral question , the Secretary of State assure I that she have no plan to increase council tax for anyone . however , when press by my right hon . friend the Member for Beverley and Holderness ( Graham Stuart ) , she would not give the same guarantee that the single occupant discount would be retain . will Ministers take the opportunity to do so now ? I can see the shadow Secretary of State make that point repeatedly , because at this stage we be all wait for the statement and the Budget that will contain that information , but I can say that the right decision will be make in the interest of work people . we recognise the cost of living crisis that be be face across the country . I be sure that she , like all member of the House , be wait with interest for Wednesday . local authority employ 2 million people and commission service such as adult social care . the impact assessment for the Secretary of State ' s Employment Rights Bill say that the Bill will increase cost . those cost be likely to be pass on to council , so have the Secretary of State assess the impact of the Employment Rights Bill and an increase in employer ' national insurance specifically on local authority ? if cost do increase , will local council be compensate ? any decision relate to the Budget will be take at the appropriate time , as will any decision on the local government finance settlement . what I can say , though , be that this be a new partnership from this government : we be not lock local government out , but stand shoulder to shoulder with it . only last week at the Local Government Association conference in Harrogate , the Secretary of State launch the leader ’ council , a forum where central and local government will reset that relationship . I call the liberal Democrat spokesperson . rough sleeping be the most visible end of the homelessness crisis , but it be also brutal — the average age of death for rough sleeper in London be just 44 . the rough sleep initiative be literally save life — in Bournemouth , Christchurch and Poole , 102 people be keep alive every year through that programme — but it be due to end in March 2025 . remove it have be describe by local team as nothing short of catastrophic , so what assessment have take place of the impact of that initiative , and what assurance can the Secretary of State give local authority about the maintenance of the scheme so that they can plan for the long term ? again , I ask hon . member to wait for the spending review on Wednesday , and for the provisional settlement in December . we be under no illusion about the pressure face by council on homelessness . in the end , we need to repair the system , which be about provide safe , secure and affordable housing for people to live in . we will do that , but we also recognise that there be a problem today . further detail on that will follow . New Homes Accelerator Programme : Stretton Hall what plan her Department have to develop Stretton Hall through the new home accelerator programme . Stretton Hall be one of seven site that the Government have identify to date that we believe would benefit from support through the new home accelerator , which be a joint programme between the Department and Homes England aim to speed up the delivery of large - scale housing development across England . document from Harborough district council reveal that there be site with a capacity of up to 16 , 000 home around Stretton Hall . the Government ' s press release in August say that there would be around 4 , 000 home on the site that they be involve in . will the Minister confirm which Minister visit the site before the announcement ? will he agree to publish the methodology that lead to our community be select , and the list of site that be consider but not select ? I thank the hon . gentleman for his question . I have not have the opportunity to visit the site , but I intend to do so in the future , along with the other new home accelerator site . on the point of principle , to meet housing demand and housing need in England , every area of the country must play its part . the site in question be currently be promote in both the Harborough local plan and the Oadby and Wigston local plan , as it cross the boundary of both local authority . although I appreciate that it do face a number of planning and enable challenge , the Government believe that it nevertheless have the potential to make a significant contribution to housing supply in Leicestershire . Broadband Access and Mobile Signal what step she be take with Cabinet colleague to ensure that every property have access to either gigabit broadband or a 4 g or 5 g mobile signal . what step she be take with Cabinet colleague to ensure that every property have access to either gigabit broadband or a 4 g or 5 g mobile signal . what step she be take with Cabinet colleague to ensure that every property have access to either gigabit broadband or a 4 g or 5 g mobile signal . it be essential to keep pace with grow demand for internet bandwidth and mobile datum from local business , resident and those who visit our community . that be why the Government ' s ambition be to reach national gigabit and national 5 g coverage as soon as possible , by commit to support investment in high - quality , reliable digital connectivity , so that community can benefit from fast economic growth and great social inclusion . my right hon . friend the Secretary of State for Science , Innovation and Technology be lead that work and will provide an update in due course . in the parish of Ruishton , West Hatch , Staple Fitzpaine and Castle Neroche , the term " connect Devon and Somerset " be clearly understand as exactly what be not happen in the two county , rather than a description of the so - call delivery agency . cabinet and trunk cable be in place , but there be still no sign of house be connect . will the Minister or the Minister for Data Protection and Telecoms , the hon . member for Rhondda and Ogmore ( Chris Bryant ) , meet mp for the affected area to understand how those house can finally be connect ? I be grateful for the question , although I be sorry to hear it . those be contract from the previous superfast broadband programme , which have be supersede by Project Gigabit . that mean that connect Devon and Somerset be responsible for the management and oversight of the contract , which be jointly fund by central Government and local authority . the community in discussion deserve a high - quality service , so I or the Minister for Telecoms will meet the hon . member . the village of Gittisham in Devon be also subject to connect Devon and Somerset . four different company have attempt to enable broadband access , but the fibre often stop 100 metre short of the house . Gittisham be also a 4 g notspot , so resident be cut off and unable to contribute to the economic growth that the Government say they want to see . accord to the labour manifesto , the Government ' s target for achieve broadband coverage be 2030 , but can the Minister offer a percentage of broadband coverage that will be achieve in rural area in this Parliament ? the hon . Gentleman rightly refer to our manifesto commitment , and he have hear a commitment today that we want to see full gigabit and full national 5 g roll - out as soon as possible . we be get on with it , but I be sorry to hear that there be issue . as I be keen to meet the hon . member for Taunton and Wellington ( Mr Amos ) , I may well meet he too , if he be similarly keen . third time lucky : it be Somerset here . I know that the Government want service — find a home , look for help , pay taxis , working , and even learn during covid — to be access online , but in my part of mid and north Somerset , people can only dream of gigabit broadband ; they would be really happy if they have superfast . can the Minister investigate how to inspire a national broadband roll - out programme that be realistic ? be it time for a new national plan , as access to superfast broadband have so many hole and still cost billion ? I be grateful for the hon . Lady ' s question , and I think of the challenge in my own constituency , where my constituent ask I question in a similar vein . to be very clear , the Government know that the market will be able to provide considerable coverage across the country , but that there will always be community — include her own , I suspect — where that have traditionally be a challenge , and we be committed to make sure that that gap be fill . we have the same aspiration and , as I say , we intend to meet it as soon as we possibly can . rise — order . Mr Jermy , you start to bob and then you stop , so I be not sure you have a question , but please let we hear it . many rural village in my constituency have spend hour produce excellent neighbourhood plan , with some area hope to go to public referendum and adoption soon . give that such plan help community to shape growth , will the Minister confirm what prominence the Government will afford neighbourhood plan as part of planning reform ? our commitment as a Government be to bring community into that conversation and to make sure local leadership have that say in the service of a wide national goal . property Management Services if she will take step to regulate property management service provider . the Government be commit to ensure that those live in the rented and leasehold sector be protect from abuse and poor service at the hand of unscrupulous property agent . the Government will set out our position on the regulation of letting , managing and estate agent in due course . I thank the Minister for his reply . my constituent Paul face inflation - bust maintenance cost rise and unexpected in - year fee . his attempt to scrutinise FirstPort ' s work and his willingness to fight back have result in an exchange of letter with solicitor . when my hard - work office team ask FirstPort for an explanation of what be go on , the company take more than six week to reply with inadequate answer , and it do so only when I take the step of contact it personally to say that I be raise its name in the House today . while long - await change be be consider , what would the Minister advise my constituent and other like he to do in the meantime ? I thank the hon . gentleman for that question , and I be sorry to hear about Paul ' s experience with that particular property management company — an experience that will , I know , be reflect in the experience of many other across the country . there be two exist route to redress in such circumstance , the property redress scheme and the property ombudsman scheme , to which people can submit complaint . I will happily write to the hon . Gentleman to set out in full the various source of advice and support and the avenue for redress that his constituent might pursue before we bring in more fundamental change to the regulation of the sector . I should draw the House ' s attention to the fact I be a leaseholder subject to service charge , as be hundred of my constituent . there be very often a real lack of transparency and accountability from service provider . bill be not very clear , and it take quite a lot of effort to understand they . the Government could regulate , but will the Minister use his convene power to encourage service provider to do well , prior to discuss legislation that could take a very long time ? I thank my hon . friend for that question . I be more than happy to look into what more can be do by convene to get the various interested party around the table . the Government be commit to implement the provision of the Leasehold and Freehold Reform Act 2024 , which include measure to increase the transparency and standardisation of service charge and empower leaseholder in that way . planning Reform what recent progress her Department have make on planning reform . the Government be make rapid progress on reform our planning system . we launch a consultation on propose reform to the national planning policy framework within our first month in office , and my Department be analyse response with a view to publish a Government response before the end of the year . as be set out in the King ' s Speech , we intend to bring forward a planning and infrastructure Bill in this parliamentary session to accelerate the delivery of high - quality infrastructure and housing . I thank the Minister for his update . my constituent in Halesowen recognise that home have be unaffordable to first - time buyer and welcome these planning change , but they be frustrate by some of the scaremongering from the opposition . can the Minister reassure my constituent that protect the environment will be central to our planning change as we roll out lot of additional new house ? I thank my hon . friend for that question . I assure he and the House that the Government be commit to secure well environmental outcome alongside facilitate the development that our country so desperately need . in our consultation on propose reform to the NPPF , we make it clear that land safeguard by exist environmental designation will maintain its current protection . we be explore how we might streamline house building and infrastructure delivery by use development to fund nature recovery where both be currently stall . however , we have make it clear that we will act with legislation only when we have confirm to Parliament that the step we be take will deliver positive environmental outcome . minister drop the last Government ' s plan for the development of Cambridge and connection to nearby town include haverhill in my constituency . when will the Government come forward with an integrate plan to develop Cambridge and improve road and rail link to town like Haverhill ? I write to local leader in the great Cambridge area a few week ago to make it clear that the Government believe the area be a site where we should take forward nationally significant housing growth . we will set out further detail in due course , but the hon . Gentleman will be aware that the Cambridge growth company be take plan and pull together an evidence base to set out precisely what the scale of development should be and how it should take place in that area . Green Belt Protection : Farnham and Bordon what step she be take to protect the green belt in Farnham and Bordon constituency . the Government attach great importance to the green belt , include the more than 20 , 000 hectare in the borough of Waverley in the hon . Gentleman ' s constituency . in plan term , the green belt serve a number of specific purpose , but the fundamental aim of green belt policy be to prevent urban sprawl by keep land permanently open . the Government do not intend to change the general purpose of the green belt or its general extent , but we be commit to take a more strategic approach to green - belt land designation and release so that we can build more home in the right place . I thank the Minister for that response , but the Government be propose to double the housing target in Waverley and East Hampshire . over 57 % of East Hampshire be in the South Downs national park , so it rightly can not be build on , but if the target be still base on 100 % of the East Hampshire district , that cause massive pressure on the rest of the district , include place such as Whitehill and Bordon , Liphook , Headley and Grayshott . will the Government commit to look into this inherent unfairness , which be totally unsustainable for my area , and will he meet I and local councillor to discuss it far ? I be more than happy to meet the hon . Gentleman to discuss the matter far . on the principled point he raise , when local authority be develop local development plan they can put a case forward to the inspectorate to be test in examination , where they specify hard constraint of the type the hon . Gentleman have identify . when we talk about housing target , we be talk about an identify housing need for a particular area , but those local plan will be test by the inspectorate at examination to take into account some of the concern he have raise . Social Housing Supply what step her Department be take to increase the supply of social housing . what step she be take to build more affordable home . what step her Department be take to increase the supply of social housing . this government be get on with fix the mess the Tories leave behind . we will deliver the big increase in social and affordable house building in a generation , and at the Budget this week the Chancellor will set out the next step , include an additional £ 500 million for the exist affordable home programme to deliver up to 5 , 000 new social and affordable home . I thank the Secretary of State for her answer . conservative - run Northumberland county council ' s own figure show that over 6 , 000 people in Northumberland be not adequately house . despite that , since the Conservatives have lead the council , its own housing stock have decrease in number . do the Secretary of State agree that we need more social home in the right place to support the thousand of people in North Northumberland in need of a safe and secure place to live ? I welcome my hon . friend to his place , and he be absolutely right : it be a source of national shame that just over 1 . 3 million household be on social housing waiting list . nearly 14 , 000 of they be in Northumberland alone . this government do not accept that it have to be this way ; we will deliver a fair , more sustainable right - to - buy scheme where exist social housing stock be protect to meet housing need . I recognise the particular housing challenge face by rural community , and that be why the Government announce that the 2021 to 2026 affordable home programme will be target , so that 5 % to 10 % of delivery outside London will be home in rural area . our plan to build 1 . 5 million home during this Parliament must include the building of affordable home , which imply that we will build more council housing . what reassurance can the Secretary of State give to my constituent in Wolverhampton West that they will have access to good - quality affordable home , particularly for first - time buyer , and that if they need social housing , they will not have to wait excessive period of time to get a council house ? again , my hon . friend make an important point . we want to support council to make a great contribution to affordable housing supply . that be why the Chancellor will set out at the Budget our plan to allow council to keep 100 % of the receipt generate by right - to - buy sale and to increase protection for newly build social home . we be commit to give first - time buyer a first chance to buy home and to introduce a permanent , comprehensive mortgage guarantee scheme . at Rugby borough council , there be 300 household on the waiting list for social house . officer and councillor be work hard to meet the demand . they have knock down old tower block and be replace they with one to four - bed , energy - efficient , good - quality home . last year be the first year for many year that they build or acquire more social home than be lose through right to buy . do my right hon . friend agree that while that be good work , my council be ultimately able only to tread water ? my constituent who be in need of decent , affordable social home desperately need a government who will help council to reverse this trend . will she consider visit Rugby to see the great work be do in difficult circumstance ? I once get strand in Rugby on a train , so I have visit that wonderful area before . I be in complete agreement with my hon . friend ; council should not be lose home through right to buy quick than they can be replace . it be great to hear that councillor in Rugby be work hard to meet demand . the Chancellor will set out at the Budget the action we be take to reduce right - to - buy discount to deliver a more sustainable scheme . we will also increase protection on newly build social housing to allow council to keep 100 % of the receipt generate by right - to - buy sale . in Ashfield , we have a big problem with nuisance tenant in social housing , who be create mayhem and upset their neighbour and the neighbourhood with crime , antisocial behaviour , drug dealing and so on . do the Secretary of State agree that these nuisance tenant should be give one chance , and if they can not behave themselves , they should be evict and refuse access to social housing in the future ? I agree with the hon . member about nuisance neighbour ; we do need to do something about that . that be why there be provision , so that council can take action on people who be nuisance neighbour . they should not be terrorise other people who be try to live nice life . I pay tribute to Westbourne community land trust , which , after six long hard year , have finally start deliver affordable home for its community . that be exciting for the trust , and I be delighted to put a spade in the ground when it start build . do the Secretary of State agree that community be well place to understand the need for housing in their area ? will she make it easy for community land trust to acquire land and build home quickly ? the hon . Member make an important point , and I welcome she to her place . we want to see community be able to build house , and we want to ensure that those house be safe and secure and that we work with community housing trust and other to deliver the 1 . 5 million home . I be sure that the Housing Minister will be happy to meet she to discuss the matter . there be private developer in my constituency in Bridgwater that have obligation to build social home and be ready to do so . the difficulty they face be that there be no social landlord available to take those unit . what step will the Deputy Prime Minister take to ensure that those unit can be build to house local people ? the hon . Gentleman make an important point . I be aware of those concern , and the Government will continue to work with house builder , local authority and affordable housing provider to tackle the problem . we need to make sure that section 106 notice be adhere to and that when we have affordable and social housing on those site , they be tenant and people be in there . NPPF : fast Food Outlets if she will make an assessment of the potential impact of section 8 of the national planning policy framework on the number of fast food outlet . the Government be commit to improve public health and reduce health inequality . as part of the consultation on propose reform to the national planning policy framework , we seek view on how national planning policy could well support local authority in promote healthy community and specifically in tackle childhood obesity . the framework already expect policy at a local level to aim to achieve healthy place , and we be consider how to ensure that a more consistent approach be take , for example in relation to control hot food takeaway near school . I thank the Minister for the update . will he consider work with Cabinet and Health colleague to empower local authority to regulate physical junk food advert around school and on public transport ? as I say in my original response , we recently consult on how the planning system could do more to support the creation of healthy place . I will continue to work closely with colleague in the Department of Health and Social Care when consider next step , as well as engage with local authority . as I say in answer to a previous question , my Department be analyse response to the NPPF consultation with a view to issue a Government response before the end of the year . I always try to be helpful to the Minister , and I thank he for his answer . in Northern Ireland , the step we have take on fast food outlet include close liaison with school principal to ensure that pupil do not access carry - out food , and address the issue of litter , which be the responsibility of fast food outlet . perhaps the Minister might want to contact the relevant Northern Ireland Department to gauge what have work for we . I thank the hon . gentleman for that question , which be as helpful as ever . I always look at the experience of other nation on plan reform . I recently meet the Housing Minister from the devolved Northern Ireland Assembly , and I will happily contact he about this specific point to see what lesson we can learn . furniture Poverty what discussion she have have with Cabinet colleague on reduce level of furniture poverty . we regularly discuss a wide range of topic with ministerial colleague , include the important matter of tackle poverty , and we also have the ministerial child poverty taskforce . the lack of furniture and other good be an issue for many people in our country and it contribute to poor outcome . we be absolutely committed to tackle poverty and inequality , and the household support fund for local authority , administer by the Department for Work and Pensions , provide considerable support towards that . I welcome that response . eight per cent of family in this country be in deep furniture poverty . I have see at first hand the impact of that : people be unable to have a hot meal without a microwave or a cooker and be unable to have a decent night ' s sleep without a bed — they sleep on the floor with a mattress or a duvet . will my hon . friend meet I and the end Furniture Poverty campaign to discuss what more we can do as a Government locally and nationally to tackle this issue ? my hon . friend make important point about the impact of the lack of these essential item through poverty , and I be happy to meet he and the end Furniture Poverty campaign . clearly , people need a home to be able to furnish it in the first place , so what action be be take across Government to address the barrier that care - experienced young people face in access the private rented sector , include through guarantor and deposit scheme ? as the hon . Member will be aware , we have a plan to tackle homelessness and rough sleeping , and the Deputy Prime Minister be lead the ministerial taskforce on end homelessness . my colleague have highlight the work that we be do to build 1 . 5 million home . this be an absolute priority for we and I look forward to work with hon . member on this issue . Leasehold Reform what step she plan to take to reform the leasehold system . what step she plan to take to reform the leasehold system . the Government intend to act quickly to provide homeowner with great right , power and protection over their home by implement the provision of the Leasehold and Freehold Reform Act 2024 . over the course of this Parliament , we will far reform the leasehold system to honour the commitment make in our manifesto . to that end , the Government have make it clear that they intend to publish draft legislation on leasehold and commonhold reform in this parliamentary session . my constituent David have report that his service charge have triple in the past few year , even though dangerous cladding have still not be remove , leave he in a leasehold debt trap with an unsellable property . I thank the Minister for confirm our intention to abolish the whole feudal system of leasehold , but what more can be do in the meantime to help people to challenge unfair service charge ? one of the most urgent thing we need to do — we be work on this at pace — be to bring into force the provision of the Leasehold and Freehold Reform Act . as I make clear in response to an early question , that will increase transparency and standardisation across service charge , but we want to go far . we be committed to finally bring the feudal leasehold system to an end , and across the Parliament that be precisely what we will do . in Dartford , resident in new build estate in Ebbsfleet and elsewhere all too frequently experience opaque and unaccountable charge practice on the part of management company , who seem far more motivated by make a profit than by provide service . what comfort can the Minister offer my constituent that these management company will be bring within a fair and accountable legal framework in the near future ? I thank my hon . friend for that question and recognise his constituent ' s experience . as outline in the King ' s Speech , the Government be commit to bring the injustice of " fleecehold " private estate and unfair cost to an end . we will consult in due course on the good way to achieve that . in the interim , as I say , we need to implement the new protection for homeowner on private estate in the Leasehold and Freehold Reform Act 2024 . that will create a new regulatory framework to make estate management company more accountable to homeowner for how their money be spend . against my wish and advice , the previous Government bring in a planning presumption in favour of application to add extra floor to apartment block , irrespective of the horrible effect of build those extra floor , and attempt by rogue freeholder to ste the leaseholder for the remedial work result from error in build graft - on extra floor . as a short - term measure , will the Minister consider remove that presumption in favour of planning permission for these ill - consider scheme ? I thank the right hon . gentleman for raise that point . he be absolutely right that the previous Government significantly expand permit development right after 2013 . we acknowledge the criticism of those expand right , particularly because of the low - quality development that they have bring forward . he raise a specific issue for leaseholder , but the problem go wide than that . I be more than happy to give consideration to the point he raise . I welcome the Minister to his place . the Labour party have propose several reform to the private rental sector , include to the leasehold system , which will only punish landlord , more of whom will sell up . at a time when people be struggle to get on the property ladder , why be this Government determine to drive out landlord and reduce the supply of available rental property for those who rely on they ? I thank the hon . gentleman for that point , though it be not about leasehold but about the private rental sector . our Renters ' Rights Bill , which be currently in Committee , pose no threat to good landlord . indeed , it will improve the situation for good landlord by drive out unscrupulous and rogue landlord from the system . as part of that Bill , landlord have robust ground to take back possession of their property when it be appropriate to do so . what they can not do be arbitrarily evict tenant through section 21 . we will finally abolish section 21 no - fault eviction where the previous Government fail to do so . Topical Questions if she will make a statement on her departmental responsibility . as I have already tell the House , this week ' s Budget will set out our next step to put we on the path to deliver the big increase in social and affordable house building in a generation . the Chancellor will set out further detail on a number of measure , include a cash injection for the affordable home programme , confirm funding for new social housing project and a consultation on a long - term social housing rent settlement . we will provide certainty and stability , and reform right to buy to deliver a fair , sustainable scheme . Hazel Grove ' s 16 and 17 - year - old be all bright and articulate and never backwards in come forwards to tell I what we need to do in this place , but they be deny their voice at the ballet box , unlike their Scottish and Welsh peer . when will the Government correct this imbalance , deliver on their manifesto promise and roll out vote at 16 across the United Kingdom ? far be it from I to take on the Hazel Grove 16 and 17 year - old — the hon . Member know that I know Hazel Grove very well . this Government be commit to our manifesto commitment to give vote at 16 , and we will make sure that we do that before the next general election . in 2022 , Lubov Chernukhin open an amusement centre in Hastings town centre know as Owens . the project receive more than £ 400 , 000 of taxpayer money as part of the Conservatives ' level up town fund plan . ms Chernukhin have also donate more than £ 200 , 000 to the conservative party . [ Official Report , 29 October 2024 ; Vol . 755 , c . 10wc . ] ( Correction ) shortly after opening , Owens close , and early this month it be cover in boarding , which now dominate Hastings town centre . can the Minister advise I how my constituent can get their money back , and how we can ensure that money be never waste again like that ? I be very disappointed to hear about the closure of Owens and about any money waste under the previous Government . my official be work with my hon . friend ' s council to maximise the remain funding available from its town deal . on the general point , we be call time on the waste from the previous Government , and move towards multi - year funding settlement and end competitive bidding for pot of money . I call the shadow Secretary of State . labour make a big song and dance about tackle rogue landlord . no doubt Labour Members will have be make aware of revelation report in the Londoner this morning about the hon . member for Ilford South ( Jas Athwal ) . not only be he let out mouldy home with infestation , but he be the landlord of an unsafe private care home where child have go miss and be leave at risk of criminal exploitation . do the Government have plan to tackle the rogue landlord on their own Benches ? I be grateful to the right hon . Lady for her question . as I understand it , the Member for Ilford South say in his statement that there have be no conflict of interest and that all interest have be declare in line with his council ' s rule . I presume the shadow Secretary of State let the hon . member for Ilford South know that she be go to mention he on the Floor of the House . no , I do not . I say to all member that mention other member can not be do without give notice . I presume the right hon . Lady ' s second question will be on a different issue . I apologise , Mr Speaker . I will check with my office . I can not say for certain that they do not let the hon . member know . do the right hon . Lady agree that reduce the capacity of council by 20 % by allow worker an additional pay day off every week — that be what a four - day week actually be — be unacceptable and do not provide good value for money for taxpayer or resident ? I be really proud of our Employment Rights Bill and I be really proud to stand here as someone who advocate for flexible working . we do not dictate to council how they run their service ; we work with council . the right hon . Lady should be able to work out that flexible working be no threat to business and no threat to the economy . in fact , it will boost productivity . Southampton Itchen have the bad case of unsafe cladding in Hampshire and fire safety work be take year to get start , so resident be stick in property they can not move out of or sell . will the Secretary of State please update the House on what she be do to ensure that developer and freeholder get on with urgent safety work and protect leaseholder from extortionate cost ? will she meet I and local councillor ? as a government , we have be clear that the pace of remediation have be far too slow . the Deputy Prime Minister and I will be meet developer to review their progress and to agree a joint plan for accelerate remediation in the come week . I be , of course , very happy to meet my hon . friend to discuss these issue , and meet with constituent if that be helpful too . I call the liberal Democrat spokesperson . high street be the beat heart of our community . those in place such as Broadstone in my constituency be really bounce back and reinvent themselves . the public assume that council be able to flex business rate and that they own most property , but we all know that that be not the case . will the Minister provide a timeline for the reform of business rate , and assure pub and shop that their exist relief will be maintain ? I be afraid the hon . Lady put I in quite the pickle . with less than 48 hour before a fiscal event she would not expect I to pre - empt the Chancellor , but we have hear the hon . Lady ' s call and those from business . alongside any rate change , we will seek to provide the tool , such as high street rental auction or community right to buy , to give community control of their high street again . I recently meet local business in my constituency to discuss what can be do to attract more people to visit our high street . will the Minister set out what action the Government be take to help regenerate local high street , and will he meet I to discuss this issue far ? we all want to see our high street thrive . it be the business of government , local council and local community to push back on some of the decline that have be see as inevitable in recent year . as part of that , we will be give local community the tool to reshape their high street , such as high street rental auction and the community right to buy . Sadiq Khan , the Mayor of London , have consistently call for the power to impose rent control across Greater London . he can not do that unless the Government change the law . whenever it have be try around the world it have fail , typically with rental property supply fall and rent perversely rise . will the Secretary of State take this opportunity now to rule out the possibility of impose rent control in Greater London ? as the shadow Minister will know from our exchange in the Renters ' Rights Bill Committee , the Government have absolutely no plan to introduce rent control in any form . Consett , Blaydon and other town across the north - east be keen to play their part in grow our local economy , and one of the thing that growth come from be make work pay . in the first 100 day of a Labour Government , the Secretary of State have deliver the big upgrade to worker ' right in a generation . can she update the House on her work in support the new deal for work people ? the new deal for work people be contain in the Employment Rights Bill , which have its Second reading last week . we will continue to push forward other measure that do not require legislation , but what we hope to see be a new culture between business , trade union and local community to ensure that work really do pay . minister have acknowledge in reply to early question that they recognise the financial pressure be place on local authority , especially in connection with child ' s service and adult social care . whatever may or may not be in the Budget , can the Minister reassure council tax payer that they will not bear an undue burden as a result of any change ? this Government be acutely aware of the impact of the cost of live crisis on work people , and that be firmly in our sight as we approach the spending review this week , but we will have to repair a fair amount of the system , not just the finance . the early warning audit have be leave shatter follow 14 year of mismanagement , and single - year settlement have leave council not know from one year to the next how much money they have to spend , so we will have to introduce multi - year settlement . there be a great deal of work to do , and we can not repair 14 year of damage in three month , but we be well on the way to it . let I first draw attention to my declare interest as a trustee of Fields in Trust . in the last Parliament , the Housing , Communities and Local Government Committee receive a large amount of evidence concern the importance of well - design open space for child and young people , but the national planning policy framework mention they once and mention bat twice . be it not about time we get our priority right , and do more to improve the design of — order . just a minute , please ! one of we will have to give way . the hon . Gentleman be one of the most senior member of Parliament . he should be look at I when he be ask a question , not at the Minister . come on , clive : I be well - look . I will agree with you on the latter point , Mr Speaker . will the Minister tell we whether he will change the guidance in future to place more emphasis on the importance to child and young people of properly design open space ? but not in this instance ! [ laughter . ] the national planning policy guidance will recognise the importance of high - quality open space and opportunity for sport , physical activity , health and wellbee in our community . our proposal to release grey - belt land for development will depend on developer ' meet one of the " golden rule " and ensure that all new development have accessible green space . my constituency , like most other , be see a great deal of new housing be build , which mean more infrastructure , more business and more opportunity for growth . key to that , however , be access to reliable , high - speed broadband . give the SNP Government ' s previous failure to deliver gigabit broadband to every home as promise , can the Minister tell we what discussion be take place and what consideration be be give to support its efficient delivery in Scotland ? through Project gigabit we have a commitment to level up all community in the United Kingdom , and through the welcome work of my right hon . friend the Deputy Prime Minister we have a commitment to reset relationship with the devolved administration . hopefully , by put those two together , we will be able to make significant progress . I thank the Secretary of State for everything that she be do to tackle Islamo - phobia . this anti - muslim discourse be a scourge on our community in Burnley , Padiham and Brierfield . will she join I in celebrate the work of local volunteer , church , mosque , Lancashire police and other who organise Burnley ' s " Diversity Picnic — Bubbles in the Park " , and who work so successfully in avert potential disturbance over the summer ? I thank my hon . friend for his question . I can not wait to join he at Bubbles in the Park on a future date , as Burnley be not that far away from my constituency . he be absolutely right to celebrate the work of volunteer in community and public servant , who give their time and energy to strengthen our local area and bring people together . Talland Parade be an abandon and dilapidated row of shop in Seaford , in my constituency . it have stand empty for 12 year , despite have planning permission in place for much - need flat . the council have to take the developer to the High Court just to get some scaffolding remove at the site . will the Minister meet I to discuss the site , and will the Government consider expand compulsory purchase power for council to allow they to acquire such key site ? I be grateful for the question . of course , I would be very happy to have a meeting . I point the hon . gentleman towards the very helpful innovation of high street rental auction at the back end of this year , which will give local authority the tool to bring into use vacant unit and to make sure that developer know that they must use they or let somebody else do so . the plan increase in housing supply be crucial , as we all know , but my resident in West Lancashire be concerned about access to service . can the Secretary of State tell we what she be do to ensure that the increase in housing supply be meet with the relevant infrastructure and access to service ? it be incredibly important that the relevant infrastructure , amenity and service be in place . we have take a number of step to well support that in the short period we have be in office , not least through the national planning policy framework , but there be more to be do in that area . I will keep it under very close review . what assessment have the Secretary of State make of the merit of reform the planning system to introduce new measure to help reduce flood risk ? the national planning policy framework be very clear that inappropriate development in area at risk of flooding should be avoid by direct development away from area at high risk , include flood plain . we consult in the national planning policy framework consultation and seek view on how the planning system can more effectively manage flood risk . as I say , my Department be analyse response , with a view to publish a Government response before the end of the year . I call the Chair of the Select Committee . the Secretary of State will know the financial difficulty face so many of our local authority . a recent Local Government Association report show that one in four local authority will apply for additional funding . it be fair to say that , for a number of they , March will be too late . what discussion have be have with the Chancellor to ensure that our local authority get emergency support ? may I welcome the Chair of the Select Committee to her place ? she will do an outstanding job for local government and housing . the Government absolutely understand how difficult it be for local authority to make end meet . we understand that the pressure in adult social care , child ' s social service and temporary accommodation be bite hard , and we be work through those issue with the sector . Speaker ' s Statement before the next business , I have a short statement to make . in medium interview last week , the Chancellor announce that she intend to introduce change to the fiscal rule relate to the funding of day - to - day spending through tax receipt , and to the measurement of public debt . these be major new policy announcement , with significant and wide - range implication for the Government ' s fiscal policy and for the public finance . it be evident to I that they should therefore have be make in this House in the first instance , and not to the world ' s medium . this principle be clearly and unambiguously set out in paragraph 9 . 1 of the ministerial code . while this can hardly be describe as a leak — the Chancellor herself give interview on the record , and on camera — the premature disclosure of the content of the Budget have always be regard as a supreme discourtesy to the House ; indeed , I still regard it as such . I be very disappointed that the Chancellor expect the House to wait nearly a full week to hear she repeat the announcement in the Budget statement on Wednesday . I have always defend the undoubted right of this House , include the Opposition party and Back Benchers in all part of the House , to be the first to hear major government policy announcement . when such announcement be make , Ministers should expect to face proper , sustained scrutiny from the elect member of this House , not american news channel . I can assure the Government that that be still my firm view , and that I will use the power I have to make sure the House be able to hold Ministers to account . I be glad that there will be a statement later on fiscal rule — perhaps that be no coincidence . hon . member may be wonder how they will get a seat on Wednesday , but to be quite honest , the way it be go , they will not need one , as we will have hear it all already . this be not acceptable , and I do not want it to continue . I want this House — Government and Opposition — to be treat with the respect it deserve . it be totally unacceptable to go around the world tell everyone rather than member of this House . they be elect by the constituent of this country and they deserve to be treat well . when the Conservatives be the Government , it be labour complain to I . get your act together , on all side , and treat member with respect . China : Human Rights and Sanctions I remind the House that the case of Christopher Berry and Christopher Cash be sub judice and no reference should be make to it in the House . ( Urgent Question ) : to ask the Secretary of State for Foreign , Commonwealth and Development Affairs if he will make a statement on his recent visit to China , on China ' s report human right abuse in Xinjiang , on the case of Jimmy Lai and on sanction on british parliamentarian . I thank the right hon . gentleman for his question . on China , this Government be clear that the UK ' s national interest will always come first . pragmatic engagement matter , not only to co - operate on share challenge but to make progress in area where we disagree . on my visit I make it clear that chinese company must stop supply equipment to Russia that be be use in Ukraine . I also highlight north korean recklessness in step up its support for Putin — a threat to european security and stability in the korean peninsula . I be robust on human right , include in Xinjiang . I raise our serious concern — which the right hon . Gentleman have also raise on many occasion — about the implementation of the national security law in Hong Kong and call for the immediate release of british national Jimmy Lai . I call on Beijing to lift its unwarranted sanction against parliamentarian , include the right hon . Gentleman . this be a matter that I raise with you , Mr Speaker , before attend . I raise Taiwan , and warn that cyber - activity or interference in our democracy be unacceptable and will always be meet by a strong response . I also cover area of mutual interest . China be the world ' s big emitter , so we need to co - operate on the global green transition . it be also the world ' s second - large economy , and our trade with China be worth almost £ 100 billion . China have the second - large number of AI unicorn of any country worldwide . like the last government , we will work with China to create rule to keep the public safe . this be grow - up diplomacy . after 14 year of inconsistency under the Conservatives , this Government will set a long - term , consistent and strategic approach to China . with Foreign Minister Wang Yi , I agree to maintain channel of communication at ministerial level . this bring we up to speed with the United States , whose Secretary of State and Treasury Secretary have both make two visit in the past 18 month , as well as with partner include Australia , France and Germany . this government be currently carry out a China audit to improve our response to the challenge and opportunity that China present to the UK . once it be complete , I will gladly update the House again . I thank you for grant this urgent question , Mr Speaker . China be even now carry out military exercise threaten Taiwan and threaten to blockade it , which would damage all our economy , yet I see in the Foreign Office ' s readout after the visit to China that there be absolutely no discussion of that issue . why not ? on human right in Xinjiang , the House of Commons , include the Labour party in opposition , vote that genocide be take place in Xinjiang , yet the Foreign Office readout simply say : " human right be discuss " . this be a genocide take place , with slave labour . why be there not more robust condemnation from the Government to China ? in Jimmy Lai ' s case , he be a british citizen and a prisoner in Hong Kong for commit no crime whatever . do the Foreign Secretary not only call for his release , as he just say , but demand full consular right of access ? on sanction on british parliamentarian , the week before last , the Leader of the Opposition ask the Prime Minister whether the Foreign Secretary would tell the Chinese Government to lift the sanction on parliamentarian . the Prime Minister say that he would . however , I see from the Foreign Office read - out that the Foreign Secretary do not even raise that , let alone call on the chinese Government to lift those sanction . give your brave support , Mr Speaker , for those of we who be sanction , I simply ask why the Government can not follow suit and demand that from the Chinese ? I have just hear — this be my final point — that there be a move in the Foreign Office to lift british sanction on chinese official responsible for the brutal genocide in Xinjiang as a deal to lift the sanction on parliamentarian here . I must tell the Foreign Secretary that I , for one , would never accept such a shameful deal at any price , and I hope that he will stamp on that straightaway . will he make it clear what our real position be on what be become a clear and massive threat to our freedom ? I thank the right hon . Gentleman again for his interest in my travel , but I have to correct he on a few point . I do , of course , raise Xinjiang in the context of human right . I absolutely raise , as I assure you , Mr Speaker , that I would , the position of parliamentarian — of course I do — not just with the Foreign Minister but with the foreign affair spokesperson for the chinese Communist party . I raise that as a matter of huge concern . I also raise the threat and aggression that we be now see in the South China sea . Jimmy Lai , I raise ; member of this House , I raise ; Xinjiang , I raise ; Hong Kong , I raise . it would be totally unacceptable for any UK Foreign Minister to go to China and not raise those issue of tremendous concern . the right hon . Gentleman know that the previous Government bounce around on China . they have a golden era — he be part of the Government who have that golden era and be drink pint with President Xi . a former Prime Minister and Foreign Secretary be find to be lobby on behalf of chinese belt - and - road initiative , so I be not go to take any lesson from the Opposition on how to handle China . I call the Chair of the Select Committee on Foreign Affairs . my right hon . friend have rightly outline the complex nature of our relationship with China . may I add to the long list the tension in the strait of Taiwan and the effect that that be likely to have on international trade if it go wrong ? the fact that the relationship be complicated , however , do not mean that we should not get clarity . that be important not just for member of the House but for other , whether they be promote british export overseas or be human right campaigner such as Sebastien Lai , whom I meet last week , or be british representative in Mongolia . we need clarity in our approach to China , so we urgently need to know when the China audit will be complete . will my right hon . friend tell we when that be likely to happen , and will he also commit to appear before my Committee to answer question about it ? yes , of course , I will appear before my right hon . friend ' s Committee , whenever she command , to answer question . she be absolutely right — the issue in the Taiwan strait be very serious . I raise those issue in China , and also in Indonesia and in Korea . we need a consistent approach to China , which be why we be do the audit . it be my hope that it will be complete early next year . I call the shadow Minister . I congratulate my right hon . friend the Member for Chingford and Woodford Green ( Sir Iain Duncan Smith ) on secure this urgent question , and I thank you , Mr Speaker , for grant it . it be disappointing , but not surprising , that the Foreign Secretary do not see fit to update the House follow his visit to China . I want to press he on what the visit achieve because , compare the read - out , I would be forgive for think that two very separate visit take place . the opposition understand the importance of engagement , but not at any cost . all interaction with the Chinese Communist party must be clear - eyed and part of a meaningful strategy , as per the high - level China strategy that the Foreign Secretary inherit from our government . yet , as he say , this visit occur before this Government have conclude their so - call China audit . would it not have be well to wait until he know what interest he be seek to defend and far ? on the conservative Benches , it look as if the Foreign Secretary rush into engagement without a plan . concerningly , in a fundamental breach of the constitutional principle that Parliament be sovereign , he be willing to pressure parliamentarian into cancel the visit of former President Tsai of Taiwan the week before his trip . unlike in an autocratic state , the Government do not tell Members of Parliament who they can or can not meet . indeed , the Conservative Government tell the CCP on multiple occasion that , no , it could not shut I and other member up , despite its request . we be tell that the Foreign Secretary raise british citizen Jimmy Lai ' s sham detention . Jimmy be 76 and be be hold in solitary confinement , yet the Foreign Secretary still have not meet Jimmy ' s son , despite his come to the UK on multiple occasion and ask for a meeting . will the Foreign Secretary now meet Sebastien to update he on his father ' s prospect ? and will he share with we the outcome of his visit ? will Jimmy Lai now be release ? will the Chinese Communist party now step back from its human right abuse in Hong Kong , Xinjiang and Tibet ? will sanction on mps now be lift ? will the chinese Communist party now refrain from action to support Russia ' s war machine and the intimidation of Taiwan ? will the transnational oppression of Hongkongers and Uyghurs now end ? which of those objective do the Foreign Secretary achieve thank to his visit ? it be easy to say that the visit be a reset in relation but , as we all know , in every relationship there be giver and taker . have the Foreign Secretary not simply prove that he give and they take ? really ? that be quite bad . the leader and the Foreign Minister of the United States have have eight engagement with China , France have have six , Germany have have four , Japan have have three , and Canada have have two . the right hon . member for Braintree ( Mr Cleverly ) go once . and the hon . Lady ask I what I have achieve ! I will go again and again to get outcome in the UK ' s national interest . the hon . Lady would expect nothing less . give the various global challenge we face , I fully appreciate that strategic dialogue with China be in our national interest . in the light of the persecution and diabolical treatment of Uyghur Muslims , Christians , Buddhists , Falun Gong follower and pro - democracy Hongkongers , to name but a few , it be , however , important that human right concern be raise . can my right hon . friend assure I that he raise those human right concern forthrightly with his chinese counterpart ? I assure my hon . friend that I raise those issue robustly . there be disagreement across the table on what the chinese Government maintain that they be do , particularly in Xinjiang and in relation to minority — Mr Wang Yi suggest that I be " confused " in my account of the treatment of minority . I assure my hon . friend that we will , however , continue to raise these issue robustly and to hold the chinese Government to account . I call the liberal Democrat spokesperson . we remain deeply concerned by Beijing ' s abuse of human right and disregard for international law . too often , the previous Government pursue trade link instead of act on these concern . will this Government now do the right thing and recognise that the crime perpetrate against the Uyghurs amount to the crime of genocide ? China be not listen to the UK on Hong Kong , Jimmy Lai remain in prison , and the police have offer bounty in relation to pro - democracy activist . will the Foreign Secretary now put action on the table , include review our position on Hong Kong ' s autonomy and whether it should continue to receive preferential custom status ? can he assure the House that Hongkongers who have seek refuge in the UK be receive proper protection ? finally , give that Taiwan be a democratic ally , can the Foreign Secretary assure the House that his Department play no part in prevent Parliament from host former President Tsai ? I do not recognise what be suggest in relation to Taiwan . I assure the hon . Gentleman that Jimmy Lai ' s case be a priority for the Government and will remain so . we continue to press for consular access to Jimmy Lai and for his release . diplomat from our consulate general in Hong Kong attend his court proceeding on a regular basis , to keep abreast of what be take place . on Taiwan , our position remain the same . in all our engagement with the Chinese Government , we will continue to challenge they robustly on all these issue . he suggest that the last Government put trade first . we will not be put trade first , but there be clearly area where we can and should co - operate with China , as well as area where we will challenge China , as we must . I be honour to have meet Sebastien Lai and his legal team , who be fight for the release of his father , Jimmy Lai . Jimmy be 76 and a diabetic , and there be serious concern about his ill health in solitary confinement . Jimmy be a man of faith . he be a roman Catholic who be be deny Holy Communion — how very cruel that be at his stage of life and in his condition . his crime be stand up for freedom and democracy . Sebastien have be do all he can , but he need assistance and respectfully request that senior figure in Government get his father , a british citizen , release . will the Foreign Secretary commit to meet Jimmy Lai ' s family and will he ask the Chancellor to do the same , ahead of her visit to China next year ? of course I will commit to meet Sebastien and his family . when I raise the issue of Jimmy Lai , I point to his age and the fact that it would be an abomination if he die in prison . I assure my hon . friend that that issue be raise . Mr Speaker , as one of the parliamentarian who have be sanction by the chinese regime , I thank you for your ongoing advocacy on our behalf . let we never forget that the chinese regime be literally spy on we as member of this House . in Opposition , the Labour party say there be " clear and compelling evidence " of a genocide in Xinjiang . now that the right hon . Gentleman be the Foreign Secretary , be he prepare to repeat that statement ? do he still believe there be " clear and compelling evidence " of a genocide in Xinjiang or have he change his mind ? I remain hugely concerned about the human right abuse in Xinjiang , but the hon . Gentleman know that it must always rightfully be a matter for the International Criminal Court and other to make a determination of " genocide " , not for national government . follow his recent visit to China , the Foreign Secretary also meet with our partner in South Korea . do he share my concern about report of north korean troop take part in Russia ' s illegal invasion of Ukraine and do he raise that ? I go up to the demilitarised zone to see for myself some of the harassment that South Korea receive on a daily basis from North Korea , and of course I raise the issue in China and with the south korean President himself . there be huge concern about this development , which be escalatory in nature and must command a response in the come day . give the unprecedented threat that China pose to UK national security , and indeed global security , and the " clear and compelling evidence " , mention by my hon . friend the Member for Harborough , Oadby and Wigston ( Neil o ' Brien ) , of genocide in Xinjiang , which the Foreign Secretary be strangely shy about condemn these day , why have the Government delay the implementation of the foreign influence registration scheme , a vital transparency measure that the conservative party introduce when in government ? that scheme be important . it be hugely important that country of concern do not have undue influence , in relation to our national security , on business and industry . we will come forward with our plan in due course . much like Jimmy Lai in Hong Kong , british - egyptian writer and pro - democracy activist Alaa Abd El - Fattah remain unlawfully detain in Egypt , and still have not be grant access to british consular official , despite the british Government raise the case at the high level . his mother Laila be now on hunger strike against his continued imprisonment . in November 2022 , the Foreign Secretary call on the then british Government to take more direct action to bring Alaa home , recognise the UK Government ' s responsibility to protect citizen from arbitrary detention and human right abuse abroad . since come to office , what have the Foreign Secretary and the Government do to follow through on what he once promise and to bring Alaa home ? order . the urgent question be purely about Hong Kong . I know that there be a slight connection . there be a similarity . yes , but I judge the similarity , not your good self . if the Foreign Secretary wish to take it , fine . if he do not , I understand . I assure the hon . Lady that I meet with Alaa Abd El - Fattah ' s family just a few week ago , and I raise the issue once again with the egyptian Foreign Minister in a subsequent call . like every Member , in my constituency I receive hundred of representation from hongkonger in this country who be concerned about their own safety — I have experience of it myself : I be film by a drone while speak at a Hong Kong protest in Edinburgh — but they be also concerned about their family at home . what assurance can the Foreign Secretary give we about the safety of Hongkongers in this country , and more importantly about plug the gap in the british national overseas scheme ? the national security law be of great concern , which be why I raise it with the Foreign Minister . of course Hong Kong national should be assure of their safety in this country . our police and security service keep these thing under close scrutiny . can the Foreign Secretary confirm that on his recent visit to the Indo - Pacific he raise the UK ' s continued commitment to AUKUS and to general engagement on security in the region ? absolutely . we be 100 % committed to AUKUS , and the development of pillar 2 particularly . as I believe the Foreign Secretary be an honest man , I be perfectly prepared to accept that he raise these matter of human right as forcefully as he say he do , so there must be something wrong with the Foreign Office ' s reporting , because that forcefulness do not find its way into its account of the visit . be one reason why his official be reluctant to relay what really happen the fact that we be overdependent on China , and have he make an assessment of what would happen in term of our dependence on China be , heaven forbid , a conflict to break out over Taiwan ? the right hon . Gentleman be absolutely right to raise dependency . one thing that the China audit will look at be that very issue , and the assessment that he refer to be be make not just by we , but by our close ally . do the Secretary of State agree that the sanction impose on democratically elect member of this House be wholly unacceptable , and what discussion do he have with chinese counterpart to that effect ? I tell Wang Yi , the Foreign Minister , that it be not just unacceptable but counterproductive and that it need to end . those be my exact word . of course we be all pleased to hear both the Foreign Secretary and the Prime Minister describe the release of Jimmy Lai as a priority . in the Foreign Secretary ' s meet with his chinese counterpart , what priority be give to the release of Jimmy Lai , and give its priority status when do the Foreign Secretary expect we to see measurable progress be make on Jimmy Lai ' s release , and what will that progress look like ? " progress " be Jimmy Lai ' s release ; that be the position of the UK Government . I can not tell the hon . Gentleman when that will be , because we be not hold he ; the Chinese be hold he . we continue to say that he should be release — that be our position . do the Foreign Secretary agree that it be a travesty that Jimmy Lai remain detain , and that he should be release immediately to return to his family ? yes , 100 % . I thank the Foreign Secretary for actually come to the House on this occasion , but do that not underline the fact that he should have volunteer a statement , rather than be force to the Dispatch Box by an urgent question ? have listen to these exchange , be member of the House not still entitle to ask what exactly the Government ' s overall strategic policy be towards China — give , for example , the huge build - up of nuclear weapon that China be fund , develop and building ? will he bring to the House a proper and full statement , or even a White Paper , that set out that strategy once and for all ? let I just reassure he that I be one of the many conservative colleague who be open - mouthed in astonishment when we announce that we be go to have a golden era with that communist dictatorship , and I never have anything to do with it . the hon . Gentleman be right : we must have a consistent , sustained position on China . that be why we be undertake a China audit , and I will of course update the House when it be complete . I thank the Foreign Secretary for his update , his constructive tone and his defence of human right in the region . be the audit government - wide , and will it only consider the situation now or look into future scenario as well ? it be important , when we come into government , give the bounce around that we see in the last government ' s policy towards China , that we do a complete audit , right across Whitehall , of our interest and the opportunity , as well as of the challenge and security concern , so that we could maintain a consistent position . before that audit be complete , we be be guide , as I have say , by the three Cs : there be area in which we co - operate , area in which we compete , and there must be area , as have come up this afternoon , in which we challenge . in the Foreign Secretary ' s self - declaredly " robust " conversation with the Chinese Government , do he give a time limit for lift sanction on british politician , include member of this House , and do he outline the consequence if that be not meet ? or be his talk just chat , and not robust ? I do not give a timeline . I simply say that the sanction should be lift , and explain why it be just wrong and counterproductive to sanction member of a democratic Chamber like this . that be my position , and I defend it ; I think that be the right thing to say . I raise the issue with Mr Speaker before leave , just to be absolutely clear on the current status . although one can not be entirely sure that what one be conveying be go in and be properly understand , I do detect that Wang Yi recognise that this be a big issue between our two country . I appreciate the Foreign Secretary come here to make much clear our view on China , and particularly human right abuse there . People from Hong Kong live in Milton Keynes be still fearful of intimidation and concerned about China ' s influence on some of our university . what assessment have he make of that , and how will he proceed with the chinese Government to ensure that those influence stop ? coercion and threat be unacceptable ; we have make that clear to the Chinese Government , and I make it clear again . my hon . friend ' s constituent should be reassure that the police and security service monitor these issue very closely , but I hope that in time , I might be able to meet some of her constituent to fully understand their concern . over the last few week , I have meet a number of Hong Kong advocacy group , who have outline how withholding BNO visa holder ' access to mandatory provident fund account and the launch of a volunteer recruitment scheme by the chinese embassy be spread fear of creep chinese influence on our street . what discussion have the Foreign Secretary have with the chinese Government on end transnational repression of Hongkongers in my constituency and across the country ? as I have say , I raise the issue of the national security law and our long - stand concern about Hong Kong — concern that will not go away , because of the UK ' s unique relationship with that part of the world and many business and community there . that be the way in which I raise those issue , and I think our concern be understand . I welcome the Foreign Secretary ' s confirmation that he will meet the family of Jimmy Lai , but do he agree that as China be the world ' s large emitter , we need to engage with China pragmatically as we work to tackle the climate crisis ? yes . there be no way to reduce global temperature without work with China to achieve that , so that be a big topic of discussion between our two country in our meeting . as I say , I will go back , because it be important that we engage with China , just as our ally do . we can not influence China if we step back and do not go there at all ; that make no sense . another topic that do not seem to make it into the Foreign Office read - out on the Foreign Secretary ' s meeting be Taiwan , but I think he confirm in answer to my right hon . friend the Member for Chingford and Woodford Green ( Sir Iain Duncan Smith ) that that topic be discuss . could he specify a little more clearly what he say , and be he clear about the UK ' s red line on Taiwan ? I specifically discuss the aggression that we be see in the Taiwan strait , and I maintain our long - stand position on Taiwan . we be very concerned about an escalatory pattern of behaviour , and of course I raise those concern in a robust manner . York Outer have a vibrant community of Hongkongers who want to secure Jimmy Lai ' s release . can my right hon . friend confirm that he will raise the issue of Jimmy Lai every single time he meet chinese official , until he be safely release ? I reassure my hon . friend that that be the case . he can sense the strength of feeling on the issue in the Chamber ; so many member from across the House have speak of Jimmy Lai today . that be why every UK Minister who engage with China will raise Jimmy Lai ' s case . the Foreign Secretary be enthusiastic about give trillion of pound of UK taxpayer ' money in reparation for slavery that occur hundred of year ago . however , when it come to modern - day slavery in China , despite what he state be say privately , all we get publicly be a mealy - mouthed press release — a read - out from the Foreign Office that do not even mention the issue specifically . why be that ? be it because the Government realise that we be now dependent on China for many thing , include the delivery of the net zero policy ? China control 70 % of the rare earth metal that we will need to deliver renewable energy . we have leave ourselves open to that kind of blackmail , and now we can not speak up against human right abuse . the right hon . Gentleman have a point . this government have be in power for three month , and we have a lot to clear up , give the mess that be leave to we — he be right about that . that work begin with the China audit . do the Foreign Secretary agree that when it come to emerge technology such as artificial intelligence , it be vital to co - ordinate rule globally , include with China , to protect british people and our technological infrastructure ? yes , 100 % . the obstruction of the supply of taiwanese semiconductor pose an existential threat to the UK economy and our whole way of life . do the Foreign Secretary come away from his visit reassure that our supply chain be likely to be safe for the foreseeable future ? if not , what will he do to mitigate that threat by grow our indigenous capacity ? order . can I gently say that member should look at I when they be ask question , not at the Foreign Secretary , as tempting as that be ? I want question to be do in the third person , to keep thing calm . the right hon . Gentleman raise an important issue . that point be why my right hon . friend the Secretary of State for Business and Trade be engage on an industrial policy as we speak , and why the debate must go on about friendshore and how we work with partner — to make sure that we have access to not just semiconductor , but rare earth mineral , and can work on issue that be critical to our security . we must do far more than be achieve under the last government . I draw the House ' s attention to my entry in the Register of Members ' Financial Interests . I thank the Foreign Secretary for make it clear that Jimmy Lai ' s release be a priority , and I join hon . member in say that the issue be urgent , not just because of his fail health , but because once the trial restart on 20 November , it will be more difficult to bring the situation to a positive conclusion . the Foreign Secretary mention the need for a consistent strategy towards China — consistent not just from he , but from the whole of Government . China react to naked economic self - interest , so can he make sure that the matter be raise across Government — by the Business Secretary on issue of trade , by the Net Zero Secretary on issue of green energy , as my hon . friend the Member for Folkestone and Hythe ( Tony Vaughan ) mention , and by the Education Secretary when it come to education , so that we appeal to that self - interest ? I could not agree more with my hon . friend — there have to be a cross - Government approach . it be not just for the Foreign Secretary to engage ; other Ministers have to engage with their counterpart , mindful of the three Cs : there will be many area in which we will co - operate , but there be area where we compete and area where we have to challenge . we can do that only if we go there and engage , which be why the United States , France , Australia , Japan , Italy and Canada have make so many more visit than we . the Foreign Secretary give a comprehensive list of the matter that he raise , and he hint at the reaction when he raise they , but he have not tell we that anything will change as a result of the discussion . I will give he a chance to do that : what will happen to the plight of the Uyghur Muslims as a result of his visit ? the Uyghur Muslims be be horrendously treat , persecute and pursue during the 14 year of the last government , so it be crass to suggest that after three month , we could simply achieve a different result . diplomacy be about constantly engage to bring about a result , and that be what I will continue to do . in May , the director of GCHQ say : " we want to engage with China where it ' s mutually beneficial " , but that " China pose a genuine and increase " risk to the UK ' s cyber - security . do the Foreign Secretary think that GCHQ have the resource it need to protect we from chinese cyber - attack ? one of the most impressive part of Government that I have see in my three month in this job be the work of GCHQ . a fiscal event be about to happen , so I hesitate to talk about the finance available to GCHQ , but my hon . friend can be absolutely sure that I have make the case for it , because it deserve the fund and do a great job to keep we all safe . ambiguity can sometimes be helpful in diplomacy , but it be less helpful when answer a direct question about the action of the Government here at home . the Foreign Secretary have be somewhat evasive in answer some of the question today , so let I ask just one of they again . do any of his official play any part in the decision to stop the visit by President Tsai , the former President of Taiwan — yes or no ? I do not recognise the caricature be put about on this at all . I really do not . I have meet many ukrainian refugee who be be generously house in my constituency , and they be extremely concerned about country such as Iran and North Korea provide mat é riel support to Putin ' s war machine . can the Foreign Secretary agree with I that China and chinese company should not provide any support to Putin ' s illegal invasion of Ukraine ? yes , I can . this be a very serious issue that I put to the Foreign Minister . we have evidence that chinese part with dual use capability be turn up in Russia , and they be take life in Ukraine , which be entirely unacceptable . my hon . friend will not be surprised that the Chinese deny this , but we have the evidence and we put it on the table . will the Foreign Secretary assure the House that the UK will not seek to resume the economic and financial dialogue that be pause after the imposition of the Hong Kong national security law , give that more than 60 % of the component use to prosecute Putin ' s illegal war in Ukraine come from China ? the hon . Member again raise this serious issue in the House . it be entirely unacceptable and we will continue to engage on it . the Foreign Secretary mention how he raise with the Government in Beijing the russian human right abuse in Ukraine carry out during Russia ' s aggression . a chinese delegation be absent from the peace conference in Switzerland , yet President Xi be present in Russia at the BRICS summit last week . when the Foreign Secretary raise with chinese counterpart these russian human right abuse , what be the response ? the hon . member will not be surprised to hear that the Chinese deny it , but we be able to supply some evidence to back up our claim for they to reflect on , and we will re - engage to see what conclusion they come to . can I emphasise to the Secretary of State how important it be to have the right answer to these question ? as chair of the all - party parliamentary group on international freedom of religion or belief , I have raise the issue of human right abuse repeatedly in this House , include at business question every Thursday , with the former Government , so I welcome this new Government and , with they , a new approach to our international obligation . how will the Secretary of State use any and every weapon in our arsenal to secure help for the Uyghur Muslims , for Jimmy Lai — he be a practise roman Catholic , and he be be deny the eucharist , but it be his right to have his own religious belief — and for the Christians , Falun Gong and other ethnic group in China , and when will this begin in earnest ? the hon . Gentleman be right to combine those issue , and also to encourage I to mention not just our bilateral engagement with China , but our co - ordinate work with our ally to engage with China . it be the case , I think , particularly with our G7 ally , that there be more we can do . that complete the urgent question . in fairness to the Foreign Secretary , I would just say that we do have a meeting — he be absolutely correct — about the situation face some member of this House . we be absolutely committed to ensure that those sanction be lift , and that be part of the conversation . Middle East with permission , Mr Speaker , I will make a statement on the middle east . after over a year of horrify violence , civilian suffering have increase , the conflict have widen , the risk of a yet wide regional war have rise . today , I want to address three element of this crisis and outline the urgent step that the Government be take in response . I will first consider event over the weekend . targeted israeli strike hit military site inside Iran , include a missile manufacturer and an air defence base . this be in response to Iran ' s escalatory ballistic missile attack on Israel , which have be condemn across the House . these attack be the late in a long history of malign iranian activity , include its nuclear programme , with its total enriched uranium stockpile now report by the International Atomic Energy Agency to be 30 time the joint comprehensive plan of action limit , and political , financial and military support for militia , include Hezbollah and Hamas . let I be clear : the Government unequivocally condemn iranian attack on Israel . this Government have impose three round of sanction on iranian individual and organisation responsible for malign activity , most recently on 14 October , and we have consistently support Israel ' s right to defend itself against iranian attack and attack by Iranian - back terrorist , whose goal be the complete eradication of the israeli state . we do not mourn the death of the head of proscribe terrorist organisation . the priority now be immediate de - escalation . Iran should not respond . all side must exercise restraint . we do not wish to see the cycle of violence intensify , drag the whole region into a war with severe consequence . escalation be in no one ' s interest , as it risk spread the regional conflict far . we and our partner have be pass this message clearly and consistently . yesterday , I speak to iranian Foreign Minister Araghchi and israeli Foreign Minister Katz and urge both country to show restraint and avoid further regional escalation . let I turn to the devastating situation in northern Gaza , where the United Nations estimate that over 400 , 000 palestinian civilian remain . access to essential service worsen by the day , yet still very little aid be be allow in . Israel ' s evacuation order in the north have displace ten of thousand of palestinian civilian , drive from destruction , disease , and despair to destruction , disease and despair . nine in 10 Gazans have be displace since the war begin . some have have to flee more than 10 time in the past year . what must parent say to their child ? how can they explain this living nightmare ? how can they reassure that it will end ? there be no excuse for the israeli Government ' s ongoing restriction on humanitarian assistance ; they must let more aid in now . aid be back up at Gaza ' s border , in many case fund by the UK and our partner but now stick out of reach of those who need it so desperately . these restriction fly in the face of Israel ' s public commitment . they risk violate international humanit - arian law . they be a rebuke to every friend of Israel , who month after month have demand action to address the catastrophic condition face palestinian civilian . so let I be clear once again : this Government condemn these restriction in the strong term . since our first day in office , the Government have lead effort to bring this nightmare to an end . we have announce funding for UK - Med ' s effort to provide medical treatment in Gaza , for unicef ' s work to support vulnerable family in Gaza , and for egyptian health facility treat medically evacuate Palestinians from Gaza . we be match donation to the Disasters Emergency Committee ' s middle east humanitarian appeal . together with France and Algeria , we call an emergency UN Security Council meeting to address the dire situation . we have sanction extremist settler , make it clear that their action do not serve the real interest of either Israel or the region . we have move quickly to restore funding to the United Nations Relief and Works Agency , over - turn the position of the last Government . we do that to support UNRWA ' s indispensable role in assist Palestinians , and to enable it to implement the recommendation of the independent Colonna report . all over the world , in every war zone , in every refugee camp , the United Nations be a beacon of hope , so it be a matter of profound regret that the israeli Parliament be consider shut down UNRWA ' s operation . the allegation against UNRWA staff early this year be fully investigate and offer no jurisdiction for cut off tie with UNRWA . this weekend , we therefore join partner in express concern at the Knesset ' s legislation and urge Israel to ensure that UNRWA ' s lifesave work continue . we call on UNRWA to continue its path to reform , demonstrate its commitment to the principle of neutrality . finally , I will cover the conflict in Lebanon , a country that have endure so much in my lifetime and now see fighting escalate once again , kill many civilian and force hundred of thousand from their home , while in northern Israel , community live in fear of Hezbollah attack and be unable to return home . here , too , the Government have lead effort to respond . our swift call for an immediate ceasefire be take up by our partner in the United Nations Security Council . the Defence Secretary and I have visit Lebanon , where Britain ' s ongoing support for the lebanese armed force be widely recognise as an investment in a sovereign and effective lebanese state . at the start of October , I announce £ 10 million for the humanitarian crisis in Lebanon . last week , the Minister for Development , my right hon . friend the Member for Oxford East ( anneliese Dodds ) , announce further funding for the most vulnerable among those flee from Lebanon into Syria , while the Under - Secretary of State for Foreign , Commonwealth and Development Affairs , my hon . friend the Member for Lincoln ( Hamish Falconer ) , join the Lebanon support conference in Paris . today , my right hon . friend the Prime Minister will meet Prime Minister Mikati to reassure he of our support . across the region , our priority be clear : de - escalation , humanitarian assistance , immediate ceasefire , uphold international law , and political solution . this be how we save life , how we liberate hostage , such as british national Emily Damari , and how we pull the region back from the brink . the Government have step up our diplomatic engagement to that end . the Prime Minister have speak directly to Prime Minister Netanyahu and to President Pezeshkian , while I have make five visit to the region in just four month and hold around 50 call and meeting with Ministers and leader in the region . I speak this weekend to US Secretary Blinken , just back from the region . it be a source of deep frustration that those effort have not yet succeed . we have no illusion about the deep - seat division in this region — a region scar by fight and false dawn in the past — but it be never too late for peace , and never too late for hope . this government will not give up on the people of the region . we will keep play our part in achieve a last solution , so that one day they might all live side - by - side in peace and security . I commend this statement to the House . I call the shadow Foreign Secretary . may I thank the Foreign Secretary for advance sight of his statement , and may I also thank the Foreign Office for its significant help with my visit to Ukraine at the end of last week ? Israel ' s response to the attack launch by Iran early this month have rightly be describe as proportionate . Israel have the right to defend itself , and it have do so in a precise and target way . the statement by the Israel Defence Forces that it be " mission accomplish " offer hope that the operation might mark the end of the late trading of hostility . whether and how the Iranians respond remain to be see , but the head of the Islamic Revolutionary Guard Corps say that the " bitter consequence will be unimaginable " for Israel . the situation remain dangerously uncertain . we join the Government in urge restraint . the onus must surely now be on Iran to desist from any retaliatory action that will pull the region far up the ladder of escalation . above all , we must now use Britain ' s undoubted international connection , experience , responsibility and clout to lift people ' s eye to the day after , in the hope that we can build on the Abraham accord and move towards the two - state solution that Palestinians and Israelis deserve . that must be the immutable end of these appalling circumstance and event . what discussion have the Foreign Secretary have with his other counterpart in the region to encourage cool head to prevail ? that also apply to Lebanon . Iran ' s direct missile attack on Israel be but one front in its campaign against the jewish state , which we know it be intent on wipe off the face of the earth . Iran ' s continue funding for and support of its Hezbollah proxy in Lebanon and Hamas proxy in Gaza show what a scourge the irgc be and how far its tentacle have spread . Hezbollah and Hamas be a cancer in the area where they operate . Israel have every right to defend itself against evil terrorist , who be not interested in compromise or in political solution and who use the legitimate plight of Palestinians to justify barbarism . in the face of such murderous assault as the incessant rocket bombardment of northern Israel by Hezbollah , no country in the world — not a single one — would be expect to sit quietly . it be for that reason that , in respect of Lebanon , in particular , call for a ceasefire be most unlikely to be heed . not only be Hezbollah violate every international law by lob rocket and missile at israeli town and displace ten of thousand of israeli civilian ; it be do so in flagrant breach of UN Security Council resolution 1701 , which clearly call for the withdrawal of Hezbollah and other force from Lebanon south of the Litani , and the disarmament of Hezbollah and other armed group . do the Foreign Secretary agree that the retreat and dismantle of Hezbollah , in accordance with UN Security Council resolution 1701 , must be a necessary precondition to end the war ? what discussion have he have with our partner in the UN to achieve that ? turn to Gaza , some 100 hostage remain in captivity , with the prospect of their release diminish with every day that pass . the civilian in Gaza continue to pay a heavy price as a result of Hamas ' s use they as human shield and total disregard for the safety and security of the civilian population . over the weekend , in Kamal Adwan hospital in Jabalia , northern Gaza , Israel find stash of weapon and money . a Gazan ambulance driver have confirm that Hamas operative embed themselves among civilian and even use ambulance to transport terrorist and weapon . in other word , Hamas use the infrastructure that be suppose to help civilian to advance the group ' s terrorist agenda , leave innocent people neglect and dangerously expose . we support the Disasters Emergency Committee appeal and hope that shortly we will see a similar appeal launch for Sudan , where people be in desperate danger of starvation this winter . surely it be time to face fact . Hamas must lay down their arm . Hamas must release the hostage . once this happen , the war will end , aid can flood into Gaza unfettere , the palestinian people can begin the long and difficult path to recovery , and we can start to lift the eye of Israelis and Palestinians to the possibility of political horizon , of two state , of peace . I thank the shadow Foreign Secretary for the tone of his remark and for the cross - party support he give to the Government in urge restraint and de - escalation in the region . I reassure he that I speak with Secretary Blinken just two day ago about the context of the day after , as the right hon . Gentleman put it ; about the necessary security guarantee that Israel would rightly expect ; and about how we work with arab partner — Qatar , the UAE , Saudi Arabia , Egypt and other — to ensure that this ceasefire can hold and that the security guarantee and the necessary rebuilding of Gaza can properly begin . the shadow Foreign Secretary rightly talk about the DEC appeal for Gaza , which be now up , and I support what he say about Sudan , which must not be overlook at this time . I speak to Foreign Minister Katz about the situation in Lebanon yesterday . he seek to reassure I that the target operation by the Israelis that be under way would come to an end shortly , as he put it . I confirm , as I know the right hon . Gentleman would have , that we understand that it be important that Israelis who can not be in their home in northern Israel be able to move back . that can be the case only when Hezbollah have move back beyond the Litani river , and resolution 1701 be properly implement . we want to see that happen , and it be for that reason that we continue to support the lebanese armed force and the work of UNIFIL . we be very concerned to see UNIFIL worker attack in the way that they be a few day ago . I also raise that with Foreign Minister Katz . I welcome the Foreign Secretary ' s statement , but thousand of my constituent in Battersea want an end to this violence and to Israel ' s siege in northern Gaza , not to mention the violence in the west bank . ten of thousand of people have lose their life , no aid be get in and hospital be be target . be it not time to move away from condemn and to take strong action : suspend any trade negotiation with Israel , implement a complete arm sale ban and ensure that good produce in settlement in the west bank be also ban ? Israel be ignore all the condemnation by this Government . we need strong action . I understand the strength of feeling that my dear friend express in relation to this matter , and the way that she have champion these issue on behalf of her constituent . the humanitarian situation be dire . as we head to the winter , the prospect of it get bad be hard to fathom . but I do not agree with she on a full arm embargo , and the reason be exemplify by the attack from Iran that Israel suffer on 1 October . it would be quite wrong for we not to be prepare to support Israel in theatre of conflict beyond Gaza , notwithstanding our concern on international humanitarian law . I be afraid I can not agree with she on that issue . I call the liberal Democrat spokesperson . I thank the Foreign Secretary for advance sight of his statement . he have our full support in his effort to engage with Iran and Israel to urge an end to the cycle of retaliatory violence . we continue to urge he to proscribe the irgc . can he confirm whether UK military asset and personnel play any part in Israel ' s attack on Iran on Friday night ? the relationship between Israel and Palestine remain the key to reduce tension and create the condition for peace . we support the Government ' s stance on UNRWA , but as the humanitarian situation in northern Gaza continue to deteriorate and the level of violence in the west bank worsen , the Liberal Democrats hope that the Foreign Secretary might go far , offer more than word of condemnation . follow the International Court of Justice ' s advisory opinion this summer that the occupation be illegal , do he agree that introduce legislation to cease UK trade with illegal israeli settlement be a practical way of uphold that judgment ? can he update the House on whether the letter to the Israeli Government , co - sign by the Chancellor , have result in a commitment to maintain financial correspondence between israeli and palestinian bank ? to signal commitment to a two - state solution , will the Government support the Palestine Statehood ( Recognition ) ( no . 3 ) Bill table last week by my hon . friend the Member for Oxford West and Abingdon ( Layla Moran ) ? finally , will the Foreign Secretary tell we what recent update he have have from the israeli Government on the prospect of the return of the hostage ? they have be hold in captivity by Hamas for more than a year . I know the whole House will agree that their return remain a priority . no UK troop be involve in the action by Israel a few night ago . the hon . Gentleman raise the IRGC . I reassure he that the Home Secretary be conduct a state threat review at this time and that the irgc be keep in mind in relation to those concern . I remind the hon . Gentleman that we have sanction settler since come into office . I be on the west bank . I remain hugely concerned at the loss of life this year , the scale of the violence and the scale of the expansion , of which there have be more in this last year than we have see in the last 20 . I be not able to support the Bill on recognition , but the hon . Gentleman will know that recognition be in the labour manifesto and we be committed to it at the right time . I do not think that during the conflict be the right time , but we must work with partner to achieve it . it be not the end in itself . the end we want to see be a two - state solution . that be what we must all hold out for . member from across the House condemn and mourn the death of more than 1 , 200 Israelis as a result of the 7 October attack , and we all demand the immediate release of all — almost 100 — hostage still in Gaza . however , over 40 , 000 Palestinians have be kill in Gaza . tragically , that include well over 10 , 000 child . thousand more be fear dead under the rubble , give that more than 60 % of Gazan structure have be bomb to rubble . how be that in any way proportionate ? I appreciate that the incoming Labour Government have stop the sale of all offensive weapon that could be use in the Gaza conflict . however , what far tangible step can my right hon . friend the Foreign Secretary and the Government take to publicly condemn and call out the Netanyahu regime , and help bring these horror to an end ? there be a lot that we be do and try to do to alleviate the humanitarian suffering . we provide additional funding for UK - Med , which I do within the first week in office . we match fund the Disasters Emergency Committee appeal — that be £ 10 million to date . we be support Jordan , which want to do airdrop , with its planning . we be do everything we can to alleviate the suffering , but as my hon . friend know , the truck be back up . there be food sit on the border that come from the british taxpayer . it be that that be unacceptable . it be that that I raise again with Foreign Minister Katz and that we will continue to press on . the aid need to get in now . he reassure I this weekend that it will . that be his reassurance . as we head into winter and the Knesset voting today on UNRWA , the urgency of the debate we be have in this House could not be more necessary . do the Foreign , Commonwealth and Development Office share my view that none of this dreadful cycle , which begin on 7 October , would have happen but for Iran ' s determination to derail the prospect of peace and recognition between Saudi Arabia and Israel ? what assessment have the Department make of the possibility that one day the iranian people will be able to free themselves of the terrible regime under which they suffer ? the right hon . Gentleman be right : this story begin on 7 October , and it be important for we to keep it in mind that Hamas be a proxy fund and support by Iran , that Hezbollah be a proxy fund and support by Iran , and that the Houthis , who be currently cause huge disruption in the Red sea , be also fund and support by Iran . we should also keep it in mind that Iran be a regime that perpetrate all sort of atrocity on its own people . it suppress freedom of speech , it suppress woman — the list go on . the right hon . Gentleman be entirely right to place Iran at the centre , as the major threat to the region . on Saturday , the UN ' s under - Secretary - General for Humanitarian Affairs and Emergency Relief Coordinator say : " the entire population of North Gaza be at risk of die . " she also say : " what israeli force be do in besiege North Gaza can not be allow to continue . " do the Foreign Secretary agree , and what representation have he make to the israeli Government to that effect ? I remind the israeli Government that 42 , 000 people have now be kill ; that more than 90 % of the population have be displace , many of they repeatedly since 2023 ; that as we head towards winter we have be unable to ensure effective and safe distribution of aid across Gaza ; that we need to increase the volume of the type of good that be reach Gaza , and we must stop restrict the aid flow ; and that there be a responsibility under international humanitarian law to protect a civilian population , to minimise harm to civilian and civilian infrastructure , and to ensure that aid worker can go about their business free and unfettered . may I return the right hon . gentleman to the specific issue of Iran ? we use to agree with each other on this matter a great deal when he be in opposition , so , if he do not mind , I will probe he a bit far . back in 2023 , the right hon . Gentleman and the opposition rightly call for Iran not just to be sanction but to be rule out legally when it come to any action at all , with all action and involvement with Iran make illegal : proscribe . I support he at that time , and be not supportive of my own government . give all the billion that Iran have spend that could have go towards health , building and quality of life but instead go towards tunnel , missile and violence all over the region , be it not time , in the right hon . Gentleman ' s mind , to follow through and , along with our ally , proscribe Iran completely , and to say that this must never happen again ? the right hon . Gentleman have raise a serious issue . this be why the Home Secretary and I be look far more closely at what it mean to bear down on a state that be cause the activity that he have describe , rather than a terrorist cell that be cause it . most often when we be discuss these issue in the Chamber , we be talk about Hamas , Hezbollah or some terrorist cell , but in this instance we be talk about a state , which mean that more complex issue come to bear , include , of course , our own presence in that state , and for those reason we engage in a more thorough examination . the Foreign Secretary will no doubt agree that third state , such as the UK , be oblige not to assist Israel in its annihilation of the Gazan people . Israel continue to target the cynically name " safe zone " — school and hospital — in its war of extermination . although the UK have suspend 30 of 90 licence for the export of arm to the israeli military , our continued participation in the F - 35 global supply chain mean that devastate 2 , 000 - lb bomb continue to destroy human being . the Foreign Secretary rightly ask what must parent say to their child , and how do they explain this living nightmare . be they not right also to ask where be the international community when they need they and why be all the lever available not use — to ban arm sale , to use the leverage of recognition of Palestine and to impose sanction to concentrate mind ? my hon . friend will understand that we sell relatively few arm to Israel — I think they represent 1 % of the total amount — and that much of what we send be defensive in nature . it be not what we describe routinely as arm , because the licensing regime be about control equipment , which be not always arm . however , we have suspend arm that could be use in Israel in contravention of humanitarian law . I make that decision , and I think it be the right decision . as I have say , we continue to do all we can to support the people of Gaza , and I be deeply sad that I and my predecessor have not be able to bring this crisis and war to an end . it sadden I greatly . my hon . friend evoke my conscience ; I believe that I be do all I can , accord to my conscience . if , as everybody expect , the israeli Government ignore the pleading of the Foreign Secretary and our ally , and proceed with the dismantling of UNRWA , make its job impossible , what will he do next ? will there be any consequence whatsoever for the israeli Government ? when I raise this issue with Foreign Minister Katz yesterday , he be at pain to explain that , although the Knesset could pass its Bill today , that do not mean that it have to be implement . we must hope that the israeli Government do not implement this legislation , because it be not in their interest . it can not be in their interest to prevent the only aid organisation in the region from work , because UNRWA provide not just healthcare but school for young people , and it work not just in Gaza but in the occupy territory . it simply can not be in the israeli Government ' s interest to do that , because they would then have to provide help themselves . I welcome the Foreign Secretary ' s statement today , and I strongly support the Government ' s effort to achieve a ceasefire , secure the release of the remain hostage , and restart the negotiation for a two - state solution . I also welcome the Government ' s decision several week ago to suspend a number of arm export licence to Israel where there be a risk that they would be use to violate international law . will my right hon . friend confirm that the UK be work hard to persuade our ally , particularly the United States , to adopt our position on arm export to Israel , to ensure that no weapon be be export from any country where there be a risk that they could be use to commit war crime in Gaza ? we have one of the most robust export licensing regime in the world . it be our legislation , so it be not the case that I have be proselytise to other country to do what we have do . I do it because I believe that there be a clear risk that international humanitarian law be be breach in relation to our legislation . that be why I make the decision . it must be for other to reflect on their own law and rule . after a weekend of relentless israeli attack on a besiege population in northern Gaza , the United Nations have demand that " such blatant disregard for basic humanity and for the law of war must stop " , add that the " entire population " of northern Gaza be " at risk of die " . unless the Foreign Secretary believe that the UN be lie , exaggerate or embellish the situation in northern Gaza , there can be no basis whatsoever for the UK to continue arm sale to Israel . be the UN lie , exaggerate or embellish the truth of what be go on in northern Gaza right now ? the UN be absolutely not embellish what be , very sadly , go on in Gaza right now , and that be why the United Kingdom have suspend arm sale for use in Gaza . despite all the pleading , the israeli Government ignore request to allow aid into Gaza , ignore request to stop the destruction of Gaza and ignore request to stop settler violence in the west bank ? I congratulate the Foreign Secretary on the sanction against the settler and settler organisation engage in that violence . will he now extend the sanction to member of the israeli Government who have be promote violence in the west bank ? also , do he agree that , if the israeli Government carry out their restriction on UNRWA in a formalise way , member of that government who agree to that should be sanction for it ? otherwise , be we not just issue empty threat and empty word that the Israelis ignore ? my hon . friend will know that I have condemn in no uncertain term , both as shadow Foreign Secretary and as Foreign Secretary , some of the vile language that have be use by extremist element within the israeli Government . I hear the former Foreign Secretary on the radio talk about sanction which could have be implement that he choose not to implement . I can assure my hon . friend that I be keep those sanction under review . it have be a hold belief across all government that a two - state solution be the only way to break the cycle of violence , but of course after Israel withdraw from Gaza , that pretty much lead to what happen on 7 October . can the Foreign Secretary use his office and the UK Government to lead discussion proactively , as a friend to Israel and a key member of the United Nations , on what security can be put in place in a two - state solution , use ally around , to ensure that Israel can have the confidence such a development will not be use as an attack platform to murder so many people once more ? we continue to hold out for that two - state solution , and it be definitely the case that arab partner want to see that two - state solution . among they , at this stage , Saudi Arabia be very important . I know that Israel would like to normalise relation with Saudi Arabia , but I think the hon . Gentleman know that that be unlikely unless there be a road map to two state . we continue to work with all partner to keep two state alive , and of course , on the security concern that Israel would need to be satisfied to bring that about . the current situation in northern Gaza be dreadful . I welcome the lead role the Government have play in provide essential humanitarian relief to Gaza , include through support package for UNRWA , UNICEF , the World Health Organisation and other . follow discussion I have last week with the Under - Secretary of State for Foreign , Commonwealth and Development Affairs , my hon . friend the Member for Lincoln ( Hamish Falconer ) , do the Foreign Secretary agree that israeli restriction on the flow of essential aid be completely unacceptable and should be lift immediately ? yes , 100 % , and I make that point to Foreign Minister Katz yesterday . they be unacceptable and I condemn they . over the past year , israeli occupy force have destroy every facet of palestinian life , target life , home , school , university , hospital , mosque and even church — in fact , enact the exact word of Israel ' s Defence Secretary ' s to " eliminate everything " . will the Foreign Secretary now look beyond his conscience and immediately cease the provision of military support to Israel , suspend all export licence and impose a two - way arm embargo so that no more child die ? I really accept the heartfelt way in which the hon . Gentleman put his question , but we have suspend arm that could be use in Gaza in the way he describe . that be what we have do . I stand by that decision . the situation in northern Gaza be beyond desperate , with many report of action that have every appearance of aim to empty the territory of its entire population . the UN humanitarian chief , Joyce Msuya , have warn that the entire population be at risk of die . the strategy of the israeli Government be intolerable , and have fail on its own term , because the hostage have not be release , as we all want to see . can the Foreign Secretary say what happen next ? what far meaningful action be the Government plan to take to safeguard life in northern Gaza and secure an immediate ceasefire ? my hon . friend evoke the hostage , which allow I to put on record our desire to see the UK hostage , Emily Damari , free . I reassure my hon . friend that last week at the UN Security Council we convene a meeting on humanitarian access . we issue a statement only yesterday with some colleague from the G7 , include Japan , Germany and South Korea , urge Israel to step back on the UNRWA decision . it be important to acknowledge that Israel be often first on the scene when there be a humanitarian crisis internationally , and be generous , even in country that do not recognise it . however , it must do more to ensure that aid get into Gaza . do the Foreign Secretary agree that it be not good enough for a country such as ours simply to be generous , which it be ? it must also ensure that its generosity be not divert into the hand of proxy , particularly Hamas and Hezbollah ? yes , the right hon . Gentleman be right about that . we make every effort to ensure that that be not the case . in this circumstance , for a war that have go on for a year , for the human suffering that be visible in Gaza , for the many child who be out of school and walk around in squalor , it have always be the case that military effort alone would not bring this to an end — only politic can do that . I worry greatly about those young people grow up in the year ahead with vengeance in their heart and , very sadly , a repetition of what we have see . the United Nations act under - Secretary - General for Humanitarian Affairs and Emergency Relief Coordinator have release a statement in which she say : " hospital have be hit and health worker have be detain . shelter have be empty and burn down . first responder have be prevent from save people from under the rubble . " ten of thousand of people have be kill . that be a shocking and terrifying statement . her statement go on to say : " the entire population of North Gaza be at risk of die . " will the Foreign Secretary confirm that the UK will use its role as chair of the UN Security Council in November to push for urgent progress on humanitarian access , the protection of civilian , free the hostage , and bring to an end this terrible conflict ? I wish it be the case that this war would come to an end and that we would have a ceasefire before we chair the UN Security Council next month , but I fear that that may not be the case . I reassure my hon . friend that I will go to New York myself to press the issue as she put they . Yair Golan be an israeli politician who , only last month , attend the Labour party conference and have meeting with mps , include photo opportunity with the Foreign Secretary and the Minister for the middle east , the hon . member for Lincoln ( Hamish Falconer ) . Yair Golan be the same israeli politician who , late last year , say in the israeli press that starve people to death be " completely legitimate . " give that the entire population of northern Gaza be on the brink of die from famine , as repeatedly describe both by member here today and by the under - secretary - general of the United Nations , will the Foreign Secretary sanction Yair Golan , in addition to his already state aim of consider sanction against Bezalel Smotrich for justify the use of starvation against Palestinians as a weapon of war ? the hon . Gentleman make his point effectively , and those issue be be keep under review . give that the Government have suspend only 30 of the 350 arm export licence , include for component critical to offensive F - 35 fighter jet , without which Israel would be unable to conduct its genocidal assault in Gaza and Lebanon , can the Foreign Secretary tell I how this exemption of offensive weaponry be consistent with the United Kingdom ' s international obligation , include under the arm trade treaty ? have the Government engage in discussion with the United States Government , Lockheed Martin and other F - 35 partner country on implement the tracking and tracing of UK - manufacture F - 35 component or spare part that be destine for Israel but license for export to third country ? I stand by our carve - out for F - 35s , because there be other important theatre of conflict around the world that this House have discuss and will continue to discuss at length . I be not prepared to ground plane that be save life in other theatre , which be why we make this decision , and I stand by it . it be the right decision . today , as on other recent occasion , we have hear Labour member suggest that Israel be somehow conduct a war of annihilation , extermination and genocide . although we all accept that there be obviously much suffering in Gaza , this terminology be completely inappropriate and inaccurate , and it be repeat by the protester and lawbreaker who be intimidate british Jews , as we see again this weekend . will the Foreign Secretary take this opportunity to say that there be not a genocide occur in the middle east ? these be legal term , and they must be determine by international court . I agree with the hon . Gentleman that those term be largely use when million of people lose their life in crisis such as Rwanda and the Holocaust of the second world war . the way that people be now use those term undermine their seriousness . I thank my right hon . friend for his statement , which be very welcome . give how we expect the Knesset to vote today to make it very difficult , if not impossible , for UNRWA to operate , with the consequence that humanitarian aid will not get into Gaza , be that not the point at which we have to consider serious sanction against the proponent of such action ? my hon . Friend ask a very serious question . as I say early , Foreign Minister Katz be at pain to tell I that the Knesset enact this decision do not necessarily mean that it will be implement by the israeli Government . yes , the truth be that UNRWA be bring to its knee would be a very serious event indeed . Emily Damari be shoot , abduct and be still in captivity . she be the last british hostage hold in Gaza — she be literally on her own . I be sure the Foreign Secretary will join I in commend Mandy and her family for all their effort to get Emily release . one positive move we could make would be during the visit by the high - level qatari delegation that be due to arrive in a few week ' time . when we have such delegation , normally thing be arrange in advance , so will the Foreign Secretary prevail on qatari official to do all they can to get Hamas to release the last british hostage and all the hostage who be hold in captivity in Gaza ? I be grateful to the hon . gentleman for raise Mandy and Emily Damari , who I keep in the front of my mind in everything I do in this arena to bring about a ceasefire . Mandy be an amazing woman . I be meet with the Qataris again tomorrow , and of course I will raise the issue . I welcome the Foreign Secretary ' s statement to the House . we have be call for a ceasefire for some time , but innocent civilian continue to die and to be maim in Gaza . the situation have get bad , not well . do the Foreign Secretary agree with I that now be the time for we to do more and go far ? we continue to do more . the good way to do that be by work with our major ally . that be why we put out a statement just yesterday with our ally on the humanitarian situation , and on UNRWA particularly . when we chair the UN Security Council next month , I will continue to do as much as I can . naturally , the Foreign Secretary say that we need to prevent escalation in the conflict between Israel and Iran but , as he say , that conflict be be drive by Iran , use a network of proxy in the arab world . I have a genuine question for the Foreign Secretary : do he understand why Israel be increasingly think that it need to go after the head of the octopus , rather than defend itself against the tentacle , or do he think that Israel should never take step to deter Iran directly ? I say , with all seriousness , that I be pleased to have urge restraint on Israel in the last few week , and to have see its measured response to Iran . on the scale of attack it could have make on Iran , it rightly stick to stockpile and military site , and do not progress to oil , gas and nuclear site , which I believe would have be escalatory in nature . More than 400 , 000 people , over half of whom be woman and child , be estimate by the UN to have be displace from Lebanon into Syria since September , the majority of those have initially be displace by the syrian civil war . in 2013 , I witness the dignified resilience of civilian flee the syrian conflict in the Domiz refugee camp in the Kurdistan region of Iraq , and I recall that they be assist by aid from the British Government and british NGOs . will my right hon . friend confirm that the UK be provide additional support to woman and girl flee the conflict in Lebanon , who be , as ever , pay the price of war ? I can confirm that we be support those flee Lebanon into Syria at this time , and we recognise the fragile position that Syria be in , let alone what be now happen in Lebanon . my hon . friend can definitely have that reassurance . early , the hon . member for Argyll , Bute and South Lochaber ( Brendan o ' Hara ) quote Joyce Msuya , the humanitarian chief of the UN , who say : " the entire population of North Gaza be at risk of die . " this be on top of the 1 , 000 who die last week , on top of all those live in the most desperate situation in southern Gaza , and on top of the occupation of southern Lebanon , the bombing of southern Beirut , and now the danger of a hot war between Iran and Israel . be it not time that , instead of express concern about the humanitarian catastrophe in the region , we stop supply Israel with the weapon that cause the humanitarian catastrophe in the first place , and suspend arm supply in total to Israel in order to bring about a ceasefire and a cessation of this , frankly , murder of an innocent civilian population ? I know the strength of feeling that my neighbour in north London have on these issue , and his long - stand campaigning on they . I assure he that we be not just wring our hand . the work of UK - Med in hospital be hugely important , and I be very pleased to make further fund available to UK - Med upon come into office . the work of the Disasters Emergency Committee in raise further fund , and the way in which the Government have match - fund that to the tune of £ 10 million , be hugely important . it be great to be in Jordan a few week ago , discuss with King Abdullah his airlift into Jordan and the planning that he be get from UK armed force in organise those airlift , and the air bridge that he have be keen to take forward . these be action — real thing that we be do , not just wringing of hand . when the right hon . Member describe the situation in Gaza , he largely describe much that I say in my statement . as I have say before , and will say again , we have suspend arm that could be use in contravention of international humanitarian law , where there be a clear risk accord to our export licensing regime . he should be reassure that we have do that . word be simply not enough to describe the devastation of Gaza , and the word of my right hon . friend be not enough to open the border to allow humanitarian aid to flow , or enough to stop the israeli Government act with impunity across Gaza . we think particularly of the north at this time , and the struggle that we hear about there . what be he do to expedite the work of the International Criminal Court and the International Court of Justice , and ensure that they have all the resource need to speed up their work to call these criminal , who be exercise such devastation over Gaza , to account ? I reassure my hon . friend that I meet with the chief prosecutor a few week ago . we continue to support the ICC . as she know , we have be very clear on our support for the rule of law , and international humanitarian law particularly . both the ICC and the ICJ should be able to go about their work unfettere by political intervention . I thank the Foreign Secretary for his statement , and his tone , which should be admire . he rightly state the precarious situation that the middle east teeter upon . while Iran have seemingly dial back the rhetoric for now , how will he encourage the Iranians and , importantly , the irgc to dial back on their action , not simply against Israel but against their own people , who be on their knee , subject to brutal human right abuse and persecution ? in the face of this horrific regime , how can we help ordinary Iranians , and Israelis , to live a life free from war ? I have emphasise my conversation with the israeli Foreign Minister yesterday , but I should also emphasise my conversation with the iranian Foreign Minister yesterday . I talk to he about restraint , and our concern in relation to the support for proxy , and I raise the nuclear question , and the snapback clause that come into play next year if we be not able to progress , with E3 partner , our further conversation with Iran . as the Foreign Secretary know , this be a critical time for the middle east . I think the House speak as one with a message of end the violence , release the hostage and get aid in . the humanitarian crisis face the palestinian people will only be make bad if the israeli Government carry out their threat to effectively shut down UNRWA . although I welcome the Government ' s utter condemnation and rejection of those plan , what reassurance can he give my constituent and the House that the Government will not only talk tough in the region but take action to protect life if the israeli Government persist with those plan ? my hon . friend be right to raise UNRWA . that be why the Government restore funding to UNRWA , it be why we give it a furth £ 21 million , and it be why £ 1 million of that funding be use to help it to implement Madame Colonna ' s reform . it would be a catastrophe to see the end of UNRWA — and it would be wholly counterproductive for Israel , by the way . the situation in the occupy territory be fragile as it be . to take away UNRWA would be catastrophic . for all those reason , I have urge the israeli Government to step back and not implement what have pass through the Knesset . a year ago , despite the undoubted challenge , there be early sign of improve relation between Israel , the Gulf state and other that be press Israel to move towards the two - state solution that we in this House would all like to see . the iranian regime , however , through its own action and those of its proxy , have succeed in engulf the region in chaos and conflict , cause many of the disaster we have hear about this afternoon . what be be do , in partnership with our Gulf state ally , to counter that activity and bring stability and the prospect of regional peace back to the area ? I be in Jordan a few week ago speak with King Abdullah and my jordanian counterpart about their air bridge proposal and the planning we have help they with to ensure they can at least drop aid into Gaza . on the effort to bring about a hostage and ceasefire deal , I have be speak to the Qataris and the Egyptians , particularly give their relation with — or route into — Hamas . we continue to speak to the Saudis and other in the region to try to bring about that peace . I have no doubt that arab partner want to play a role in that peace , but they will be able to do so only if there be a proper path towards a two - state solution . my right hon . friend will be aware of the grow concern , include among organisation such as Medical aid for Palestinians and Action for Humanity , that Israel may attempt to illegally annex northern Gaza . have the UK Government raise those concern with the israeli Government , and what action will the UK Government take should those concern become reality ? I have raise those concern . such action would be illegal and wrong , and the UK Government would view it with the seriousness that it deserve . I have be contact by constituent who be increasingly distressed about the scene in Gaza , and there be grow concern about the rapidly deteriorating and utterly appalling situation in the north of Gaza . I urge the Foreign Secretary to ensure that the Government be use every measure available , include work with our international partner , to get a resolution to the situation and prioritise get humanitarian aid and medical relief into Gaza , particularly the north ? I thank my hon . friend for raise the work of our international partner , which be so important . that be why a few week ago , I join the canadian Foreign Minister , M é lanie Joly , in speak to the Israelis , and it be also why I go to Israel with my french colleague to speak to the Israelis . time and again , work in a co - ordinate way with ally produce a great effect . Iran ' s monstrous state sponsorship of Hamas , Hezbollah and the Houthis be a fundamental driver of the conflict we see in Gaza , Lebanon and the Red sea respectively . can my right hon . friend confirm what step the Government be take to undermine Iran ' s financial , military and logistical support for those terrorist proxy ? I can assure my hon . friend that since come into office , we have introduce three batch of sanction against Iran . over 450 national be now under UK sanction . I thank the Foreign Secretary for his statement . the humanitarian situation in Gaza be catastrophic , so can he please update the House on the work that the Government be do to provide more aid and to ensure that it get to those who need it ? my hon . friend be right : the humanitarian situation be dire . that be why I be at pain to emphasise what we be do . it be important that we lead the way on get the pause so that child could be vaccinate against polio . I be very distressed to see that pause break just a few day ago , and we be urge for it to be resume once more so that those child can get their second vaccination dose . that be why the work of UK - Med be very important ; it be why the current DEC appeal be also very important ; and it be why we will continue to support people who be sick and injure to be evacuate from the area . the suffering of the people of Palestine and northern Gaza be truly horrific . every day , child be not just be bomb : they be be starve . that be not the kind of treatment we would expect for our child , let alone any other country ' s child , so do the Foreign Secretary agree that it be time Israel cease use food , hunger and siege as weapon of war — all contrary to international law — and for it to be give that message loud and clear by this House ? my hon . friend be absolutely right . he will recall that when I suspend sale of arm that could be use in Gaza , the criterion under our regime be a clear risk that there could be a breach of international humanitarian law . when I be look at the assessment , I keep come back to humanitarian access as the clear risk , so my hon . friend be right : we have tremendous concern about the inability to get aid in , the restriction that Israel be put in place , and the man - make starvation that be now come about as a result . that bring that statement to an end . we will take a few moment while the Front Benchers swap over . I remind member that if they wish to contribute during a statement or urgent question , they need to be in the Chamber for the opening statement . fiscal Rules with your permission , Madam Deputy Speaker , I would like to make a statement to the House about the action the Chancellor will take this week to fix the foundation and rebuild Britain . economic growth and modern public service can only be build on strong foundation . that be why this Government have bring political and economic stability back to Britain . after year of chaos from the conservative party — chaos that cost family , business and public service dear — the british people be now rightly look to this new Labour Government to clear up the mess from the last government , fix the foundation and rebuild Britain . that be the change that my party promise the country , and it be the change that we will deliver . to deliver that change , the fiscal rule that the Chancellor will set out this week will establish the basis for stable fiscal policy , mean careful management of day - to - day spending and responsible long - term plan to invest and grow the economy . as we commit to in our manifesto , the Government will have two robust fiscal rule that will guide the decision we take . the first be our stability rule : we will pay for all day - to - day spending on public service from receipt . the current budget be last in surplus under the last Labour Government , and this Labour Government will return the public finance to that position . [ Official Report , 13 May 2025 ; Vol . 767 , c . 4wc . ] ( Correction ) the second be our investment rule , which will get debt fall as a proportion of our economy . it will ensure that we can secure the investment that our economy need to grow , and to generate job and opportunity for people across the United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland , while maintain a strong fiscal anchor and ensure that our debt burden fall over time . the plan that we inherit from the last Government would have see public sector investment decline to the low level in more than 10 year . the path of decline investment be the path of a decline nation , and we refuse to follow it . instead , we will seize the huge opportunity of the future to support the enterprise and talent that this country create . the Government recognise that sustain public investment be a crucial driver of long - term economic growth , give the private sector the confidence to invest too , but our ambition for public sector investment must be balance against the need to maintain debt on a sustainable trajectory and ensure that we invest every pound of taxpayer ' money responsibly . that be why I will deliver a 10 - year national infrastructure strategy next spring , work with colleague across Government , the nation and region , and with our mayor and the private sector , to set out a robust long - term strategy for sound investment . that be also why our new approach to overlap multi - year spending review will improve the way that we allocate and spend capital , and why the Chancellor of the Duchy of Lancaster and I will lead the new national infrastructure and service transformation authority , which will drive well delivery of major project and infrastructure across the country . in addition , there will be the work of the new office for value for money and the National Audit Office . those robust guardrail will ensure that our capital spending be value for money , and that our financial investment deliver a positive return for the Exchequer . finally , the Chancellor have be listen to the view of institution such as the International Monetary Fund , and to expert economist . as she have set out , that be why the Treasury have be review the right measure of debt to target in the fiscal rule ahead of the upcoming Budget . the detail of that policy will be announce to the House in the Chancellor ' s statement on Wednesday , alongside an economic and fiscal forecast produce by the independent Office for Budget Responsibility . in the usual way , the fiscal rule will be publish in a draft charter for budget responsibility , on which member will vote in due course . I commend this statement to the House . I call the shadow Exchequer Secretary to the Treasury . I wonder whether the Chancellor ' s announcement of change to the fiscal rule would survive the weekend , give the five fictitious freeport that come and go . it be a cautionary tale about the uncertainty and confusion that can be create when policy be not announce in the proper way in Parliament . I welcome the delay statement by the Chief Secretary to the Treasury , and I be grateful for advance sight of it . make a £ 50 - billion announcement at an overseas conference , and not at a fiscal event in this House , have understandably and notably move market , create further uncertainty for an already nervous business community . although the Chancellor announce change last week , she do not provide any detail about what that change would be — a common approach by Labour that be now come back to bite they as the reality of government set in . the Prime Minister have admit as much in recent day , speak of the need to " embrace … fiscal reality " by adopt measure that be never list in Labour ' s manifesto . in fact , the Chancellor explicitly say before the election that she would not change the fiscal rule because that would be " to fiddle the figure " . by go ahead with this late u - turn and broken promise , she have compromise trust and credibility ahead of her first Budget . that join the long list of promise already break by the Labour Government in such a short time : the promise to cut energy bill by £ 300 — break ; the promise that their manifesto be fully cost — broken ; the promise to be on the side of pensioner — so obviously break ; and we know that their promise not to raise taxis on work people be about to be break , too . try as they might to sell a different story , just like Government bond right now , people ain ' t buy it . we be leave in the ludicrous position in which the UK — the sixth - large economy in the world — do not have an operative definition of public debt . quite understandably , market have respond to this late uncertainty by apply a premium to UK sovereign debt at a time when they have be discount the sovereign debt of our international peer . the market be also perplex as to why these change be announce without an accompany OBR report . in the word of the Chancellor , " never have a government borrow so much and explain so little . " — [ Official Report , 23 September 2022 ; Vol . 719 , c . 941 . ] the Government may think that this will all go unnoticed , and that most people do not know enough about the fiscal rule to know what be really go on here , but let I be very clear : the people will know about this . they will know it and feel it when interest rate stay high for long . treasury advice to we be consistently clear : interest rate would stay high if the rule be change . what advice do Treasury official give the Chief Secretary to the Treasury about the impact on interest rate ? do he agree with Paul Johnson of the Institute for Fiscal Studies , who say that the change will mean " more debt , more debt interest " , and that it be " no free lunch " ? of course , we all want to see investment in our public service and infrastructure . we oversee the large ever increase in funding for the NHS , we increase defence spending to the high level since the cold war , and we attract the second - great foreign direct investment in the world , but we seek that investment with a view to boost productivity by invest in technology — that approach have now be scrap by Labour — and spread opportunity around this country through freeport and investment zone . this Labour Government be quick to spend but unwilling to explain . finally , on behalf of the british people , and the market , which be watch this statement so very nervously , I ask the Chief Secretary to the Treasury : what definition of public debt be the UK offering to lender today , and how much do the Government plan to borrow under an expand definition ? he will say that we have to wait for the Budget , but the Chancellor do not wait last week , so why should we ? I be very fond of the hon . Gentleman , but he have some brass neck to stand up in this House and tell this Government how to behave after his party ' s maladministration over the last 14 year . may I politely point out that he might be get slightly ahead of himself ? the Chancellor have not set out the detail of the fiscal rule in advance of the Budget ; she will do it in this House , in the Budget on Wednesday , and I encourage he to wait for that information . he paint a picture of the country perform so well under his party ' s leadership , but he may want to reflect on why he lose the last election so badly . as Chair of the Treasury Committee , which have responsibility for scrutinise the Budget , I find the timing of this statement a bit frustrating , as we will have question that presumably can not be answer until Wednesday . will the Chief Secretary explain how the guardrail will work ? there be the national infrastructure and service transformation authority , the office for value for money and the National Audit Office . what role will each play in reassure the market , so that an autumn " sniffle " — that be PSNFL , or public sector net financial liability — do not become a winter cold ? I know that the Chancellor look forward to give evidence to the Treasury Committee follow the Budget in the normal way . to answer the question , the national infrastructure strategy will , for the first time , bring together all the infrastructure and major project ask of Whitehall Departments into one place alongside the economic infrastructure assessment . this will inform the multi - year spending review , which will now overlap , so that when an election come up , we do not again end up with a Government make no spending plan whatsoever , or announce a load of project when there be no money to pay for they . we be confident that this well approach to allocate capital will mean that investment under this Government will improve the productivity of our public service and the growth of our economy , and mean a well return for british taxpayer across the country . I call the liberal Democrat spokesperson . under the Conservatives , the fiscal rule change five time in seven year , so a change to fiscal rule be not that unusual in and of itself . however , do the Minister agree that what would be completely unforgivable be a repeat of the Conservatives ' disastrous mini - Budget , in which they try to pursue £ 40 billion of unfunded tax cut , and which leave a long shadow on our public finance ? will he assure we that any additional borrowing that the Government seek will only be for productive investment that will generate growth and fix our crumble hospital and school ? I thank the hon . Lady for her question and share she continue anger about the behaviour of the last Conservative Government , because as she and the whole House will know , our constituent be still pay the price of that Government ' s chaos and failure . that be why the first Act of this Labour Government — the first Act that I take through this House — be the Budget Responsibility Act 2024 , which lock in the power of the Office for Budget Responsibility to hold this government and future government to account . if we ever again end up in a position where Conservative Ministers decide to ignore independent check and balance , the OBR would be able to report its view to this House independently , so that Parliament could hold that future Government to account . I end by point to our first fiscal rule , which be that we will pay for day - to - day spending with receipt . again , that mean that we will not end up in the situation that we be in under the last government , when month after month , borrow just pay the bill for which they do not put money aside . fiscal rule be a tool for responsibility , and we should all welcome rule that help we to act responsibly and invest responsibly . the rule and the accounting definition that underlie they be not matter of faith , preordain by the Almighty and pass to we on stone tablet ; they be there to help we make responsible decision . do my right hon . friend agree with I , and with the former chief economist of the Bank of England , the OECD , the International Monetary Fund and George Osborne ' s former Treasury Minister , that we should welcome change to the fiscal rule that promote investment ? I will avoid the suggestion that we might go back to put thing on stone tablet if I may , but I will accept the invitation in my hon . friend ' s question , and say that after 14 year , we have see the failure of the approach take by the last Government . I note in my statement that public sector investment would now have be at its low in 10 year , under the plan of the now opposition . that have be a failure for the economy and for the british people , and this Government will rectify it . before the election , the Chancellor say that she would not change the measure of debt in order to borrow more , but now she be talk about do exactly that . before the election , she say that she would not increase national insurance , but now she be talk about do exactly that . before the election , Labour steer people away from the idea that the Government would cut the winter fuel payment , but they have already do exactly that . they say , before the election , that they would not increase taxis on work people , but now they be plan to do exactly that . do the Minister understand why so many of my constituent feel that they be mislead ? the hon . member ' s constituent will note at the Budget on Wednesday that this party honour its promise — the promise , set out in its manifesto , to protect work people . he might want to reflect on the way that his party fail his constituent at the last election before try to lecture this Government . I welcome measure that allow for more long - term investment to improve our economic performance and public service , but I would like my right hon . friend to address two issue . be housing one of the area where more investment might be allow , to help we achieve our target of 1 . 5 million more home in this Parliament ? secondly , will he ensure that where there be public investment , we try to make that investment produce order for UK company , rather than many of the order go abroad ? that be the way to create real growth in our economy . we make a commitment to deliver 1 . 5 million home , and we will do just that . on the second part of the question , the whole purpose of the national infrastructure strategy and the overlapping multi - year spending review be to give investor and supplier confidence that when the Government say something will be deliver , it will , so they can invest and plan on that basis , to help improve the british economy . frankly , they be start from a position of complete dismay because of the fail promise of the last government ; we will rectify that . if we could stick with the here and now , what the Chancellor announce cause the bond market to move almost immediately by almost 0 . 5 % . that mean that interest rate will stay high for long . will the right hon . Gentleman confirm that that will cause hardship to today ' s mortgage payer and tomorrow ' s generation of taxpayer , because they will have to repay this extra debt ? what I can confirm be that what affect interest rate and mortgage payment so severely be the chaotic behaviour of the hon . Gentleman ' s party in government before the last election . that be why we have have to legislate to make sure that if they ever return to Government , they could not behave in similar way . we be take a responsible approach to public spending , as I have set out today , and we will never return to the activity of his party in government . there appear to be some confusion among those on the Opposition Benches when talk about their track record and about the record they have break on the relationship between the nominal and the real . on the point about be realistic , do the Minister agree that in our reform of the fiscal rule , we must , unlike the last government , provide that realism and stability and ensure that wild unfunded commitment , such as the abolition of national insurance , do not occur ? my hon . friend point rightly to the £ 22 billion black hole that we be have to clear up after the Tory party . in the Budget on Wednesday , the Chancellor will set out how we be reset public finance and fix the foundation , so that we can get on and deliver our manifesto . in outline term , we welcome what the Government be seek to do . it be important to raise the ability to generate capital infrastructure investment . Scotland invest 42 % more than the UK average , and the UK average be 50 % low than the OECD average . that issue be a priority , but the Government ' s move will fall on stony ground if on Wednesday the Chancellor continue with her priority to not lift people out of poverty and to go by exception after small business that take an income from that business by raise the cost of employment . with the four signal capital investment project all be in England , I be move to ask : what ' s in this for Scotland ? I be delighted to hear the hon . Gentleman tell the House that he welcome the positive change that this Labour Government in Westminster be deliver to the scottish people . I agree with he . on early announcement , I can point to GB Energy and the huge commitment we have make on energy infrastructure , which we know will be important to the scottish people . we absolutely recognise that the scottish economy have a huge contribution to make to the whole economy of Great Britain and Northern Ireland , and we look forward to work with the scottish people to make that a reality . I commend my right hon . friend on his work on stability and investment . would he like to say a little more about the challenge inheritance he have receive from the previous Government , and just how dreadful that have actually be ? I welcome my hon . friend ' s question . [ interruption . ] I know that Opposition member find it uncomfortable , but it be a matter of fact that we will return to time and time again , because the sheer truth of it be that the last Government make promise after promise to the british people , know that they do not have the money to pay the bill . it be shameful , and the soon they come to the House and apologise for their behaviour , the well it might be for they in the long run . if the Minister be so confident in his fiscal rule , will he take this opportunity to commit to the House that the 10 - year gilt yield in this Parliament will not exceed the maximum it be over the past 10 year ? the hon . Gentleman be try to be clever , but he be invite I to speculate on the Budget . he will have to wait until Wednesday . do the Minister agree that sustainable growth can not come from short - termism and that the fall in public sector investment plan under the last Government would have exacerbate , rather than ameliorate , the economic chaos they get we into ? my hon . friend be right . we have a choice at this Budget either to continue with the fail policy of the previous Government or to change they . the british people will not be surprised that our decision be to change they , reflect on the fact that the cut in investment under the previous Government have lead to poor productivity in public service and a lack of growth in the economy . that serve nobody . this statement speak of give the private sector the confidence to invest . can the Minister explain to the small business in my constituency how it will give they confidence if the first act of this Government be to soak they with further national insurance increase ? will that not dent confidence , rather than increase it , along with sustained high interest rate ? when he speak about multi - year spending review , do that mean that he now expect the devolved government to produce multi - year budget , which be something that the Stormont Government have be reluctant to do ? I obviously can not speculate on the Budget , so I invite the hon . Gentleman to come back to the House on Wednesday for the answer to the first part of his question . on the second part , he might know that I lead for the Government on our relationship with the devolved government . I have meet Finance Ministers from Scotland , Wales and Northern Ireland , most recently in Belfast , where we have a productive meeting . they be all very clear that the reset in the relationship between they and the Westminster Government be positive , give the fail relationship of the past . we make some progress in that meeting , and we will make further such progress in the Budget . be it not clear that the rule economic orthodoxy have let this country down over many year ? how else can we explain the fact that in 24 of the last 30 year , the UK spend less on investment than any other G7 country ? in particular , in post - industrial area like mine , the investment simply do not come . I encourage the Minister to break with the prevail orthodoxy and ensure that we achieve the appropriate investment level and direct that investment particularly to the north , the midland and elsewhere . my hon . friend have invite I to answer the question , " why wasn ' t there investment over the last decade or so ? " quite frankly , it be because of the choice of the conservative party . this Labour party in government be take a different set of decision and we will set out the detail on Wednesday . first , I declare my interest as a governor of the Royal Berkshire hospital , and I have a family member who be a shareholder in a health company . as Lord Darzi say , the Conservatives have fail to provide proper capital funding for our NHS . I thank the Secretary of State for Health and Social Care and the Minister for Secondary Care for their engagement with I and other mp on the review of the new hospital programme . will the Chief Secretary to the Treasury guarantee that the change to the fiscal rule will mean that my constituent can see new and immediate funding for the Royal Berkshire hospital ? the hon . Member ask I so politely , but he will know that I can not guarantee anything in advance of the Budget . however , it sound as though he have already experience the positive way in which this government be approach how we will repair the NHS and get it back on its foot , both by get junior doctor off the strike line and back into ward and by invest in hospital for the future . I know that he will look forward to the announcement in the Budget on Wednesday . before I become an MP , I lead service for very vulnerable people and , unfortunately , come into close contact with gaslighting . as a new MP , I be afraid that my contact with gaslighting be not diminish , and I slightly despair at what I be see from Opposition Members . while I be out canvass over the weekend and talk with resident on Ken Road in Southbourne , I meet a constituent who say , " we know it wasn ' t go to be pretty and you be go to inherit a mess , and we know that it would be a long haul to get thing right . but we be sick and tired of politician who weren ' t take the big decision and invest in the long term . " do my right hon . friend agree that we should listen to more of our constituent , like the person I just mention , who happen to vote labour on 4 July for the first time in her life ? I thank my hon . friend , and I thank his constituent for put her trust in this Labour Government . as the Prime Minister say today , this Government will " run towards " the problem , as oppose to run away from they , as the Conservative party do . that will mean difficult decision at the Budget on Wednesday to deal with the mess that we inherit , to reset public finance and to be able to start to deliver our manifesto . but this Government will take those decision and we will announce the detail on Wednesday . I thank the Minister for his statement . I want to ask what the legacy of this will be . will he far outline how the change to the fiscal rule to allow for more efficient borrowing will not simply pass more debt on to , for example , my six lovely grandchild and everybody else ' s grandchild , who already face a scale - back welfare system and increase cost of live before they even earn their first pay cheque ? how will the Minister ' s so - call guardrail not simply be barrier to future generation own their own home and make end meet ? I be think of the one who come after . I thank the hon . member for his question . he and his constituent will know , as much as mine do , that the problem for this country before the election be that the last Government have to borrow each month to pay for bill that they do not have the money to pay for , and that they make a whole list of promise across the country that they know they could not pay for . that be why we have the £ 22 billion black hole , and why our first fiscal rule be that day - to - day spending will be pay for from tax receipt by the Exchequer . we will put the public budget back into surplus so that we be not in a doom loop of borrowing and borrow just to keep ahead of ourselves each month . where the Government do borrow , we will do so for productive investment to modernise our public service and to get growth back into our economy . new research publish this month by the Institute for Fiscal Studies show that reverse the two - child benefit cap would lift 540 , 000 child above the absolute poverty line . there be no fiscal rule , only fiscal choice . while taskforce meet , more and more child in Coventry South and across the country be consign to avoidable poverty . will the Government acknowledge that , prioritise end child poverty and finally scrap the pernicious two - child benefit cap ? I share my hon . friend ' s commitment to want to tackle child poverty in this country — this party have a proud record on that when we be in government previously . that be why we have set up the child poverty taskforce , which report last week , and our ambition be to reduce child poverty over the course of this Parliament . we will set out further measure in the Budget on Wednesday on how we intend to deliver that . I thank the Minister for his statement . resident and business in my constituency absolutely share our ambition to get the country back on track , and acknowledge that the mission - lead focus of the Government and the fiscal rule be at the core of that . they contrast that with 14 year of drift under the Conservatives , punctuate only by 49 day of utter chaos . however , resident and business in my area want to be reassure that they can be confident about our level of ambition , so will the Minister update we on how investor be respond to our focus and the maturity that we bring to the debate around the economy ? I point my hon . friend to our very successful international investment summit only a couple of week ago , when it be very clear from investor that bring stability back to our politic and our economy have be long want . that be why we be able to commit to £ 63 billion of investment in the country at the summit , follow by another £ 10 billion of investment announce only a few day after . we intend to raise much more to invest in this country and to bring growth back to the economy . constituent in Milton Keynes vote for change because they see the consequence of the conservative economic policy . they be suffer from the cost of live crisis and have see this in their crumble school , the lack of GP appointment and the use of food bank just to make end meet . will the Chief Secretary reassure I and my constituent that we will end the conservative use of payday loan just to keep the light on and instead invest in new school , new hospital and new infrastructure , alongside make work pay , so that my constituent see their life improve ? with my hon . friend ' s reference to payday loan , she point to the behaviour of the previous Government . as I have tell the House this afternoon , this Government , with their first fiscal rule , will take we to a place where we be not borrow to pay the bill each month , as have happen for year under the Conservatives . anyone manage their family finance at home know that that be the right thing to do , and they will welcome the fact that this Government be bring that sense of discipline back to the national economy , too . will my right hon . friend confirm that as part of their fiscal strategy and within the fiscal rule , the Government will utilise the national wealth fund to lever in private investment , along with public investment from the taxpayer , for key area of growth in our economy , include , for example , renewable infrastructure , which be of such importance in Scotland ? my hon . friend know that the test of a good Government be whether they can secure private sector investment to come alongside they — something that decline under the last government . that be why the national wealth fund , which the Chancellor have announce , will secure billion of pound of private sector investment , alongside public sector investment , in the industry of the future . do the Minister agree that the previous Government ' s failure to invest not only damage economic growth , but lead to damage to our public service , with a broken nhs , special educational need in crisis and local government on the brink ? my hon . friend will know , from speak to his constituent during his campaign to be elect and since , that people ' s experience of public service across the country show the fact of the matter : after 14 year of failure from the Conservatives , our public service be on their knee . that be why they need a Government who will bring stability back to our economy , invest in public service and improve outcome for people who rely on they and work in they . follow the disastrous mini - Budget , the Bank of England be force to undertake emergency liquidity operation to reduce volatility in market . do my right hon . friend agree that the investment summit ' s record £ 63 billion show that this Government be create stable condition for long - term investment , after year of political chaos from the conservative party ? I thank my hon . friend for his excellent question , and I agree that £ 63 billion invest in this country be a sign of confidence , because investor around the world know that Britain be back after year of chaos . it be good to hear about change to address the big problem with our macroeconomic framework — the bias against new investment spending . may I draw the Chief Secretary ' s attention to the other problem with the system , which act as an incentive for Ministers not to manage well the asset that they already hold ? I refer he to the 2017 sale of £ 3 . 5 billion - worth of student loan for just £ 1 . 7 billion . will he reassure the House that the change that he be make will ensure that we get value for money for the exist financial asset that we hold ? I can give my hon . friend that reassurance , and I point to the Office for Value for Money , which will work for we to ensure that we improve on behaviour of the past . I also point more broadly to the way that we manage our current asset . People have only to look at the state of our prison , hospital and school , with reinforce autoclaved aerate concrete and roof fall in , to know that after 14 year of cut to investment , we can not carry on like that . that be why people vote for change at the last election , and why we will deliver it . International Engagement with permission , I will make a statement on the late action that we be take to reconnect Britain to the world , for our security and prosperity . follow official visit that have span the globe , from South Sudan to Indonesia and the UN General Assembly in New York , in a speech at Chatham House last week I set out my vision for modernise international development , underline to our partner at home and around the world that Britain be back , and that we be guide by that same realistic approach to achieve truly progressive end that inspire both Ernest Bevin and Robin Cook , in today ' s very different world . first and foremost , we be commit to work with other in a spirit of genuine partnership and respect . that will include work with other to reform the global multilateral system so that it innovate , work for everyone and be fit for the future . we will also work with other to ensure that the UK ' s formidable expertise and idea be at the heart of reliable development partnership . we will be confident about champion the power of international development so that we make progress wherever we can in everyone ' s good interest , not least the british people . I take that approach to Washington DC last week for the annual meeting of the World Bank , where I announce UK support for the bank ' s umbrella facility for gender equality both at home and internationally , boost woman ' s economic empowerment and economic growth . at the same time , my right hon . friend the Chancellor join the meeting of the International Monetary Fund — the first time that two female governor have represent the UK at the World Bank and the IMF . as I announce that here at home the Government will match up to £ 10 million of public donation to a new Disasters Emergency Committee middle east humanitarian appeal , my right hon . friend the Prime Minister and the Foreign Secretary engage in Samoa with Heads of Government and counterpart from across the Commonwealth . this year ' s Commonwealth Heads of Government Meeting be truly historic , not just because it be the first such meeting since his Majesty the King become head of the Commonwealth , follow her late Majesty the Queen ' s life of service , but because it be the first such meeting to take place on a Pacific island state . the Prime Minister and the Foreign Secretary set out that we see the Commonwealth as a unique platform : an organisation that connect the global north and the global south ; a network that , by 2027 , be expect to include six of the world ' s 10 fast grow economy , with a combined gdp exceed $ 19 trillion ; and a family that bring together 2 . 5 billion people , 60 % of whom be under 30 year old . Samoa ' s theme for this year ' s meeting be " one resilient common future " . that align with the new Government ' s own priority for our engagement with the Commonwealth : boost economic growth , tackle the climate and nature crisis and create opportunity for future generation . in support of those priority , the Prime Minister announce a new UK Trade Centre of Expertise , which will operate out of the Foreign , Commonwealth and Development Office to drive export - lead growth across the Commonwealth . the Foreign Secretary unveil a plan of action to boost investment opportunity across all member , especially small and more vulnerable state that be bear the brunt of the impact of the climate crisis . in support of the plan , the Foreign Secretary commit seed funding for a new Commonwealth investment network to identify opportunity across the Commonwealth that public - private partnership could unlock . in Samoa , he launch two new trade hub to help female entrepreneur access global market , follow my announcement at the World Bank . he announce measure to support Commonwealth partner to create a well environment for growth by support democratic governance , human right and the rule of law . that be really important , because without targeted support , we run the risk of some within the Commonwealth miss out on economic development , at a time when we need everyone to be part of global growth . the Prime Minster and the Foreign Secretary raise the ambition to protect the ocean and sea specie . we have increase technical assistance to small state to help they unlock access to climate finance , and we be proud to agree the first Commonwealth ocean declaration . of the 56 Commonwealth member , 49 have a coastline , and our member be home to around half all global coral reef . we be delighted that the whole Commonwealth come together to back global effort to protect at least 30 % of the planet ' s ocean by 2030 , urge rapid ratification of the agreement on marine biodiversity in area beyond national jurisdiction , and call for an ambitious global plastic pollution treaty that address the full life cycle of plastic — all that as the Foreign Secretary support a beach clean - up with young Samoans , as part of a relay right across the Commonwealth that will pick up a million piece of plastic by the 2026 Commonwealth game in Glasgow . the Prime Minister and the Foreign Secretary confirm that we will continue fund for Commonwealth and Chevening scholar . these young people be part of the next generation of leader from across the global south , who have vital role to play in build the peaceful , prosperous world that people everywhere want to see . we be take our message to the world that , in a time of global volatility , the UK be an outward - look , reliable , respectful partner that be commit to grow our economy , bring opportunity to people across our country and help other country to do similarly . work together in partnership be part and parcel of how we overcome the force that be hell bent on set we against one another . we will make sure that all of we around the globe who care about our share future be able to work towards it together . I commend this statement to the House . I call the shadow Minister . I have have a chance to read the Minister ' s statement while I have be in the Chamber , and I declare an interest as an executive committee member of the Commonwealth Parliamentary Assembly UK . this statement really should have be deliver by the Prime Minister . it be he , along with the Foreign Secretary , who travel to Samoa and can tell we at first hand about the Commonwealth Heads of Government Meeting and the negotiation for its communiqu é . instead , he have choose to ignore Parliament today and deliver another of his gloomy speech talk down our economy . the Commonwealth Heads of Government Meeting be an opportunity to reinvigorate the Commonwealth — a partnership of 56 independent and equal sovereign state with a combined population of 2 . 7 billion . with our king as the new head of the Commonwealth , and a new secretary - general - elect , we have fresh energy to create the thriving , resilient Commonwealth of the future . I thank Samoa for host . the meeting show that a Pacific small island state have equity of membership with all Commonwealth nation . I also thank Baroness Scotland for her indefatigable work for the Commonwealth . with reinvigoration come reflection . as the head of the Commonwealth , his Majesty the King say that the UK must acknowledge the painful aspect of Britain ' s past . at the same time , it must also be accept that the past can not be change . there come a moment to stop look back , never forget history but use the lesson learn to forge a bright future path . I congratulate the new secretary - general elect Shirley Botchwey on her unanimous election . she recently assert that the debate " have move from financial reparation now to justice in term of what do we get for climate ? what do we get in term of the development cooperation framework ? " she be right . let we look at the international work the UK have be do through the international development budget , co - chair the green climate fund , and fund countless Commonwealth programme focus on health , education and private sector engagement . british international investment alone have create employment for hundred of thousand of people in Commonwealth nation . the UK also provide expertise in financial service and pandemic research , as well as Commonwealth and Chevening scholarship . will the Minister confirm that those will continue on the same scale after Wednesday ' s Budget ? turn to the communiqu é , the wording in paragraph 22 imply that the UK ' s openness to reparatory justice in relation to the abhorrent slave trade be not as off - limit as the Prime Minister have previously state . what be the Government ' s actual red line on reparation , give the Foreign Secretary ' s well - know past view on the topic ? or be this another example of say one thing in opposition but another in government ? on paragraph 16 , what be the Government ' s position on UN Security Council reform ? will the Minister rule out give away our permanent seat ? on paragraph 43 , what step be the UK Government take as penholder on Myanmar to bring about the measure outline in the communiqu é ? turn to the International Monetary Fund meeting in Washington , will the Minister confirm that she have delay a £ 707 million disbursement to the World Bank International Development Association budget that benefit numerous Commonwealth country ? to conclude , the Commonwealth Heads of Government meeting focus mainly on the future . in the Commonwealth , that mean move on together . it mean be honest with our partner about our intention , and it mean be clear and consistent with our international partner with that message , from the Prime Minister down . I be very grateful to the hon . Lady for her remark and , above all , for her work with the Commonwealth Parliamentary Association . indeed , I commend all member across the House who be engage with that very important organisation , which bring parliamentarian together . the Prime Minister ' s resolution to support the Commonwealth could not be clear . he be the first sit UK Prime Minister to visit a Pacific island country . that be something we should all celebrate , rather than criticise . that commitment be very clear indeed . I have the absolute privilege of meet the Prime Minister of Samoa when I be in New York for the UN General Assembly . I be very excited then to hear her talk about how the Commonwealth Heads of Government meeting be likely to run . it be a very successful meeting . we commend she and the whole Commonwealth family on it . I know the Prime Minister be very much of the same mind . I associate myself with the hon . Lady ' s remark in thank Baroness Scotland for her leadership , and in commend the wise word of his Majesty , which be always imbue with wisdom . that approach be the one the new UK Government be take . we believe it be important to focus on the future . that be why , as I say a few moment ago , we prioritise focus on economic development , young people ' s employment , woman ' s economic empowerment , which be so often the key to growth , and action on the climate and nature crisis . that be what our Commonwealth friend be say that they want to see in the future . we will stand with they on that , because it be to the mutual benefit of we all . the hon . Lady ask about the Budget . the UK Government ' s position be very clear : we do not want a return to the kind of turbulence that we see over the past 14 year . very sadly , we see in - donor refugee cost in particular rise in a way that be completely uncontrolle , with programme cut in half . that be not the current UK Government ' s approach . we will ensure we have a properly plan approach to international development , because fail to do that be to let down our international partner . the hon . Lady ask about our position on the UN Security Council . we have be very clear that we need to ensure there be well representation of global south partner , but we will always take our leadership responsibility on the UNSC very , very seriously indeed . we have be do that since come into government . the hon . Lady ask about Myanmar and abuse of human right . again , we have be very clear on the need for action to be take . we have communicate that many time . we be very concerned about the position of those who have be impact . the hon . Lady ask specifically about language in the communiqu é that be agree at the conference about reparative justice . just to be crystal clear , I be sure everyone in the House would agree that the slave trade be abhorrent . we condemn it , just as previous Labour government have do . as the Prime Minister make clear in Samoa , it be important that we start from there , but it be also important that we be just as clear that there have be no change in our policy on reparation . the UK do not pay reparation — I really could not say that more emphatically — and I know she be aware that that be the position of the UK Government . finally , the hon . Lady ask about IDA . I will finish on that , Madam Deputy Speaker . the previous Government be not clear about their approach to IDA replenishment . the new Government have be clear . the Prime Minister say at the UN General Assembly that the UK will increase its contribution and we urge other country to do the same . I welcome my right hon . friend ' s statement . she touch on IDA . IDA need a minimum of $ 27 billion from donor country to help country at high risk of debt distress . can she far elaborate on the discussion she have with international counterpart on IDA replenishment , ahead of IDA21 in early December this year ? I be very grateful to my hon . friend for raise this issue . IDA be a critical part of the World Bank ' s architecture . it be the fund that be focus on the very poor country that be most in need of support , but also those which can grow very quickly when they receive that support economically . it be extremely good value : every $ 1 invest in it result in $ 3 to $ 4 for those in the poor country . the UK have be clear , as I mention , that we will increase our contribution . we be urge other to do the same . Denmark and Spain say that they would do just that , which I think be a vote of confidence in IDA . I call the liberal Democrat spokesperson . I thank the Minister for advance sight of her statement . as I set out during the Second reading of the Commonwealth Parliamentary Association and International Committee of the Red Cross ( Status ) Bill last week , the Commonwealth be a vitally important multilateral organisation and we support work to strengthen it . the Minister reference the new Government ' s approach on international development . it be on this particular issue that I hope she will set out further detail . we welcome the reference to the sustainable development goal in her speech at Chatham House last week . regrettably , the labour manifesto do not mention the sdg . will the Minister affirm that the sdg be at the heart of the UK ' s development vision ? on development , it be vital that we honour our international commitment and , to that end , restore the 0 . 7 % of GNI target for international development spending . that cause be champion in particular by those on the liberal Democrat Benches , as it be the Liberal Democrats who enshrine the 0 . 7 % in law . this be the mean to reset Britain ' s place in the world . we be an international development superpower . we have be miss on the world stage , and into the space we have vacate other foreign actor have move in who be often at odd with british interest . the Minister reference the Disasters Emergency Committee ' s middle east appeal . she will be aware that the british public have already raise £ 20 million and that the UK Government will match only up to £ 10 million . that be a direct consequence of the cut to the development budget . the UK Government be no long able to match the generosity of the british people . we now hear report that , at a moment when million of civilian across the world be catch in conflict , UK ODA be to be cut even far , from 0 . 5 % to 0 . 3 % of GNI . such a move would be deeply disappointing and ensure that the UK ' s hand be far tie when it come to respond to humanitarian disaster . will the Minister rule that out ? I suspect that the hon . Lady have many thing to do with her time , and the labour manifesto for the general election may not be her first priority as bedtime read , but let I gently encourage she to look at it , because she would see that it do refer to the sustainable development goal . I certainly agree with she that we have not see the progress that we need to see — I believe we have see about 17 % of the progress that we need to see with the goal to which a target be attach — but the Government be determined to play our part in ensure that we make fast progress . I have discuss the matter with Amina Mohammed , the deputy Secretary - General of the United Nations , on a number of occasion , include last week in Washington . we be determined to work with other to play our part . the hon . Lady ask about the policy of devote 0 . 7 % of GNI to overseas development assistance . as she will see , that too be in the labour manifesto ; it be our policy when fiscal circumstance allow , and rightly so . she say that in the past the UK have be view as an international development superpower , but perhaps it be not today . I have to say that wherever I have be in the world , british people have be engage in ensure that we be play our part as a nation in support other . we need to harness that expertise and provide leadership again , and that be exactly what this new Government have be do . as for the DEC , let I say very briefly that accord to my understanding , none of the last few appeal have be fully match — they have always be peg at a certain level . I think that be commensurate with how previous DEC appeal have work , but it may be worth check that out . I hope that I have cover most of the hon . Lady ' s point , for which I be grateful . next year will mark 20 year since the Gleneagles summit , when g8 leader agree to an ambitious debt cancellation deal under the previous Labour Government . at present , however , the unfair debt burden be hold back many develop country , include some in the Commonwealth . what discussion have the Minister have on this important issue , and what be our plan ? my hon . friend have considerable expertise in this area , as do many member among the new intake , as well as those who be here before . it be important for the UK to exercise leadership on these issue , just as we do under past Labour government . my hon . friend should be aware that we be work very hard to make sure that we do all we can to support country to deal with this issue . member of the Paris Club and the G20 , for instance , be seek to cement and accelerate those effort , because overall the debt level be have a very negative impact on country ' ability to provide health and education service . may I ask the Minister about another of the Foreign Secretary ' s recent visit , to the Republic of Korea ? do she agree that the agreement to strengthen the defence and security dialogue with South Korea be very welcome , as be the condemnation of the support from the democratic People ' s Republic of Korea — both with weapon and , now , with troop — for Russia in its illegal invasion of Ukraine ? do she also agree that now be the time when South Korea should step up its support for Ukraine , and drop its previous reluctance to supply it with weapon ? I be very grateful for that important question , and I be pleased to report that relation between the UK and the Republic of Korea be at their close ever at the moment . the Downing Street accord between the UK and the Republic of Korea elevate our relationship to a global strategic partnership , place the UK as second only to the US in term of the strength of our bilateral partnership . the right hon . Gentleman be right to focus on the need to condemn the DPRK ' s engagement in Ukraine , and indeed the UK Government have take the same approach . I should add that decision about South Korea ' s activity relate to its military be of course for South Korea itself , but we be determined to work closely with it on this and many other issue . I declare an interest , in that before be elect to represent the people of Hemel Hempstead I work for the Fairtrade Foundation . the Minister will be aware , through her own support for fair trade , of the vital role that the foundation play in support smallholder farmer , but of course there be million of smallholder farmer around the world . I should be grateful if she could update the House on the way in which the Government , through the World Bank , be support smallholder farmer and sustainable agriculture . I be grateful to my hon . friend for raise this issue . he be right : it be an issue of which not only UK farmer and agriculture expert in our university but the british public be deeply supportive , and the Government be determined to do what we can to support sustainable agriculture . we see , for example , very little climate finance go into that arena . More of it should be go there , which be why the UK be work with the US and , indeed , announce support for joint initiative last week at the World Bank annual meeting . when one group of people have do something terrible to another group of people , it be understandable that resentment about it can pass down to the next generation and possibly the generation after that , but do the Minister agree that to suggest that that process can continue over two century , and thus require guilt to be expiate in the form of reparation , be to make a nonsense of the concept of individual responsibility ? the Government ' s view be that we have to focus on the future , and that be the approach that we take at the CHOGM meeting . we think it be important to listen carefully to our Commonwealth partner , and we have hear their call for more action to deliver the job that be need , particularly for young people , and for more action on climate and nature , give the crisis in both those area . we will continue to work with our Commonwealth friend on these issue . I welcome the Minister ' s repeat reference to tackle both the climate and the nature crisis . in the context of the Prime Minister ' s recent attendance at CHOGM , we know that many Commonwealth country be among those most expose to climate change , and that that have a particular impact on small island state such as Samoa . will the Minister outline in more detail the work that the Government be do to put climate at the heart of our foreign and development policy ? I be grateful to my hon . friend for raise such an important issue . there be indeed many small island develop state among the Commonwealth state , and for they the climate crisis be an existential issue . we have see severe impact on a number of small island develop state , with extreme weather and erosion have a huge effect on people ' s security and their livelihood . under the new Government , the UK be determined to exercise leadership on this issue , and that have include a range of measure . I will not go through they now , but one critical element be ensure that there be support for adaptation as well as for mitigation . these small state really need to be help to adapt to the new weather system that we be see , and the UK Government be do all that they can to ensure that that happen . can the Minister comment far on paragraph 22 of the Commonwealth Heads of Government statement to which the Prime Minister put his name ? it state that the Heads of Government , " note call for discussion on reparatory justice … agree that the time have come for a meaningful , truthful and respectful conversation towards forge a common future base on equity . " " base on equity " be the language normally use by those seek compensation . can the Minister explain what it mean in plain English ? do it mean part with taxpayer ' money , and if not , what do this statement mean ? I do state early , but will restate for the hon . member ' s benefit , that we have be very clear about the fact that UK do not pay reparation . he refer to a specific element in the communiqu é about reparatory justice . it do two thing : as he mention , it note call for discussion , and it agree that this be the time for conversation . as the Prime Minister have make clear — in Samoa , for instance — none of the UK Government ' s discussion have be about money . our position , as I have say , be very clear : we do not pay reparation . I really do not know how many time I have to say that . I very much welcome my right hon . friend ' s statement this afternoon . do she agree that the good path to global growth and prosperity be one that include woman and girl ? will she set out how the Government and the World Bank intend to achieve that ? I be grateful to my hon . friend for raise that important subject . globally , an enormous amount of growth could be unlock by increase woman ' s economic opportunity . the World Bank have estimate that about 20 % could be add to global GDP if woman be able to work more and their pay be more reflective of man ' s pay . the UK Government have be work closely on this issue with many partner , include the World Bank . we be very pleased to be see progress , particularly around support woman entrepreneur and ensure that woman ' s economic empowerment be view as the ticket to progress and prosperity that it so often can be . I thank the Minister for advance sight of her statement . I want to raise a couple of point . first , it be only a few year ago that the Foreign Secretary say : " we don ' t just want an apology , we want reparation and compensation . " last week , however , the Prime Minister could not even bring himself to make a formal apology , so I hope the Minister can bring herself to do so today . secondly , the Minister say that " at home and around the world … Britain be back " . there be two reason for that : first , there be a reduction in ODA spend to 0 . 5 % of GNI ; and , secondly , there be the merger of the Department for International Development , which be in East Kilbride in Scotland . will there be a return to a separate Department , and how soon do she predict that we will return to spending 0 . 7 % of GNI ? the hon . Gentleman ask a number of question , and I will try to cover they as quickly as I can . the new Government be very clear that the slave trade be abhorrent . we condemn it , just as previous Labour Governments do . it be important that we start from there , but it be also important that we be just as clear that there have be no change in our policy on reparation . the UK do not pay reparation — we have be very clear about that . the hon . Gentleman talk about other country ' confidence in the UK ' s leadership on international development . we have to renew that confidence , which be about ensure that we make a number of change , as I set out at Chatham House the week before last . that include ensure that we work even more closely with brit who be lead development in different country around the world , but also that we have genuine partnership with other country . I can not end my response to the hon . gentleman without thank the terrific staff in East Kilbride , who do a wonderful job on international development and on foreign policy more broadly . I take my hat off to they . as a new Minister , I have be very impressed by all those work on these issue for the UK Government . the pandemic , rise interest rate , and rise wheat and energy price after Putin ' s invasion of Ukraine have lead to a debt crisis in low - income nation . some 32 african nation spend more on service their debt than they do on healthcare . I use to work in one of the world ' s poor nation , Somaliland . I have see what grind poverty can do . the horror of climate change be lead to drought , hunger and death . will the Minister consider repeat one of the proud action of the last Labour Government by act to end the debt crisis and , by do so , help to end extreme poverty once and for all ? I be very grateful to my hon . friend for raise this issue , and for his passion in do so . he be absolutely right : many country have to pay substantial amount on service debt at the same time as have to deal with repeat crisis — not least the nature and climate crisis , but also crise derive from conflict — so we need to show leadership on these issue . that be why we be work with the rest of the G20 on their framework . it need to be fast and strong , and it need to work well . we will play our part in try to ensure that , and we will work with the Paris Club on this agenda too . on reparation , will the Minister accept that there be a clear difference between the Prime Minister ' s commendably robust language before he leave for Samoa and the language that he eventually sign up to in paragraph 22 of the communiqu é ? will she accept that Heads of Government who be watch this process be perfectly entitle to deduce that the UK be now on a journey that will lead to reparation ? will she far accept that there be a clear difference between provide compensation to people who have be harm by the state , from tainted - blood victim to sub - postmaster , and pay reparation in respect of event that happen 200 year ago ? I have to say that I find the right hon . Gentleman ' s question rather surprising . I do not believe that Heads of Government be in any doubt about the new UK Government ' s approach to these question . indeed , the new Government , the Foreign Secretary , the Prime Minister and the ministerial team have have more engagement with Heads of Government and our friend in the Commonwealth than we have see for a very long time . that engagement be clear , and our message be very clear indeed . as I say , the Prime Minister himself have articulate that , include in Samoa . he make it clear that none of the UK Government discussion have be about money , and our position be very clear : we do not pay reparation . as I explain during my statement , the focus of conversation at CHOGM be the fact that we need to act together on the climate crisis , and to drive growth and prosperity for the whole Commonwealth . will the Minister join I in welcome Glasgow ' s role as host of the Commonwealth game 2026 ? will she confirm that discussion will take place with the Scottish Government to ensure that the benefit of the game be feel not just in Glasgow , but across the whole of Scotland , include in constituency such as mine ? I absolutely will confirm that . I be so pleased that my hon . friend have raise this issue . I think that people up and down the whole country be delighted that we will see the return of the Commonwealth game to Glasgow in 2026 . I know that my right hon . friend the Scotland Secretary be very pleased to be engage on this matter with the Scottish Government and the people of Scotland , include those in my hon . friend ' s constituency . we need to ensure that the game have a lasting , positive legacy on health and on engagement in fitness and sport , and this new UK Government be determined to achieve that . I be grateful to the Minister for the update on the Commonwealth Heads of Government meeting . next Sunday , volunteer will head to the beach when Sidmouth Plastic Warriors meet to prevent litter from end up in the ocean . when they do so , they will want to be sure that their government be encourage other government to take action on ocean plastic . how likely do the Minister think it be that negotiation will be conclude on a UN global plastic treaty by the end of the year ? when the hon . Gentleman ' s constituent take part in that activity , they be join a global movement in which the Foreign Secretary himself be engage with young people in Samoa . it be about ensure that we all play our part in remove plastic pollution . the hon . Gentleman ask about the prospect for a global agreement . we all want to see that happen through the UN , but the fact that the Commonwealth come together in Samoa to agree on it be very exciting . it show that there be a strong prospect of make headway on this very important issue . I thank the Minister for her statement ; I can only respect the breadth of it . I be pleased to hear about the focus on use international development to reduce violence against woman and girl , which we all fully support . at a reception last week , we hear personal testimony from people who have be persecute because of their religious belief . do the Minister feel that the overseas development budget can also be use to reduce violence against religious minority ? I be grateful to my hon . friend for raise that subject , which be of much concern to many member across the House . unfortunately , the freedom of religion and belief be a value that be be challenge across the world , and we be see too many country slip backwards . the new UK Government be determined to do what we can to exercise leadership in international development , which include support those who be subject to persecution and play our part in ensure that the most vulnerable be protect . will the right hon . Lady update the House , follow the recent Commonwealth Heads of Government meeting , on whether the Government have consider a Commonwealth free trade deal and if not , why not ? there be already many strong economic relationship between Commonwealth state . the new Government be very proud of that , and we want to ensure that even fast progress be make . a number of country within the Commonwealth be currently subject to trade deal with the UK or have trade deal under discussion . we want to cement those economic tie , and that be a priority for the new Government . New International Rescue Committee analysis find that just 16 climate - vulnerable and conflict - affect country , include Sudan , Myanmar and Syria , represent 43 % of all people live in extreme poverty and 79 % of all people in humanitarian need . what step be the Government take to ensure that we address the underlie cause of fragility and get aid into those 16 country with the high need ? I be grateful to my hon . friend for raise this issue , in which she have considerable experience . globally , by 2030 , 60 % of people in extreme poverty will live in fragile and conflict - affect state . we need to see much more action : less than 5 % of climate finance , for example , go into adaptation , with only a tiny fragment go into fragile and conflict - affect state . the UK be determined to exercise leadership , and the new Government have be press multilateral institution to do more . last week , at the World Bank , we see some important move , which I be pleased to say be push by the new Government . can the Minister assure we that the Government ' s commitment to ODA will not be far reduce to 0 . 3 % of GNI ? be there a timeline to restore it to 0 . 7 % ? I be grateful to the hon . gentleman for his important question . I have state this before , but I will state it again . he may not wish to spend a huge amount of time read the labour manifesto from the last general election , but if he do so , he would see that the new Government be commit to return to 0 . 7 % of GNI be spend on overseas development assistance , as fiscal circumstance allow . that be something we be focus on do . under the previous Government , we see many year of huge turbulence around these issue , but we be determined to have a strategic , plan approach without that turbulence in future . I thank the Minister very much for her positive statement to the House today . will she far outline what engagement she intend to undertake to secure the right of woman throughout the world , begin with the right to choose their life partner , to choose education , to choose employment and to choose a future with hope rather than the drudgery face by too many woman throughout this world ? how can the House advocate for this change in a reason manner that bring about not snappy soundbite but a real change in those country in which we retain an influence ? I be grateful to the hon . gentleman for his important question and the consider way in which he articulate it . I have be disturb , as I know the hon . member for West Worcestershire ( Dame Harriett Baldwin ) , who speak for the opposition , will have be , to see that we be not make as speedy progress on many of these issue as we should be globally . when I be in Jordan , for example , speak with syrian refugee , and when I be in South Sudan , speak with refugee there , I see that child marriage be , unfortunately , still very common . it become more common when there be severe economic dislocation , when the impact on girl be truly appalling and very disturbing . we be determined to exercise leadership , which we can do in the strong way by set out the evidence of the economic impact , which show clearly that not have those protection be bad for all of society and for whole community . that be often the most effective way to deal with these issue . remembrance and Veterans I beg to move , that this House have consider remembrance and the contribution of veteran . this be the first time in four year that the House have hold a general debate on remembrance . back then , I respond for the Opposition . it be a huge honour for I to open this debate as Secretary of State for Defence and , in that role , to be the voice of veteran in the Cabinet . I be proud to have my ministerial team here with I , particularly the Minister for Veterans and People , my hon . friend the Member for Birmingham Selly Oak ( Al Carns ) , who will wind up this debate . give the number of colleague from all part of the House who have put in to speak in this debate , I wish to keep my remark brief , so that we can hear from other . it be strike how many colleague on the call list , of all party , have serve in our UK armed force ; many be elect for the first time in July , and I welcome they all to this debate . that underline the deep affinity between the House and our nation ' s armed force . whether or not we have serve , we in this House have the interest of our armed force at heart ; but we may debate , forcefully at time , the state of our armed force and how good to use they . that matter to those who put on the uniform and accept a duty to give unlimited service to our nation , ready to do anything , at any time , anywhere , if this House and his Majesty ' s Government will it . during the trouble in Northern Ireland , hundred of thousand of british servicemen serve on Operation Banner . hundred be kill and thousand be maim by both republican and loyalist bomb . I respect the right hon . Gentleman , but how can his Government repeal the Northern Ireland Troubles ( Legacy and Reconciliation ) Act 2023 and throw many of those veteran to the wolf in order to pander to Sinn F é in ? what be noble about that ? the legacy Act be without supporter in the community in Northern Ireland , on any side . that be one of the reason why it should be repeal . in the process of repeal , we will take fully into account the concern and position of veteran , who have give such service , as the right hon . Gentleman rightly say , and their family . I be grateful to the Defence Secretary for give way ; he be always very courteous . when I be on a previous iteration of the Defence Committee , we produce an in - depth report on the good way forward after the trouble , call " draw a line : protect veteran by a Statute of Limitations " . it recommend end prosecution and substitute a truth recovery process . People from , shall we say , some of the northern irish party feel compel to condemn it on the Floor of the House , but quietly come up to I afterwards and admit that it be the only way forward . just because there be this performative condemnation by different community , he should not be divert from the fact that what be good enough for Nelson Mandela in South Africa should be good enough for we . for I , one of the great strength of the House and Parliament be the work of the all - party Select Committees . the right hon . Gentleman ' s Committee , during that time , do the House and the wide cause of peace and reconciliation in Northern Ireland a service . we will take those point into account . I do not think that anybody could point their finger at the current Northern Ireland Secretary and say that he be not a serious figure , or that he could remotely be accuse of performative politic . he will take very seriously his duty to lead the repeal of the legacy Act and find a way forward that take everybody with we . Remembrance Sunday be a moment when the nation come together to honour those who have serve , those who have fight and , above all , those who have make the ultimate sacrifice of their life to defend our country , preserve our freedom and protect our way of life . to all those who serve and have serve , on behalf of the country , I offer a profound thank you . this will be the first time many new member have the privilege of represent their constituency at remembrance parade , ceremony and service . I encourage all to play their full part , and to go into their school to join in the lesson and project that will take place in the run - up to Remembrance Day , because remembrance be not just an opportunity to show our gratitude and pride ; it be an opportunity to learn , and to teach the next generation about the service and sacrifice of those who come before . give that the number of veteran in this country will fall by a third in this decade , it be clear that we need to do more at all level to reinforce the country ' s understanding of and commitment to our armed force . that have never be more important than in the year in which we mark the 80th anniversary of d - day and many of the major battle that lead to the end of the second world war . at the weekend , we mark a decade since the conclusion of UK combat operation in Afghanistan , and during this remembrance we honour the 457 british service personnel who lose their life , the thousand who be wound , and their family , who bear such a burden . I thank the Minister for his contribution . he be an honest and honourable person . this be on the subject of justice for those who serve in uniform . I declare an interest , have serve in the Ulster Defence Regiment for three year and in the Royal Artillery for 11 and a half year ; that is 14 and a half year in total . my cousin be murder on 10 December 1971 . no one be ever make accountable for his murder . the IRA man who kill he run across the border to the Republic of Ireland , to sanctuary and safety . no one be make accountable for the murder of four UDR man at Ballydugan on 9 April 1990 . it grieve I greatly on their behalf to know that there be people still walk about who have never be make accountable in this world for what they have do . I want to see justice . do the Minister want to see justice for those people as well ? I have move on to Afghanistan , but the hon . Gentleman , in his forceful way , make his point , which be on the record . I want to move on and use this remembrance period and this debate to pay tribute to the very special service charity that we have in the UK . they work , week in , week out , all year round , to raise fund , promote awareness and provide service to our armed force and veteran . rise — rise — I will give way one more time , and then conclude my speech , so that the House can hear from the many member who wish to speak . I be grateful to the Secretary of State for mention the good work of charity . my base in North Devon , Royal Marines Base Chivenor , and garrison commander Lieutenant Colonel Simpson be supportive of service charity , include the Royal Marines Association . will the Secretary of State wish the Royal Marine Corps a happy birthday , as they celebrate their 360th birthday today ? I be so glad that I give way . I be go to leave that to my hon . friend the Minister for Veterans and People , who I be sure will have something to say about that . to respond to the hon . Gentleman ' s invitation , on behalf of the whole House , I say : what a remarkable service , and what a remarkable feat — 360 year proud today . we honour those in that service , we wish they well in future , and say a big happy birthday . at this time of year , we see the particular contribution of the Royal British Legion and the importance of its poppy appeal . let we recognise the commitment of the hundred of volunteer across the country who recruit the poppy seller , organise the shift , check the stock , account for the donation and encourage the public to give , and to wear poppy at this time of year with such pride . on behalf of we all , thank you . these be serious time — war in Europe , conflict in the middle east , grow russian aggression and increase threat elsewhere . as the world become more dangerous , we will rely more heavily on the professionalism and courage of our armed force . it be against that backdrop that the Government be commit to renew the nation ' s contract with those who serve . we have already be able to announce the large pay increase for our force for over 20 year , and I be the first Defence Secretary who can stand in the House and say that everyone in uniform in the UK armed force will be pay at least the national living wage . that be why we announce , in our first King ' s Speech , legislation to introduce an independent armed force commissioner to improve service life for service personnel and their family . will the Secretary of State give way ? I will , because the hon . Gentleman be particularly persistent . despite his youthful look , he have be in the House for some time . true enough , and I be sure I should know well . recruit and retain good people who will serve our country be make a little easy if they know that they will be care for in the year after they leave active service . will the Secretary of State say something about the importance of invest in mental health support for veteran , and in particular congratulate one Vision , the charity in my constituency that provide counselling support for the armed force and all those in uniform , and do work to make sure that we value those people in the year after they have actively serve we ? I will indeed . the hon . Gentleman be right , of course . on support service for veteran who need they , there be not just what the Government can help provide — include , on mental health , through Op Courage — but what be provide by a network of first - class local charity . if one Vision play a part in that in his area of Cumbria , I certainly pay tribute to it . there be a more profound reason for our concern to provide support for our veteran . we need to recognise that those on deployment in the armed force must have the confidence to act decisively on behalf of the nation , and they can be motivate and have their confidence reinforce by how they see the nation support veteran back home . that be why we pledge in our manifesto in July to improve access to support for our veteran , include on mental health , employment and housing . it be why we have commit to put the armed force covenant fully into law . it be why , within three month of take office , we have deliver on the commitment to make the veteran ' s identity card an accepted form of voter ID , and why the Prime Minister , in his first conference speech , announce that veteran would be exempt from rule require a connection to the area from those seek to access housing there . at the heart of our national security will always be the man and woman who serve this country . as we consider this debate , we have an opportunity to reflect on what we mean by remembrance and to recognise the immense contribution make to this country by our veteran , by serve member of the armed force and by the family who support they . hundred of thousand have answer the nation ' s call and give their life in do so . we honour they , and we will remember they . I call the shadow Minister . I join the Secretary of State in congratulate our brilliant Royal Marines on their 360th anniversary . this timely and important debate coincide with Mr Speaker ' s official opening of the constituency garden of remembrance early today . it mark the point where , as a House , we pay tribute to all those who serve and have serve our country , particularly those who pay the ultimate sacrifice . as we approach Remembrance Day , I thank the Royal British Legion and charity across the UK that ensure that our collective memory of the fall never fade , while provide invaluable service and support to today ' s veteran . I be also proud of the previous Government ' s record on veteran , which my colleague , the shadow Veterans Minister , will cover in his closing speech . the focus of my speech be primarily on the remembrance part of this debate . I believe that politician well honour the fall by never forget the lesson of the war in which they fight . this mean never be complacent about the threat we face and do everything possible to strengthen our deterrence , so that this country be never again embroil in the senseless slaughter of existential war . it must be obvious to all of we that the threat of such a war loom large over our continent than it have for many year . to that end , and I say this with respect to the Secretary of State , it be profoundly ill - judge of he to suggest , at a time when deterrence be of paramount importance , that Britain be not ready to fight a war . I reassure the british public , million of whom will soon wear their poppy with pride , that our armed force remain among the good in the world . after all , it would be wholly unrealistic to expect this nation to fight Russia single - handedly . the challenge be to be ready to fight and deter as part of NATO , and no one should be in any doubt of the outsized scale of our contribution to the alliance . first and foremost , we unambiguously and unflinchingly offer our 24 / 7 nuclear deterrent for the defence of all european NATO ally , and we be incredibly proud to have deliver a continuous at - sea deterrent every day since 1969 . moreover , during NATO ' s Steadfast Defender exercise early this year — its large such exercise since the end of the cold war — we lead the way with 20 , 000 service personnel , eight warship and submarine and an aircraft carrier , plus tank , artillery , helicopter and Poseidon p - 8 surveillance aircraft . that be not the contribution of a nation unable to fight . as we prepare to look back and remember past conflict , the most important example of our readiness be not an exercise but a real - world war that be happen on our continent today . when it come to Putin ' s illegal invasion of Ukraine , the UK , under the previous Government , play a singular leadership role , which start before the russian tank roll in . since 2014 , we have train thousand of Ukrainians to fight and we provide crucial anti - tank weaponry before the invasion commence . that help the Ukrainians to defy expectation and stay in the fight . surely we can all see that , have Ukraine fall early , the world would have be an even more dangerous place , with our adversary embolden and with NATO ' s border potentially threaten . as the previous Secretary of State , Grant Shapps , reveal , President Zelensky have say that the UK , more than any other nation , have be responsible for help to ensure that the majority of Ukraine remain free , more than two year after Russia ' s main attack . far from talk down our armed force , we should be extremely proud of the role we have play in support Ukraine ' s fight for freedom . that say , of course we have our challenge . first and foremost be the need to replenish munition , not least after gift so many to Ukraine . that be why , in April , we set out a fully fund plan to increase defence spending to 2 . 5 % of gdp by 2030 , pay for by reduce the civil service to its pre - pandemic size and prioritise £ 10 billion of additional funding for replenishment . do the shadow Minister think that the conservative party be miss the point of this debate by seek to score political point ? with respect , I think the hon . Gentleman miss the point of my speech . as I say at the beginning , I be here to talk about remembrance , and I sincerely believe that the good way to honour the fall be by learn the lesson of the past . that mean always stand up for our country and ensure that we have the strong possible deterrent . that be why , with a Budget on Wednesday , it really matter that we talk about defence spending in this debate . this be a matter of supreme national interest . as we prepare to remember all those life lose serve in our Navy and merchant fleet , this replenishment would have address key emerge threat to our naval ship that have be expose in the Red sea , such as by fund DragonFire laser procurement to tackle drone and upgrade our Sea Viper system to combat ballistic missile . People may think that that be not relevant , but after all the tragedy we see when we lose those ship in the Falklands we should be do everything possible urgently to procure system that can help to defend our ship against these emerge threat . another key challenge be retention . we know that we need to do everything possible to support those who serve in our armed force today . two day from the Budget , I hope that the Secretary of State have read today ' s warn in the Times online that hundred may leave the armed force because of the Government ' s education tax . the article quote the many service personnel who have email I with their concern , such as the wife of an Army major who write : " the extra 20 % will make thing extremely difficult , and we fear we will have to choose between my husband ' s career or our daughter ' s education . " labour should not be force thousand of military family to make so stark a choice when we can not afford to lose such experienced personnel , and when it cost almost £ 48 , 000 a head to train just one much less experienced replacement . finally , there be the key issue of accommodation . I be proud of the additional £ 400 million that the Conservative Government inject to help address damp , mould and the many other problem that routinely affect our military home . however , as someone with a background in housing before enter Parliament , it be clear to I from day one as the Minister responsible for the defence estate that we have to do something far more radical , give the inherent structural problem with so much of our service accommodation . that be why I build on my predecessor Jeremy Quin ' s work to put the wheel in motion so that , subject to negotiation , we could buy back the defence estate from Annington Homes . if we really want home fit for hero , as I be sure we all do , I strongly believe that we need a complete rebuild of the defence estate , rather than year - to - year sticking plaster solution . it could be one of the country ' s most exciting regeneration project , but it require ownership to be fully restore , and that mean Annington . of course , Annington be an area of considerable legal and commercial sensitivity , so I do not expect a direct answer , but I hope the Government will continue to build on my considerable work in that area . if we be truly to honour the fall , we must do everything to avoid future conflict by have the strong possible deterrence . I have huge respect for the Secretary of State , but I believe it be a mistake to say that we be not ready to fight . we now need to see whether he be ready to fight for our armed force . we need two thing in Wednesday ' s budget : a vat exemption on school fee for force family , and a clear pathway to spend 2 . 5 % of gdp on defence so that we can urgently replenish our munition stock to war - fight level . those who serve our country deserve no less . I rise today , in common with many other hon . member , to express my immense gratitude and admiration for all our veteran of today and yesteryear . I also rise to speak from a different angle . I represent Slough , one of the most ethnically diverse constituency , and I be the first turbane Sikh to be elect to Parliament . I believe I have a specific duty to speak out for those who have often be relegate to the footnote of history , but whose sacrifice must not be sideline . it be more important than ever , particularly have see our street recently fill with far - right hatred , that remembrance be not exclusive . the contribution of all those who have sacrifice their life must be remember . in particular , it can not be ignore that both world war could not have be win by British - bear troop alone , without the contribution of soldier bear beyond our own border . in world war one , approximately 2 million brave soldier from Commonwealth country lay down their life to protect our . some 166 african serviceman be decorate in recognition of their valour . troop from the British West Indies Regiment be award 81 medal and receive 51 mention in dispatch . More than 1 . 5 million people from what be modern day India , Pakistan and Bangladesh contribute to the war effort , form a largely voluntary army of Hindus , Muslims , Christians , Sikhs and many other faith . indeed , today over 11 % of our current force be from ethnic minority . if we fail properly to commemorate and celebrate the contribution of our armed force whose root lie in country across the globe , we do our own history a huge disservice . come from a strong military background myself — my great - grandfather lose a leg fighting in the first world war ; my grandmother ' s brother and other family member fight in the second world war — I feel immense pride in that share history . it be staggering that despite make up just 2 % of pre - partition British India , Sikhs form 20 % of the Indian Army . I be immensely proud of those who fight so valiantly and believe that such a contribution should be properly commemorate . that be why I serve as president of the National Sikh War Memorial Trust and have passionately campaign for several year for a fitting memorial in central London to those Sikh soldier , so that we may remember the ten of thousand of turbane Sikhs who sacrifice their life , and the more than 100 , 000 who be injure during both world war . we must ensure that remembrance serve as a reminder to all that the freedom we enjoy today be hard fight for by force as diverse as modern - day Britain . we can not airbrush the past , despite the effort of some right - wing commentator to do just that . in 2020 , Kevin Maguire from the Mirror and I have to educate Laurence Fox on Sikh sacrifice during world war one , follow his bigote comment that the film " 1917 " be somehow " woke " or " racist " for its inclusion of Sikh soldier . to his credit , Laurence Fox later apologise , after he have be hit with some hard fact , but that ignorance have root in much of the culture of remembrance and must be challenge . even today , force who stand shoulder to shoulder with british troop struggle to get the recognition they deserve , but I have no doubt that my right hon . friend the Defence Secretary will rectify that . for example , gurkha pension be fall short of the Army standard ; it take a fight to get certain visa fee scrap for non - UK service personnel ; and recent error in the afghan relocation and assistance policy have leave Triples force out in the cold . pervasive racism cause a failure to treat 54 , 000 world war one casualty from India , west Africa , east Africa , Egypt and Somalia equally . my right hon . friend the Foreign Secretary campaign effectively on that important matter , but there should not be another battle simply to get parity . those who serve alongside british troop should be a beacon of hope for a collective pride that go beyond border , colour or background . their commitment to our country mean they be willing to sacrifice everything for it . those contribution should be celebrate , not sideline . their commitment in the darkest of time ensure our safety . fundamentally , without the sacrifice and contribution of the million of personnel across the globe , we would simply not have the privilege of sit here today . they have ensure our collective freedom . we must never take for grant the hard - win freedom to operate under a democracy , to live in a pluralist society and to be safe . it be simply not enough to be thankful . we must celebrate their service , honour their duty and always remember those who have make the ultimate sacrifice on behalf of our nation . we will remember they . I call the spokesperson for the Liberal Democrat party . today , we gather to honour the sacrifice and contribution of our veteran — brave man and woman who have selflessly put their life on the line for our country . each one of they embody the courage , resilience and dedication that define the spirit of service . we should not just recognise their service on the battlefield , but understand the challenge they continue to face once they return home . I start with a bit of my own story . I serve in the british Army as part of the Royal Military Police . I do not come from a military family . my journey begin with a desire to lead , travel and make a difference . I study language at university , and be draw to the British Army ' s role in international aid and disaster relief . I think it would eventually lead I into humanitarian work . training at Sandhurst be gruelle , especially with equipment that be not design for woman , but I come out of that experience with friendship that have last a lifetime with people who see I through my high and low point . after Sandhurst , I be deploy to Bosnia , where my platoon be already station as part of the stabilisation force — SFOR — a NATO peacekeeping force . work alongside American , british , canadian , czech and dutch troop , I witness at first hand the disparity in resource and funding . the contrast be stark . our american counterpart have advanced equipment , with all the bell and whistle , while we operate with much less . that show I not only the resilience of our troop , but the challenge we face due to limited resource . shortly after that , I be send to Iraq on Operation Telic IV with the 1st Battalion Princess of Wales ' s Royal Regiment , task with retrain the iraqi police force and support police effort to train over 1 , 200 of the iraqi police service in Maysan province , a volatile and dangerous area . we train the police outside our camp and in old air basis , with unexploded ordnance next to we , and visit police station support the IPS with their work . we distribute car , equipment , weapon and money to the IPS , and gather intelligence on iranian weapon smuggling . just a year before my arrival , six of my RMP colleague be kill in Majar al - Kabir . I vividly remember the fear of my first night , age just 26 , travel in a black - out bus after land in Maysan , en route to Camp Abu Naji , really unsure of what lie ahead — a fear I imagine many soldier face today : the fear of the unknown , the fear of what be to come , especially those on the frontline in place such as Ukraine . Iraq be not easy . we come under fire regularly , and some of my fellow soldier do not make it home . tension escalate when photo be publish falsely show british soldier abuse iraqi detainee . for several day , our base be surround by angry armed local . there be a lot of tension but we get through it together . on the base , there be over 1 , 000 soldier , but only three female officer and a handful of female non - commission officer . the one positive thing about that be that at least I could get to the toilet and the shower without a queue . despite the challenge , I be grateful for the brave interpreter , local police and all the other local who work with we on camp and out on the ground . we must remember the sacrifice local people on operation make to support our armed force abroad . after return to the UK , we start a family , and I have to make a choice between family and career . with no military support to help balance these responsibility , I eventually leave the Army early than I have plan . that be too common a story . as the Haythornthwaite review highlight , the most common reason service member leave the armed force be the impact on family and personal life . there be no option for I as a mother . I would have be send to Afghanistan next , and there be no nursery on the frontline . there be no flexible career path for I , and I be not alone . many service member face pressure that extend beyond the battlefield , and we simply need to do more to support they . I be immensely proud of my constituency ' s connection to the armed force . we have Langley Vale , where more than 8 , 000 soldier train during the first world war . it be where Lord Kitchener famously inspect the troop , and it now serve as a place of reflection , with beautiful sculpture honour our military past . our local Royal Engineers , the 135 Geographic Squadron , recently celebrate their 75th anniversary this year , proudly march with bayonet fix , exercise their freedom of Epsom and Ewell . these be powerful reminder of the sacrifice make by generation of service member . honour our veteran go beyond remembrance : it be about action . there be press issue that we must address to ensure that veteran and their family be support after their service . housing be one such issue . it be unacceptable that more than 2 , 000 household with a veteran be assess as homeless last year . high - quality , affordable accommodation for veteran should be accessible across the country . no one who serve our nation should face homelessness . the winter fuel allowance be another concern . many veteran struggle financially , and recent cut to the allowance will hit some of they hard . it be a lifeline , especially in colder month , and veteran should be able to rely on this support . military compensation also need reform . the current system often count military compensation towards means - test benefit . in 2022 , about 150 , 000 veteran receive compensation for injury sustain during service , but many council count it as income , penalise veteran who desperately need support . that practice go against the armed force covenant , and it be time that we change those rule . do my hon . friend agree that the Government should give serious thought to exclude military compensation when calculate pension credit ? I agree with my hon . friend . as my hon . friend the Member for Westmorland and Lonsdale ( Tim Farron ) mention , we also need to improve mental health support for veteran . More than half of veteran have face mental health challenge , yet 60 % hesitate to seek support due to stigma . to reduce stigma , and encourage more veteran to seek the support that they need , we need regular mental health check - up for veteran , along with well tracking of both physical and mental health outcome . female veteran face additional challenge , include high unemployment rate and a great risk of harassment . the Atherton report find that nearly two third of female veteran experience bullying or harassment during service . that be unacceptable , and we must implement recommendation to protect and support woman who serve . finally , our LGBT + veteran deserve justice . those dismiss because of their sexuality be be offer compensation of £ 12 , 500 , which be wholly insufficient and fail to reflect the harm that they endure . the Government must reassess the scheme to ensure these veteran receive fair compensation . we thank all charity who support our armed force , and we remember those who have fall , but as we remember the contribution of those who have serve , let we honour their sacrifice with action . we need a system that truly support our service personnel , veteran and their family . that mean address issue range from housing and pay to diversity and equality . our veteran deserve not just our respect but our commitment to make a real difference in their life . rise — Order . I will now impose an immediate time limit of three minute for Back - Bench speech and six minute for maiden speech . I call Jodie Gosling to make her maiden speech . thank you , Madam Deputy Speaker , for the opportunity to make my maiden speech in this important remembrance and commemoration debate . it be a great privilege to have be choose by the people of Nuneaton , my home , to represent they in this Chamber . I understand the weight of the responsibility that I now have , and I will work hard to bring about the change that we need to thrive . my journey to this place be indirect , and many individual support and inspire I along the way , from the excellent campaign support so willingly give by local member to the kindness , good will and advice of my constituent . I need to give credit to my family too . as the sixth of seven sibling , I will not try to do so individually , but I need to reflect on my mum ' s incredible work ethic and compassion and my dad ' s sense of fun and drive to ensure that education be at the heart of our family . similarly , my child be my great source of inspiration . our legacy will be their future . I thank they and my partner for join we here today , and for their endure understanding , patience and unwavere support . Nuneaton be a beautiful town , and I be proud to call it home . it be steep in a rich history that stretch back to the Domesday Book . originally simply refer to as Eaton , mean " the town by the river " , recognise the significance of our River Anker , with the 12th - century addition of a nunnery it simply become Nuneaton Priory , and there the name be form . soon after , Henry II give we our market charter , and the market town that we know and love today begin to develop . it be the large town in Warwickshire , nestle in beautiful rolling hill and stunning countryside . our coal industry be the economic bedrock from the 19th century until the closure of Daw Mill in 2013 , which call an abrupt end to that era . Nuneaton ' s sense of pride and duty be never clear than in its service record . Nuneaton be home to many member of the armed force and veteran . this year , we welcome our first nepalese councillor , Bhim Saru , to Nuneaton and Bedworth council , and congratulate Om Gurung on be the first Gurkha to become a freeman of our town . his work be truly inspirational . a Gurkha monument in Riversley Park be the first memorial of its kind dedicated to the brave nepalese and indian soldier who lose their life in the service of the british force . those who visit Riversley Park will also find Louis ' s playground , where Louis Carter play as a child . Louis , a son of Nuneaton , be a well - respect cadet who , follow the completion of his training , join the Royal Fusiliers and be deploy to Helmand Province where he be know as a friendly , loyal and kind member of his platoon . his platoon leader be catch in an improvise explosive device blast while out on patrol . Fusilier Louis Carter act to aid his comrade , but fall victim to a secondary device . he be just 18 year of age . his companionship , insurmountable courage and sense of service continue to live on as we remember he . the people of Nuneaton be proud of Louis and all our fall son and daughter . our local Royal British Legion work tirelessly to support their family and commemorate their life . special credit need to be give to Laurie Payne , Nuneaton ' s last survive korean war veteran , who will celebrate his 96th birthday on Remembrance Sunday this year , and reportedly still outsell all other member in poppy sale . I also pay credit and give thank to my predecessor , Marcus Jones , who represent Nuneaton in this House for 14 year . in common with the resident of treacle town , he believe in common sense and hard work , and be respect on both side of the House for his civility . any account of Nuneaton today need to recognise the challenge face a town whose traditional industry can no long support the large number of resident they once do . the willingness of those impact to retrain , diversify and reinvent themselves as work move into engineering , digital and scientific area show the admirable skill need to embrace the opportunity of an evolve industrial landscape . Nuneaton ' s central location and connectivity provide logistical opportunity , just as the canal once do for our textile . despite the many challenge that Nuneaton have face , its resilience shine through . it be a town of opportunity and hope . I congratulate Nuneaton Signs on its recent King ' s award for inclusion . not only be it one of the lead road sign manufacturer in the country but it boast an inclusion record of over 66 % of its staff identify as have a disability . it be a truly brilliant company that represent our community . we also celebrate the town ' s diverse culture , with its thrive art community , the Abbey theatre and its hugely generous spirit , which can be see in our various charity and dazzle annual carnival . as the first female MP for Nuneaton , I must give credit to one of the trailblazer who go before I , open up opportunity . Mary Ann Evans , more commonly know for her writing as George Eliot , be bear just down the road from I . she write under a male name in an attempt to free herself from the discrimination of reader and publisher . her book open up public discussion on area such as domestic violence , the status of woman , poverty , political reform , addiction and education — issue that be still as relevant two century later . for I , remembrance be a deeply humble time of the year and an opportunity to reflect upon the freedom and privilege that we often take for grant in this country . freedom of speech , the rule of law and democracy be value for which our forefather fight bravely . each generation must make sacrifice to ensure that their child can live in freedom . we see that most clearly today in eastern Europe , where Ukraine fight to defend itself from the barbaric assault on its democracy by Putin ' s Russia . my South Northamptonshire constituency be fill with monument to the hero of the past , and I look forward this year to mark their sacrifice by attend the Towcester remembrance service at St Lawrence Church , the Brackley service at Winchester House school and the act of remembrance in Bozeat cemetery . I will also join the local branch of the Royal British Legion to sell poppy . since my election to this place , I have join the armed force parliamentary scheme , and have have the opportunity to see at first hand how crucial it be that we support our serve man and woman properly . in a world where threat be rise , we should be invest more , not less , in our armed force . I be proud to stand on a manifesto that commit to raise defence spending to 2 . 5 % of gdp , and I be disappointed that the Labour Government can not make the same outright commitment . our veteran be the very good of we and should be give the right support to transition out of active duty and into civilian life . the previous Government put a Veterans Minister around the Cabinet table for the first time , tackle veteran homelessness through Operation Fortitude , create a dedicated veteran ' mental health pathway in Operation Courage , and introduce the veteran ' railcard . if we be to honour the sacrifice of those who come before we , if we be to keep our promise to make the UK the good place to be a veteran , and if we be to ensure that the cause of freedom be defend around the world , we must fund our armed force properly . I call Dan Tomlinson to make his maiden speech . thank you , Madam Deputy Speaker . may I start by praise my hon . friend the Member for Nuneaton ( Jodie Gosling ) for her fantastic maiden speech ? like other Labour Members , I have Nuneaton sear into my memory because of its role in the 2015 general election . it be nice now to be able to think of such a fantastic speech when I think of Nuneaton . I pay tribute to my predecessor as the MP for Chipping Barnet , Theresa Villiers , who serve with much hard work and diligence over her 19 year of service . she be a hard - work Member of Parliament , and I hope to follow in her footstep in that regard . just yesterday , I be with member of the East Barnet branch of the Royal British Legion , and I think then , as we think now , of all those who have give their life and livelihood to service to keep our country safe . Chipping Barnet be not , as some may assume , in the Cotswolds , which be home to Chipping Norton and Jeremy Clarkson ' s farm — although we do have 14 farm in the constituency . we be , in fact , a suburb of London — part of the London borough of Barnet — and it be the suburb that I would like to speak about today , for it be my contention that when a political party understand the suburb , it be able then , and only then , to speak on behalf of , and govern for , the country as a whole . let I give the House a little history of Chipping Barnet . back in the 1700 , a weary traveller try to make their way northward out of London , on the great north road , would find that the natural resting point for their first night ' s stay would be Chipping Barnet , where no few than 25 public house could put they up for the night . I will ensure that I continue support and patronise the pub in Chipping Barnet during my time in office . if we roll forward 200 year , we get to the extension of the northern line to the constituency , join we up with the city of London proper . with a relatively liberal planning system pre - 1947 , that connectivity enable a surge of housebuilding , which Labour Members will think about , I be sure , when we seek to build and invest for the future . Chipping Barnet be home , as I say , to wonderful farm and green space , and many of we move to Barnet because we value a house with a garden , room to raise the kid , and maybe even space to park the car out front — the aspiration of suburban life . let I say to people of faith in my constituency just how grateful I be for the warmth with which I have be receive in church , synagogue and mosque . in particular , I say to jewish and muslim resident that I will always stand with they against the antisemitism and Islamophobia that I know have be on the rise in recent month and over the past year . it be important to do good work locally as a Member of Parliament , but it be my firm belief that we must raise our game in this House and nationally if we be to truly make a difference for our constituent . the need for change be great . go be the day when a child could grow up in a low - income family and on free school meal , just as I do , but with the security of a social security system that be there for they and genuinely affordable social housing . represent the suburb be just as much about stand up for the people who can not afford to or do not commute into town as it be about represent those who do . People ' s aspiration for a well life for their family and community be still there , but it be not be meet . I be talk about the deal of suburban life : people who put in so much — spend their time stick in traffic or on the northern line , raise their kid to know right from wrong , and serve in their community and work hard — expect in return that the Government will just get some thing right by provide public service that be there when need and ensure that the economy be strong and grow . I see that deal fall apart somewhat during my time as an economist before enter this House . I work at the Treasury for a time , and then at the Resolution Foundation and the Joseph Rowntree Foundation . I see that deal fall apart in chart and in number on spreadsheet , but since become a parliamentary candidate and then a Member of Parliament , I have hear at first hand from constituent in the suburb about how that deal have fall apart . I think of young people who can not afford to move out of their parent ' home and own or rent in the suburb . I think of many resident who want to buy a new car but be scared that if they do , it will be steal and the police will not follow up . those everyday aspiration be not be meet any more . my work in this place — our work on the Labour Benches — will be to rebuild that deal of suburbia and ensure that those who put in so much get it back again . I say to resident of Chipping Barnet , whether they live in Brunswick Park , Whetstone , Totteridge , Mill Hill East , Arkley , Edgwarebury , Underhill or one of the many Barnets — High Barnet , East Barnet , New Barnet or Barnet Vale — that it be the honour of my life to serve and represent they . I will do all I can for our community during my time in this place . I call Rebecca Paul to make her maiden speech . thank you , Madam Deputy Speaker , for allow I the opportunity to deliver my maiden speech in this important debate about remember the valiant action of those who have fight to keep this country safe . it be a privilege to rise as the newly elect Member of Parliament for Reigate , a constituency that I be proud to represent and serve . I be deeply grateful to the people of Reigate , Redhill , Banstead and our village for place their trust in I . before I turn to an issue of great importance to my constituent , I must acknowledge my predecessor , Crispin Blunt , who be himself a veteran . I have not rush to deliver my maiden speech , not least out of a desire to give careful thought to the word I choose . ironically , it seem that Crispin face a similar conundrum in 1997 . in fact , I do not think I can do well than to quote from his own maiden speech : " it must be admit that Sir George Gardiner do not end his conservative party career in a blaze of glory … Sir George be a resolute battler for the cause he believe in , and although many of we question his judgment at the end , no one could question the resolve with which he steer his choose course . " — [ Official Report , 9 June 1997 ; Vol . 295 , c . 857 . ] my sincere hope be that when my successor rise to deliver their maiden speech , they be not inclined to give those word a third airing in this House . that say , I would like to recognise Crispin Blunt ' s 27 year of public service , and also pay tribute to his team . no MP achieve anything without a great team support they , and Crispin ' s team serve our community with diligence and grace during many challenge time . I take this opportunity to thank they , especially Teresa Craig , who have go above and beyond in the past 15 year to help many thousand of constituent . I also pay tribute to Lord Grayling , the former MP for Epsom and Ewell : thank to recent boundary change , I have welcome the ward of Nork and Tattenham Corner and Preston into the Reigate constituency . Chris be an exceptional local MP , and I thank he for all his support . let I now turn to a subject close to my heart : my wonderful home . Reigate be a constituency that encapsulate the very good of both town and country — a trinity of town in the most beautiful part of Surrey , each with its own unique character and identity . we have the historic town of Reigate , with its wind street , independent shop and proud heritage . it be a place of immense charm and community spirit , and notably be the location of the first road tunnel build in England ; it be the birthplace of Margot Fonteyn , one of the great classical ballerina of all time , and be also the place where both our current Prime Minister and Fatboy Slim be educate . just north of the town stand Reigate fort , a victorian structure intend to serve as a last line of defence in the event that the south have fall and defeat seem certain — a role not unlike that which Reigate play in the recent general election . then there be Redhill , a railway town that pulse with energy and ambition — a transport hub and a centre for business , commerce and the art . it be home to an inspirational Lioness and some lobster . as the place where the existence of solar flare be first confirm , Redhill shine bright as a vivacious young sister to Reigate . finally , we have Banstead , which offer a quieter appeal with its village feel and beautiful common . its bustling high street be adorn with gorgeous flower that be lovingly tend by local resident . it be a community whose respectful patriotism be keenly feel , especially at this time of year . I must take this opportunity to recognise and thank the Banstead and District Royal British Legion branch , whose member do an outstanding job pay tribute to , and raise money for , our armed force and veteran . beyond our town , we be bless with many picturesque village , each with its own charm . disappointingly , Madam Deputy Speaker , there be not enough time for I to tell you about all of they , so I will tell you about just one : Walton - on - the - Hill . with its serene pond , world - class golf and history of feisty suffragette , it be the place I choose to settle and raise my family . like a thief , Walton steal my heart , and I must thank the Prime Minister for give it early release . Madam Deputy Speaker , it will not surprise you to hear that the green belt be one of the reason why the town and village of my constituency be so unique . we be incredibly fortunate to be surround by beautiful countryside , from the roll hill of the north down to the open green space of Banstead common . this country need more home , so there now come pressure to build on the green belt because it be easy , but that be the lazy solution . the new Government talk about develop brownfield first , which I very much support , but just say the word be not enough . for build on those site to become a reality , we need tangible action to make brownfield development economically viable . we also need to have an honest conversation about the impact of reduce housing target in London while nearly double they in Reigate and Banstead . even if by some miracle my local council could deliver on those target , they would simply be build home for people from London to move into , not meet the local need and certainly not bring down house price . if we be to break the cycle , we must densify in city , where essential infrastructure be already in place . I hope this Labour Government will consider tackle the issue of housing with the same spirit show by the Labour Government elect in the final month of the second world war . then as now , the country be in desperate need of more home ; Clement Attlee deliver 1 million of they , while insist both on densification and ensure that development be concentrate in city and town . Mr Attlee set out to build his new Jerusalem primarily as a fitting tribute to a generation of servicemen who fight , endure and suffer to keep this country safe from fascist tyranny . that heroic generation include Flight Lieutenant Douglas Adcock from Redhill , who fly ultra - high - risk mission for the Photographic Reconnaissance Squadron at RAF Benson . tragically , though , Douglas never come home : on 11 August 1944 , his aircraft fail to return from one of those mission . some day later , his body wash up on the shore in Belgium , where he be bury today . a generation early , Lieutenant Rupert Hallowes , another Redhill man , answer the call to serve his country . he would go on to earn the Victoria Cross in the first world war ; he die fight at Hooge in 1915 . those be account of just two man , but memorial across my constituency bear the name of many hundred more who leave home to fight for their country and do not return . ultimately , the debt we owe to the fallen can never be repay , but we honour they , keep the promise to never forget . I will end on that note , but just before I do , I want to thank my parent , Bev and Steve , without whom I would not be here today . today be a proud day for our family — one that we will remember . I call Amanda Hack to make her maiden speech . thank you , Madam Deputy Speaker , for the opportunity to speak in this debate on remembrance and veteran . I congratulate my hon . friend the Members for Nuneaton ( Jodie Gosling ) and for Chipping Barnet ( Dan Tomlinson ) , and the hon . member for Reigate ( Rebecca Paul ) , on their excellent contribution . it be an honour to attend the festival of remembrance organise just over a week ago by the Leicestershire and Rutland Royal British Legion at De Montfort hall . that festival be an outstanding tribute to those who have serve in the military and those who be currently serve . it pay thank to our armed force with some outstanding performance from local musician and contemporary dancer . however , it be the harrowing account of those who experience the D - day landing that will stay with I . it will be a privilege to be involve in the many remembrance event across the constituency . it be the honour of my life to have be elect to serve as the MP for North West Leicestershire . in that role , I be follow Andrew Bridgen , who serve the community proudly for 14 year . while we do not share much in term of our politic , I know that he work hard for his constituent . while I be reference former mp , I have to go back far to our former Labour MP , the late David Taylor , who sadly die in office in 2009 . it will be no surprise to those who know David that he be fondly remember today in the constituency . North West Leicestershire be in the heart of the national forest . it be a fast - grow area , with the high housing growth in Leicestershire and an equally impressive growth in employment opportunity . none of this be surprising , consider our transport link : we have an international airport , East Midlands airport , which include one of the large freight operation in the country . however , like so many other area that have see massive growth , we have be lag behind in term of infrastructure . local people need to see delivery of our commitment to expand public service , rather than the scaling - back we see for the past 14 year under the Conservatives . I be proud to be the first female MP in the history of North West Leicestershire . recently , I have the pleasure of attend the unveiling of the newly refurbish mother and child statue in Coalville . Stuart Warburton , a local historian , have kindly check for I , and we think that it be the first statue of a lone woman to be instal in the whole of Leicestershire . that award - win statue , first instal in 1963 , depict a woman proudly stride forward with her son while hold a shopping bag contain many item link to the constituency , include a lump of coal , an oil tanker , a yarn bobbin and a dolly . it occur to I that there be no well way of showcase our constituency than by consider some of the item in her bag . North West Leicestershire have a rich mining heritage . the coalmine industry have be so important to the development of North West Leicestershire that it literally give its name to the main urban centre , Coalville . the coalfield power Britain , and Kegworth — also in my constituency — be just a stone ' s throw away from the last coal - fire power station in the UK , which close just a few week ago . as be customary in a maiden speech , I will briefly adopt the role of travel agent : I highly recommend that everyone do a tour arrange by the Snibston Heritage Trust in Coalville . Snibston have one of the last remain example of above - ground working of the coalmine . we also have many pit wheel dot across the constituency , remind we of what previously lie beneath our foot . while in Coalville , visitor can pop into the Belvoir centre to sample the famous Birds Bakery jam tart . my constituency be home to another character who enjoy sweet thing : just a few mile up the road , in the wonderful town of Ashby - de - la - Zouch , we recently have instal a Paddington Bear on a bench . for the thrill seeker , we have Donington Park , home to MotoGP and motorbike racing , and for the heavy metal fan among we , it be also home to Download festival every June . I turn to the oil tanker in the bag . as with our coal heritage , North West Leicestershire ' s fingerprint be all over the rail industry . the oil tanker represent William Stableford ' s wagon work , which deliver a large contract for english and foreign railway . it be perhaps ironic that my constituency have no passenger rail service at all , even though the manufacturer Siemens complete the signal work for the Elizabeth line from its base in the constituency . one of my major goal in this House be to get the Ivanhoe line back run for passenger . this trainline be originally create in the 1830 by the great industrialist and father of the railway , George Stephenson . reopen it have the potential to create a beautiful trainline travel through the greenery of the national forest . the national forest line — now that sound nice ! North West Leicestershire have other industry , too . it be no secret that Leicestershire have a long history with the british textile industry , hence the yarn bobbin in the bag . H Seal Elastics have be knit in the constituency since 1898 and currently provide textile for use in military personal protective equipment — key equipment for our service personnel today . North West Leicestershire be also the home of Palitoy , which produce the dolly in the bag and the action man figurine — a character that seize the day and get stuff do . the content of a North West Leicestershire shopping bag today would be similar to the content of everyone ' s shopping bag at home , as the constituency be now home to a selection of food and drink manufacturer . in that shopping bag , there would be a selection of key produce from local farmer , KP Nuts , McVitie ' s biscuit , a Mars bar , Jacob ' s cream cracker , Quality Street , and some of the Mr Freeze ice pop that I enjoy with the Secretary of State for Business and Trade a few month ago after a tour of the Refresco beverage factory . during my time in this House , I hope to be an action woman — someone who add to our North West Leicestershire bag with clean waterway , well public service for all and , most importantly , an anytime day return ticket on the Ivanhoe line . in Huntingdon , one in nine household have a veteran in it . that astonishing figure illustrate the historical link between our armed force and a constituency that still have RAF Wyton and two United States air force basis , RAF Alconbury and RAF Molesworth — legacy basis that can trace their history back to the second world war . I be hugely proud to represent such a vibrant veteran community . my own service be as an infantry officer in the Royal Yorkshire Regiment . I serve in the british Army during the most kinetic period of operation since the korean war . Operation Herrick 11 in Afghanistan be a difficult tour . in Sangin , our battlegroup lose 30 soldier ; a further 170 be wound . I remember be in the operation room when two new battle casualty replacement arrive on a resupply helicopter . I do not stop to have a brew , or help they settle in ; my interaction with they both be fleeting — transactional . it be an everyday occurrence , and I think little more about it . a fortnight later , on Tuesday 15 December 2009 , I be man the operation room , and over the radio come an all - too - familiar message : " contact IED . wait . out . " there follow a pause that last an eternity . you know somebody be now fight for their life ; they might already be dead . you know that you can do little other than stand up the quick reaction force and wait to find out how grave the situation be . a suicide bomber have ride his motorbike into the checkpoint and detonate the bomb , instantly kill the two afghan soldier man the checkpoint and fatally wound two of our soldier provide cover . I press our commander on the ground for an update . to my eternal regret , I be quite short with he , and continue to harry he for a sitrep . I do not know at the time that he be try to give lifesave first aid to one of those soldier while under fire . the medic that day try valiantly to save both soldier . ignore the bullet cut the air around she , she calmly move between each casualty , determine to do all she could to care for they . the weight of enemy fire increase . with flagrant disregard for her own safety , Bushbye nevertheless continue to move between the casualty , personally administer cpr to one of the soldier . for her action , Lance Corporal Sarah Bushbye be award the Military Cross . Rifleman James Brown be 18 year old . he have arrive on that helicopter . he have be in Sangin for less than two week . age shall not weary he , nor the year condemn . I have always promise to remember he , and to give he the opportunity to live on that he sadly never have . we have a duty in this House to consider the ramification of commit our soldier to operation . I do not recount this story to dissuade , but to put a human face on the price it cost . they be the good of we , and the very least we can do be remember they . I call Tom Rutland to make his maiden speech . I thank you , Madam Deputy Speaker , for allow I to make my maiden speech in this debate . I congratulate my colleague on some brilliant maiden speech today . it be often say that it be a privilege to be in this place , and it be one that we owe to the bravery of those who fight for our country and for freedom in the two world war . in my constituency of East Worthing and Shoreham , british troop rally in advance of d - day on Broadwater Green and embark from Shoreham port to land in Normandy , pave the way for the ally victory over the Nazis . with freedom in Europe again under threat , I be sure it be not just my shoulder that feel the weight of responsibility as I rise to meet this moment and honour those brave sacrifice , which transcend our time in this place . like so many other new member nervously prepare their first contribution in this awe - inspire place , I have a good flick through my predecessor ' initial contribution , and enjoy see how some thing have remain the same and other have change . the constituency be still nestle between the south down and the sea , be still the most beautiful in the country , and still have the same name , much to the disappointment of my neighbour in Lancing , who feel that the name do not properly recognise the large village in the country . but much have change , and my sit here as the first Labour Member of Parliament for East Worthing and Shoreham be perhaps one clear indicator of that . in 1997 , my immediate predecessor speak of worthe have the old population in the country . today , it be very different , with many young people come to start a family in our vibrant coastal community . while the political sea change in the splendid seaside settlement that I represent have be stark , my constituent do not have to get use to a wildly different name for their MP ; it have go from Tim to Tom . I hope that my predecessor Tim Loughton know of the regard in which many resident hold he after his 27 year of public service . I also hope that , in time , few resident call I Tim , but after 32 year of my parent ' friend ' make the same mistake in their Christmas card , that be perhaps wishful thinking . speak of family , I thank mine for their love and support on my journey here , particularly my mum and dad . I think everyone in this place have that moment when they switch on to politic and realise the difference that it could make . for I , it be realise as a teenager that I be gay , and feeling as though I would not achieve everything I could or should because of who I be . it be the bad feeling in the world ; I have never forget it . life be thankfully very different now , in no small part thank to the transformative work of the last Labour Government , and of brave , trailblaze mps . I be very lucky to be able to thank my partner , my boyfriend Jack , for his support — word that I never think I would have the courage to say when I be grow up , but can say with great pride today . that feeling I have be why I care about politic . I do not want any child to feel that way , whether because of the colour of their skin or their religion ; because they be a boy , or a girl , or have a disability ; or because of who they love or how much their parent earn . that drive be what have lead I to spend my career campaigning , from stand up for consumer to fight for work people as a trade union official . it be an honour to serve as part of this new Labour Government , because there be so much that need fix . my constituent know all too well the struggle to get an appointment with their gp , to find a school place for their child , to swim in the sea without sewage , to afford a safe and secure home of their own , and to get a good job that do not just pay the bill but allow they to thrive . fix the foundation of this country will take time , but I have no doubt that the mission of this Government , drive by the aspiration and determination of my constituent , will succeed . there be so much to be proud of locally . we do not sit in the shadow of Brighton and Hove next door . Shoreham port be not just a thriving commercial hub for cargo , leisure boat and fishing trawler , but an eco - port generate renewable energy and enhance marine biodiversity . far inland , Ricardo build on more than a century of engineering excellence and innovation . have be home to great penicillin fermentation tank in the ' 60 , worthe today remain a life science hub , with GSK continue to manufacture lifesave antibiotic locally . or take Flare , which have evolve from build world - lead loudspeaker in lance business park to ship earphone and product that defend against irritate noise — I dare say that hon . member might find they useful in this Chamber from time to time . thank to Fitz in Worthing , we be able to toast these success with local fizz . we have the most incredible community organisation , lead by ordinary people give up extraordinary amount of their time for the betterment of other . whether it be Wendy organising litter pick and beach clean to keep Lancing Lovely , Dai provide food to those in need through the Shoreham and Adur community food bank , or David , Sara and Simon run 20 youth football team at Southwick Rangers FC , ours be a community where we look after each other and love where we live . when I think about the good heart of those in my constituency who inspire I , I hope that we can bring about the change that people vote for at the election in a more gentle way , because politician be human too , and have all the strength and flaw of those who send we here . that be why it can be a dangerous thing to have political idol — nobody be perfect . many year ago I have the pleasure of work for , and more importantly learn from , two giant — Lord Adonis and the late , great Tessa Jowell . if I can summon half of Andrew ' s intellect and just an ounce of the extraordinary compassion that Tessa exude , I hope I shall do they and my constituent proud . while we all have our own story and we have all walk our own path that have bring we here today , I think my ultimate aim for my time here be the same as everyone else ' s : to leave thing well than we find they . I know from personal experience that politic can improve people ' s life , and it must . so I say thank you to the people of East Worthing and Shoreham for send I here . I know that true thank come not in the word of this speech today , but in the hard work I will put in for as long as they see fit to send I here and give I the great privilege of serve as their Member of Parliament . it be a real honour to follow five crack maiden speech from the new hon . member for Nuneaton ( Jodie Gosling ) , for Chipping Barnet ( Dan Tomlinson ) , for Reigate ( Rebecca Paul ) , for North West Leicestershire ( Amanda Hack ) and for East Worthing and Shoreham ( Tom Rutland ) , who all do their constituent proud . for so many of we in this Chamber this debate be personal . we have be lucky to hear from several member about their own service . my connection to our armed force be a family one : both my grandad and my uncle serve in the King ' s Shropshire Light Infantry , and their share experience remind I that behind every veteran be a story of sacrifice , resilience and courage , as well as the family and friend who support they and miss they while they be away . the love one of servicemen and woman often bear the weight of anxiety and uncertainty , worry for their safety and wellbeing . it be crucial that we honour their contribution , for they too endure hardship that be often overlook . I want to spend a moment to think about those whose name may not be etch into the stone of our war memorial , but whose legacy deserve to be remember . one such figure be Romiley ' s own Gertrude Powick . during the first world war , she dedicate herself to the war effort by volunteer with the Friends War Victims Relief Committee , work as a nurse on the frontline in both France and Poland . have travel to Warsaw to treat a typhus outbreak , she contract it herself and die in 1919 . Gertrude be not just a care giver and a suffragist , but a trailblazer for woman during wartime , and she be the only woman to be name on a war memorial in Stockport , on a plaque on the Heaton Moor memorial . her work remind we that heroism come in many form , and it be our duty to remember those like she who play a pivotal role in shape our country ' s history . in my constituency of Hazel Grove , our community be take many proactive step to address the challenge face by veteran . nearly 3 , 000 veteran be estimate to be homeless in the UK at any give time , and a report from the Royal British Legion indicate that 42 % of veteran be experience issue with their mental health — with depression , anxiety or post - traumatic stress disorder . we have brilliant group in Hazel Grove such as the Armed Forces and Veterans Breakfast Club , obviously the Hazel Grove branch of the Royal British Legion , and Project Recce , which train veteran in construction skill . we be also look to turn Woodbank hall , a 200 - year - old building that be fall into disrepair in Woodbank Memorial park , into a veteran centre , and I welcome any and all support from Ministers on the Front Bench to that end . as we remember those who have serve , let we commit ourselves not only to honour their past sacrifice , but actively to improve their present circumstance , because a bright future for our veteran and their family be possible — one that ensure they receive the respect , care and support they so richly deserve . I call Leigh Ingham to make her maiden speech . thank you very much , Madam Deputy Speaker . I thank those who have make their maiden speech today : my hon . friend the Members for Nuneaton ( Jodie Gosling ) and for Chipping Barnet ( Dan Tomlinson ) , the hon . member for Reigate ( Rebecca Paul ) and my hon . friend the Members for North West Leicestershire ( Amanda Hack ) and for East Worthing and Shoreham ( Tom Rutland ) . I hear move story not only about their constituency , but about their own life . it be an honour to speak in this debate today . with family who have serve or be serve in the merchant navy , the Army and the RAF , I be thankful for the incredible sacrifice member of the armed force and their family make for this country . my constituency have strong armed force connection , include the accommodation at MOD Stafford — know as Beacon barrack — the training camp at Swynnerton and a veteran community of more than 4 , 300 . I will fully support they and their family to fight to ensure they have access to quality accommodation and local service . I grow up in a working - class household , the daughter of a factory worker and a bricklayer , who I be so pleased be here today . I never imagine that I would be stand here today make my maiden speech as an MP . to be honest , Westminster can be a little intimidating , so I would like to give particular thank to the wonderful House of Commons Doorkeepers and the Speaker ' s team for make I feel so welcome , particularly Jamie , Joe , Lee and Andy ; I do not know if I be allow to say their name . [ laughter . ] I also want to pay tribute to my predecessor , Theo Clarke and Sir Bill Cash . Theo , the former MP for Stafford , campaign passionately on woman ' s health , a cause I will continue to champion . Sir Bill Cash be the previous MP for Stone and a 40 - year political veteran , have win 10 general election . I can not promise to share his politic , but I do promise to serve my constituent with as much vigour as he do . I would also like to thank Jeremy Lefroy and David Kidney , both still regard as brilliant constituency mp . for constituent to praise a Conservative MP and a Labour MP in the same breath show how important it be that constituent feel see , hear and represent in this place by the person , not just the party . the people of Stafford , Eccleshall and the village want a visible mp , who listen , who fight for they and who prioritise their collective interest over personal agenda — a politic that prioritise " we " , not " I " . that be the kind of politic that I wholeheartedly support . for those who be unfamiliar with it , my constituency be both urban and rural , feature over 50 town and village , which I will not be list today . [ hon . member : " go on ! " ] I have only three minute leave . as the county town , Stafford be proud to be the large town . Stafford town centre be quintessentially british , feature — to name just a few — the Ancient High House , Victoria park , the famous Soup Kitchen which all hon . member should visit , the beautiful church of St Chad ' s and St Mary ' s , and of course the Gatehouse theatre , know for its Shakespeare festival . the historic castle just outside the town be a key feature of Stafford . we be also fortunate to have an outstanding - rate college in Stafford , which be share with my hon . friend the Member for Newcastle - under - Lyme ( Adam Jogee ) , and we be soon to be open a state - of - the - art institute of technology . Eccleshall , another lovely town in my constituency , boast a brilliant high street with seven pub , and it have its own castle , bring the constituency total to two . the 2024 boundary change add rural area include Loggerheads , Maer and Whitmore , and Gnosall to the Stafford constituency , enhance our farming area , and introduce new resident and lovely village pub . support our rural community will be a key focus for I in the come year . one thing that always strike I about my constituency be the caring nature and the strength of our community . local library , charity and faith group have step up during the past 14 year of conservative austerity . a stand - out example be William Morris ' s House of Bread , a brilliant charity that provide meal and support to those in need . one of my favourite story about William be that , in the week he earn the Queen ' s award for voluntary service , he be give an ASBO for the same work . it be a rare combination , but it demonstrate how far the people of Stafford will go to stand up for and support each other . the change of Government mean there be so much to celebrate . this Parliament ' s cohort have a record proportion of state - educate and woman mp . our Cabinet break record on the number of state - educate Ministers and Secretaries of State , and we have our first female Chancellor . while there be still work to be do on social mobility and equality , we be move in the right direction . thirty year ago when I be grow up I would not have think someone like I could be in a place like this . so for the next five year I will continue to work closely with the people of Stafford , Eccleshall and the village to address their issue and get our public service work again , and to celebrate the positivity and joy that be in our area . finally , I hope the next bricklayer ' s daughter in Highfields or the factory worker ' s son in Doxey know that when they grow up they be just as entitle to end up in the House of Commons as anyone else . may I start by join other in wish the Royal Marines a very happy 360th birthday today ? it be a superb unit with a proud and distinguished history , albeit slightly short than my own regiment ' s . they call we " Pongos " and we call they " Bootnecks " and it be an honour to share this House with so many distinguished Royal Marines — my hon . friend the Member for Exmouth and Exeter East ( David Reed ) and the Minister for Veterans and People , the hon . member for Birmingham Selly Oak ( Al Carns ) among their number . when I be 14 my english master , Mr Smale , give we a poem to read and it annoy I very much . it be write by Philip Larkin , and it end like this : " crowd , colourless and careworn have make my taxi late , yet not till I be airborne do I recall the date — the day when Queen and Minister and Band of Guards and all still act their solemn - sinister Wreath - rubbish in Whitehall . it use to make I throw up , these mawkish , nursery game : o when will England grow up ? — but I out soar the Thames , and dwindle off down Auster to greet Professor Lal ( he once meet Morgan Forster ) , my contact and my pal . " I think what get to I then be the soar , sneer cynicism of the persona that the poet have create of the travel academic look down both metaphorically and literally on the Cenotaph service here in Westminster . I think it offend my sense of fairness . soldier by and large have little choice in what they be call to do . equally , they have little choice in the way in which the nation subsequently remember they . they just do what they be call to do . this year mark 80 year since D - day and one of my constituent , Don Sheppard , who die aged 104 this year , be a veteran of both D - day and Arnhem . on the point my hon . friend be make , Don ' s quote be , " the lad that didn ' t make it back , those be the other one we need to remember . " do my hon . and gallant Friend agree on that point ? my right hon . friend make a powerful point and place on the record distinguish veteran and their contribution to national life , and I thank he for it . as a former soldier who have lose man , let I get one thing straight : these man and woman die for we all to be free — free to do whatever the law of the land permit we to do ; to wear a poppy ; not to wear a poppy ; to remember ; not to remember . it be our freedom . it be our choice , and on day like Remembrance Sunday there be not a soldier , sailor , airman or Royal Marine for whom that question could matter less . they be in another place : they be see the face of lose friend ; they be feel guilty for have survive when their friend have not ; they be try to hold it together long enough for open time to come at the pub . if I may say , on their behalf : " thank you . thank you for be here in this debate today and at the constituency garden of remembrance early . thank you for the respect . thank you for your thank you . " the act of remembrance be a little like go to church : some people go to church once a year , some once a week . for remembrance , it could be two minute ' silence once a year for some , or just find two minute ' peace in a day from the awfulness of the loss of a son or a daughter for another . regardless , here today we will remember they and we will honour our fallen . I be a veteran , and it be great to be a veteran . I learn so much from my service in the military : I have so many great experience , be proud to play my own small part in Afghanistan , and work with some fantastic people . it be great to be a veteran . serve be not all sunshine and rose , but I can recommend no well career for someone in their 20 than to join our military . but with the joy of service can come sadness . my constituency have many diverse town and village — the ex - pit town of Clay Cross , Dronfield with its bustling heart , or Killamarsh with its proud Derbyshire spirit . but they all have one thing in common : at the heart of each of they be a war memorial with the name of those lose in conflict over the previous 100 year . these name be all once live , breathe member of their community — much - love brother , son , father , other relative and friend — and it be they I think of when I wear the poppy . there can be a lot of very clever discourse about the poppy , which be such a simple and humble flower . the fact be that the poppy appeal be a truly successful grassroots movement . the first poppy appeal see over 9 million sell in its first year , all wear by ordinary man and woman who come together because they have lose a love one and want to remember they . grainy black and white photograph from the 1920 show people stand in remembrance ceremony in the cold and silent November air , their grief clear to see on their face even in those more stoic time . the poppy truly spontaneously unite million of people in hope . some may not bear to see that unity but it be something that still unite million of people today . I would like briefly to address a few point that have be raise . it be very important that we learn the lesson of the past 14 year , and that we understand who make the decision regard our armed force and why those decision be make . who sell off our valuable military housing stock so cheaply to Annington ? I believe it be the Conservatives . who pull our force back from important basis in Germany even as Russia become active in Ukraine ? again , it be the Conservatives . who waste billion of pound on procurement , and reduce the offer to serve personnel , lead to a haemorrhage in the number serve in our military ? it be the Conservatives . who oversee the reduction of our military size to barely be able to field a brigade minus ? it be the Conservatives . so , yes let we have accountability , but it start with an iota of shame from the party opposite before they be allow anywhere near our defence again . at least , however , some of they be here ; I note that not every party have a representative present . I would also like to add briefly in response that one tenet very close to my heart as a veteran be that the rule of law be of the high importance — order . I call Liz Saville Roberts . in the time that I have I would like to raise a couple of matter particularly relevant to Wales and also say what a delight it be to hear all the maiden speech this evening . the post of Veterans ' Commissioner for Wales be establish two year ago and be hold by Colonel James Phillips but his appointment be due to come to an end on 31 December . please will the Minister in his closing remark update the House on approval to extend this role ? Colonel Phillips ' second annual report be publish last month and it make clear why a commissioner be crucial for veteran in Wales so they be not fail by the jagged edge of devolved and reserved power . core state funding from both the Welsh and UK Governments be necessary to make sure veteran receive proper care in health and housing , which be devolve , as well as reserve matter such as welfare and justice . some 50 % of the veteran population in Wales be over 65 year old and 20 % be over 85 . alongside health , the cost of living be a significant challenge for old veteran , and of course military compensation should not be treat as income for the purpose of benefit and pension . an income disregard should be introduce for the war pension and armed forced compensation scheme . this be about not just the veteran themselves , but the third sector provider on which veteran support rely so heavily in Wales . those provider have see a steep increase in operational cost and reduce funding . organisation such as Woody ' s Lodge and VC Gallery have be particularly hard - hit . that be important . while initiative such as Op Courage , Op Restore and Op Nova have receive new money in England , in Wales they do not exist and we have not see equivalent funding either , leave many critical service fund hand to mouth from year to year through grant . this evening , I be also proud to support the campaign for an official memorial to remember and honour the pilot and navigator of the RAF ' s Photographic Reconnaissance Unit . that be be organise as we speak by the spitfire aa810 project . the PRU fly highly dangerous , clandestine mission to take intelligence photo . its strip - down plane be unarmed , so as to carry as much fuel as possible . for that reason , the PRU include conscientious objector among its crew . the death rate be horrific , with around 48 % lose their life . one PRU survivor be Edward Bacon of Y Felinheli near Caernarfon in my constituency . the project be keen to reach out to family to collect their story , so that their love one will once again be more than just another name carve on a war memorial . talk of memorial , the project be also campaign for a UK memorial here in Westminster . when that come to fruition — and it will — wreckage from a PRU aircraft will be its centrepiece . that poignant reminder of the courage and horrendous risk face by PRU airmen be retrieve just last month from a Mosquito aircraft that crash on Aran Fawddwy in Meirionnydd 80 year ago — order . I call Sarah Hall . as a nation , we be rightly proud of our armed force personnel and veteran , and theirs be the ultimate public service . we owe they a debt of gratitude . all here today , as we have hear already , have be touch by story of heroism and heartbreaking sacrifice in defence of our nation . I take this opportunity to honour those who have serve and those who have make the ultimate sacrifice to defend our freedom and protect our way of life . today , I want to focus on three brave soldier from Warrington who lose their life : Marine Steven Birdsall of 40 Commando Royal Marines , who die in 2010 ; private Thomas Sephton of 1st Battalion the Mercian Regiment , who die in 2010 ; and Private Daniel Wade from 3rd Battalion the Yorkshire Regiment , who die in 2012 . we will never forget the sacrifice they make . we be all here today because we owe so much to those who come before . we be deeply proud of our veteran , serve personnel and the family who support they for the contribution they make to our country . I also pay tribute to the mother of Private Daniel Wade , Lisa Billing . in memory of her son , Lisa work tirelessly alongside Warrington borough council and other to revitalise Marshall garden in Warrington town centre . Marshall garden , which sit opposite the town cenotaph on Bridgefoot , have be transform into a haven of peace , reflection and remembrance . Lisa be instrumental in make that happen , pour her heart and soul into the project . in Warrington , the scale of support for our serve personnel , veteran and family be clear to see with the popularity of the annual Warrington Armed Forces Day festival . it be hold each year at Crosfields rugby league club to raise money for armed force charity in memory of Tom Sephton . it be here that the community have take the opportunity to come together to enjoy a day of rugby league entertainment , with thousand of people show their continue and unwavering support to all our armed force . they raise ten of thousand of pound for armed force , rugby league and local charity . I also pay tribute to Warrington ' s veteran hub . while base in the constituency of my hon . friend the Member for Warrington North ( Charlotte Nichols ) , the support offer by the hub reach far and wide . it be fair to say that while we be two constituency , we be one town — one town with a share sense of pride , respect and admiration for all serve and veteran military personnel , and a share drive and passion to ensure they receive the help and support they need . while we have hear many warm word about the contribution of our armed force over the year , too often that have not translate into action . however , I be proud that this Labour Government have commit to act — order . I call Jim Allister . I join in the tribute to our gallant security force who , through their sacrifice , have bring we all the liberty that we enjoy . when our soldier fall in foreign field , we feel it very deeply . when they fall on home ground , there be an add poignancy to it . as a Member for Northern Ireland , represent the constituency of North Antrim , tonight I want to place on record the appreciation of so many people in Northern Ireland for the willing sacrifice of our gallant security force from across this United Kingdom who pay with their life in defend Northern Ireland from the ravage of terrorism . that debt be much appreciate by many of we . in thinking of that debt , and of our affirmation that " we will remember they " , I want just to give an illustration . today be 28 October , so let I share with the House the number and name of the soldier who die on 28 October in various year on home soil in the United Kingdom . on 28 October 1972 , Lance Sergeant Thomas McKay from Edinburgh , a married man with two child , be shoot from behind in Londonderry . on 28 October 1973 , private Stephen Hall , 1st Light Infantry , from Bristol , be shoot in Crossmaglen . in 1974 , private Michael Swanick and Private Alan Coughlan be both murder by a bomb attack on the Sandes home where they stay at Ballykinler camp . on 28 October 1976 , off - duty Ulster Defence Regiment soldier — this remind we that so many local soldier also pay the price — Stanley Desmond Adams be shoot do his round as a postman . on 28 October 1979 , Warrant Officer David Bellamy be shoot in a Land Rover as he leave a police station . those be reminder of name we have all forget , but name of those to whom we in Northern Ireland and elsewhere owe so much . I place on record our appreciation tonight . I say one final thing to the government : we have a veteran commissioner in Northern Ireland , but it have never be put on a statutory basis . that need to be do to give it last effect . leed South West and Morley have a proud tradition of stand side - by - side with veteran in our community and remember those who make the ultimate sacrifice . in Morley , our serve mayor Simon Brown serve with the Royal Electrical and Mechanical Engineers . in 2006 , Simon be shoot by a sniper in Iraq while on a rescue mission to help his strand vehicle ' s six - person crew . he lose one eye completely , and he have only partial sight in the other . that have never hold he back from serve the veteran in our community in Morley , and we be proud to have he as our mayor . Simon ' s deputy mayor , Carol Edwards , be also a veteran . Carol support the organisation , Veterans in Need together . VINT aim to help veteran to regain their sense of provide follow their service . the lead facilitator , Adi Heptinstall , provide a space at Morley fire station every Wednesday at 7 pm for veteran to come together to talk and share . I also pay tribute to Christine Hirst , who run the Soldiers , Sailors , Airmen and Families Association luncheon club in Morley on the first Sunday of every month . the meal be excellent , as be the entertainment . like every corner of the UK , we have also lose servicepeople in the line of duty . I want to pay tribute to Morley ' s Lance Corporal David Kirkness , who lose his life in 2009 to a suicide bomber in Afghanistan , along with Rifleman James Brown . senior officer in the military at the time say that they give their life to prevent a large tragedy in a nearby marketplace , where casualty would have be much high . we thank David for his service . it be so important that we remember the sacrifice that our veteran have make for we . every year , the Royal British Legion branch in Morley and East and West Ardsley do their part for the poppy appeal . I place on record my thank to Gail Wood , our honorary poppy appeal organiser in Morley , and Paul Wood , her deputy , for their tireless effort , along with every volunteer who support the Royal British Legion . every part of my constituency will pay tribute on Remembrance Sunday . the people of Morley will show up in huge number , as we always do , at the service in Scatcherd Park . Terry Grayshon , the chairman of the Morley remembrance committee , do an outstanding job of help to organise that . Rev . Chris Balding will lead service in Wortley and at Farnley cenotaph . there will be service in Drighlington , Gildersome , and Churwell — in every part of my constituency . in Tingley , there will be a service near the site where a RAF bomber crash in 1944 , where we will honour the seven serviceman who tragically lose their life as a result . every corner of Leeds South West and Morley take pride in pay their respect to those who have serve . our veteran have do their part for our country and we should never stop try to do our part for they . as we approach remembrance , we often think of one person — perhaps a friend who have die in conflict , or if we have serve , perhaps comrade , or perhaps a great - grandparent we never meet but whose memory loom large in our family lore . we often remember one person , and this year as we remember , I will be think of Luke Tooke , a royal artilleryman from the 16th Regiment Royal Artillery . Luke be the last Tunbridge Wellian to die in conflict . in 2018 in Kabul , Afghanistan , a suicide bomber , in a truck pack full of explosive , ram the gate of a compound , follow which , in a secondary attack , a bunch of insurgent storm the compound , and Luke die in the result firefight . I never know Luke but I have the honour of marching alongside his dad , Anthony , in the remembrance parade in Tunbridge Wells . after we have march , Anthony and I speak about Luke and about Jacqueline , who be Luke ' s mum . I be strike by the quiet dignity and pride that they show in their son in the face of what must be heart - sear pain . we have hear it say today that if , every day , they can find two minute to escape that heart - sear pain , it must be a bless release . I be often ask whether death in conflict — british death in conflict , specifically — be worth it , and as a veteran of Afghanistan , I often think about that . there be two answer . one be the personal : each death be a tragedy . Luke die defend his comrade and his mate and it be a tragedy , but it have meaning because he die in service to his comrade and his friend . for the second answer , we have to look to ourselves — to member of this House — for it be we who send they there , and we do that for our country . the great honour that we can pay to our veteran be to consider incredibly carefully the question that come before we , because we will have to make decision about peace and war in this Parliament . we will remember Luke . I join the House in thank our armed force , include people from Central Ayrshire who have serve our country and who continue to put their life on the line in the defence of our country , and those who have make the ultimate sacrifice for our freedom . I also thank the Royal British Legion Irvine and Troon branch , as well as the Ayr and Prestwick branch of the Royal Air Forces Association and the Prestwick community council for the remembrance service they help to arrange in the town of Irvine , Prestwick and Troon , and their important work year - round to support veteran and their family . I also thank Veterans First Point in Irvine , which be staff by veteran and be a one - stop shop for veteran and their family . I hope the House extend its congratulation to the Ayr and Prestwick branch of the Royal Air Forces Association , which receive the President ' s cup at this year ' s national conference . it be recognise as the top branch in the RAFA for its excellent work with veteran and service personnel in the community , as well as facilitate remembrance service for polish colleague at the polish war memorial . it happen to have the old veteran in the constituency , Flight Lieutenant ( retire ) Harry Richardson DFC , a 106 - year - old world war two hero pilot . I also recognise the work of the colleague who help we remember around the world , particularly the Commonwealth war grave staff and the colleague I use to work with in embassy and the British Council on remembrance event . my former colleague Dr Debanjan Chakrabarti visit a number of Commonwealth war grave in north - east India with I , include the cemetery in Kohima . as those of we who attend Mr Speaker ' s remembrance event this morning will know , this year mark the 80th anniversary of the battle of Kohima in April 1944 , which be a turning point in the war in Asia . many believe that the assistance that the Naga people give british and indian troop as guide , porter and combatant be critical in our success of that campaign . I well remember be welcome to Kohima by the Naga people , visit the Kohima cemetery high in the Naga hill and walk along row upon row of british and indian grave . there , I read the Kohima epitaph : " when you go home , tell they of we and say , for your tomorrow , we give our today . " it be a pleasure to speak in this debate , which be timely as we be approach Remembrance Day , but it be always time to remember with gratitude those who have lay down their life to protect the thing that we hold dear — democracy and the right to live our life and raise our child . when I think of remembrance , I think of Winston Donnell , murder on 9 August 1971 . the IRA murder he , but no one be ever make accountable for his murder . today in the remembrance garden I take the opportunity to remember four Ulster Defence Regiment man murder at Ballydugan on 9 April 1990 : Lance Corporal Bradley , John Birch , who I grow up with at Ballywalter , Michael Adams and Steven Smart . I also take the opportunity to lay a cross in the remembrance garden to remember my cousin Kenneth Smyth , murder by the IRA on 10 December 1971 . again , no one be ever make accountable . you can understand , Madam Deputy Speaker , why I seek justice for all those people who be murder . no one be ever make accountable . I declare an interest as a member of the Ulster Defence Regiment , in which I serve for three year . I also serve in the Royal Artillery for eleven and a half year as a part - time soldier . as a former member of the Ulster Defence Regiment , I be proud of that institution that I serve in . I be thankful for the service of the Royal Ulster Constabulary — those man and woman serve in their community know that they be a target . I be thankful for the spouse and child who go for day without see or hearing from their love one as they enter dangerous situation and try to uphold the law and justice against those who terrorise they and threaten their family and their very life . I be thankful for their sacrifice of family time and peace at home . I remember their sacrifice and the toll that their service have on their mental health — a price that too many honourable ruc officer still pay to this day — while also have that service distort and tear apart to pacify a republican rewrite of history , to take a force synonymous with justice , duty and diligence and smear it with accusation of dishonour . I will not allow that to happen in this House . I remember the ruc with great honour , which they earn through blood , sweat and continue tear . today , I unapologetically stand on my foot to thank those who serve in the Ulster Defence Regiment with the green beret — I still have mine — and the Greenfinches , who be the brave of woman . I stand on my foot to refute those accusation that would make the service of that force anything other than admirable . I thank those Greenfinch woman , who work all night to keep their child safe , and come home and send their child to school . the live a dual life for fear that their child would be put at risk if it be know that they be part of the british state . all of we who live through the terrorism by evil people in both community have much to be thankful for to those who serve . to those veteran of the ruc , the British Army and the Ulster Defence Regiment , and their family , who pay the price of service , I say a big thank you . at the going down of the sun and in the morning , we will remember they all . remembrance in Portsmouth be not just one day a year ; it be all year round . the Royal Navy , and those who serve , run through our city ' s DNA . I , like so many in Portsmouth , be a very proud cousin , great niece , granddaughter and now mum of service personnel . since my election in July and before , it have be a pleasure to meet so many veteran and serve personnel , and those who support our troop at home and at sea , and to witness this year - round remembrance at first - hand . recently , I attend the 100 year of the Commonwealth memorial on Southsea Common and meet my constituent Clive , a standard bearer and Royal Navy veteran who , along with other , come rain or shine , be at every remembrance event in Portsmouth . I have the privilege of spend the night on his Majesty ' s Queen Elizabeth aircraft carrier to see she in operation and to listen to current service personnel . it have be brilliant to join the Armed Forces and Veterans Breakfast Club for a crack fry - up at one of their regular breakfast catch - up , and to meet MOD housing to assess the situation face our current service personnel . it be an honour to host Royal Naval Association veteran in Parliament a few week ago to talk about life post - service , and an honour for my city to host D - Day 80 . be in the armed force be like be in a large family , so it be great to visit the Whale Island nursery to see the work it be do in keep family together even when , in reality , they be mile apart . I be proud to be take part in the armed force parliamentary scheme . I be also proud to be part of a Government who recognise the service of all our veteran , the importance of quality housing and the need for more and well post service , and who respect the contribution of our veteran . the Government have listen and act on policy that veteran charity have be call for , for year : approve veteran card as voter ID ; commit to enact the armed force covenant law ; and recognise the priority of housing . I look forward to sell poppy again this year with Terry and Denise , and the army of volunteer in my city . ahead of all the commemoration this weekend , and ahead of the official remembrance in Portsmouth Guildhall on Remembrance Sunday , I want to put on record my deep gratitude to those who keep we safe every day and to those who have lose their life defend our country , in particular those lose at sea . as the " Last Post " ring out across our country , I ask that we hold proudly those who have serve and be serve , and their family , close in our heart . my constituent and resident of Burgess Hill , Able Seaman George Chandler , be due to lead the blind veteran at the remembrance parade on Remembrance Sunday the weekend after next . sadly , George die early this month . he be 99 year old . I never have the privilege of meet George , but I have be able to speak to his son Paul , who give I a wonderful insight into his father . he be full of character and , in Paul ' s word , an old rogue . George be bear to a working - class family off the Old Kent Road . when war be declare , age 14 George stay in London — he be not evacuate — and experience the blitz in all its horror . his father , Will , have be a soldier at the Somme , and George be determined that he would not be what he call one of the " poor bloody infantry " . he be not go to go into the Army . when he be still 17 , he pester and pester the recruiter at the naval office to sign he up . eventually , they take he on , even though he have not yet reach his 18th birthday . George see active service in the channel as a gunner on a boat , with close combat with the Germans occur very frequently . on D - day , he provide cover for american troop land on Omaha beach , watch the slaughter before his eye . he return from the D - day landing to Newhaven in East Sussex , and see row and row of empty coffin wait for the dead . this year , George be one of a handful of remain veteran who take part in the 80th anniversary commemoration . he go to no . 10 Downing Street , HMS Belfast and the trooping of the colour . this cause George ' s family a certain amount of consternation , for George be not a conservative . his family be terribly worried about what George might say when he meet Government Ministers . they have a plan that if George let rip , they would whisk he away in his wheelchair before any embarrassment could be cause . I be pleased to say to Conservative Members that he meet Gillian Keegan , Grant Shapps and the former Prime Minister ' s wife , and no event occur . I ask Paul what George ' s message to the House would be , and the answer — what Paul think his dad would have say — be characteristically robust . he be passionate about remember his shipmate , those who give their tomorrow for our today . he stay in contact throughout his life with the daughter — Order . I will draw my comment to a close , Madam Deputy Speaker . George ' s message would be : " Don ' t be stupid like my generation . Don ' t do it again . Don ' t listen to the stupid politician . Most of all , we must have more compassion for each other . " I welcome the Secretary of State to his place , and I be delighted that a fellow Scot have take the role of Minister for Veterans and People . scottish community have play a vital role in the history of our military , and in my constituency more than 4 , 000 people have serve in our armed force . the ceremony of remembrance that we take part in be important for we all , but for thousand of people in my constituency and their family , they speak to their personal experience of service . one of the great privilege that I have have in my career be to work for a veteran charity , Sight Scotland Veterans . among the veteran we support , too many have experience isolation and loneliness . one of the veteran I work with be William Montgomerie , know to everyone as Monty , who have serve in Germany , Cyprus and Northern Ireland before leave the Army in 1977 . while serve in the Territorial Army , Monty suffer a head injury that mean that he could not work . that in turn affect his mental health . he say : " I have go from work and have the camaraderie and companionship of the Territorial Army to be on my own … the reality be that you might only speak to your Alexa device for day at a time — wish she a Merry Christmas and no - one else . it can make you feel suicidal . " Monty be now an eloquent and effective campaigner on the need to provide well support for our veteran . that support be the debt that we owe they as a society , but as we have hear throughout this evening ' s debate , too often we fall short . that be why this Government ' s commitment to put the armed force covenant fully into law , and to create an armed force commissioner , be so important . in Scotland , the role of the Scottish Veterans Commissioner have be vital to the assessment of progress in Scotland on secure the aim of the covenant . in her most recent report as commissioner , Susie Hamilton find progress in a number of area , but also note : " disappointingly , progress towards the delivery of both the Veterans Mental Health and Wellbeing Pathway and the Veterans Homelessness Prevention Pathway remain notably slow " . I hope that the Scottish Government will take careful note of those point . too many veteran still face poor mental health , and do not have the housing support that they need . that be why the Prime Minister ' s commitment that we will repay all those who serve we and house all veteran who be in housing need be so important . our armed force champion in Fife , Councillor Derek Noble , serve in the 105th Regiment Royal Artillery himself . the aim of the covenant be be take forward through the council , and we be proud that it have achieve the covenant gold standard . our veteran have give so much for their country . we must not only mark that with gratitude and respect on Remembrance Day , but ensure that our nation meet all its responsibility to all our veteran . it be an honour to pay tribute to our armed force community this evening , and it be particularly special to be able to pay tribute to my late great - grandfather , Flight Lieutenant Thomas Gittins . he be a tool salesman who join the RAF Reserves in the hope of become a pilot . he be pretty small in stature , so he be never allow to get near the cockpit . he fall at the first hurdle , despite be almost small enough to walk under it . he do , however , join 196 Squadron as a rear gunner in Wellington and Lancaster bomber , and between 1940 and 1945 he complete 51 mission , include tow glider to transport soldier to Normandy on D - Day . for his service he be award the Distinguished Flying Cross , which be pretty rare for folk serve in his position . like so many war hero , my great - grandfather be intensely humble about his grand achievement . he be too humble to say that his bravery contribute to the preservation of our democracy , and to accept that his service mean that Members of Parliament , include his great - grandson down the line , could stand up here for our country . as with many war hero , the atrocity of war take its toll on his mental health as he transition back to civilian life . today , we recognise those challenge as combat stress . thank to so many volunteer across my wonderful constituency of Eastbourne — the sunniest in the UK — local veteran have access to more support than ever , include through our Royal British Legion branch , chair by Alan Leith , who I recruit as my driving instructor . he be support in chair the RBL in Eastbourne by his fab secretary , Daphne Geninazza . I have also have the chance to meet inspirational veteran such as Eric Deach and Brian Perry , who be know as the formidable poppy salesman at the Tesco in the Admiral Way retail park in St Anthony ' s . there be also local support in the form of the brilliant Eastbourne and District Veterans Association ; I be proud to lead on its incorporation as a community interest company . I pay tribute to the wonderful Barry and Petra Coase and their dog Bella , who be involve with the charity Combat Stress , which support veteran locally , and to the Blue Van drop - in group . we all need to go even far to support our armed force , and I be delighted to speak up for they today . may I begin by congratulate everyone who have make their maiden speech this afternoon and evening ? they do so under time pressure , which add a layer of complexity that I be glad I do not have . as I mention in my maiden speech , I grow up on an RAF base in Berlin . as member might expect , remembrance be a huge part of my early memory . the service always include veteran of the world war , but also of Korea , where my grandfather serve , the Falklands , and the violence in Northern Ireland . during the election campaign , I be not surprise by the scale of the veteran community in my constituency of Dunfermline and Dollar . the area have a strong naval tradition , and the rest of Fife have a strong presence throughout the RAF , the Army and other unit . it strike I , however , how spread out veteran be . many be unaware of the size of the veteran community in the area . we must do more locally to bring those community together . it be clear that the level of support across Scotland and , I be sure , the rest of the UK be mixed , but I fear that in some area , Scotland be fall behind on these priority . it be sad that there be no member from the Scottish National party in the Chamber this evening . we must do well to co - ordinate together . I want to share the story of a couple of veteran from my community and constituency . this weekend , I take my two daughter to the Carnegie library , which have a fantastic local history museum . it tell the story of Alexander Malcolm McNeill , who die on 1 July 1916 , the first day of the Battle of the Somme . the second story that I want to share be that of Norman Bonnar , who live in the Garvock area of Dunfermline and serve throughout the early part of the war as a Spitfire pilot with the Photographic Reconnaissance Unit . on 4 July 1944 , he be kill when the Wellington aircraft he be in crashed . he be bury in Dunfermline cemetery and posthumously award the Distinguished Flying Cross . recently , I be pleased to meet some of the team behind the restoration of spitfire aa810 , which have be refer to . it be fly by Norman Bonnar . I hope that we can recognise such effort by have a memorial to the sacrifice of the Photographic Reconnaissance Unit . I echo what hon . member have say about make sure that we recognise those veteran who be not always immediately in our thought . I be read " the Lion above the door " by Onjali Rauf with my 10 - year - old daughter Hannah . I be only halfway through the book , but it be focus on remember those in India and the far east who serve in world war two , and I would recommend it to anyone in this House . tell the story of people such as Alexander and Norman be just a small sample of what we must do to remember . to return to the main point , we must always ensure that remembrance be translate into support for those currently serve , and those who will serve in the future . my constituency have a deep historic connection with the UK armed force . today it be home to Army Training Centre Pirbright and a substantial part of the Royal Military Academy , Sandhurst . this evening , though , I want to draw attention to two veteran I have have the privilege of meeting and get to know in Surrey Heath over the past few year . their story speak of the unevenness of veteran ’ experience , and of those in community in the wide armed force family whose courage and sacrifice may be equal to other ' , but who have have to fight for justice and recognition . Carol Morgan want to be in the Army since she be a little girl . it be a commitment , a conviction and a vocation , yet when she be only 24 , she be unceremoniously discharge from the Women ' s Royal Army Corps solely because of who she love . although homosexuality be decriminalise in 1967 , those who be gay in the UK armed force prior to the year 2000 have to keep their identity and feeling hide . after be report on by a colleague , Carol recall relentless interrogation about the most intimate detail of her life , and countless humiliation that leave she feeling like a criminal . for LGBT veteran , be find to be gay meant be discharge and the loss of their career , livelihood , medal and pension . in some case , it mean imprisonment . tragically , the trauma of those experience lead many to take their own life , and thousand of LGBT veteran suffer long - term harm under this atrocious policy . while I acknowledge that progress have undoubtedly be make — there have be an apology from the former Prime Minister , an LGBT veteran independent review and a £ 50 - million compensation fund — true justice remain elusive . for the approximately 4 , 000 veteran whose life be irreparably alter , £ 12 , 500 be a meagre offering . I hope that the Government will use this budget and remembrance season to reconsider the scale of that scheme , and to give those veteran the recognition that they truly deserve . I also note the furore around the Royal British Legion ' s poppy badge that have the LGBT flag alongside it . the outrage might be reserve to fringe television station in the UK , but it be a reminder that the injustice endure by many LGBT veteran be still far from resolve or reconcile , even now in 2024 . I pay tribute to the Gurkha community , whose regimental headquarters be in Surrey Heath . for over two century , soldier from Nepal have fight bravely for the British Army in the UK ' s most pivotal conflict , from both world war to the Falklands , Bosnia , Iraq and Afghanistan . we owe they a debt of gratitude for their loyalty , their courage and their sacrifice . I particularly want to honour Kaji Sherpa , who I meet just a few month ago , a former gurkha officer and the first serve Gurkha to be grant UK citizenship . as we approach another Remembrance Day , we should commit ourselves to remember that , for some , the fight for justice continue . the armed force covenant be a critical document that have the capability to positively impact the life of service personnel and veteran , and I be pleased that the Labour Government have commit to enshrine it in law and make it a legally bind commitment , so that nobody from the armed force family be disadvantage in any way by their military service to our nation . I be proud that West Notts college in my constituency of Mansfield be recently award a defence employer recognition scheme silver award for support the armed force covenant . I congratulate the college , and look forward to see many other organisation in my constituency take this important step . as the employer of a veteran in my parliamentary office , I can see the skill that be invest in service personnel in their training — skill that continue to be useful in my office . speak as a former ceo , it be clear to I that the armed force ethos and work ethic provide advantage to business . the Minister for Veterans and People recount an operation that he conduct in Afghanistan , and speak of the commitment that those whom he command be able to give to their mission because of their certainty about the wraparound support they would receive , should they require it , on the frontline . it be time for society and the Government to deliver that in a post - service support package , in return for the commitment show by our armed force . finally , I recently host a parliamentary reception for care after Combat , a charity that mentor veteran in the justice system . I thank the more than 100 parliamentarian who take the time to visit and understand the issue far . veteran be the large occupational group represent in the justice system , which be an uncomfortable statistic . listen to account of the charity ' s work and the veteran ’ story , it be clear that veteran have a lot to contribute to society , include those with experience of the justice system . I would like to talk about an issue that affect a small number of british family and veteran : the nuclear test issue in relation to Christmas Island . for Stephen Greenwood , a constituent of mine from Cullompton , the issue affect he personally . his late father serve in the Royal Air Force and be one of many serviceman send to Christmas Island in the late 1950 under Operation Grapple . those test , design to develop the UK ' s nuclear weapon capability , subject military personnel to dangerous level of radiation , with little recognition of , or concern for , the long - term consequence . Stephen ' s father share with he an abide , vivid memory of see the bone of his finger as he shield his eye from the nuclear detonation — the disbelief as the flash from the detonation illuminate those bone . like so many , he later suffer from cancer . the impact do not stop there . the child of deceased servicemen experience stark health disparity . Stephen ' s sibling who be bear before their father be expose to the detonation experience good health , but those who be bear afterwards experience poor health . this be a pattern that Stephen have see not just in his own family , but in the family of veteran he have since encounter . in the run - up to the election , the previous Government go so far as to make sure that a medal be cast to recognise the servicepeople who be involve in Operation Grapple . in opposition , Labour suggest that they could go far . the veteran I have talk to — for example , those in the Sidmouth branch of the Royal British Legion — feel that the Government need to go far . they would like an annual remembrance event , such as the one I attend in Sidmouth on 31 August , to honour the service of the dwindle number of veteran who see the nuclear detonation in the Pacific in the 1950 . additionally , they be advocate for compensation for veteran who have suffer health issue due to exposure to radiation . the family of veteran such as Stephen ' s late father have endure the legacy of Christmas Island and can not afford to wait another decade . they be demand action in this Parliament . I want to share my deep gratitude for the people who make up the armed force community in my constituency , include serve troop and service family , the cadet and reservist at the army reserve centre on Oxford Road and , of course , our veteran , of whom we have almost 3 , 000 . each and every one of they make an immense contribution to our country . in Aylesbury and the village , remembrance be embed in the community . in the heart of our town , the war memorial in Market Square commemorate 264 soldier who die in the first world war and 106 soldier who die in the second world war , as well as Simon J . Cockton , one of the crew of four in an Army helicopter that be shoot down by friendly fire over the Falkland Islands in June 1982 . inscribe on the memorial be the prescient word , " their memory live for evermore " . successive generation have live up to those word and we will , too : we will never forget . help to preserve the memory be the Aylesbury branch of the Royal British Legion . I thank everyone for their work , include Philip Turner , Lorna Muir and Brian Morris , who serve as president , chairman and vice - chairman respectively . I attend the Aylesbury branch ' s launch of the poppy appeal at Friars Square shopping centre . we watch a move performance by Aylesbury School of Dance and there be a powerful two - minute silence . it be great to see the poppy selling get under way so quickly . I want to take a moment to recognise the contribution of Commonwealth and other personnel from across the world who have often be overlook in commemoration , as other have say tonight , but who have play a vital role in protect and defend the UK and deserve their rightful place in our national story . I welcome the fact that among the wreath to be lay in Aylesbury on Remembrance Sunday will be a marigold wreath to remember the indian troop who fight and die in the world war . finally , we must remember not just through word , but through deed . I be proud that our Government be back our armed force community by put the armed force covenant fully into law and establish an independent armed force commissioner to improve service life . I be also proud of the measure this Government be take to ensure that veteran have access to the employment , housing and mental health support that they so desperately need . we be forever indebted to those who serve — those who serve now , those who serve in the past and those who lose their life in do so . through our work to strengthen support for our armed force community and our veteran , we will honour they . I also have the opportunity a few week ago to meet representative of spitfire aa810 , to which the hon . member for Dunfermline and Dollar ( Graeme Downie ) and the right hon . member for Dwyfor Meirionnydd ( Liz Saville Roberts ) have already pay fine tribute . it be appropriate to reiterate the incredible contribution of the Photographic Reconnaissance Unit , which take more than 26 million image of enemy operation and installation throughout the war . these image be use in the Cabinet war room — now the Churchill war room — locate underneath the Treasury , and be instrumental in the planning of major operation throughout the war . despite this incredible contribution , and with one of the low survival rate of the war — life expectancy in the PRU be around two and a half month — there be no national memorial to the unit . that troubling oversight be why the spitfire aa810 project be lead the campaign to establish such a memorial to the pilot and navigator . I take this opportunity to mark the contribution of four veteran pilot from my Sutton and Cheam constituency , three of whom give their life and all of whom would be commemorate by this memorial . Cyril Harley Sergeant Kirkus join 241 Squadron and fly armed reconnaissance mission in Hurricane aircraft . he be kill on reconnaissance operation in Tunisia on 23 April 1943 , age just 27 . Donald Nevill Gallai - Hatchard , who live with his wife Joyce in Cheam before the war , be a train photographer . his experience in the PRU see he post to work with the American 97th Bomber Squadron operate in Tunisia . in April 1943 , he be put on an American Boston aircraft to photograph the result of a raid on Tunis , but he be kill at the age of 31 when the aircraft be hit by anti - aircraft fire . he be bury in Tunisia . Desmond Laurence Matthewman start the war in Bomber Command , fly with 51 Squadron . in February 1941 , he bring home a bomber from a mission over Bremen whose tail fly control have be damage , make the aircraft almost impossible to control . once over the UK , he and his crew jump by parachute , an act which earn he his first Distinguished Flying Cross . on 8 August 1944 , he and navigator William Stopford take off on a photographic mission to Munich but be meet by the new German Me 262 jet fighter . Matthewman and Stopford be shoot down over Ohlstadt in what have be recognise as the first jet aircraft combat kill in history . Ronald Henry Smyth DFC live in North Cheam and attend Sutton high school . he join up in May 1939 and fly Bristol Blenheims with 25 Squadron . I be grateful to the hon . gentleman for put these name on the record , because it be essential that we have a memorial for these man who lose their life so bravely . I completely agree that the importance of this memorial can not be overstate . with the battle over , Smyth spend a short time fly Hurricane fighter , and in December 1943 he join 541 Squadron , a photographic reconnaissance squadron , command reconnaissance operation from Gibraltar . he be award the DFC in July 1945 for his work in reconnaissance and end his time in the RAF in October 1945 . follow his incredible wartime service , he return to his pre - war job at the Stationery Office , retire in 1980 and pass away in 2017 at the age of 96 . it be only right that we take this opportunity to commemorate the contribution of Cyril , Donald , Desmond and Ronald . will the Minister meet the spitfire aa810 campaigner and help their campaign to honour the brave contribution of the PRU by deliver the first memorial to its work , outside the Churchill war room , where its work make such a profound difference to the course of the war ? our message from across the House today be thank you : thank you to those who serve , to those who die in combat and to the family who support our armed force . in Milton Keynes , the city council be proud of its armed force covenant . as city council cabinet member for housing , I ensure we fulfil that covenant by give the high level of housing to our armed force , and I be proud that that be now government policy . I want to give a shout - out to the Milton Keynes armed force and veteran breakfast club , which provide a lifeline to those currently serve , as well as to veteran . I will focus my comment on the 7 , 500 woman — six out of 10 of whom be in uniform — who serve at Bletchley Park . they be often forget . they be in the Women ' s Royal Naval Service , the Wrens ; the Women ' s Auxiliary Air Force , the WAAF ; and the Auxiliary Territorial Service . they work around the clock for the war effort to keep the Colossus and Bombe machine run , so that we could break the Nazi code . their effort shorten the war by nearly two year , save countless life . their recruitment be a challenge to MI6 , as it have never recruit woman before . it start recruit linguist , mathematician and engineer , and even use a 12 - minute cryptic crossword competition to identify talent . however , the woman do not have it easy . when Winston Churchill visit , he say : " I know I tell you to leave no stone unturned to get staff , but I didn ' t expect you to take I literally . " many famous woman work tirelessly during those year , but it be not until the 1970 that anybody , include some of their own , have an idea of the impact they have have on our war effort . the woman be not allow to be classify as code - breaker , and be not allow the title or the pay , but today , in this House , we can call they veteran and give they the respect they deserve . one of they write this poem : " in the year yet to come , when grandchild be many , I want you to know what I do before you be a granny , you ' ll say to the child , as proud as can be , ' in the last war , my darling , a waaf at BP . ' " as the Member of Parliament for the home of the British Army , it be my honour to speak in this debate on remembrance and veteran . I will use my time to share a story from a veteran of the Royal Marines , who celebrate his birthday today . my constituent have give I permission to share his story in the debate , although I have change his name to protect his privacy . John serve our country with honour . he be discharge from the Royal Marines after three year of service , but life outside the military be hard . his mental health spiral . he end up homeless , sleep rough on the street , so he go to the local authority for help . this be the part of his story that shock I , because John be tell that before the local authority could help he , it have first to confirm that he really be homeless . rather than take John at his word , he be tell that he would have to continue to sleep rough in a name location for two week and wait for an outreach worker to visit he to verify that he be homeless . John do as he be order , follow what he have be teach by his service , but he find stay in the same place mean he be target with verbal and physical abuse , so he move and keep move — the cycle go on for year . eventually , he be diagnose with complex post - traumatic stress disorder and refer to Op Courage . even then , it take several more year in temporary accommodation , and he witness a violent incident , before Op Courage and help for Heroes be able to get John the specialist accommodation in my constituency that have allow he to start to move forward with his life . I know just how great a step it be for John to share his story with I . I take three thing from John ' s story . the first be that we owe our veteran much more than our silence and respect on Armistice Day ; it be our duty to speak up whenever the system that come from this place fall short . secondly , safe and accessible housing be vital . that be why I be so proud to hear just a few week ago the Prime Minister announce the Government ' s commitment to house all veteran . thirdly , John ' s experience tell I that our commitment to respect every veteran must reach through every Government Department and every level of staff if we be to succeed — from the Secretary of State down to every member of frontline staff . that be the culture change need to deliver for people such as John who have serve our country . the spirit of remembrance be define by what we do for one another , and the contribution that every one of we can make . with shared effort , we can build a great legacy for those who serve we — now and in the future . it be appropriate that I follow my hon . friend the Member for Aldershot ( Alex Baker ) , as I intend to speak on mental health support for veteran . ahead of today ' s debate , I have a conversation with a very good friend of mine who proudly serve in the Guards . what I be about to say reflect comment that he have give to I , both from his experience and from consultation with his comrade about their personal experience . mental health be at the forefront of concern for those leave the armed force . serve personnel receive excellent mental health care from specialist clinician , which be available for up to six month from discharge , but civilian service often do not appreciate the toll that military life take on the mental and physical health of veteran , so they rely on charity such as Military Veteran Football Club to fill that gap . I be pleased to hear the Secretary of State recognise the support of veteran charity . veteran also tell I that the pressure of cut in the armed force impact their mental health . as politician , we must be sure not to ask individual servicemen and woman to take up that strain , but instead ask how we can support our troop , and ensure that service personnel know that they be appreciate , they will be properly pay , and there will be time for a family life . we must also normalise discussion of emotion and feeling to tackle the tragically high level of suicide among veteran . this be a silent killer , affect people of all age and rank . it do not discriminate , and be the tip of an iceberg of depression , anxiety and stress . it can be treat by an early intervention . young people and our veteran be lose their life from not only a lack of support , but an ignorance of the support that be available . as a signatory to the armed force covenant , I welcome the Government ' s commitment to put it on a statutory footing . veteran need to hear from we that they be not just a number , there be no stigma attach to their service , and once they have leave the force we will care for they , in the same way that they take care of we . it be an honour to speak in this debate ahead of Remembrance Day as we pay tribute to all those who have serve our country , and remember those who make the ultimate sacrifice . each year , we gather to recognise the bravery of our veteran , but true gratitude go beyond these moment . it mean show up for they when it count in real and meaningful way . as the MP for Burton and Uttoxeter , I be proud to represent a community with a long - stand tradition of service . many family across Burton , Uttoxeter and our surround village have story of love one who have serve and sacrifice . I see veteran every day who continue to give back , contribute to our community long after they have hang up their uniform — people such as Carlton Wilkin , a veteran of the Mercian Regiment , who lead the poppy appeal in Burton every year , help we to remember the value that our veteran live by . they volunteer , mentor and inspire , quietly set an example of resilience and dedication for we all . we be also fortunate to have the National Memorial Arboretum on our doorstep — a powerful place of reflection and a tribute to our armed force . I would welcome all right hon . and hon . member come to visit the arboretum to fully appreciate the courage and sacrifice that be represent there . let we be clear that our gratitude must be match with support . charity such as Care after Combat offer a lifeline for veteran as they transition into civilian life by provide mental health support and give veteran renew purpose . such organisation show we what it mean to truly honour service with action . I be commit , as be the Government , to ensure that veteran in Burton , Uttoxeter and across the country have access to the service that they need , from mental health support and housing to employment opportunity . we owe they nothing less . our responsibility be to ensure that they can thrive , and to meet their sacrifice with practical last action . as we come together in this remembrance season , let we promise that our gratitude will be live , not just speak . let we commit to be there for veteran , as they be there for we , by build a country and community in which they be fully support every step of the way . as we approach this time of remembrance , be it fitting that the national Parliament of the UK reflect on the sacrifice make by so many man and woman to ensure that we have the right to be here , in this place , and that our democratic value prevail . indeed , I understand that the first world war claim 19 of our predecessor , while the second world war claim 23 . while we think of the contribution of our veteran , it be wise to take a moment to think about non - combatant , who be also often the victim of war . on 13 March 1941 , Bankhead primary school in my constituency be hit by a Luftwaffe bomb . fortunately , the school have be evacuate , but it be serve as a civil defence station , and 40 people be kill . the reason for the strike be never fully explain ; it could have be a remnant of the Clydebank blitz , with one of the Luftwaffe pilot drop bomb to lighten the load for the way home , or it could have be because of the nearby railway marshalling yard in Yoker . we will never know , but the fact be that 40 civilian die . some year ago , Terrence McCourt , a local Knightswood man , begin a campaign for a war memorial to be erect in his area . Terrence ' s campaign be successful , and a small but very beautiful garden of remembrance be establish in my Glasgow West constituency . regular event take place there to remember important date such as Armistice Day , VJ Day and VE Day . on Remembrance Sunday , many of we will stand in Glasgow ' s George Square to watch the march of veteran and current servicemen and woman , as well as of representative of the emergency and uniformed service . sadly but inevitably , the number of veteran diminish every year , so it be more important than ever that their memory be not allow to fade . unfortunately , neither world war be the war to end all war — the event of the past century be sadly testament to that . as parliamentarian , we must be dedicate to the eradication of conflict through peaceful and democratic mean . that be a worthy objective to which I hope we all subscribe , but it be one that remain in peril in this increasingly dangerous conflict - tear world . for the sake of this generation , and generation yet unborn , we must redouble our effort to support diplomatic and peaceful mean of resolve even the most seemingly intractable situation . after all , we can not make peace by talk only to our friend . as Gandhi put it , an eye for an eye only end up make the whole world blind . at the heart of my constituency lie Carlisle castle , home to the museum of the Border Regiment , the excellent Cumbria Museum of Military Life . the Border Regiment have a long and proud record of service and be the first british unit to join a major engagement by glider , during the invasion of Sicily in the second world war . the regiment go on to serve throughout the italian campaign , and I wish to pay particular tribute to those who serve in that campaign . my dad be just 20 when he set sail for the italian mainland , but the liberation of Italy have begin some month early with the invasion of Sicily . that invasion cost the life of 6 , 000 allied troop , include man from Carlisle ' s Border Regiment who be kill when their glider fail to make land . the invasion of the mainland follow , but the ally encounter increasingly difficult terrain . in particular , Monte Cassino become the scene of some of the most hellish encounter of the second world war . finally , in the early hour of 18 May , the british and polish troop surround the town of Cassino and force a german retreat . a couple of week later , Rome fall , mark a significant milestone in the italian campaign . sadly for those who serve , their recognition be overshadow by the event on the Normandy beach . to add further insult to injury , a perception grow that those serve in Italy be sit out the real fighting of the second world war , and the myth of the D - day dodger be bear . nothing could have be far from the truth : infantry loss on both side make Italy the most costly campaign of the second world war in term of casualty suffer by infantry force . that be why I believe that in this , the 80th year since Monte Cassino , it be right that that battle be commemorate as other key battle of the second world war have rightly be . it be an honour to be give an opportunity to speak this evening as we look ahead to this year ' s remembrance event across the country , and as we recognise the service and courage of the exceptional man and woman who help safeguard our value and freedom . my contribution seek to commemorate some of the local effort from my constituency . perhaps the big contribution of Alloa to the D - day landing take place at the now go mcleod and Sons shipyard . the worker there labour day and night to refit ship for war , include around 130 of the tank landing craft for Operation Neptune . indeed , a message from their lordship at the Admiralty be send to McLeod and Sons after the war , congratulate the entire workforce on their " magnificent effort during hostility " . over in Grangemouth , what be plan to be the country ' s large commercial airfield become a fighter base to defend against bombing raid . once the fear of airstrike have subside , it be designate as a training centre for dare young pilot to learn to fly the iconic Spitfire . More than 60 young man from all over Britain and the Commonwealth , as well as from Poland , Holland and what be then Czechoslovakia , die as student pilot , along with some 20 ground crew who also pay the ultimate price while serve there . today , a replica Spitfire on Bo ' ness Road remind we of their sacrifice , with thank to the member of the 1333 Grangemouth air cadet squadron for their effort in push for that memorial more than a decade ago . veteran of our armed force deserve not just our respect and gratitude , but our practical and meaningful help as they seek to find a place in civilian life . I commend organisation such as the Falkirk Veterans and the Wee County Veterans from Clackmannanshire . the bond among our military personnel extend well beyond service , and veteran ' group such as those in my constituency play a phenomenal role in so many way . there be currently a difference in opinion between the Royal British Legion and many in the veteran community as to the consequence of cut the Armed Services Advice Project . personally , I feel that the veteran have legitimate concern about the removal of ASAP : some have tell I that an in - person interaction with an asap adviser be the difference between life and death . on the face of it , I share the same reservation as many veteran , as replace asap with a call centre could be a potentially fatal reduction in service provision , and I urge the RBL to reconsider . over the last 14 year , this country have see what happen when austerity take hold and vital service be sacrifice . everyone deserve well , especially our veteran . as a newly elect Member of this House , it be my great privilege and honour to attend the opening of the House of Commons garden of remembrance today , and to place my cross of remembrance there on behalf of my constituent . across West Dunbartonshire , just as we do across the nation , we will gather to honour those who make the ultimate sacrifice to defend our freedom and protect our way of life . one of the memorial that I will attend on Remembrance Sunday be at Clydebank town hall in my home town . our town hall memorial contain the name of those fall in all war , and include the name of five brother , Andrew , Walter , James , John and Daniel Munn , who all perish in the first world war — five brother , all lose . it be symbolic of the scale of suffering and the sacrifice of our nation . Clydebank also suffer dreadfully during the second world war across the night of 13 and 14 March 1941 , the blitz . it suffer the bad destruction and civilian loss of life in all of Scotland . at least 1 , 200 people lose their life , and of the 12 , 000 home in Clydebank , only eight remain undamaged . in West Dunbartonshire , we be deeply proud of our armed force personnel , veteran and the family who support they . Theirs be the ultimate public service . as a government , therefore , we must ensure that our veteran have access to the support they need . we must commit to support those who serve and have serve we . the Royal British Legion and Poppyscotland ' s manifesto include recommendation that the Government can take to improve the life of our armed force community , such as " ask the question " , which seek to ensure that all public body ask individual whether they or an immediate family member have serve in the armed force . that would be record and publish to understand need and to provide appropriate support . on both side of the House , hon . member can truly remember by ensure that a well deal for our armed force community remain high on our parliamentary agenda . we have hear many powerful and move contribution , the last of which will be from Dave Robertson . I closely associate myself with all the remark that have be make in the debate about the work of the Royal British Legion , and all it do to support remembrance , particularly in November . when November roll around , I make sure to clear time to remember Charles Leslie Whitehead and William Arnold Robertson , my taid and my grandpa , who see service in the second world war and in the Pacific in Korea respectively . we owe our veteran much more than two minute a year , and remembrance should go far than Armistice Day and Remembrance Sunday . it should be something that anybody , anywhere in the country can take part in at any time by take the time to remember somebody — on their birthday , an anniversary or just a Tuesday . that be why I be proud to host the National Memorial Arboretum in my Lichfield constituency . it be a wonderful venue and a fantastic place for people to carry out that remembrance if they so choose . there be now more than 400 memorial at the arboretum , and I strongly advise any right hon . or hon . member who have not have the opportunity to visit yet to do so , so that they can take the opportunity to remember the people who be pertinent to they , or even the stranger who they have never meet and will never meet , but who give their time and themselves , and in some case pay the ultimate sacrifice , to protect our way of life . we now come to the Front Benchers . I call the shadow Minister . it be a great privilege to rise to respond on behalf of his Majesty ' s loyal opposition in this debate . I congratulate all hon . member who make a maiden speech , not least my hon . friend the Member for Reigate ( Rebecca Paul ) on her excellent speech . although it be not a maiden speech , I also thank the hon . member for Portsmouth North ( Amanda Martin ) for mention those who be lose at sea . it be far too often overlook that those who be lose at sea in various conflict have no grave that family can visit , but their sacrifice be no less important and should be no less remember at this time . it be rare to sit in the Chamber and enjoy a debate where there be so much common cause on both side of the House . I join other hon . member in congratulate the Duke of York and Albany ' s Maritime Regiment of Foot on its 360th anniversary — I do not believe the vicious rumour do the round in Parliament that that be the name bear by the Royal Marines when the Minister join up all those year ago . it be as it should be that we join together as a nation and look towards remembrance as one . Remembrance Sunday and Armistice Day be when we pause , reflect , remember and pay thank to all those who have give the ultimate sacrifice that allow we to live in the peace and freedom we enjoy in our country today . remembrance mean different thing to different people . when the " Last Post " sound in Ballater in two week ' time , I will be think of my great - uncle Samuel Coyle , who fall at Gallipoli in 2015 , one week short of his 21st birthday , and lie bury at Pink Farm cemetery in Turkey . I will think of my great - grandfather , who endure and survive the Somme battlefield ; my paternal grandfather , who fight with the 8th Army at El - Alamein , Sicily , Italy , France and Germany , and survive to tell the tale ; my maternal grandfather , who for over two decade serve in the Royal Navy ; and my godfather , a Royal Marine , who serve from the Falklands to Northern Ireland . I will also think of my friend who serve and be still serve in far more recent conflict and operation in Iraq , Afghanistan and the various but less report naval operation of the last 20 year — our continued presence in the south Atlantic , our oilfield patrol off Iraq and the anti - piracy operation in Somalia to name but a few . as we have hear this afternoon , we all remember individual , family and close friend who choose to serve our country and be prepared to — and , in some case , do — pay the ultimate sacrifice , and we do remember they . when we collectively think of remembrance as a nation and when we think of veteran , for many the image conjure up be of the old soldier who land at D - day proudly march with his oppos past the Cenotaph , a survivor of a long - distant conflict . they remain rightly at the forefront of our thought this year as we commemorate 80 year since D - day , Monte Cassino and other hugely significant operation in that world conflict , which be fight to defend freedom and democracy . it be our victory in that conflict that remain the reason why we can stand in this place today . we remain forever in the debt of that great generation . we must also remember , however , the veteran from much more recent conflict — the much small group of man and woman who fight far from our shore in the name of queen and country , but who , unlike previous generation , do not return to a country with a share experience of war and conflict . in many case , they return to a country that do not really want to know . be a veteran of a late 20th - century or early 21st - century conflict be , in 2024 , far remove from the experience of those who fight between 1914 and 1918 and between 1939 and 1945 . support this new generation be far hard for those charity and organisation that do so much unseen work all year round , not just during this time of remembrance . it be for this new generation of former serviceman and woman that the former Veterans Minister Johnny Mercer , to whom I pay tribute , be determined to fight . that be why he be determined to make this country the good in the world in which to be a veteran . it be also why we as a Government establish the Office for Veterans ’ Affairs , put the armed force covenant into law and set up Defence Transition Services , provide tailor support to help service people with their transition to civilian life . we launch Operation Fortitude to end homelessness , Operation Prosper to support veteran into work after they leave the armed force , Operation Restore to support the physical need of veteran and Operation Courage to support veteran ' mental health . we invest £ 400 million to modernise thousand of military home , provide funding for armed force charity to carry out their vital work , and introduce a new veteran railcard to help veteran reconnect both with love one and with new training and work opportunity . we support veteran through the provision in our Overseas Operations ( Service Personnel and Veterans ) Act 2021 and the Northern Ireland Troubles ( Legacy and Reconciliation ) Act 2023 . I know the Minister be aware that the repeal and replacement of that Act be rightly cause concern in the community of veteran who fight during the trouble . we be near unique as a nation in honour the memory of all those who have fall , those who have serve and those who serve in the way we do . it be to our credit as a country . there be still group that feel forget . for example , as have be mention , there be the veteran of our nuclear test , with many still fight for recognition of what they be ask to do and for what they endure many year on for their country . there be the Photographic Reconnaissance Unit of the RAF , which have also be mention . the unit have one of the high attrition rate in world war two , but it still have no national memorial , and its member must also be remember in the come day . this year when the " Last Post " sound , it will be some 16 year since , as a very young sub - lieutenant , I have the privilege of meet the three remain veteran of world war one — Harry Patch , Henry Allingham and Bill Stone — at the Cenotaph as we mark 90 year since the end of that war , the war supposedly to end all war . this year , let we pause and think of those unseen veteran who walk among we today : those who do not return , and their friend and their family still live with the loss . let we also remember those who , as we sit here tonight , remain prepared to give everything for our nation . let we recommit to do for they what a grateful nation should , and let we redouble our effort to truly make this country the good in the world in which to be a veteran . it be indeed 360 year since the formation of the Royal Marines and they be still go strong . I will refuse to take advice from the hon . member for West Aberdeenshire and Kincardine ( Andrew Bowie ) on face cream but it be a privilege to take the salute just the other day from both the Commandant General Royal Marines and the Commandant of the US Marine Corps , which demonstrate the strong tie across the pond with the US between those Marine unit . I be grateful to member for their thoughtful reflection on remembrance and the contribution of veteran to this country . we have hear move contribution from member reflect on their personal experience of service , and as I be sure they would testify there be an unspoken oath of allegiance between service personnel . indeed , it know no bound ; it be the glue that hold the force together , and that oath have always extend to the fall on the battlefield and beyond . for serve personnel and veteran , remembrance be an endure reflection of that oath , and on the eleventh hour of the eleventh day I will remember the individual who have go before we but also those I have stand next to who have be kill or wound — after five tour of Afghanistan , one of Northern Ireland , and multiple of the arabian gulf , eastern Europe and Africa , there have be many . importantly , we must remember those who will never see that smile again or see they laugh or hold they close once more . it be a time for they , and those that do not come home to see their child , their partner , or indeed their love one or their friend . it be our duty to remember they all . but remembrance be not only about fall comrade and veteran ; it be a rare moment when the nation come together , from Northern Ireland , Scotland , Wales and England . and it be a reminder to everyone in every generation across the whole country that the freedom we all enjoy — the freedom of speech , of equality , of quality of life — be all hard fight for and hard - won . freedom be not free , and it be something in the fractious world we live in today that individually or collectively we should not take for grant . those freedom be forge from the sacrifice of the young man and woman of the Army , Navy and our Air Force who step forward when the country need they : the sacrifice of the few who be still owe so much by the many ; the sacrifice on the high sea , in the air , on the beach and the landing ground and in the field , and in the street from world war one to Operation Overlord , where they secure a beachhead in Normandy that would free a continent from Nazi tyranny and usher in the rule - base international system ; and the sacrifice of 80 , 000 british service personnel who fight in the forget war on the korean peninsula to uphold the right and freedom enshrine in that rule - base international system . all be memorialise in stone outside the MOD , of which one say , " a distant obligation honourably discharge . " there be the sacrifice in the south Atlantic , on the open water , in the sky and on the windswept heath , for the right of the Falkland Islanders to choose their own sovereign future . and the sacrifice of service personnel in desert fatigue who liberate Kuwait and fight in Iraq , and those in the operational area whom I serve alongside in the long trouble of Northern Ireland , the middle east , Africa , Afghanistan and eastern Europe who sacrifice so much to uphold the right to self - determination and give freedom and democracy a chance to take root . and the sacrifice we can not talk about because we do not comment on certain issue . it be thank to all those who have serve and sacrifice and whom we honour on Remembrance Day that we can sit here , as democratically elect mp , and debate the future of this wonderful country . few , if any , outside the armed force sign a contract that put their life on the line and those who have serve or continue to serve often pay the price for that service , through the long - term mental or physical scar , the impact on family and on their child , or through the painful memory or indeed the longing for the camaraderie and service they leave behind . it be my opinion that those who serve through one way or another serve until the day they die . that be why this Government of service be commit to stand with member of our armed force and their family long after they leave the service . Syd Little be part of the team which deliver life - save supply to Mount Sinjar on 9 August 2014 , in the operation now know as Operation Shader . Flight Sergeant Little lose his life this weekend to cancer . do my hon . and gallant Friend agree that service people face some of their great challenge on their exit from service and that the veteran strategy be essential to ensure that those challenge be not equal to those they face while serve ? there be few fight as valiant as that against the barbaric regime of ISIS . my thought go to my hon . friend ' s constituent , and his family and love one who be leave behind . this Government be commit to support the welfare of veteran and those who be serve , and there will be more detail to follow . as a veteran , as the Minister responsible for veteran , people and personnel , I do not take these commitment lightly . this government have already ensure that those who defend democracy will have the right to exercise that democracy at the polling station . in just over 100 day , we have make the veteran ID card a form of voter ID . the Prime Minister have also confirm that veteran will rightly be prioritise in access housing . furthermore , we be determined to deliver on our manifesto commitment to fully incorporate the armed force covenant in law , get rid of the postcode lottery , and give veteran the support that they need on mental health , employment and housing . we will also scrap visa fee for non - UK veteran who have serve for four or more year , and for their family . I congratulate those who give their maiden speech today . there be some fantastic speech , particularly from my hon . friend the Members for Nuneaton ( Jodie Gosling ) , and for Stafford ( Leigh Ingham ) . they outline so many veteran ’ issue , but also talk about the comprehensive military presence in their constituency . I also pay tribute to the multiple individual with military experience in the House . the hon . member for Huntingdon ( Ben Obese - Jecty ) serve in 2010 . I probably drop into the area he be in . I be very well host by his regiment or brigade . I be often meet on the ground with a fiery reception , but also some good banter . it be a great tribute to the House that we have so many people with military experience , and like all member , I look forward to their contribution in this great place . several issue be raise today . the hon . member for Reigate ( Rebecca Paul ) , the right hon . member for Dwyfor Meirionnydd ( Liz Saville Roberts ) , my hon . friend the Member for Dunfermline and Dollar ( Graeme Downie ) and the hon . member for Sutton and Cheam ( Luke Taylor ) pay tribute to the brave pilot of the Photographic Reconnaissance Unit , who do so much intelligence gathering during the second world war . without their work on operation , none of those operation would have take place . give that the unit have one of the high casualty rate of all those in the sky — I think it be 40 % plus — it be right to pay tribute to it by move forward with a memorial ; I fully support that . I say in response to the right hon . member for Dwyfor Meirionnydd that I meet the Welsh Veterans ' Commissioner , Colonel Phillips , last Thursday . I speak to he about his role , responsibility and potential change for a good hour and a half . several member have bring up the issue of Northern Ireland . our Government recognise the important service of veteran and the sacrifice they make to keep people safe in Northern Ireland during the trouble . I be a Northern Ireland veteran . I give the House my word that any veteran will get the legal and welfare support that they need to ensure that the stress of any action that we move forward with be minimise . member bring up various charity . across the veteran sector and the armed force community , there be more than 1 , 000 charity . they be primarily lead by individual who give up their spare time to support the armed force and veteran . as we move towards Remembrance Day , it be worth remember not just those who have serve or be serve , but those who support those in the armed force , primarily in the UK ' s amazing charitable sector , which have such an important role . my hon . friend the Member for Glenrothes and Mid Fife ( Richard Baker ) bring up mental health . Op Courage have have 30 , 000 referral . it be do a fantastic job . I have visit multiple nhs trust that be deliver fantastic partnership work to ensure that veteran get the mental health support that they require . the treatment of the LGBT community from 1967 to 2000 be completely and utterly abhorrent . some of the story that I have hear have be absolutely harrowing . I have the pleasure of attend the LGBT award last week . we have deliver 32 of the 49 recommendation from the Lord Etherton review , and we be work hard to deliver an appropriate financial redress scheme , so that we can close out that review in a timely and effective manner . I have the great pleasure of meet the nuclear test veteran ; that have be absolutely superb . we have build up a relationship through a cadence of meeting to ensure that there be communication and education , and to look into some of their issue relate to file . we be work collaboratively on that . it would be unfit of I to finish without say that I have hear some harrowing story today of the sacrifice pay by so many , include so many story of the loss of love one . I think especially of the hon . member for Strangford ( Jim Shannon ) , who lose some of his love one in the trouble . I have also hear amazing story about some of our long - serve veteran , include Flight Lieutenant Harry Richardson , who be now over 100 year old , which be truly remarkable . the hon . member for Mid Sussex ( Alison Bennett ) also outline the amazing world war two story of George . as I conclude , it be worth note the broad message that be wrap into remembrance . yes , this be a time to remember — to remember that freedom be not free , and that every decision we make in this House , or in this government , have an impact . that do not mean that we should shy away from difficult decision on whether to deploy our armed force . we should , rather , acknowledge and champion the fact that our armed force be there for a reason : to protect we at home and abroad , to protect our way of life , and to ensure that the freedom we enjoy today be pass down to our child , and their child . our armed force be the guarantor of everything we hold dear . to risk life and limb for one ' s nation be , I think , the noble of all tradition , but if service be anything , it be above politic . that be why I stand ready to work with all hon . and right hon . member so that veteran and those serve can live a life , in and outside the armed force , worthy of the incredible contribution they make to this nation . today , in advance of Remembrance Day , we come together , unite , to say thank you to those who have serve , and to honour all those who have make the ultimate sacrifice . question put and agree to . resolve , that this House have consider Remembrance and the contribution of veteran . business without Debate Standards Ordered , that Paula Barker , Mark Ferguson , Melanie Onn , Anna Sabine , Dr Neil Shastri - Hurst and Gareth Snell be member of the Committee on Standards . — ( Jeff Smith , on behalf of the Committee of Selection . ) Privileges order , that Paula Barker , Alberto Costa , Mark Ferguson , Melanie Onn , Anna Sabine , Dr Neil Shastri - Hurst and Gareth Snell be member of the Committee of Privileges . — ( Jeff Smith , on behalf of the Committee of Selection . ) Administration Ordered , that Mr Alex Barros - Curtis , Gill Furniss , Mary Glindon , Carolyn Harris , Navendu Mishra , Joe Morris , Tessa Munt , Nick Smith and Max Wilkinson be member of the Administration Committee . — ( Jessica Morden , on behalf of the Committee of Selection . ) Backbench Business Ordered , that Jack Abbott , Mary Glindon , Alison Hume , Will Stone and Chris Vince be member of the Backbench Business Committee . — ( Jessica Morden , on behalf of the Committee of Selection . ) business and Trade Ordered , that Charlie Maynard and Mr Joshua Reynolds be member of the Business and Trade Committee . — ( Jessica Morden , on behalf of the Committee of Selection . ) culture , Media and Sport Ordered , that z ö e Franklin and Liz Jarvis be member of the Culture , Media and Sport Committee . — ( Jessica Morden , on behalf of the Committee of Selection . ) Defence Ordered , that Mike Martin and Ian Roome be member of the Defence Committee . — ( Jessica Morden , on behalf of the Committee of Selection . ) Education order , that Manuela Perteghella and Caroline Voaden be member of the Education Committee . — ( Jessica Morden , on behalf of the Committee of Selection . ) Energy Security and Net Zero Ordered , that Wera Hobhouse and Claire Young be member of the Energy Security and Net Zero Committee . — ( Jessica Morden , on behalf of the Committee of Selection . ) Environmental Audit Ordered , that Olivia Blake , Julia Buckley , Ellie Chowns , Barry Gardiner , Anna Gelderd , Sarah Gibson , Chris Hinchliff , Martin Rhodes , Blake Stephenson , Alison Taylor , Cameron Thomas and John Whitby be member of the Environmental Audit Committee . — ( Jessica Morden , on behalf of the Committee of Selection . ) environment , Food and Rural Affairs order , that Helena Dollimore , Sarah Dyke , Jayne Kirkham , Josh Newbury , Andrew Pakes , Jenny Riddell - Carpenter , Tim Roca and Henry Tufnell be member of the Environment , Food and Rural Affairs Committee . — ( Jessica Morden , on behalf of the Committee of Selection . ) Finance Ordered , that Clive Jones and James MacCleary be member of the Finance Committee . — ( Jessica Morden , on behalf of the Committee of Selection . ) Foreign Affairs order , that Richard Foord and Edward Morello be member of the Foreign Affairs Committee . — ( Jessica Morden , on behalf of the Committee of Selection . ) Health and Social Care Ordered , that Andrew George be a member of the Health and Social Care Committee . — ( Jessica Morden , on behalf of the Committee of Selection . ) Home Affairs order , that Paul Kohler and Ben Maguire be member of the Home Affairs Committee . — ( Jessica Morden , on behalf of the Committee of Selection . ) housing , Communities and Local Government Ordered , that Mr Lee Dillon and Mr will Forster be member of the Housing , Communities and Local Government Committee . — ( Jessica Morden , on behalf of the Committee of Selection . ) International Development Ordered , that Monica Harding and Brian Mathew be member of the International Development Committee . — ( Jessica Morden , on behalf of the Committee of Selection . ) Justice Ordered , that Josh Babarinde and Tessa Munt be member of the Justice Committee . — ( Jessica Morden , on behalf of the Committee of Selection . ) Northern Ireland Affairs order , that Daniel Aldridge , Chris Bloore , Sorcha Eastwood , Claire Hanna , Leigh Ingham , Adam Jogee , Katrina Murray , Dr Al Pinkerton and David Smith be member of the Northern Ireland Affairs Committee . — ( Jessica Morden , on behalf of the Committee of Selection . ) petition order , that Lewis Atkinson , Kevin Bonavia , Irene Campbell , Ben Goldsborough , Robbie Moore , Dave Robertson , Dr Roz Savage and Tony Vaughan be member of the Petitions Committee . — ( Jessica Morden , on behalf of the Committee of Selection . ) Procedure Ordered , that Mr Lee Dillon , Mr Richard Holden , Tom Morrison and Joy Morrissey be member of the Procedure Committee . — ( Jessica Morden , on behalf of the Committee of Selection . ) Committee of Public Accounts order , that Nesil Caliskan , Mr Luke Charters , Anna Dixon , Sarah Green , Rachel Gilmour , Sarah Hall , Lloyd Hatton , Chris Kane , James Murray , Sarah Olney , Michael Payne and Oliver Ryan be member of the Committee of Public Accounts . — ( Jessica Morden , on behalf of the Committee of Selection . ) Public Administration and Constitutional Affairs order , that Richard Baker , Markus Campbell - Savours , Charlotte Cane , Lauren Edwards , John Grady , Peter Lamb , Mr Richard Quigley , Luke Taylor and Michelle Welsh be member of the Public Administration and Constitutional Affairs Committee . — ( Jessica Morden , on behalf of the Committee of Selection . ) science , Innovation and Technology Ordered , that Tom Gordon and Martin Wrigley be member of the Science , Innovation and Technology Committee . — ( Jessica Morden , on behalf of the Committee of Selection . ) Scottish Affairs order , that Maureen Burke , Lillian Jones , Mr Angus MacDonald , Douglas McAllister , Susan Murray , Elaine Stewart and Kirsteen Sullivan be member of the Scottish Affairs Committee . — ( Jessica Morden , on behalf of the Committee of Selection . ) Transport Ordered , that Steff Aquarone , Dr Scott Arthur , Catherine Atkinson , Mrs Elsie Blundell , Olly Glover , Alex Mayer , Baggy Shanker and Laurence Turner be member of the Transport Committee . — ( Jessica Morden , on behalf of the Committee of Selection . ) Treasury Ordered , that Chris Coghlan and Bobby Dean be member of the Treasury Committee . — ( Jessica Morden , on behalf of the Committee of Selection . ) Welsh Affairs order , that David Chadwick , Ann Davies , Chris Evans , Claire Hughes , Llinos Medi , Andrew Ranger , Henry Tufnell and Steve Witherden be member of the Welsh Affairs Committee . — ( Jessica Morden , on behalf of the Committee of Selection . ) woman and Equalities Ordered , that Alex Brewer , David Burton - Sampson , Kirith Entwistle , Natalie Fleet , Catherine Fookes , Christine Jardine , Samantha Niblett and Rachel Taylor be member of the Women and Equalities Committee . — ( Jessica Morden , on behalf of the Committee of Selection . ) work and Pensions Ordered , that Mr Peter Bedford , Steve Darling and John Milne be member of the Work and Pensions Committee . — ( Jessica Morden , on behalf of the Committee of Selection . ) Petition - Derriford Emergency Care Centre Plymouth Derriford hospital need an emergency care centre . far to a similar online petition approach 1 , 000 signature , I be present this petition on behalf of my constituent and those who rely on Derriford hospital in Plymouth . the petition state : the petition of resident of the United Kingdom , declare that follow the announcement of the New Hospital Programme Review , patient across South West Devon and across the South West be deeply concerned as to the future of University Hospitals Plymouth NHS Trust ' s new Urgent and Emergency Care Facility at Derriford ; far declare that the new Urgent and Emergency Care Facility be essential for the NHS to be able to accommodate for the region ' s above - average population growth ; far that the new facility will treat the sick patient more quickly , avoid unnecessary admission , facilitate early discharge and improve outcome ; and note that UHP ' s former Member of Parliament have secure £ 180 million of government funding for the project . the petitioner therefore request that the House of Commons urge the Government to consider the resource need of University Hospital Plymouth ' s new Urgent and Emergency Care Facility whilst undertake the New Hospital Programme Review and retain the funding previously commit to this project . and the petitioner remain , etc . [ p003015 ] petition - dolphin Inn Grampound if I may , Madam Deputy Speaker , I would like to take a moment to echo the call from across the House this evening for the remembrance and appreciation of our veteran . I be glad to have this opportunity to present a petition on behalf of the resident of Grampound relate to the last remain pub in the village . the petition state : the petition of the resident of Grampound , declare that the Dolphin Inn be an Asset of Community Value . the petitioner therefore request that the House of Commons urge the Government to lend support the dolphin Inn Grampound , acknowledge that it further the social wellbeing and cultural , recreational and sporting interest of the local community . and the petitioner remain , etc . [ p003013 ] petition - Wealth tax in the Autumn Budget I rise to present a petition on wealth taxis in the autumn Budget , far to a correspond online petition sign by over 50 , 000 people . the petition state : the petition of resident of the United Kingdom . declare that a 2 % Wealth Tax on asset over £ 10 million , a measure to equalise Capital Gains Tax with Income Tax rate , and measure to end state subsidy to fossil fuel giant and to close loophole in the oil and gas windfall tax should be bring ; and further note that these measure would generate an additional £ 45 billion per year , provide vast resource to rebuild our public service , boost people ' s income and invest in a high - wage economy . the petitioner therefore request that the House of Commons urge the Government to take into account the request of the petition and consider the resource benefit of Wealth Taxes when allocate fund in the budget . and the petitioner remain , etc . [ P003016 ] Agricultural Land : Protection Motion make , and question propose , that this House do now adjourn . — ( Jeff Smith . ) I be so pleased to have the opportunity tonight to share my pride in the rural area of my constituency of Aylesbury , to share my admiration for those who work on the land and care for it , and to set out how we can enable both our urban and rural community , and our natural environment to thrive . I be grateful to the Minister for be present . I bring forward this debate in part to reassure my constituent of my own and my government ' s commitment to protect our natural environment and safeguard our agricultural land . this be a subject of debate in my constituency , as this new Government take forward the planning reform that be so necessary for our future growth . after 14 year of deep turbulence and decline , with damaging consequence for nature and for our community , I will suggest a well way forward , root in clear principle , more predictability and a dose of pragmatism . first , let I turn to how we protect and enhance our natural environment , and give some context relate to my constituency . we be in a beautiful part of the country , which include the chiltern hill and historic woodland and waterway , where 14 % of the constituency be designate as green - belt land , but under the previous Government we be subject to extensive house building — more than 13 , 000 new home in the past 10 year , and counting — which have lead to great pressure on service and infrastructure and also on our natural environment . my constituent understand the urgency of address our national housing crisis . the statistic speak for themselves : nearly 1 . 3 million household be on social housing waiting list , include 6 , 000 in Buckinghamshire , and young people under 30 today be less than half as likely to own a home as young adult in the 1990 . equally , many of my constituent understand the need for investment in renewable energy , whether it be onshore wind or solar panel , to get we on track for clean , secure and more affordable power by 2030 , but they and I be conscious of the tension between the need for planning reform , whether for the purpose of building house , energy or other infrastructure , and the need to protect our natural environment . how do we navigate that tension ? let I make three point base on Aylesbury ' s experience . first , we need to ensure that clear environmental safeguard be embed in planning policy , and to that end the propose change in the national planning policy framework be strong : for example , the emphasis on a " brownfield first " approach use previously develop land for new housing and therefore protect green space ; the introduction of grey - belt land , which of course need tight definition but should ultimately enable a more strategic approach to build on certain type of green space ; and the " golden rule " in the NPPF , which ensure that any green - belt building will bring benefit for nature and for community access to green space . that will be a welcome contrast to the haphazard raid on green - belt and greenfield site that take place under the last government . in Buckinghamshire as a whole , for example , between 2019 and 2022 11 % of new residential address be build in designate area of outstanding natural beauty , compare to a 4 % national average . this building have be happen , and my constituent tell I that the rationale for it have not always be clear . secondly , we need to learn from the pocket of good practice . I can point to one example in Aylesbury : the Kingsbrook development , on the edge of town , where housing and nature co - exist well . Kingsbrook be build with the help of the Royal Society for the Protection of Birds , and include 250 acre of wildlife - rich open space , with hedgehog highway and community allotment . I invite member of the Government to visit it , and to learn from such example . where it be not possible for development to include so much green space , we need to ensure that there be ready access to nature nearby — as a member of Aylesbury Ramblers remind I recently , while describe his battle with the council to keep footpath in and out of Aylesbury clear . thirdly , of course , it be vital that where nature must be protect we do that , and that we do not just protect but strengthen and enhance it . I have see wonderful example of that in my constituency . I have observe the work that the Chiltern Society do with its 700 volunteer — for example , sow wildflower , or clear more than 30 , 000 metre of footpath and 2 , 000 mile of cycle path and bridle path in the last year alone . in recent year , however , it have seem as if they be work against , not with , successive government who have show little regard for nature . that be perhaps well exemplified in my constituency by the release of sewage into the river for 3 , 000 hour last year alone , with devastating consequence for nature . I be pleased by the early work of our Government to review the environmental improvement plan , pave the way , we hope , for the ambitious global goal of safeguard 30 % of our land and sea by 2030 , but this be just the start , and the test will be whether these safeguard be indeed in place in constituency such as Aylesbury across the country . of course , the NPPF rightly contain protection for the good and most versatile agricultural land as well , but , ultimately , protect and strengthen agricultural land mean support the farmer who steward and manage it . I have speak to many farmer in my constituency , for instance during a brilliant visit to Ledburn farm on the Ascott estate , a producer of the wheat for my kid ' Weetabix . I know that farmer have be under great pressure in recent year , from weather event , disease , economic volatility , Brexit , rise energy cost , rise rural crime — you name it — but I also know that they work incredibly hard to keep put food on our table . may I commend the hon . Lady for bring forward this matter ? she be absolutely right to highlight the issue affect farmer . she may not be aware that my constituency be one of the few area of rich agricultural land that can produce three potato crop a year . it be essential that we ensure that farmer can and do make the most of the possibility — not simply in lush Strangford , but in Aylesbury and across this great United Kingdom . do the hon . Lady agree that we need the Department for Environment , Food and Rural Affairs to engage with grassroots farming and to support farmer , thereby ensure that we increase food security in the United Kingdom while protect our agricultural land ? the Minister be in his place , and there be no well person to do just that . I agree that support smallholder farmer be absolutely essential . there be too much to say in the time we have available tonight , but I will pull out three particularly important way to help set up our farmer for success . first and foremost , we have to ensure the long - term financial sustainability of british farming . the environment land management scheme have be unclear , difficult to navigate and poorly tailor to different context — in the case of Ledburn farm , to the heavy clay land . as a result , the uptake have be low , but farmer remain in need of that support and we have to find a way to make it easy to access . equally , farmer be forge ahead and find way to diversify their income , but there be much more we can do to support that — for example , by make it much easy to change the use of exist farm building , or to develop low - grade agricultural land , if it create renewable energy source or affordable housing for farm worker . secondly , we have to promote and support farmer to roll out sustainable farming practice that address challenge such as soil erosion and low land productivity — for example , by support the farmer cluster that have become increasingly prevalent across Buckinghamshire , which bring together farmer to help explore good practice and to share idea for enhance natural habitat on their land . thirdly , we need to invest in the next generation of british farmer . this mean ensure that we give the profession the status that it deserve in the first place , and that we start educate child about it at a very young age . that mean create pathway into the farming sector — for example , through invest in specialist technical education and expand agriculture apprenticeship . it mean make it not just attractive but affordable to live in rural community and to pursue a career in farming , particularly in place such as Buckinghamshire , where there be far too little affordable rural housing and service . as a result , the pull to town be too strong . in short , we can put all the necessary protection in place for quality agricultural land , and I be confident that we will , but without a thriving farming sector to safeguard that land , they will have little impact . my constituency have suffer from the absence of a coherent strategy for our land — where and how we protect it , where and how we use it , and where and how we develop it . recent government have leave nature deplete , farmer deeply uncertain at good and out of business at bad , and community frustrate by haphazard house building without access to green space , infrastructure or service . under this Government , the future have to look different , and we have to start with clear principle . alongside the NPPF , the new land use framework will surely help to ensure that we get the right balance between food production , nature and economic growth . we need more predictability . of course external shock will happen , but the role of the Government be to be a steadying force . it be great that we have get to work quickly on the first step — whether plan reform or set up great british Energy — and I think we can look forward to a steady , focus roll - out . finally , we need a good deal of pragmatism and an acceptance that get the right balance between development and environmental protection be not easy , and there will be compromise , but it be necessary . we have to find a way both to build the home and infrastructure of the future , and to protect and regenerate our agricultural and nature - rich land , because ultimately one can not exist without the other . rise — order . it be highly unusual for other member to contribute to an Adjournment debate , because it be a conversation between the lead Member and the Minister . I believe that you have seek permission , but it be still highly unusual , so I assume that the contribution will be short before the Minister respond . thank you very much for your permission to speak in this debate , Madam Deputy Speaker . I want to support the representation from my hon . friend the Member for Aylesbury ( Laura Kyrke - Smith ) , because some of the thing that she raise be also relevant to my constituency and those across the country . as my hon . Friend say , the case for more genuinely affordable home be clear . that be accept in my community as much as in hers , if not more so , as so many people struggle in the private sector and house price spiral due to the pressure of unregulated short - term holiday let , drive by many people ' s huge and understandable desire to enjoy the delight of Margate , Broadstairs and Ramsgate . we need new home . I have speak to far too many people in their 30 and beyond who live in their childhood bedroom , sometimes with a partner . they be desperate to be able to start their life in a home of their own , but they be price out of their own community . we also desperately need the infrastructure to support the family who will live in those home , and we need to protect and enhance not only the nature that we love but the nature that be essential to our own economy , wellbeing and future . I come here to change the rule , Madam Deputy Speaker , although of course I observe the one that you enforce in this House . it be clear that the current rule do not serve our need for home or our need to protect and enhance nature . they do not enable the right infrastructure to be build , nor do they effectively help we identify and protect our vital farmland . those who protect the status quo in this argument be condemn our country to failure . those who think that any of these four element — home , farming , nature or infrastructure , include energy — should drop off the list of our priority do not understand the importance of shape our community to benefit our resident , now and for the long term . nature be not just a " nice to have " . it be fundamental to we in achieve our economic , health and climate goal . in Thanet , people come to see and enjoy our natural world . damage nature , where it be a vital part of the economy , be short - sighted and dangerous . we also have some of the most productive farmland in the whole of the UK , yet the exist planning rule do not protect it from speculation and development . access to nature be prove to enhance health and wellbeing , and the success of previous Labour Governments in create access to nature for everyone be some of our proud achievement . furthermore , responsible custodianship of our natural environment , especially precious ecosystem , be vital to capturing , sequester and reduce carbon emission . the sixth carbon budget predict that , by 2050 , we will need to remove 39 megatonne of co2 a year via nature - base solution , which be more than double what we do today . that include wetland , woodland and peatland , which be both beautiful and useful . this Labour Government be elect on a mandate to transform we into a clean energy superpower by 2030 and to restore and protect 30 % of nature by 2030 . we can not achieve those goal under the current rule . that be why I look forward to we publish a land use framework that will help we to decide what we use land for , and help we to shape our community and our country to meet our ambition to be somewhere with affordable home to rent or own and run , affordable sustainable food , affordable secure home - grow clean energy , decent public service , and our beloved countryside provide we with the peace and climate security we all need . my thank to my hon . friend the Member for Aylesbury ( Laura Kyrke - Smith ) for secure today ' s debate , deliver such an excellent and thoughtful speech and speak so eloquently about her lovely constituency , and also — like my hon . friend the Member for East Thanet ( Ms Billington ) — for tease out some of the challenge , particularly around housing and the importance of nature . nature underpin everything from our personal wellbeing to our economy , but the truth be that nature be in crisis . that be why the Government be commit to chart a new course and ensure that nature be truly on the road to recovery . ensure nature ' s recovery be one of my Department ' s five key priority , alongside clean up our river , lake and sea ; move to a zero - waste economy ; support farmer to boost our food security ; and protect community from flooding . it be nature ' s recovery that will support and complement those other priority and contribute to the Government ' s central mission for economic growth . my hon . friend the Member for Aylesbury raise the important issue of planning reform . the Government be determined to transform the planning system to ensure a win - win for house building and for nature . nature recovery be a top priority , alongside the need to overhaul the planning system , grow the economy and reach net zero . it be not a matter of choose one of these priority over another . sustained economic growth depend on a healthy natural environment . the Secretary of State have already confirm that the Government be undertake a rapid review of the environmental improvement plan . our review will ensure that it be fit for purpose to deliver on our legally bind Environment Act 2021 target and our international commitment to protect 30 % of England ' s land and sea by 2030 . so this debate be extremely timely , and I will seek to address and respond to the point raise . to restore nature , we need to create , restore and connect wildlife - rich habitat at scale , reduce pressure on specie , include from pollution and climate change , and take target action to recover specific specie . the Government will deliver for nature , work in partnership with civil society , community and business to restore and protect our natural world . work with farmer and landowner to deliver nature recovery will be crucial , which be why we be fully commit to the environmental land management scheme . would the Minister be keen to meet some of my constituent , who be threaten by the action of EDF and Hinkley Point C , which wish to create salt marsh on land that be currently farm in north Somerset ? that be cause a huge amount of distress to people locally , include young Sophie Cole , whom I meet this weekend and who have just start on her path as a young farmer . she be 28 , and she and all the villager in Kingston Seymour be very keen to make sure that the Minister understand the tension between the creation of salt marsh at the behest of Hinkley and their natural desire to carry on farming that have take place for hundred of year . I would be happy to learn more about the issue that the hon . Lady have raise . the Government will optimise ELMS so that they produce the right outcome for all farmer while deliver food security and nature recovery in a just and equitable way . we will confirm plan for the roll - out of scheme and our wide approach as soon as possible . ELMS , include the sustainable farming incentive , countryside stewardship and landscape recovery , will contribute to the biodiversity target at scale by support nature - friendly farming and create and restore wildlife - rich habitat . they will also help to restore and improve the condition of protect site , include site of special scientific interest . from this year , elm agreement be expect to bring or maintain up to 480 , 000 hectare of eligible SSSI habitat in England under favourable management , and to create or restore up to 300 , 000 hectare of wildlife - rich habitat , in addition to up to 200 , 000 hectare of peat and woodland by 2042 . in addition to the action that we will take to recover nature by create and restore habitat , we will take action to effectively protect wildlife - rich habitat and specie . that protection be crucial , as specie be in decline . that include important farmland specie such as farmland bird , include the turtle dove , which have decline in the UK by 97 % since 1994 . however , where nature - friendly farmer and major partner such as the Royal Society for the Protection of Birds , the wildlife trust and the National Trust , have put the right elm measure in the right place , we have see increase in scarce farmland bird specie such as chough , cirl bunting , and stone curlew . our work to protect nature will include action to restore our protect site , which be vital wildlife haven face increase pressure from climate change , pollution , and invasive non - native specie . Natural England be work to get protect site into favourable condition . that include pilot new power to put in place protect site strategy to deliver improvement in partnership with other and work with the SSSI major landowner group to develop landscape - scale approach . Natural England be also work with farmer through the catchment - sensitive farming programme to improve water and air quality on farm around protect site . that include help farmer to secure funding to make management change to improve their condition . we will also protect our most beautiful landscape and help our national park and national landscape to become wilder , green and more accessible to all as we deliver our commitment to protect 30 % of land for nature by 2030 . the Minister talk about partnership , and among the key partner in restore nature be , of course , small family farm . I have hear speculation that Wednesday ' s Budget might remove agricultural property relief on inheritance tax . of course , the Minister will not be able to comment on the Budget — I will have to wait until Wednesday for that — but if somebody be to float such an idea , would he combat it ? the hon . Gentleman be not go to tempt I . he will have to wait until Wednesday , I be afraid . one of the key criterion for land to contribute to our 30by30 commitment be protection , as area count towards the target should be protect from loss or damage to important biodiversity . land contribute to 30by30 should be secure for long enough to secure good biodiversity outcome , generally for at least 20 year . some area , include those under intensive farming , be not suitable for 30by30 , but our approach recognise that nature - friendly land use may be able to play a role in support our goal . it be disappointing that the good work do by wildfowle club across this United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland be not often mention . they rent and own salt marsh — they own land as well — and they manage they so that wildlife and plant life can blossom . it be do in partnership with landowner , Natural England and many other . will the Minister recognise the good work that wildfowling club do and their contribution to a well life ? of course , I join the hon . gentleman in recognise the role of wildfowling club and many other who play an important role in the countryside . the Government also place great importance on our agricultural land and food production . the national planning policy framework set out how the good and most versatile agricultural land should be reflect in planning policy and decision . the framework be clear that , where significant development of agricultural land be necessary , area of poor quality land should be prefer to those of a high quality . meet our ambitious target on nature restoration , alongside our priority on food security and accelerate to net zero , will require careful thought about how we use our land , which be why the forthcoming land use framework for England will consider cross - governmental issue such as energy and food security , and how we can expand nature - rich habitat such as wetland , peat bog and forest . the 16th UN biodiversity summit be currently under way in Colombia , where the importance of biodiversity and ensure that we achieve our national target and international commitment will once again be in the spotlight . the Government have also recently appoint Ruth Davis as the UK ' s first envoy for nature , and she will champion our ambition to put nature at the heart of our foreign policy and help we to deliver our commitment for nature recovery . I finish by thank my hon . friend the Member for Aylesbury for secure today ' s debate . I look forward to work closely with she and other to ensure that we begin to make real progress on the Government ' s priority of nature recovery and boost our food security . question put and agree to . House adjourn .