it have always be clear to I , in my conversation with the bereaved and survivor and with family and next of kin , that the demographic in term of race speak their own story , and that be similarly the case with disability . that be why it have inform our policy in PEEPs , which I will talk to shortly , as well as our entire agenda around resident ' voice in social housing , which I will also come on to . my hon . friend the Member for Vauxhall and Camberwell Green ( Florence Eshalomi ) and I be in the very early stage of our time as member of Parliament in 2017 , and I know exactly where I be sit during the discussion we have then — I can see it but 10 metre from here . as I have say in every debate of this kind since I have be a Minister , if we have say to ourselves then that in eight year we would have achieve as little as we have , we would have think that a significant failure . it be a significant failure , and I want those watch this debate to know that we understand that . my hon . friend the Member for Kensington and Bayswater say that the progress be glacial . that be exactly right , and it behove we to change that with real intent . that be my commitment and the Deputy Prime Minister ' s commitment . last September , Sir Martin Moore - Bick publish the inquiry ' s final report . it be a hugely important staging post and driver for action . the finding be clear : the system fail at every point — public , private , local , national . family be fail . resident ' voice be ignore . dishonest practice be propagate . the Prime Minister have apologise on behalf of the british state for its part in the failure that lead to entirely avoidable death . I want to repeat the Prime Minister ' s word : it should never have happen . we publish our response to the inquiry in February . we accept the finding and commit to deliver on all 58 recommendation and to go far through a broad approach to reform , include with regard to construction product . last month we publish our progress report on delivery , and we will continue to report on a quarterly basis . the next progress report in September will be a very big one , because we will also publish our full implementation plan , set out how we will deliver the recommendation . I agree with my hon . friend the Member for Kensington and bayswater that the legacy must be system change . I agree with what my hon . friend the Member for Hammersmith and Chiswick ( Andy Slaughter ) say about it be a long time , and I know from speak to the bereaved and survivor that they be frustrated that some of the recommendation will take time . the commitment I will make from this Dispatch Box be that nothing will take a day long than it have to take . we be work with urgency and intent , and we will be very transparent as we do .