Speaker ' s Statement before we begin today ' s business , I wish to inform the House that during the summer recess I have the honour of attend the sixth World Conference of Speakers of Parliament , organise by the Inter - Parliamentary Union in close collaboration with the United Nations . the conference bring together 100 speaker from around the world to discuss the vital role that parliament play in strengthen global governance and bridge the democracy gap in international affair . a key theme be the urgent need to restore public trust in democracy and its core institution . follow my time in the Chair on Thursday , I travel to Ottawa to participate in the 23rd meeting of Speakers of the G7 country , host by the Speaker of the Canadian House of Commons . the summit focus on the share challenge face democratic system , include the rise of disinformation and increase political polarisation . it be a valuable opportunity to exchange perspective and explore collaborative approach to safeguard democratic value . oral Answers to Questions Defence the Secretary of State be ask — Defence sector : innovation what step he be take to increase innovation in the defence sector . what step he be take to increase innovation in the defence sector . I be sure that the House will want to offer its sympathy to his Majesty and the royal family on the passing of the Duchess of Kent . the world be more dangerous and less predictable that ever , and as a result we need a strong british defence industry that be capable of innovate ahead of our adversary . our defence industrial strategy , launch later today , will meet that challenge . it will create job , grow skill , and drive innovation . it will make defence an engine for growth in every region and nation of the UK , and it will put Britain at the leading edge of innovation within NATO . the grow advanced ceramics industry in north Staffordshire be a key creator of the unique advanced ceramic material that be require for his Majesty ' s fighting capability , include unique armour material for defence , ultra high - speed munition , and the detection and security of our communication . there be a time - base opportunity to create a sovereign capability for the development and supply of ceramic matrix composite that our UK defence force need , and so enhance the resilience of our defence supply chain . will the Minister meet I to discuss the creation of that sovereign capability , and visit my constituency to see for himself the range of company and skill on offer ? I know that the Minister of State , my hon . friend the Member for Plymouth Sutton and Devonport ( Luke Pollard ) , will be pleased to meet my hon . friend . she recognise the truth at the heart of the need for a strong british defence industry that be resilient and capable of support the business , job and innovation that we need to develop here in Britain . go will be the day when we let contract in the defence field without worry where the job , business , and long - term investment will go . I recently have the pleasure of visit Stewart - Buchanan Gauges , a proud employee - own business in my constituency that supply high - quality gauge and valve to client in more than 50 country . it even provide gauge for the SpaceX shuttle , and it exemplify the world - class small and medium - sized enterprise that drive our economy and support the defence sector . will the Secretary of State outline what step the Government be take to ensure that firm such as Stewart - Buchanan Gauges be include in defence innovation initiative and remain integral to UK supply chain ? I take my hat off to the firm in my hon . friend ' s constituency — it be exactly those sort of business that be the backbone of a strong british defence industry . small or medium - sized company , often with the potential to grow , have not in the past see support from Government . that be why we have set up an SME support centre that be dedicate to make it easy to access Government contract , and why we will ringfence £ 400 million of direct defence investment that will go to sme . that will grow in each successive year . I call Katrina Murray . you be give I another bite of the cherry , Mr Speaker . you be down on my Order Paper . I have just ask my question . let we go to Mark Pritchard . that be the story of my life — I be always the reserve , but I be always happy to step in . [ laughter . ] Boxer , Challenger 3 and now the gun barrel facility be go to be base in my constituency — well , I hope the latter will be in my constituency , but certainly in Shropshire . will the Secretary of State put on the record his thank for all the work of the man and woman — the new engineer , the 100 new employee — take on for the Boxer programme since March by Rheinmetall Defence and Rheinmetall BAE Systems Land ? Shropshire be a defence hub , and I ask the new ministerial team — some of they be here for I to welcome they today — whether the Government will continue to invest in Shropshire , recognise the link between local university and college , and the defence supply chain . far from be the reserve , the right hon . Gentleman be first up for the opposition this afternoon , and I welcome that and the investment in Shropshire . I reassure he that the Government will continue to support that . I pay tribute , as he encourage I to do , to the workforce in his area . when the defence industrial strategy be publish , the House will see how we be look to define not just the british industry , but investor , entrepreneur and the workforce as an essential part of strengthen british industry and innovation , and the future for british job . I look forward to the Typhoon order . follow the recent news that Norway will purchase Type 26 frigate , the speculation in the medium before the weekend be that the danish navy might also be about to place a significant order for the Type 31 . will the Secretary of State soon be able to give the UK additional good news ? the hon . Gentleman be right that this be the big british warship deal ever , and it be Norway ' s big ever defence contract . when the Prime Minister of Norway announce the detail , he say , " we ask ourselves two question : who be our good strategic partner , and who build the good warship ? " the answer to both be Britain . [ hon . member : " hear , hear . " ] I hope — we will work to ensure this — that that lead to other export contract that will bring job and a future to british industry . veteran : support what step he be take to ensure that veteran receive adequate support after leave the armed force . what step he be take to help support veteran into employment . travel the country and speak to veteran , our postcode lottery for veteran support across the nation be not lose on I . veteran have to repeat their story between six and nine time to land on the support that they deserve . that be why the Government have take the unprecedented step of invest £ 50 million over three year to set up Valour — three big chunk across the strategic , regional and local level to redesign our support mechanism for veteran . that will increase the headquarters size , it will allow liaison officer into our regional council and , at the local level , it will take the good hub to provide wraparound welfare and service for veteran . it will give our veteran the deal that they deserve . for more than two century , gurkha veteran have serve our country with extraordinary loyalty and bravery . many of they and their family have strong tie to my constituency in Brecon . yet to the shock of many , thousand who retire before 1997 , despite fight shoulder to shoulder with their british comrade , often suffer injury and wound in the process , remain on inferior pension , leave too many in poverty . do the Minister agree that that injustice can not be allow to stand ? will he commit to ensure that all Gurkha veteran receive fair and equal pension in recognition of their service ? we have a proud and distinguished history of gurkha soldier serve in the British Army and across defence . I serve with they in Afghanistan and across many other conflict . the Bilateral Gurkha Veteran Welfare Committee sit most recently in June of this year , and it continue to ensure that the need of Gurkha veteran be meet and understand fully . it be also worth note that even among british service personnel from in and around that era , some do not qualify for a pension , so in some case there be parity across the board . the Gurkha welfare advice centre provide handle support for a wide variety of welfare - relate inquiry , alongside the Gurkha Brigade Association . I have also meet the nepalese ambassador and will do so again soon to discuss the issue . from my proud support of the National Transition Event hold annually at Silverstone in my constituency , I be aware of the work of Mission Community , a service charity task with the delivery of the Office for Veterans ’ Affairs ' veteran industry engagement programme , which be design to advocate for our veteran by work with industry trade body . what sector will the Government focus on in their work so that veteran and their family feel the benefit , as well as that have a positive impact on our economy ? veteran not only defend the nation while in service , but they go on to deliver the second mission of Government , which be to help we prosper . I have meet representative from Mission Community , which do a fantastic job , several time . it be worth note that veteran who engage with our career transition pathway on transition to become civilian have an 88 % success rate in go straight into employment . Op Ascend , which we launch at the National Transition Event , have see thousand of family and veteran connect up with industry to move that collaboration forward . I will write the hon . Lady with detail about specific industry in due course . this government be reset the relationship between those who serve and those who serve . the Government ' s response to the Defence Committee ' s inquiry into the armed force covenant be positive . will the Minister provide an update on the work that be be to strengthen the covenant ? when we come into Government , the covenant cover three different department . we have make a pledge to armed force service personnel , those who have serve , their family and , indeed , those who have be bereave that we will open that covenant — that duty — to 14 different department . over time , that commitment will result in a step change in the Government ' s relationship with those who have serve , and it be a commitment that we will deliver . More than 200 service family lose love one during the trouble in Northern Ireland . will the Minister set out how the forthcoming legislation will enable closure for those family , who have have their wound continually reopen for too long ? I thank my hon . and gallant Friend for his question . it be not lose on I that during the trouble there be major explosion in key city all over the country . from Brighton to Brimingham , individual from both side of the House have to take the precaution of check under their bed and their car , and ensure that the light be on before they go into certain room , because the chance of close - quarter assassination by terrorist be ever present . some service personnel who be deploy to secure the peace pay the ultimate sacrifice and 200 family lose love one . that mean that mother , father , brother and sister have the truth deny to they as soon as the Northern Ireland Troubles ( Legacy and Reconciliation ) Act 2023 come into place . as a service person , I would always want my family to know what happen to I if I be to be kill in a conflict . repeal and replace the legacy Act will enable that , but we must ensure that the process do not come with punishment for veteran . we will ensure that protection be in place to allow we to get to the truth , and to ensure that no one can rewrite history or make veteran suffer any more . I call the shadow Minister . nearly a fifth of a million people have now sign the parliamentary petition to protect Northern Ireland veteran from prosecution , in opposition to labour ' s proposal for two - tier justice . surely Ministers must understand that facilitate lawfare against our Army veteran , none of whom receive letter of comfort after leave their service , show that Labour just do not have their back ? I highlight to the right hon . gentleman that 200 family — 200 mother , father , brother or sister — of those that serve have their inquest inquiry , insight and understanding close off when the legacy Act come into place . they be serve member of the security force and their family deserve truth . however , we must ensure that we also provide protection for veteran as we move forward , so that they be not subject to lawfare , as the right hon . gentleman mention , and that the process do not become the punishment for veteran as we move forward . labour ' s currently stall remedial order would specifically make it easy for Gerry Adams and his friend to sue the british taxpayer while throw our Army veteran , many of they recruit from red wall seat , to the wolf . after everything the Government put their Back Benchers through in recent month , be No . 10 and Ministers really intend to press ahead with this madness and do Gerry Adams a favour , at the expense of the soldier who oppose he ? be they press ahead with the remedial order — yes or no ? the right hon . Gentleman be miss the point . he be try to divide the House , veteran and the armed force community , and it have get to stop . the reality be that we will produce legislation that will allow family to get to the truth . he should put himself in the shoe of the family who have lose love one , and then put himself in the shoe of veteran — I be a Northern Ireland veteran — and accept that if the protection be in place to ensure that the process do not become the punishment , we have a good solution . NATO Defence Spending Target what discussion he have have with the Chancellor of the Exchequer on meet the NATO target of spend 5 % of gdp on defence . at the Hague summit in June , all 32 NATO nation agree to step up and increase spending on national security to 5 % by 2035 . I be proud that this Labour Government play a leading part in the discussion that lead to that historic agreement . tomorrow we will vote on a Bill that shamefully give up the sovereignty of our military base in Diego Garcia . give the commitment to spend more on defence , will the Secretary of State confirm if the money spend on Chagos will be include in our declare NATO spend ? the investment in Diego Garcia be a great investment in the defence and intelligence partnership with the United States . together , we do thing from Diego Garcia that can not be do elsewhere ; we do thing together that we do not do with other nation . the deal be worth less than 0 . 2 % of the annual defence budget . how be it that the Conservatives have get themselves on the wrong side of this argument about national security , when we stand alongside the US as our close ally ? Britain ' s commitment to the 5 % NATO target clearly send a strong signal of our resolve , but that pledge must command public confidence that the money will be spend wisely . can the Secretary of State provide more detail on how he be work with the Treasury , the Cabinet Office and other to ensure that every additional pound of public investment in defence deliver value for money for the taxpayer ? my hon . friend be right . this be about not just how much the Government spend , but how well they spend . Mr Speaker , you will remember that under the previous Government , the Public Accounts Committee brand our defence procurement system as " broken " . we be reform procurement , and that will be part of the statement this afternoon on the defence industrial strategy by my hon . friend the Member for Plymouth Sutton and Devonport ( Luke Pollard ) . at the heart of this , we make a commitment to the british people at the last election that we would raise defence spending to 2 . 5 % of gdp , and we be do that three year early . this be a Government who be deliver for defence and for Britain . the Defence Secretary say that the Chagos giveaway will amount to no more than 0 . 2 % of our defence budget . do that not suggest the cost of the Chagos giveaway will in fact come out of the defence budget ? on the contrary , both the Foreign Secretary and I have be consistent that , take across the range , the cost of the settlement with Mauritius for Diego Garcia be split between the Ministry of Defence and the Foreign , Commonwealth and Development Office . for defence , our commitment be less than 0 . 2 % of the defence budget . that be a good investment for this country , and it give we a sovereign right to operate that base with the Americans for the next 99 year . I welcome the leadership display by the Prime Minister and Defence Secretary and our commitment to the historic 5 % pledge . what step will NATO take to far strengthen our response to grow russian aggression ? the response of NATO have produce result exactly to the contrary of those President Putin would have want when he invade Ukraine three - and - a - half year ago . NATO be now big ; it be 32 nation strong . the commitment that all 32 nation make in the June summit to increase national security spending to 5 % by 2035 be a strong deterrent message to Putin , Russia and other adversary , and it will make NATO big and strong in order to deter in the year ahead . I call the shadow Secretary of State . I congratulate the hon . and gallant Member for North East Derbyshire ( Louise Sandher - Jones ) and the hon . member for Plymouth Sutton and Devonport ( Luke Pollard ) on their promotion . I also send my good wish to the right hon . member for Liverpool Garston ( Maria Eagle ) ; it be always a pleasure to work with she . on defence spending , can the Secretary of State confirm what percentage of gdp will be use to set the cost envelope for the defence investment plan ? when we settle our defence investment plan and produce our annual report and account , the datum that the hon . Gentleman seek will be set out clearly and in the customary way to this House . interestingly , the answer be not 3 . 5 % , it be not 3 % , and it be not even 2 . 6 % — those be the figure we declare to NATO ; they be not from the Ministry of Defence budget . as the then armed force Minister , the hon . member for Plymouth Sutton and Devonport , confirm to I last week in a write answer , the amount we will spend on the defence investment plan come entirely from the MOD ' s departmental budget . therefore , the actual figure for fund our future defence equipment be just 2 . 2 % by 2027 , with no fund plan to go any high . give the threat we face , be 2 . 2 % enough ? it should come as no surprise to anyone that the defence investment plan will be fund from the defence budget . that be exactly what will happen . it will be fund and support by the record increase in defence spending since the end of the cold war — by the £ 5 billion extra in this year ' s Budget — with an aim to spend 3 % of gdp on defence during the next Parliament . these be commitment that the previous Conservative Government have 14 year to make , but never make . this be a Government who be deliver for defence and deliver for Britain . woman in the Armed Forces whether he plan to implement the outstanding recommendation of the second report of the Defence Committee of Session 2021 - 22 , " protect those who protect we : woman in the Armed Forces from Recruitment to Civilian Life " , HC 154 . defence as a whole have accept 33 recommendation from the " Women in the Armed Forces " report . we have two outstanding element still in train : the result of an armed force sexual harassment survey , and a veteran strategy with a specific female veteran section . both will be release in the autumn . on top of this , we have a tri - service complaint system — which I personally bring in — and the violence against woman and girl taskforce , to make sure that any woman can serve with safety and pride . the Atherton report , publish in 2021 , survey 4 , 000 female service personnel and veteran . it reveal that 62 % have be victim of bullying , discrimination , harassment or sexual assault during their service . do the Minister recognise that at a time when we be expand our armed force , we must improve the overall experience of woman in the military , protect female personnel , and help servicewoman achieve their full potential ? I could not agree more with the hon . member . obviously , in our Minister for the armed force , my hon . friend the Member for North East Derbyshire ( Louise Sandher - Jones ) , we have an individual who have live experience of be a female in the armed force . it be really important to mention the individual who sit at the bottom of the command chain — where do they go if they be experience a problem ? where do they seek help , and who do they complain to ? in some case , they can not do it within the chain of command . it may not be appropriate or they may not want to , which be why the violence against woman and girl taskforce be so important , as well as the tri - service complaint system . it will allow people to come outside the command chain , raise those issue , and make sure they be deal with appropriately . Channel crossing : Military Assets whether he have have recent discussion with the Secretary of State for the Home Department on the use of military asset to help prevent crossing by illegal migrant of the english channel . the Prime Minister have make tackle small boat and close every asylum hotel a priority . last week , I meet ministerial colleague from across Government to discuss how Defence will contribute to that work . we have deploy a military planning team to assist the Border Security Command and the Home Office , look at military and non - military site for temporary but adequate housing so that we can accelerate closing asylum hotel . the safety and security of my constituent be my no . 1 priority . give the national security risk pose by some of those who cross the english channel illegally , I ask the Minister to look again at use military asset to physically stop those small boat from land in the first place . will he do that today ? I be grateful to the hon . gentleman for his question , and I share his passion for keep our country safe . I refer he to the work of Operation Isotrope , a military operation undertake by the last Conservative Government that put the Navy in charge of secure the english channel . that operation conclude that naval asset be not suitable for that task ; it be already a dangerous crossing , and it conclude that military asset only make it more dangerous . that be why the armed force be now assist the Home Office and the Border Security Command , look at how we can provide the accommodation that will enable we to close the asylum hotel , as well as how we can speed up the processing of asylum application — something the Government that the hon . Gentleman back shamefully stop when they be in power . there be a lot of work to do , but we be make progress . I call the Chair of the Defence Committee . the Minister have comment that he and the Government be consider use military barrack to house asylum seeker . while I thank he for his effort to help address the small boat crisis by provide logistical planning support , I personally do not feel that operational responsibility for that should fall to our armed force . the experience of Operation Isotrope under the Boris Johnson Government — widely criticise by the previous Defence Committee for cause confusion and reputational risk and for strain our already pressure military — serve as a clear warning . can the Minister therefore issue iron - clothe assurance to the House that any future MOD involvement within this field will be strictly limit , clearly define and not strain our already pressure military ? I thank the Chair of the Select Committee for his question . the Ministry of Defence be part of the cross - Government response to small boat . we be step up our support to assist our colleague in the Home Office . the Home Office remain the lead Department , but as every Department can contribute something to this effort , it be right that the Ministry of Defence do so . we continue to protect the nation and deliver the change as lay out in the strategic defence review . our no . 1 priority remain to keep this country safe . defence sector : skill what step he be take to improve skill in the defence sector . as I will shortly outline to the House , as part of the launch of the defence industrial strategy , this Government will set out an ambitious skill package that will grow , retain and develop the well - pay , high - skilled workforce that the UK require to boost job and make defence an engine for growth in every nation and region of the country . last week , I visit RAF Wyton in Huntingdonshire , which employ many of my constituent . under the new cyber and specialist operation command , Wyton provide a critical part of our defence intelligence , and the plan to expand the work of the base will provide significant career opportunity for my constituent in northern Huntingdonshire . [ interruption . ] yes , the hon . member for Huntingdon ( Ben Obese - Jecty ) be there , too . order . I do not want cross - party relationship break on account of whose constituency something be in . thank you , Mr Speaker . do the Minister agree that develop the defence industry in Huntingdonshire will unlock local growth and prosperity ? can he outline how we will support skill development to ensure my constituent can access these opportunity ? my hon . friend be a real champion of his constituent who work at RAF Wyton , and all those who could work there through the expand opportunity , which I have speak to the hon . member for Huntingdon ( Ben Obese - Jecty ) about . I be glad that there be cross - party support for the investment that this Government could make . there be a real opportunity to use defence as an engine for growth , create more opportunity for our young people in particular . I would be happy to meet my hon . friend the Member for North West Cambridgeshire ( Sam Carling ) and the hon . member for Huntingdon to discuss how we can far develop the opportunity at hand , in a spirit of cross - party consensus . Charles Stewart Parnell come to this place and use british institution against the british state . now , in Scotland , we have First Minister John Swinney , who be a kind of pound - shop Parnell . although we be hear much about defence infrastructure across the UK , the SNP Government have a presumption against support defence industry in Scotland . what be we go to do about it ? defence sit here , not in Holyrood . this Government ' s approach be to create job and opportunity through the increase defence budget in every part of the United Kingdom , include Scotland . the Norway frigate deal highlight how a UK Government sell our ware and our expertise on the global stage can provide additional job , with 4 , 000 job from that deal across the UK , include 2 , 000 in Scotland . while the SNP Government have be dither on defence , this Labour Government have be deliver . armed Forces : Recruitment and Retention what step he be take to improve recruitment and retention in the armed force . Minister , welcome . it be a huge honour to be here , and I be very honoured . we inherit a crisis in recruitment and retention . this government be renew the contract with those who serve by give they the large pay rise in 20 year , allocate an extra £ 1 . 5 billion to fix force housing and establish a new Armed Forces Commissioner . it be clear that our action be have an effect . on recruitment , inflow continue to improve and be up 13 % year on year , and application to join the armed force and intake to basic training both remain high . on retention , morale have be fall year on year with more people leave than join , but we have start to reverse that decline , with an 11 % reduction in outflow year on year . I welcome the Minister to her place . over the past year I have have the privilege of take part in the armed force parliamentary scheme , and have meet people across the United Kingdom and beyond . one of the issue that arise when it come to retention be that of the family of overseas worker in the armed force . they have no access to work opportunity , and there be no specific visa or agreement with other country where our armed force be base , which mean that they must often take pay cut or not relocate with their partner in the force . will the Minister think about what we can do to support armed force worker overseas ? I have serve overseas and observe this issue at first hand . discussion with the Cabinet Office be ongoing , and I hope to update the hon . member in due course . the brave man and woman who serve in the armed force be the very good among we , and I look forward to learn more about our Royal Air Force personnel when the RAF town show come to Falkirk this week . the cumulative 10 . 5 % pay increase for non - officer since last July and the additional £ 1 . 5 billion to be spend on service housing demonstrate the Government ' s commitment to uphold the armed force covenant , but what further action be minister consider to recognise and retain our armed force personnel ? my hon . friend have rightly mention the large pay rise in 20 year . I be particularly delighted that we can now say that no member of the armed force be pay less than the national living wage . of course we have much more to do ; I look forward to get to work on it , and I hope to have a meeting with my hon . friend to discuss that . I call the liberal Democrat spokesperson . I congratulate the hon . member for North East Derbyshire ( Louise Sandher - Jones ) — a fellow female veteran — and the hon . member for Plymouth Sutton and Devonport ( Luke Pollard ) on their new appointment . reserve force be a vital component of the British Army , and I welcome the Government ' s commitment to increase their number by at least 20 % , but the lack of a clear timeline , plan and funding be not good enough . the Public Accounts Committee agree with that in its report , and reveal that many training site be in the wrong location and that their condition have decline . good training site in the right location be vital to increase our reserve . will the Government today give a firm timeline for complete the estate optimisation programme and secure funding for the next stage ? I thank the hon . member for her congratulation and for her question . she make a valid point and be absolutely right that we need to do more in this regard . I be afraid I can not provide a specific timeline here , but I will keep her question in mind and hope to update she in due course . cadet what step he be take to increase the number of cadet . what recent step he have take to help increase the number of cadet . what step he be take to increase the number of cadet . the number of question on this issue demonstrate the importance that member in all part of the House ascribe to the subject of cadet . as we say in the strategic defence review , we will increase the number of exist cadet force by 30 % by 2030 with £ 70 million of funding , but we be also consider area of social demographic requirement where new cadet force can be place . that will give kid throughout the country fantastic opportunity to flourish and thrive , both at school and as they move to the end of their education . as one of the first female cadet in Scotland during the mid - 1980 — I know I do not look old enough — I be aware of how transformative the cadet experience can be , but now , in 2025 , girl make up only a third of our cadet force . what more can my hon . friend do to ensure that join the cadet be see as an exciting opportunity for girl as well as boy , and will he join I on a visit to the brilliant cadet unit in my constituency to see these brilliant young people in action ? I thank my hon . friend for make that important point . the cadet force be an inclusive organisation , and I have be delighted to be able to visit branch throughout the country , for instance in Cornwall . a couple of week ago I visit a summer camp to observe the diversity of the cadet , which , in some case , be far well than it be in the armed force . currently , 36 % of community - base and 39 % of school - base cadet be female . that be a positive , important and encouraging trend , and I hope that it will continue over time . I be in the King Edward ' s school RAF combine cadet force , and until recently I be on the board of the West Midland Reserve Forces ' and Cadets ' Association . I be pleased to learn of the Government ' s lofty ambition to increase cadet size , but I be worry by the comment of the Public Accounts Committee , which say recently that there be a distinct lack of " detail and funding " to achieve those number . without the funding and without the detail , these plan and number be meaningless , be they not ? there be two different issue here . the first one be about expand the cadet force by 30 % by 2030 — there be £ 70 million behind that , and the plan for how to deliver it be be develop . the second point , on the Public Accounts Committee , be about the Reserve Forces ' and cadet ' Associations and be primarily about infrastructure , which we be work on now . that be a legacy issue . we be try to rejuvenate it and make sure that the accommodation , and indeed the infrastructure , be fit for purpose for the cadet and the reserve as we move forward . may I , too , welcome the Under - Secretary of State for Defence , my hon . and gallant Friend the Member for North East Derbyshire ( Louise Sandher - Jones ) , to her place on the Front Bench ? before recess , I be lucky enough to visit Harlow and district air cadet and see the wonderful work that they do in support young people from across Harlow , teach they leadership skill and build a sense of community . will the Minister join I in congratulate Harlow and district air cadet on their work , and recognise the importance that all type of cadet — in this case , air cadet — make to community like mine in Harlow , and particularly work - class community ? I thank my hon . friend 110 % . the cadet be all about social mobility , give kid opportunity and get they up and out , and that be what Labour be all about . from my perspective , the air cadet be amazing . I go to the summer camp , which have everything — fly plane , STEM , sport and fly drone — and it be absolutely outstanding . I congratulate the Harlow air cadet ; hopefully , I will get to visit they in due course . Eastbourne ' s mighty sea cadet celebrate their 115th birthday this year , but their future be be put under threat by rise energy bill , which be make run the operation less and less sustainable . it be the same with many other cadet across the country . will the Minister share how the Government will support the like of the Eastbourne sea cadet with energy bill so that they can continue have an incredible impact on local young people and our armed force more generally ? the air cadet be fantastic , the sea cadet be fantastic and the Army cadet be amazing — they be all amazing . I would love to take on this issue . if the hon . Gentleman write to I with the detail , we will have a look at what we can do . I have huge admiration for the sea cadet in his constituency . at some point , if my diary permit , I would love to visit they all . Strategic Defence Review Recommendations : timetable what discussion he have have with Cabinet colleague on the plan timetable for implement the recommendation of the strategic defence review . the Government have accept all 62 recommendation of the strategic defence review . implementation of the review ' s recommendation be already well under way . with RAF Odiham celebrate its centenary this year , I be proud of the many close military tie that we have in my constituency of North East Hampshire . one of the recommendation of the strategic defence review be to improve accommodation , where we be let our military personnel down . give that there be widespread agreement with the Liberal Democrats on this issue , include in the other place , will the Secretary of State support bring all military housing in line with the decent home standard in today ' s Renters ' right Bill vote ? in the last year , we have take huge step to start to make good on decade of substandard housing for military personnel and their family . we have bring 36 , 000 military family home back into public ownership so that we can plan exactly the sort of upgrade that the hon . Lady talk about . on the rest of the SDR , we have announce the purchase of 12 F - 35A aircraft , which will join the dual capable aircraft mission of NATO ; we have launch our new £ 70 million campaign on cadet ; and we have stand up the cyber and specialist operation command . today , we be publish the defence industrial strategy to make defence an engine for growth . this government be deliver for defence and deliver for Britain . the strategic defence review rightly highlight the need for a whole - of - society approach to defence , include expand the cadet by 30 % by 2030 . a key part of that have to include support more adult volunteer to give their time to the cadet . what step be my right hon . friend take to ensure that more adult volunteer be able to support our fantastic cadet ? my hon . friend be exactly right . cadet force can not exist without the adult volunteer who support they , and they be central to our ability to increase the number of cadet force across this country by 30 % by 2030 , which will give so many young people opportunity in the future . Ukraine : Military Support what recent discussion he have have with ally on military support for Ukraine . we totally condemn Russia ' s air attack on Ukraine over the weekend . it be the bad since Putin ' s illegal invasion of Ukraine begin , hit a Government building for the first time . Putin be escalate his attack , and we must step up and speed up our support for Ukraine . last week , I announce that over £ 1 billion of profit from frozen russian asset have be put into military aid for Ukraine . tomorrow , I will host and co - chair from London the 30th Ukraine Defence Contact Group , when 50 nation will together confirm increase military aid for Ukraine . over the weekend , a drone attack be launch target a number of region , include Kyiv and Odesa , which I have the privilege of visit early this year . it be report to be the big drone strike since Putin ' s illegal invasion begin . do the Secretary of State agree with I that more must be do to secure a ceasefire ? I agree with my hon . friend , and she be right that it be the big drone attack in the past three and a half year since Putin ' s illegal invasion . these air attack be direct at civilian area with civilian target . I see for myself this week the damage that bring when I stand outside the bomb - out building of the British Council in Kyiv , and I see the determination of man and woman — military and civilian alike — in their defiance to keep fight in the face of Putin ' s illegal invasion . will the Secretary of State confirm how this country and our ally will support Ukraine to defend its airspace from russian aggression ? for example , will we lend it our Typhoons or will we participate in the cross - national F - 16 fighter programme , despite the fact that we do not have F - 16 ? we have work closely with Ukraine to develop new weapon system to supply the air defence missile it require . while - ever Ukraine be fight Putin ' s invasion , we will stand alongside it and we will provide whatever military aid we can . beyond that , for when we can reach a negotiate peace , we have be lead work to prepare a multinational force willing to stand with Ukraine in the peace and to secure that peace for the long term so that Russia never again invade that country . Defence Industrial Base what step he be take to help strengthen the defence industrial base . what step he be take to help strengthen the defence industrial base . through the defence industrial strategy , the Ministry of Defence will strengthen the defence industrial base by support small and medium - sized enterprise , foster collaboration with industry and academia , create job , enhance export support and adopt sustainable procurement practice . these measure will boost innovation , resilience and competitiveness while support national security and economic growth . I welcome last week ' s news that Ukraine ' s large drone manufacturer have invest £ 200 million in a new factory in the UK , create 500 job . this demonstrate the strength of our partnership with our ukrainian friend and the confidence that international company have in Britain ' s skilled workforce . what assessment have the Minister make of the impact of foreign direct investment in the UK ' s defence industrial base ? I thank my hon . friend for celebrate the investment we be see . foreign direct investment be a really important component part of build our ecosystem for defence industry . Britain be the very good place to invest in defence industry , with a talented population , increase skill , increase defence spending and a military that be respect the world over . we have a huge opportunity to do even more , and when I announce detail of the defence industrial strategy shortly , I hope he will support that work as we seek to go far in use defence as an engine for growth in every part of the country . Medway have a proud tradition with its former dockyard in Chatham . last week , I visit the BAE Systems aviation centre in Rochester in my constituency to see its graduate and apprentice . what more can be do to support graduate and apprentice in defence ? will the Minister take the opportunity to visit the BAE Systems site to look at that work in person ? I thank my hon . friend for his question and for champion the BAE site in Rochester . we want more defence company to invest more in skill . in the defence industrial strategy we be publish today , we will not only make further investment in defence technical education college — with £ 182 million to deliver that — but provide additional support for school - base activity and university partnership . I would be very happy to come to Rochester to see for myself the amazing work of the apprentice . shortly before recess , I visit a small precision engineering firm that be involve in tooling in the defence industry . it share the challenge it face in look at defence contract and explain that there seem to be no priority for UK business , unlike in France where french business be prioritise . I be sure the Minister agree that defence investment boost growth across our constituency . will he meet I and the business to understand how we can boost british business in that sector ? to a Minister just promote by the son of a toolmaker in the reshuffle , tooling be a very appropriate question . we be target more of the increase defence budget at british company , in particular small and medium - sized enterprise , with the development of the new defence SME hub , which will allow more sme to access the defence contract we be provide as part of our grow renewal of our armed force . I would be very happy to meet the hon . Lady to discuss her constituency business . I thank the Minister , who be a regular visitor to Northern Ireland , for his answer . thale have receive significant contract work from the Ministry of Defence , with 200 job come out of that , and Spirit AeroSystems have also achieve some of that , with extra job , but many other defence company could also take advantage . will the Minister confirm that those other company will have the same opportunity ? I be very happy to say that we be seek growth in defence business in every part of the United Kingdom . when we launch the defence industrial strategy very shortly , I hope the hon . Gentleman will be able to see one of the new defence growth zone in Northern Ireland provide opportunity for young people to start new good career in defence . also , company that might not think of themselves as defence company at the moment will be able not just to sell to UK armed force , but to take export opportunity sell to our ally around the world . defence Investment Plan when he plan to publish the defence investment plan . the strategic defence review set out the Government ' s vision for the future of defence to make Britain safe , secure at home and strong abroad . this be back up by the Government ' s historic defence investment of 2 . 6 % on defence spending from 2027 . as part of the SDR implementation , we be develop a 10 - year defence investment plan which will be publish this autumn . on Friday , I visit Paragraf , a local business in my constituency . found by Simon Thomas , it be a hugely successful spin - out from Cambridge University , develop and manufacturing next generation electronic device use graphene . these product provide solution in a range of industry , from quantum computing to diagnostic . as one can imagine with a world - lead technology , there be a huge array of potential military application . indeed , the company have already be contact by our NATO ally . may I invite the Secretary of State and the new procurement Minister to visit Paragraf , meet CEO Simon Thomas and look at how we can seize the initiative in defence with an innovative and world - lead technology , and a real british and Huntingdon success story ? I thank the hon . gentleman for his continue championing of not just defence business in his constituency , but defence in total . the amount of parliamentary question I have answer from he certainly show his strong interest in this area . I want more of our defence budget focus on novel and innovative technology . that be what we announce in the strategic defence review , with 10 % go to those advanced technology . there be a real opportunity to create more job that provide the world - lead innovation that will give we the edge on the battlefield , because the nation that innovate the most will be the nation that win in any conflict . I would be very happy to discuss that far with he . the east of England have a proud record of defence innovation . indeed , on my holiday to Lincoln , I stay at the White Hart hotel , where the battle tank be first conceive during the first world war . do the Minister agree that investment in technical college of excellence , such as that at Bury St Edmonds , be absolutely key to defence innovation ? I have some recommendation for other defence holiday tourism , if my hon . friend would like some . he be absolutely right to raise the importance of skill . there be huge opportunity across the nation in defence industry , but we need the workforce of the future to deliver they . that be why , in the defence industrial strategy be announce this afternoon , he will see more investment in skill , not just in defence technical college of excellence but in school and university cluster , to maximise the opportunity to enhance our skill offer and make defence an engine for growth everywhere in the country . armed Forces : welfare what step he be take to improve the welfare of armed force personnel . the armed force welfare support policy , JSP 770 , undergo a full review and be publish in January 2025 . it now include update information and guidance to ensure that welfare support structure be appropriate , accurate and informative for service personnel and their family . welfare support lie within the chain of command , with command officer oversee the delivery of welfare support within their unit . one of Labour ' s key manifesto commitment be to give our armed force great representation through the creation of an Armed Forces Commissioner — a promise that we have make good on with the passing of the Armed Forces Commissioner Act 2025 last week . how do the Minister expect that to improve the life of our service personnel and their family ? as my hon . friend rightly note , the Armed Forces Commissioner Act , as I can now refer to it , receive Royal Assent last week , which be a fantastic step forward . as she highlight , there be more to do ; there be many aspect of service life where even small change could make a massive difference to the overall experience of service personnel . topical Questions if he will make a statement on his departmental responsibility . I pay tribute to my right hon . friend the Member for Liverpool Garston ( Maria Eagle ) . she serve as a Minister in both this and the previous Labour Government with great commitment , and we thank she for her service . [ hon . member : " hear , hear . " ] last week I travel to Norway to sign the big british warship deal ever — a £ 10 billion contract that will secure 4 , 000 job for the next two decade . last week I also visit Kyiv , during my fifth visit to Ukraine , where I meet Defence Minister Shmyhal , visit a drone factory and chair a meeting of the coalition of the willing with more than 30 Defence Ministers . the message to Moscow from one and all be of defiance and determination : the Ukrainians will keep fight russian aggression , and the coalition will step up support for Ukraine and preparation for a peace in Ukraine . tomorrow from London I will co - chair the meeting of the Ukraine Defence Contact Group , attend by around 50 nation . this week I will also host the meeting of the E5 Defence Ministers here in London . when I meet veteran across Beverley and Holderness , particularly at Withernsea or Beverley veteran breakfast club , the no . 1 issue they raise with I be homelessness among veteran — an issue that the Minister for Veterans and People will recognise . they ask what more we can do , and I share that question with the Secretary of State : what more can we do to ensure that those who have put their life on the line to serve our country do not find themselves homeless in their later day ? I share with the right hon . Gentleman , and , I think , every Member of this House , the pleasure and honour of attend such breakfast club with veteran in my constituency . he be right about the range of concern that veteran raise , which include the pressure of homelessness . recognise the force ' service in local authority housing priority be our first step , and the £ 50 million go into the Op VALOUR system to increase support for veteran will also play a part . the £ 10 billion contract with Norway will help to guarantee shipbuilding on the Clyde for many decade to come . will the Minister join I in congratulate the worker at the shipyard in Glasgow , and will he assure I that the Government intend to everything they can to promote Glaswegian shipbuilding around the world ? I thank my hon . friend for his question and thank the worker on the Clyde for their professionalism . it make the collective ministerial effort across Government much easier know that we have professional , dedicated and excellent worker on the Clyde who be able to build the Type 26 frigate , and on the opposite side of Scotland , support the worker at Rosyth , to build the Type 31 frigate , too . there be a huge future on either side of Scotland for british shipbuilding , and hopefully more export order as well . I call the shadow Secretary of State . do the Secretary of State agree that recruitment to the armed force must be base solely on merit ? we must recruit the absolute good to serve in the armed force . as the hon . Gentleman will know , an intelligent strategy for recruitment will seek to reach every single community across these british isle . perpetuate a narrative that woman and those from ethnic minority — many of whom have prove time and again on service that they absolutely deserve to be a part of our armed force — be recruit because of some wake policy do they a huge disservice . I totally agree , but be that not why we should be concern that the contract for the new armed force recruitment service " include Annual mandate Performance Indicators focus on enhance equality and diversity within the workforce " ? those be to be annually mandate in the contract . my concern be that hardwire the requirement into the contract risk distort recruitment if the target be not hit ; we see that with the RAF . would it not be well to simply scrap the red tape altogether and focus solely on get the good people into the armed force , irrespective of their background ? I think the hon . Member have answer his own question . we be talk about indicator , and indicator be very different from target . an intelligent recruitment strategy seek to reach out to all community across these island , and we need to monitor how well our narrative be succeed . if we be to have a truly professional strategy , we have to monitor its success in reach different community . that be why we refer to an indicator . my question be a bit like the bus this morning . I spend a lot of time knock on door and talk to resident in my constituency . a couple of week ago , one resident speak with anguish about the challenge that his son , who be former armed service personnel , face in suffer from post - traumatic stress disorder . I have meet the Veterans Minister to discuss this on a number of occasion , but can I ask he once again to emphasise the importance that this Government put on support veteran who have ptsd ? this link in with work that I do in a previous role , in which I support veteran out of homelessness — order . that question be like the bus , indeed — some be quick than other , and that one should have be an express . this government take seriously both physical and mental injury from service . Op Courage have already see 34 , 000 referral . it be a fantastic programme that run across the country and provide mental health service for veteran . I encourage any veteran who think that they need help to shout and seek help . it be the first step to recovery . I call the liberal Democrat spokesperson . it be clear that Vladimir Putin remain hellbent on the conquest of Ukraine , while he drag Trump along with false promise of peace . it be right of the Government to have take step such as put in place the recent price cap cut , to hurt Putin ' s oil profit , but the Government must go far . analysis by the Centre for Research on Energy and Clean Air think - tank show that the UK have send over £ 500 million in tax receipt to the Kremlin by continue to import petroleum product derive from russian oil from third country . will the Government commit to finally close this loophole , which be currently fill the Kremlin ' s coffer ? we be always ready to take further step on impose economic sanction , and to close any loophole in those sanction . we have a record , under both the last government and this government , of be at the forefront of impose these sort of economic measure on Putin ' s regime . like several colleague across the House , I grow up in the air cadet . I leave as a cadet warrant officer , have gain so much by fly aeroplane , shoot rifle , march in a band and , crucially , learn the self - discipline and leadership that ultimately bring I to this House . cadet and adult volunteer I have speak to recently be over the moon about our plan to increase the size of the cadet force by 30 % by 2030 . however , as we increase the size of the cadet force , how can we ensure that every cadet will have the same access to opportunity as they currently do , when resource for activity be limited ? the expansion of the cadet — 30 % by 2030 — be front and centre of my portfolio . we will ensure that the £ 70 million be spend on expand the service , as well as increase the standard of training , insight and access that cadet have across the country . I congratulate the hon . member for Plymouth Sutton and Devonport ( Luke Pollard ) , and for North East Derbyshire ( Louise Sandher - Jones ) , on their new ministerial position . my constituent , former senior aircraftsman Mark Shephard , be subject to discriminatory dismissal from the RAF , deny he his whole future career in the RAF . could the Minister explain why he have be accept for an impact payment , but deny a discharge and dismissal payment , with no explanation ? will the Minister review the whole ddp , so that it honour — order . time limit apply to Liberal Democrats as well . if the hon . member write to I with the detail of that case , I will look into it . there be a plethora of issue and complexity with some of these policy , but I will take this case on and have a look . we have already highlight the welcome investment in shipbuilding on the Clyde and the Forth , which clearly demonstrate the real benefit of be part of the Union . what assessment have the Minister make of other potential export deal ? what step be he take to ensure that the Ministry of Defence take up those opportunity ? the Type 26 deal with Norway show what be possible when we have a determined export campaign . we be look at work with a number of our european ally , and ally far afield , on export deal , not just for our large platform , such as warship , but missile , electronic system and a whole range of defence equipment , to create more job here in Britain . I be happy to discuss that far with my hon . friend . pension forfeiture for ex - armed force personnel be rare — it be usually reserve for case of serious criminal activity and those with serious criminal conviction — but be it not time that the small number of ex - force personnel from this country who be shamefully fight for the Russian Federation , either directly in Ukraine or through proxy in north Africa and sub - Saharan Africa , have their pension cancel ? the right hon . member raise an interesting point . please write to I in due course with example , and we will look into that , from a defence perspective . how will the defence industrial strategy , which be most welcome , ensure that more public money be spend with supply chain business in the UK — particularly those in the Teesside defence and innovation cluster in Stockton , Billingham and Norton ? there be a real opportunity to grow far the 2 , 000 directly support defence job in the north - east . I be happy to speak to my hon . friend far about that . may I encourage he to stay for the defence industrial strategy statement ? he will hear about the further investment and opportunity that the Government hope to provide to every nation and region in the UK . an independent northern european nation of 5 . 5 million people , Norway , have just sign an order for £ 10 billion - worth of the world ' s good anti - submarine warfare frigate , design and build in Glasgow in Scotland . despite that , despite Scotland ' s long coastline , and despite the ingenuity display in that product , none of those Type 26 — unless I be wrong — will be station in Scotland . would the Minister like to tell I that I be wrong , and that he be prepared to place type 26 on station in Scotland in the future ? the hon . Gentleman be a defence expert , so he know well that the Type 26 replace the anti - submarine warfare type 23 in Devonport , where they will be base . he also know that we have quick - reaction fighter at Lossiemouth and our Royal Navy submarine force base at Faslane . we have huge investment across Scotland , and we will do even more , but while the Government in Holyrood , which he back , have dither on defence job , this Government have deliver extra defence job for Scotland , and will continue to do that . I recently meet my constituent Lance Corporal Sarah Bushbye , who be only the third ever woman to receive the Military Cross . she share with I the difficulty of deal with the complex physical and psychological effect of her service , and the transformative effect that the Boulder Crest foundation have on she in her recovery . will the Minister meet I and Sarah to hear about the work of the foundation ? I completely empathise with that veteran . I be more than happy to sit down and talk through the pro of that treatment , and to see if we can expand it far . Fort Blockhouse in Gosport be due to have be sell by 2024 , but the deadline keep move . the Defence Infrastructure Organisation have not be at all proactive ; this giant site sit empty , do nothing for the MOD , taxpayer or the local economy . First Reform and then the Government have suggest that site like Blockhouse will be use for asylum accommodation . Gosport deserve so much well . will the Secretary of State meet I to discuss a much more innovative future for this important — order . I have a lot of sympathy , but please — we have to be a bit quick ; otherwise , nobody else will get in . I be happy to meet the hon . member to discuss the opportunity to use the defence estate to contribute to growth in every part of the country , include hers . how will the Government ensure that Cammell Laird ' s shipbuilde expertise and workforce be fully integrate into the defence industrial strategy , in order to both strengthen sovereign capability and support skilled job in the north - west ? there be real expertise in , and opportunity for , our shipyard nationwide — both those that support Royal Navy military vessel , and those that spend much of their time work on Royal Fleet Auxiliary vessel , which be the backbone of the Royal Navy fleet . there be a real opportunity in not just shipbuilde but ship repair . I would be happy to meet my hon . friend to discuss those opportunity . give that the Labour conference will soon take place in Liverpool , perhaps I can pop over and see she . for many veteran , hear loss be one of the hide scar of service , and in a number of case , it have be link to defective 3 m hearing equipment . will the Minister use their art of persuasion on the Prime Minister to ensure an independent inquiry , so that we can find out the extent of this , and see whether any other equipment be involve and how we can prevent it from happen again ? anyone with hear loss from equipment can absolutely apply for compensation through the war pension scheme or the armed force compensation scheme . broad work be happen on those specific bit of capability outside this place . I welcome the five new defence technical excellence college just announce , but we need a skill pathway right across the country . I have be work with ADS on a defence curriculum that could be deliver across college and university nationwide . what plan do the Minister have to support defence learning right across the country , and will he meet I and ADS to see if we can roll out a trial ? my hon . friend be simply prolific in the area in which she be seek to improve defence , and I would be very happy to meet she to discuss this far . there will be an announcement on skill in the defence industrial strategy that be come out this afternoon . there be a real opportunity to expand this work , not just in defence technical education college , but in institution nationwide . will the Secretary of State guarantee — yes or no — that no british serviceman or veteran will face prosecution for action take in Northern Ireland while serve their country ? as have be mention , as we go through the process , we will ensure that protection be in place , to look after our veteran . the reality be — I be be really honest — that if people break the law , they will be hold accountable , but I assure the hon . member that veteran who serve will be protect . young people in my constituency be cry out for decent , well - pay job , especially in the defence sector , so will the Secretary of State agree to meet I to discuss the Typhoon order that be desperately need , not only for our country , but for job across Blackpool and Lancashire ? I will indeed , and my hon . friend will be encourage , I hope , by the visit I pay to Turkey , and the initial agreement that I have sign with Turkey for a big new order of Typhoons , which will be build in Lancashire . I look forward to the order . Palestine action : Proscription and Protests before we come to the urgent question , I should remind hon . member to avoid refer directly to criminal case that be currently before the court . there be also an active application for judicial review relate to the proscription of Palestine Action . I have decide to grant a waiver in relation to that case , as it concern a matter of public order in which there be significant public interest . member may therefore refer to that case . ( Urgent Question ) : to ask if the Home Secretary will make a statement on the proscription of Palestine Action and public protest . anyone who wish to demonstrate about the humanitarian situation in Gaza or the action of any Government , include our own , have the absolute freedom to gather with other and voice their view , provide that they do so within the law , but support Palestine and support a proscribe terrorist organisation be not the same thing . the vitally important issue of palestinian right should not be co - opt by one organisation that have show that it be willing to use violence in pursuit of its cause . the clear advice and intelligence give to the then Home Secretary early this year be that Palestine Action satisfy the relevant test in the Terrorism Act 2000 and should be proscribe . some of those hold placard in support of Palestine Action may not know the extent of its activity . it have conduct an escalate campaign involve intimidation and sustained criminal damage , include to Britain ' s national security infrastructure . some of its attack have involve the use of weapon , result in alleged violence and serious injury to individual . Palestine Action ' s member have be charge with violent disorder , grievous bodily harm with intent , actual bodily harm , criminal damage and aggravate burglary — charge that include , in the assessment of the independent Crown Prosecution Service , a terrorism connection . these be not the action of a legitimate protest group , and for a Government to ignore expert security assessment , advice and recommendation would be highly irresponsible . be there to be far serious attack or injury , question would rightly be ask about why action have not be take . the Metropolitan police have confirm that a total of 890 arrest be make at a demonstration in central London on Saturday . Most of those be under section 13 of the Terrorism Act 2000 for display article in support of Palestine Action . thirty - three people be arrest for other offence , include 17 assault on police officer . as the Metropolitan police have point out , that be in stark contrast to the 20 , 000 people who peacefully march and attend the Palestine Solidarity campaign demonstration . demonstration of this scale require a significant policing response . the new Home Secretary join the Commissioner of the Metropolitan police on Saturday to observe the force ' s operation and express her backing for the officer work tirelessly to enforce our law and to maintain order . the fact that some officer be subject to violence and abuse be utterly shameful . it be completely understandable that people rightly feel very strongly about the situation in Gaza . but support or be a member of a proscribe terrorist organisation be a criminal offence and will never be acceptable , regardless of the wide context . we all want the suffering in Gaza to end and the remain hostage to be return . we all want to see peace . I say to the House that we must keep our focus squarely on achieve those aim and not on one harmful group that refuse to abide by our law and threaten our public safety . order . I do not know who be do the speech , but I be go to crack down on Ministers and shadow Ministers if they do not keep to three minute . I have to get back Benchers in . do the Minister agree to stick to the time in the future ? indicate assent . thank you — I be glad that there be some acknowledgment . nearly 1 , 500 people have now be arrest because of concern about proscription . there be clearly a problem with violence and intimidation in our politic , and we have to get this right because public confidence be fall , too . I be not here as a supporter or defender of Palestine Action and its tactic . I condemn without hesitation abuse , intimidation and attack on the police and any political opponent . the case for act on the group itself be and be strong . we have see a pattern of violence at its event , and it have not dissociate itself from that violence . but we also see police and refugee be target for violence alongside those who want to protest about immigration matter — banner that say , " kill ' em all , let God sort ' em out ! " , neo - nazi group circle . we can not ignore the impact on police on our street because of these incident , but this be just not sustainable for our police or our criminal justice system . there be a difference between people protest use violence and people protest the use of proscription . if we do not get the response right , if we continue to arrest those in that secondary category , the seriousness of the term " terrorism " risk lose its meaning and become dilute rather than strengthen . Proscription be suppose to be about stop those incite direct harm and violence . go after somebody with a poster test the boundary of liberty — many of whom be clear that they do not support Palestine Action , but feel strongly about palestinian right or free speech — confuse rather than clarify the Government ' s intention . People must be able to protest what be happen in Gaza , and the focus should be on what be happen in Palestine , not Parliament Square . I ask for this urgent question because I think it be for we to act . legislation on public order focus on specific act ; proscription order target specific terrorist group . nothing sit in between . give that , what discussion have the Minister have with the police about distinguish between member of Palestine Action and people concern about proscription itself ? [ interruption . ] the offence of recklessly encourage support of a proscribe group run counter to that focus on criminality . if he will not abolish that offence , will he at least set out guidance to the Crown Prosecution Service and the police on any public interest test in use it ? the previous Policing Minister — Order . this be what happen . I grant the urgent question because I think it be important to hear you , and you be advise that it be two minute . I think you have now finish or be about to . I do apologise , Mr Speaker . I be advise that it be three minute , but that be my fault . Terrorism be different from terrorising opponent , but both should be criminal offence . will the Minister commit to a review of that section so that we can get it right for the sake of our democracy ? order . I believe the advice be correct to two minute . [ interruption . ] that be correct . I do not want my department to be blame . I be genuinely grateful to my hon . friend for bring these issue to the House . they be important , and it be right that minister be hold accountable for they . I be sure that the whole House will agree with my hon . friend ' s remark about violence and intimidation , which have absolutely no place in our politic . she will be aware that there be a significant body of work take place across Government , co - ordinated by the defend democracy taskforce , to ensure that all our elect representative be able to do their duty and represent their constituent without fear or favour . the Government take that very seriously indeed . my hon . Friend make a number of point , and I will struggle to respond to all of they . she will understand that the police be operationally independent of Government , but of course we remain in regular contact . it be important to take this opportunity to thank the police for their important work . they come under a huge amount of scrutiny — rightly so — but I think we see at the weekend an impeccable police operation in which brave officer stand and do their duty , at least 17 of whom be allegedly assault in the line of duty . the final thing to say to my hon . friend relate to draw the distinction , as she will well understand , on the absolute right of anybody in our country to express their concern about the desperately difficult situation in the middle east and more specifically in Gaza . the ability to go to the street and join other in express individual or collective concern about unfold event , be they in this country or far afield , be a cornerstone of our democracy . this government would never do anything to get in the way of that . it be interesting that ten of thousand of people take to the street this weekend and be able to express their concern in an entirely lawful way . my hon . friend ask about whether we be seek to review any element of the Terrorism Act . it be worth point she to the recently publish article by Jonathan Hall KC , the independent reviewer of terrorism legislation , who say with regard to tackle Palestine Action that " there be no way ordinary criminal law would be effective against funding , training and recruitment . " the Government must ensure public safety , and that be what we will seek to do . I call the shadow Home Secretary . we — in common , I hope , with everyone in this House — fully and unequivocally support the right to peaceful protest , include on issue in the middle east , whether the hostage who remain captive or civilian in Gaza , whose plight concern we all . however , in exercise that right to protest , violence be never acceptable . Palestine Action have commit deliberate criminal damage against various premise , use a sledgehammer to attack a police officer , and deliberately sabotage RAF plane . no matter how strongly people feel about an issue , and whatever the right and wrong of that issue , use violence to advance a political agenda be never acceptable . it be not how we do thing in this country ; we settle thing through debate and election . the Security Minister have give the House assurance about the necessity of this measure . I have not be brief , or be offer a briefing on that , but the Minister command widespread respect across the House , and member will take his assurance seriously . will he give an assurance that the police be take all possible preventive action against Palestine Action where it may be plan future attack against premise , or future act of violence , include use the offence of conspiracy to commit public nuisance , under which the police have wide - range power ? I join the Minister in extend my thank to the police for the difficult work they do keep we safe . finally , I will use this opportunity to express my support for a protest that take place on Sunday in Parliament Square , and the campaign against Antisemitism march , which I address . it be regrettable that neither the Home Secretary nor a senior Minister address that march , so will the Security Minister take the opportunity to express the Government ' s resolve to combat antisemitism wherever it be find ? I be grateful to the shadow Home Secretary for his remark and the tone of they . on his final point , yes , let I take the opportunity , on behalf of his Majesty ' s Government , to state our absolute abhorrence of antisemitism wherever it rear its ugly head . I hope he know that the Government will do everything we possibly can to stand against the force of racism wherever they seek to rear their ugly head . I completely agree with the right hon . Gentleman that violence be never acceptable in pursue a political agenda , and I be pleased that we be able to establish a consensus across the House in that regard . on his point about briefing , we brief the shadow Minister ahead of the proscription action back in July , and as he know , I would be happy to brief he on Privy Council term whenever he should wish . I be also able to give he the assurance that he seek about the work the police be do . as a former Home Office Minister he know that the police be operationally independent , but I assure he that the police will be take all necessary measure to guard against future attack . I be happy to speak to he about those matter far , and I be grateful for his support for these matter today . as I understand , conviction simply for display the name of a proscribe group have be extremely rare unless there have be clear evidence of intent to promote a group ' s more extreme action . if that be the case , and as it be clear that the act of protest and civil disobedience see in recent day be not act that would ordinarily form part of a case for proscription , why do the police not simply stop the arrest ? I take the opportunity to acknowledge the difficult job that the police do . in my experience , recently and over a long period , the police have do an excellent job , often under very difficult circumstance . it be important that we consider proportionality . these operational judgment have to be make by the police , often on the ground and often under pressure or in difficult circumstance . it be also important that we consider that we would not tolerate the kind of activity that we have see in recent day and week from an organisation that be motivate , for example , by islamist extremism , or by an extreme right - wing ideology . similarly , we can not tolerate that activity from Palestine Action , and this Government will support the police in do the difficult job that we have ask they to do . I call the liberal Democrat spokesperson . the right to peaceful protest be a cornerstone of a liberal democracy , but event over the weekend have set a dangerous precedent and risk have a chilling impact on free speech and legitimate protest in the UK . the arrest of 857 protester under terror law , follow hundred of arrest under the same power last month , be deeply alarming . the Lib Dems warn that that would be exactly what happen when the Conservatives expand terrorism power in 2018 . there be no doubt that those use violence , antisemitic abuse or hate speech must face the consequence , but those crime be already cover by exist law . it can not be right that simply display a placard in support of a proscribe organisation , while peacefully protest , can result in a conviction and up to six month in prison . will the Minister urgently review terrorism legislation , specifically as it be impact the right to protest peacefully , to ensure it be proportionate and contain the nuance that it so clearly need ? I be grateful to the hon . Lady , as always , for the sensible and reasonable tone in which she make her remark , but I have to say that I do not agree that the event of this weekend have have a chilling effect on our democracy . I think it be quite the opposite : ten of thousand of people come to London to exercise their absolute right to demonstrate on matter about which they be concern . the overwhelming majority of people who come to London be able to do so in an entirely reasonable and lawful way . only a very tiny minority be not able to do so in that way and deliberately seek to get arrest . the hon . Lady ask entirely reasonably about necessity and proportionality , and about whether the Government intend to review exist legislation . she have raise that point previously , we have discuss it , and I know that the leader of her party , the right hon . member for Kingston and Surbiton ( Ed Davey ) , raise it over the summer recess . of course we look very carefully at legislation , but the Government do not currently have any plan to amend the exist legislation . not least in the light of the ongoing criminal proceeding relate to Palestine Action and the ongoing judicial review , it would not be appropriate to carry out a review at this time . we think that the UK ' s counter - terrorism legislation strike the right balance between protect national security and individual freedom , include the right to the freedom of expression under article 10 of the european convention on human right . the hon . member for Hazel Grove know the high regard in which I hold Jonathan Hall , the independent reviewer of terrorism legislation , and she know that the legislative framework be subject to independent statutory oversight by the independent reviewer . the Government will of course consider any recommendation that he seek to make . I have advise the hon . Lady previously to get in touch with he ; I think that she have and I know that she will want to look very carefully at what he say . those arrest be merely hold sign , wear t - shirt and display general support for a group that do not come close to the loose definition of terrorism . meanwhile , political pundit and columnist seem free to discuss Palestine Action without fear of criminal prosecution . I do not think that anyone should face arrest for do that , but it do not seem fair that people can get away with it as long as they be do it in front of a tv camera . will the Minister explain how the law be be apply , whether it be be apply fairly and where people be allow to show support for Palestine Action ? it be clear that some people be be allow to do it , but other be not . my hon . friend have a long - stand interest in and concern about these matter . I give she an absolute assurance that the law be be apply fairly . I say to she — I know that she will agree with this — that nobody be above the law . it be important to think about how we collectively seek to respond to those who behave in a similar way but underpin by very different cause , such as extreme islamist terrorism or an extreme right - wing ideology . if people be demonstrate on behalf of those organisation in the same way that we have see people demonstrate in support of Palestine Action , I think people would absolutely want the police to act in the way that they see they act over the weekend . I say again : the law be be apply fairly ; nobody be above the law ; and the police need to be able to ensure that they be able to enforce it without fear or favour , and that be what I think they do over the weekend . I call the Chair of the Home Affairs Committee . the burden of police these protest be fall on certain force more than other . that be also the case during the disorder last summer . can the Minister give some reassurance that the Home Office be provide the support that be need to those force to ensure that they can manage the protest and so that their do so do not distract from day - to - day policing ? the Chair of the Select Committee make an important point . yes , I can give she the assurance that she seek . the right hon . Lady be right that recent activity have provide particular burden on particular force . the Home Secretary and I , and of course the Policing Minister and colleague right across Government , work very closely with the police and we will ensure that they have the necessary resource for the important job that they have to do . last August , a police officer be hospitalise after be hit with a sledgehammer while respond to a Palestine Action attack on a business near Bristol — a fact that be absent from our debate when we vote to proscribe that organisation recently . the attacker have sledgehammer , axis , whip and other home - make weapon . do the Minister agree that that cross the line of any legitimate protest — into terrorism ? yes , I would . the Minister have say that no one be above the law and that violence be never the answer . I agree with he and I know that he believe that the law should be wield with integrity , so when be we go to see the proscription of violent settler group in the west bank , many of whom be perpetrate a reign of terror on innocent Palestinians in that part of the world but who may be garner support and raise fund in the United Kingdom ? the right hon . Gentleman be an experienced Member of this House and have serve as a Minister in the Home Office , so I be sorry to have to put my response to he in this way , but he will understand why I do so : we never comment about matter relate to future proscription . I know that his word will have be hear by colleague in other Government Departments , as well as in my Department . he make his point with great consistency — he have raise they with I previously — but I know that he will understand that there be a long - stand protocol , across a number of government , that we do not talk about future proscription activity . I thank the Minister for his response to the urgent question , but I concur with some of the comment from my hon . friend the Member for Walthamstow ( Ms Creasy ) about people be arrest , include my constituent , some of whom be protest peacefully . I want to come back to the issue of the impact on frontline policing . as a central London MP , I be see resource be draw away from my local police to deal with the protest . my constituent want those frontline police officer to be solve crime on their street ; the Minister will understand the sheer scale of their concern about ensure the police can get to grip with that locally . return to the point make by the Chair of the Home Affairs Committee , will the Minister assure I that those ongoing discussion with the police be happen , include with the chair of the Metropolitan Police Federation , who say on the " World at one " today that the protest be " not sustainable " ? my hon . friend raise a very important point , as do the Chair of the Home Affairs Committee . she will absolutely understand the importance that this Government attach to the safe street agenda . I can give she an assurance that we be work very closely with the Metropolitan police and other police force around the country to ensure that they have the resource they need to police these kind of protest and activity , alongside the other activity that they be require to police . the Home Secretary , the Policing Minister and I take these matter very seriously . we meet senior representative of the Metropolitan police just last week , but I give my hon . friend an absolute assurance that we will ensure that the police have the necessary resource to do the job that we ask they to do . give the scale of arrest over the weekend and the Minister state that he have no intention to review legislation , will he commit instead to an independent review of the use of terrorism legislation against people peacefully protest to see if it be fit for purpose ? I be grateful to the hon . Lady for her question ; I hope that she hear the response I give a moment ago — that it would not be appropriate to get into a review process at this particular moment because of ongoing legal proceeding . we be incredibly fortunate to have Jonathan Hall KC as the independent reviewer of terrorism legislation . he bring a weight of authority and credibility to the process . I know that he have particular view on the issue , and I invite she and other member to look closely at what he have say about it . do the Minister agree that the continue mass arrest of peaceful protester , many of whom be protest about the proscription of Palestine Action but would not for a moment support the activity of Palestine Action , be something that we should distinguish and that we should advise prosector and the police about — not least because the furore around the arrest risk drown out the rightful protest about the difficult situation in Palestine and Gaza , to which the Minister have refer ? my hon . friend raise some really important point . for clarity , it be an offence to display support for Palestine Action , but it be not an offence to criticise the Government ' s decision to proscribe , so difficult judgment often have to be make by the police on the ground . let I give she a categorical assurance that this government will do nothing to get in the way of somebody ' s absolute right to protest about a matter about which they be concerned . in many respect , it be incredibly heartening to see ten of thousand of people take to the street to express their concern in an entirely peaceful and lawful way , and I hope that will long continue . as I have indicate previously , I have my doubt about whether the terrorism label be most suited to a group that be certainly criminal , certainly violent , and arguably seditious , in its attack on the asset of our military , but I have a positive suggestion to make . will the Minister undertake fully to brief the Chairman and member of the Intelligence and Security Committee , which I use to chair but on which I now no long serve ? if they be able to see information that the Minister can not share publicly and say to we that they be satisfied with the terrorism designation , I for one would find that reassuring . I be always very grateful to the right hon . Gentleman , who speak with a real wisdom about these matter , and I can give he those assurance . we have be in contact with the Committee , which he use to chair ; it consist of some incredibly experienced and wise parliamentarian , and we seek to take their counsel at every opportunity — so , yes , we have engage with they and will continue to do so on this matter and other . while Palestine Action wage its campaign of intimidation and go about damage military basis , with very little impact in the middle east , this week the Government will host President Abbas and President Herzog for discussion on a more peaceful future for Palestinians and Israelis alike . do the Minister agree that , unlike Palestine Action , this Government be actually take genuine and serious step to support peace in the middle east ? I be grateful to my hon . friend for his comment , and I completely agree . I think there be an absolute point of consensus in this place — and , I hope , much far afield — about the urgent need to secure peace in the middle east . this Government , lead by the Prime Minister , the Foreign Secretary and colleague in the Foreign , Commonwealth and Development Office , will do everything we possibly can to support that important process . the optic of octogenarian priest be arrest alongside hundred of peaceful protester be absolutely awful for this Government . we have only three arrest over the weekend in Scotland , because Police Scotland seem to deploy a much more conciliatory and community - base approach . do the Minister support operational independence across the UK ? if police force feel it be in their interest to have different policing arrangement from the Metropolitan police , will he support they and say that there will be no Government interference in their operation ? I be grateful to the hon . gentleman for his engagement over the course of the summer . I can give he an absolute assurance : yes , of course we believe in the absolute importance of the operational independence of the police . they have to make some very difficult judgment , but I hope he agree that nobody should be above the law ; there be not an age limitation with regard to these offence . the police have difficult judgment to make , but in the main they have act proportionately and without fear or favour , in the good tradition of british policing . this weekend alone , almost 900 people — several of whom be from my constituency — be arrest . the Terrorism Act be not bring in to arrest vicar , retired grandmother and NHS consultant for hold a placard , yet the police be now in the position where that be exactly what they be do weekend after weekend . will the Minister consider the view of international human right expert , like the UN Human Rights Commissioner , who have describe the ban as " disproportionate and unnecessary " ? will he also acknowledge our concern that political decision must be open to political challenge — otherwise , we risk a massive loss of confidence in our democracy ? I completely agree with the point about political challenge ; that be why we be here today to debate the decision and the policing around it . I hope my hon . friend will understand that the Government have act in good faith , as we always seek to do . the advice that the Government receive be clear and unambiguous . Palestine Action be concern in terrorism , and its member have demonstrate a willingness or intention to conduct , in pursuit of its cause , serious violence against person . under those particular circumstance , the Government have a responsibility and a duty to act . as I have mention previously , and my hon . friend will know , the independent reviewer of terrorism legislation have be widely quote about his response to the action that the Government have take ; he conclude in a recent article that there be no way that ordinary criminal law would have be effective against this organisation . do the Minister agree that , while in this case , proscription may be a finely balanced decision , the law must be uphold whether you like it or not , whoever you be and wherever you be ? do he therefore share my concern that in this case , there appear to be some regional disparity in the interpretation of the law , as evidence by the different rate at which people be arrest across this country at the weekend ? as always , I be grateful to the right hon . gentleman for his question , and I acknowledge his assessment of the decision as be finely balanced . as I know he will understand , should this or any Government have take a different approach , we would no doubt have be in this Chamber debate why the Government have decide to not proscribe . these be difficult judgment , but under the circumstance I have describe , the then Home Secretary do exactly the right thing in take the decision she do . as for the right hon . Gentleman ' s point about regional disparity , he will have hear the comment I make just a moment ago about the operational independence of the police . however , if he have see particular occurrence that he think be not in that spirit , I ask he to write to I . I would be very happy to look at they . so many people , myself include , be look at the famine in Gaza and the plan annexation of the west bank with a sense of complete desperation and a lack of agency . People want to demonstrate that desperation through peaceful protest , and it be difficult for many of we to see the mass arrest of people hold placard . I understand that the nature of proscription mean that show support for a proscribe organisation be a criminal offence , but the act be peaceful , and the cause be so desperate . at the time of voting , the effect of arrest demonstrator be not make clear to we ; we must reflect again on the effect of proscription . when assess whether to proscribe Palestine Action , to what extent do the Government take into account the right to free expression and free association , include under article 10 and 11 of the european convention on human right — not the right of the proscribe organisation itself , but of the wide cohort who will be criminalise for peacefully express support for it ? of course I agree with my hon . friend ' s point about peaceful protest , and I can give he an absolute assurance that in take this or any decision , the Home Secretary act on advice and very carefully consider a range of different factor . he be right to talk about peaceful protest . peaceful protest take place in London over the course of this weekend , which be very good to see , but at the particular demonstration at which there be a significant number of arrest , 33 people be also arrest for separate offence , include 17 allege assault on police officer . none of we want to see that kind of violent activity . we will work closely with the police to ensure people have the ability to protest in a peaceful way — that be a cornerstone of our democracy — but it be entirely unacceptable that anybody should seek to assault a police officer . I hear the distinction that the Minister be attempt to make , but the fact remain that almost 1 , 000 largely peaceful protester be arrest in London this weekend . I be sure that when we look back on this , we be go to conclude that it be not only a huge waste of police resource , but a chilling moment for free speech in this country . give that the Government seem so convinced that these people be associate with terrorism , will they commit to publish datum on what proportion of those arrest be actually charge with terrorism - relate offence ? I say to the hon . Gentleman — hopefully in a constructive way — that the only distinction I be seek to make be between those who break the law and those who do not . we see a very interesting comparison over the course of this weekend ; ten of thousand of people come to protest , and be able to do so , express their concern about the terrible situation in Gaza without support a proscribe organisation . as I say in my early remark , there be a big difference between be able to protest in support of a legitimate cause and express support for a proscribe organisation . that be a criminal offence , and the police have an absolute duty to enforce the law , which be what they do . nobody be above the law , yet the Metropolitan police report that a total of 857 people be arrest under section 13 of the Terrorism Act 2000 at the weekend , the vast majority for simply hold placard state , " I oppose genocide . I support Palestine Action . " can the Minister confirm whether the Government have receive any legal advice concern the implication of host a visit by israeli President Herzog in relation to the UK ' s genocide convention responsibility , particularly give his recent record of state that there be " no innocent civilian " in Gaza and personally sign artillery shell destine for use in Gaza ? will any visa application make by the israeli President to visit the UK this week be reject , or will he be subject to police investigation if he do arrive ? I understand why my hon . friend have ask I that question . I hope that he will understand that he be ask I about matter for which I do not have ministerial responsibility . he will also understand that the Government receive a range of legal advice across a range of different Departments . the purpose of this particular response today be to look at the issue of proscription and the recent protest activity . I can give he and the House an absolute assurance that this be a Government who believe in uphold the law . this be a Government who believe in the importance of international law , and we will work with our ally and partner to ensure that international law and domestic law be uphold . on this day 89 year ago , three found member of Plaid Cymru hand themselves in after burn the RAF bombing school at Penyberth . today , they and all their supporter would likely be brand terrorist for non - violent direct action . lump Palestine Action with Maniacs Murder Cult and Russian Imperial Movement be calculate , cynical and disproportionate . it have lead to the arrest of hundred , if not thousand , of protester . what do the Minister think will be the consequence now that his Government look more interested in silence protest than maintain police by consent ? I struggle to follow the logic of the right hon . Lady ' s question , give that ten of thousand of people be absolutely able to express their democratic right to protest over the course of this weekend . I be sure she would have see that . I hope she will understand that this Government have not do anything that interfere with anybody ' s lawful right to express their concern about an issue . just to pick up on one other point that she make , let I give she an absolute assurance that we do not group the three proscribe organisation together for the reason she — [ interruption . ] she be completely mistaken . she have ask I a question , and she might want to listen to the answer . there be two reason why that decision be take . frankly , the first be that this be a Government with a busy legislative agenda , and we need to be efficient with precious parliamentary time . the second and perhaps more important reason be that this government do not look at the ideological origin of the threat : we will do what we need to do to keep the public safe , regardless of where the threat come from . that be the right approach , it be even - handed , and it be on that basis that we proceed . in recent week , a number of my constituent in Stroud have be arrest . many of they be over 70 , and the whole situation seem to have become slightly ridiculous . do the Minister agree that proscribing be use a sledgehammer to crack a nut ? with great respect , and I do not mean to be flippant , I think it be a rather unfortunate use of " sledgehammer " , give previous event . no , I do not agree with my hon . friend . I think the action of the Government have be necessary and proportionate for the reason I explain early . I worry that there be a number of people who seek to express support for an organisation who do not fully understand the activity that that organisation have engage in in recent time . Mr Justice Chamberlain grant the judicial review on the basis that the Home Secretary have not consult Palestine Action before proscribe it . the judge rule that it be " reasonably arguable " that there be a duty to consult Palestine Action before proscribe it , as report in the Guardian . if organisation meet a high standard and a high threshold for proscription under the Terrorism Act , why should there be a duty to consult that organisation before proscribe it ? I hope the hon . Gentleman understand that give that there be ongoing legal proceeding , it would be completely inappropriate for I to comment on any legal ruling or judgment that have be make , but I can give he an assurance that when it come to make this decision , all the necessary legal and expert advice be consider very carefully . there be a formal process that enable any organisation that be proscribe to seek a legal right to redress , and the Government be very supportive of any organisation that have be proscribe pursue a legal avenue of appeal . it be the right of any such organisation to do so , and this Government would never get in the way of that legal right . do my hon . friend agree that this be not a case of people ' s democratic right to protest be curtail ? the democratically elect Government and Parliament have legislate , member have proscribe Palestine Action lawfully , and now police enforce the law free from political interference . the law be clear : people be no long allow to support this organisation , and to do so risk lawful arrest . do my hon . friend far agree that there be nothing to stop people protest in support of the Palestinians or against this israeli Government , as long as they so do peacefully and within the law ? I completely agree with all my hon . friend ' s point . he know and I know , and I be sure the House know , that have the Government take a different decision , I would be stand here at the Dispatch Box seek to justify that decision as well . may I ask the Minister to reflect for a moment on the fact that this be the large number of people arrest since the Terrorism Act 2000 come into force ? those people who be protest on Saturday be protest at the horror of the genocide in Gaza , and british complicity in it through arm sale and military co - operation and support . they be deeply concerned about civil liberty in our society , and feel that the legislation rush through this Parliament damage their right to civil peaceful protest in our society . the Minister know that the weight of history be against he . he know that at some point the Government will have to review this legislation , because otherwise the situation will simply get bad and bad . can he not just bring himself to say now that the Government will look at it again , review the whole situation , and , rather than proscribe peaceful protest in our society , accept that we have a history behind we that bring we all here , and be build on protest and dissent ? the right hon . Gentleman have be a Member of this House for a very , very long time , so he will know that this legislation be not rush through Parliament . it come through Parliament in the same way that other proscription action have come through over many , many year . let I seek , perhaps , two point of consensus . the first involve freedom of speech . I do not know what the right hon . Gentleman be up to at the weekend , but I have a sneaking suspicion that he may have be on the street of London , and good luck to he . it be his absolute democratic right to protest in the way in which he be well know for do . the Government have do nothing to stand in the way of he and his colleague in that regard . let I , however , say one more thing to he . although he and I may disagree on many thing , I hope that , as supporter of the trade union movement , we agree on the importance of people ' s safety in the workplace . he ask I to consider something ; perhaps I should ask he to consider the importance of safeguard people ' s safety and security in the workplace , which be not a matter to which the organisation that we be discuss today have give much consideration . hundred of people have now be arrest for terror offence , face up to 14 year ' imprisonment , for no more than peacefully hold a placard . Most be elderly , and many be healthcare worker , priest and ordinary work people . all be prepared to risk severe punishment for do what our Government have fail to do . the proscription of Palestine Action be an authoritarian attack on the right to protest . it be absurd , unworkable and unsustainable . will the Minister , and the new Home Secretary , consider the Government ' s position ? this Government and the new Home Secretary will do everything that be necessary and proportionate to keep the public safe . these be difficult judgment that require very careful consideration . very careful consideration be give to the decision that be take , and it be motivate by a very strong desire , and a responsibility , to keep the public safe . may I thank and congratulate the police for arrest successfully so many hundred of people who break the law and shockingly support a proscribe terror group ? do the Minister expect they to be charge and prosecute to ensure we have a proper deterrent against support a proscribe terror group ? let I first join the hon . gentleman in thank the police for the important work that they do . it be absolutely shameful that there be 17 assault on member of the police do their job in London this weekend . that be totally unacceptable and rather undermine the credibility of those who say that these be entirely peaceful protest . with regard to the hon . Gentleman ' s other point , I hope he will understand that these be matter for the Crown Prosecution Service , which be independent of Government , so it would not be appropriate for I to comment on they , but I share the concern that he have express . I abhor the method of Palestine Action , and indeed any violence in the course of protest , but I understand that four group have be de - proscribe in the last 20 year . I be sure that the aim be for all ban group to de - escalate and become legitimate protest group , so what step or evidence would be require for Palestine Action to be de - proscribe in the future ? I be grateful to my hon . friend for his thoughtful and sensible question . there be a formal legal process to be follow . as I say in response to an early question , the Government completely understand that any organisation that be proscribe have an absolute legal right to contest that decision . this government will not stand in the way of that legal process , and we will respond in a reasonable and responsible way . there be a legal appeal under way . that will run its course , and then we will have a legal ruling . the Government will , of course , abide by that . many member of my community be arrest in London on Saturday , include a senior priest , an elderly jewish man , and a teacher who have spend year with Gazan child and have witness the horror of see they kill by israeli troop over the last couple of year . these people be not terrorist . while I be sure all member of the House agree that anybody attack serve police officer in the street deserve to be arrest , do the Minister accept that the use of counter - terror power be wholly disproportionate to the peaceful action that these people take by simply hold sign , and set a dangerous precedent for free speech ? I do not accept the hon . Lady ' s critique about the precedent with regard to free speech , for the reason that I have already reference and because ten of thousand of people be on the street of London this weekend express their free speech . the police have difficult judgment to make . I do not accept her analysis that this be not proportionate . the Government have an absolute responsibility to act when the evidence suggest that we need to take decision to secure public safety , which be what the Government have do . we stand by that decision , and we will work with the police to ensure that people obey the law . where they do not , regardless of their age or professional background , I be afraid there have to be consequence . many of those arrest over the weekend for simply hold placard be old and disabled citizen and human right activist , who can hardly be describe as terrorist . consider that the UN human right chief have warn that proscription dangerously conflate protest with terrorism , do the Minister accept that we at least run some risk of suppress protest and dissent , through which we obtain many of the freedom that we enjoy today ? I really do not think that that be the case . at every stage of these proceeding , the Government have be absolutely clear about the important right — the cornerstone of our democracy — of people to protest about matter about which they be concerned . this government have not do anything to get in the way or prevent people from do that . we see that this weekend : ten of thousand of people have their say . they be able to do so in a way that be lawful and do not require they to be arrest , because they have not break the law . I do not accept the analysis that this have a chilling effect on free speech — quite the opposite . I think it absolutely demonstrate that people can come and demonstrate in a lawful way , and that the police will respond in an appropriate manner . it be a shame that the Home Secretary could not come here today to defend her government . over 1 , 600 people have be arrest since this Labour Government proscribe a non - violent direct action group for the first time in british history , include elderly people , disabled people , priest , NHS worker and the child of Holocaust survivor . the UN High Commissioner for Human Rights have condemn this proscription as " disproportionate and unnecessary " , warn that it risk create a " far chilling effect " . will the Minister finally admit that his Government get it wrong and that they have threaten and undermine our free speech and right to protest , and will they review and immediately lift this ban ? first , the Home Secretary be meet our five Eyes ally who be here for the five - country ministerial . that be incredibly important work in secure our alliance with our United States , canadian , australian and New Zealand ally . these be important partnership that this Government value and that this Home Secretary be invest in on almost her first full day in office . on the other point the hon . Lady seek to raise , she have an absolute right , as everybody do , to protest in a lawful way . there be nothing that this Government have do to prevent she or anybody else from do that . what this Government have do be ensure that we be well place to protect the public . I be sorry that she do not agree with that — that be her absolute right — but I maintain that support for freedom of speech be a cornerstone of our democracy , and this Government will always enable people to have their say . I absolutely condemn any action or violence take against the public or , indeed , the police . however , I write to the former Home Secretary twice on this matter , because many legislator here have yet to see evidence that satisfy we about the proportionality of the proscription of Palestine Action and how the Government balance that with the public ' s right to protest and freedom of speech . could I encourage the Minister to review this law , not least because it have an impact contrary to what the Government want , in that the more arrest there be , the more it draw attention to Palestine Action ? I entirely understand why the hon . Lady may wish to raise concern in the way she have . she make an important point about evidence , and I give she an assurance that we have put into the public domain all the evidence we have be able to . I hope she will understand that there be strict limitation on some thing we be able to say for a variety of reason , not least that there be ongoing police investigation and ongoing criminal proceeding . that limit the ability of Ministers to talk about this issue , but within those constraint we have try to be as clear as we possibly can about the reason for this decision . on a number of occasion , the previous Home Secretary and I have lay out the reason why we take this decision . order . I urge the Minister to be a bit more succinct in his response . hundred of peaceful protester have be arrest this weekend in the name of national security , but in what way do a peaceful protester ' s tactic of hold a banner compromise national security ? if the aim of national security be fundamentally to ensure that we can live in a free society where our democratic freedom be protect , can the Minister not see that the mass arrest of peaceful protester be an authoritarian measure that undermine , not protect , those freedom ? I completely acknowledge that the concern the hon . Member have express be entirely genuine and well - meaning . I hope he understand the importance that we attach to the rule of law . we do not think that people should be except from the rule of law because they be of a particular age , have a disability or have a particular professional background . that would be entirely unfair . nobody be above the law . the police have a difficult job to do to police these protest . I gently say to he that the protest we see over the weekend be not entirely peaceful , with 33 other arrest , include 17 for assault on police officer . I hope that none of we want to see that activity in our capital , or anywhere else for that matter . I thank the Minister for his answer , and I fully agree that there can be no place for violence in our politic . however , do he accept that elderly retired priest and disabled veteran would not be protest in the way they be if they genuinely believe that Palestine Action be a similar organisation to ISIS or al - Qaeda ? can he provide any additional guidance or advice on how member of the public can legitimately protest against the proscription of this organisation ? first , let I say to the hon . gentleman that neither the Government nor I be seek to make the comparison he offer . what we do believe be that people should follow the law . it be a criminal offence to seek to support a proscribe group . the police be do the job of ensure the law be enforce . again , I make the comparison that if it be people protest about other organisation — extreme right - wing ideological or islamist organisation — then certain commentator , not in this place but outside it , would seek to view the matter in a different way . we have to be even - handed and fair , and that be what we have seek to be . nobody would support the violent action of some of the people in Palestine Action , of course , but the number of arrest be place huge pressure on our police . the demographic of those arrest be clearly absurd . the nature of what they be do be hold a placard in response to the horror they be see on their television . we be all , in this House , see those horror . the previous Home Secretary say that many of the people who support the group do not know the nature of the more violent element of it . give the apparent imbalance of what we be see , be the Minister not concerned that it create a dangerous precedent when , in future , we try to enforce against people who be actually terrorist and have malign intent on our street ? as I have say previously , I understand the concern that be be express . the hon . Gentleman refer to somebody hold a placard . they be hold a placard that express support for a proscribe organisation , and that be a criminal offence . in an answer I give just a moment ago , I say that the Government be limit in term of the detail they can provide about the activity of Palestine Action , for the reason I have explain . if people be consider seek to protest and provide their support for this proscribe organisation , I invite they to look very carefully at what that organisation have be engage in . there have be significant reporting about some of those activity . that might focus the mind of those who seek to support they in future . the more than 1 , 000 people who have be arrest include blind veteran , elderly people , NHS worker and even the child of Holocaust survivor , yet the Government be intent on aid and abet israeli firm — 51 of they will be exhibit in London this week at the arm fair — alongside roll out the carpet , stain with the blood of the child of Gaza , for the President of Israel . why be non - violent protester be treat with great punishment than a Government bombing and starve million of child ? do the Minister agree that if there be real justice , the Government would arrest the israeli leadership and send they to the International Criminal Court ? I hope very much that there be consensus across the House about the desperate situation in Gaza and the middle east . I hope the hon . Gentleman will understand that the Government will do everything they can to work with partner and ally to seek to bring a resolution to that desperate situation . he refer to the age of the protester . I just say to he that the law have to be apply fairly and universally . therefore , if someone be of a particular age , that do not enable they to break the law , in the same way that it would not enable someone of a young age to do so . with over 800 people arrest this weekend , proscribe Palestine Action clearly have not work as intend . will the Government urgently review our terrorism legislation to ensure that those who legitimately protest in favour of the palestinian cause be not treat as terrorist for simply wear a t - shirt or hold a placard ? I refer the hon . gentleman to the remark that have be publish recently by the independent reviewer of terrorism legislation . can the Minister tell I what safeguard , if any , be in place to ensure that terrorism power be not misuse against people exercise their democratic right to protest peacefully against proscription , include elderly vicar hold placard ? that be an entirely fair challenge . that be precisely why we have Jonathan Hall KC , the independent reviewer of terrorism legislation , look at these matter very closely — an expert in this field who be entirely independent from Government . there be respect for he across the House ; the Government certainly hugely value his opinion . I would ask the hon . Lady to look carefully at what he have say on these matter . sixteen hundred individual — mainly senior citizen — have be arrest . the Minister will understand that this be not just a big operation , but one that involve taxpayer ' money , with million of pound spend on arrest , and no doubt million spend on legal aid if people be prosecute in our court system . will the Minister release the legal advice upon which this proscription take place so that the public can see whether taxpayer money be be use effectively ? there be a process in place when the Home Secretary make decision on proscription . as part of that process , she will , of course , consider legal advice , as well as advice from expert right across government and law enforcement . I can give the hon . Gentleman the assurance that these decision be not take lightly . no Government and no Home Secretary would seek to take these decision lightly , and the previous Home Secretary certainly do not do so . our free speech be protect under the european convention on human right , and we should view with great suspicion anybody who would remove the United Kingdom ' s signature from that convention . this government ' s proscription of Palestine Action have lead to the arrest of more than 1 , 000 peaceful protester — another assault on freedom of expression . I urge the Government to review these power , which also risk undermine our anti - terrorism law . the hon . Gentleman will have hear the response I give early to question on that specific point . I would gently say to he that 17 police officer be assault over the weekend , and , while I completely understand why people want to refer to non - violent protest , and I completely accept that the majority of people be behave in a non - violent way , I hope that he and other will join with I in absolutely condemn any attack on the police that take place over the weekend . I thank the Minister for all his answer . I be and be pleased to see step to ensure that protester who be outside the realm of peaceful protest and demonstrate support for a proscribe organisation be deal with in term that line up with the law . Palestine Action ' s illegal street protest be impact the police ' s ability to do their normal job . do the Minister believe there be enough police officer to deal with more of these scenario , and how will the Government ensure that police on the ground in community be not sacrifice in order to police these protest ? the hon . Gentleman make an important point . I can give he an absolute assurance that we work very closely with the police to ensure that they have the resource they need and the necessary legislative framework in order to do their difficult job . as he will understand from his own part of the world , it be important that the police be able to enforce the law without fear or favour . it be worth point out that the police work closely with organiser each week to facilitate safe , lawful protest , and I know that they will continue to do so . hundred of thousand of people have be able to make their voice hear , while only a very tiny minority have be arrest for break the law . Omar al - Bayoumi : arrest and Extradition ( Urgent Question ) : to ask the Minister of State for the Home Department if he will make a statement on the 2001 arrest of saudi national Omar al - Bayoumi and the failure to extradite Mr al - Bayoumi for his alleged involvement in the 11 September terror attack . the attack on 9 / 11 be an appalling assault on freedom . we remember the courage display by the american people in the aftermath and in the year since ; ahead of the anniversary this week , our thought remain with the victim and survivor , as well as all who love they . almost 25 year on , there be a risk that we might forget the destructive and barbaric scale of the attack on 9 / 11 . I would like to remind this House that the attack kill nearly 3 , 000 innocent people , injure thousand more and give rise to substantial long - term health consequence for the victim . the 11 September attack be the deadly act of terrorism in human history . I would like to take this opportunity to remember every single one of the victim and their family . in addition to the huge loss of life , the attack also cause at least $ 10 billion - worth of infrastructure and property damage . it would be inappropriate to comment on an individual case , such as the one that the right hon . Gentleman raise . as he will know , it be also a long - stand Government policy — follow by successive government — to neither confirm nor deny an arrest for the purpose of an extradition request . the purpose of this policy be to protect the confidentiality of ongoing investigation , reciprocate international good practice , maintain trust and confidence between state , and minimise the risk of fugitive escape justice . it be always a matter for the competent authority in request territory if they wish to make a request for extradition to the UK . there be an ongoing civil legal action in the United States , and due to those ongoing legal proceeding , the Government be not able to comment far today . the extradition process be a formal international procedure where one country request another to return a person accuse or convict of a serious offence to stand trial or serve a sentence . the process typically begin with a formal request from one country to another . extradition from the UK be govern by the Extradition Act 2003 . for all country outside the EU , a state - to - state system operate , whereby request be send between government , with decision - making split between Ministers and the UK court . whether or not formal extradition arrangement be in place with the request state will determine how incoming request progress through the UK system . there be many country where bilateral or multilateral treaty be in place . however , the UK can co - operate with any country on an ad hoc basis through the special extradition arrangement provision in the 2003 Act . the Home Office have an operational case work unit — the UK central authority — which exercise the Home Secretary ' s responsibility for non - EU extradition to and from the UK . for all incoming extradition request send to the UK from any country in the world , the 2003 Act require a UK judge to decide whether the request person ' s extradition would be compatible with their human right . the UK unequivocally support the rule of law ; all individual request for extradition be consider individually by our independent court , comply with the provision of the 2003 Act . yesterday ' s edition of the Sunday Times reveal that in the aftermath of 9 / 11 the Metropolitan police be force to release Omar al - Bayoumi , who be believe to be a saudi intelligence agent accuse of support the hijacker , because the FBI withhold evidence . arrest in Birmingham 10 day after 9 / 11 , al - Bayoumi be take to London to be interrogate by Met counter - terror officer . the FBI decline to provide those officer with vital evidence of al - Bayoumi ' s involvement in 9 / 11 . the evidence include a hand - draw aircraft diagram , trajectory calculation match the Pentagon attack , and an address book with the attacker ' code name — a code name that bin Laden himself do not disclose until a year later . the FBI ' s refusal to disclose this evidence prevent al - Bayoumi ' s extradition to the United States . FBI record show that in 1999 , al - Bayoumi meet two official from the Saudi Ministry of Islamic Affairs . those official be assess to be part of a network of individual connect with the facilitation of two 9 / 11 attacker . a separate 2017 assessment by the FBI ' s arabic specialist conclude that Mr al - Bayoumi be a co - optee of the Saudi General Intelligence Presidency , which be its secret service . a full investigation by the Intelligence and Security Committee be need . it must investigate why the FBI clearly avoid extradite Mr al - Bayoumi and exactly what be the involvement of the Saudi Government , in particular their Ministry of Islamic Affairs and secret service . as the Minister say , it be nearly 25 year since 9 / 11 . in that time we have extradite many innocent people to America , but we fail to extradite someone who deserve to be send over there . we need to get to the bottom of this , in part so that we do not see this terrible atrocity happen again . I know that the right hon . Gentleman apply a huge weight of judgment and consideration to these matter , so I completely understand why he seek to bring this matter to the House ' s attention . I hope , though , that he understand that I be very limited in what I can say by way of response . the right hon . Gentleman will remember — I do not think he will mind my saying that he have be around for quite a long time — that in 2001 we be operate under the Extradition Act 1989 . as he have mention , the Sunday Times have report that key document be not consider in 2001 when Mr Omar al - Bayoumi be subject to investigation in respect of the 9 / 11 bombing in the United States of America . the Sunday Times article suggest that the US do not pursue extradition in 2001 . the right hon . Gentleman will understand that there be legal proceeding ongoing in the United States , and that mean that I be not able to say any more at this point . I hope that he and the House will understand the reason for that . I call the shadow Secretary of State . let I start by congratulate my right hon . friend the Member for Goole and Pocklington ( David Davis ) on secure the urgent question and the Sunday Times on its reporting . as the Minister say , 9 / 11 be one of the most sickening terrorist atrocity of our lifetime , commit by islamist extremist . yesterday ' s piece in the Sunday Times raise serious question about the case of Omar al - Bayoumi . it appear that the UK police and the FBI have clear evidence that Omar al - Bayoumi assist terrorist and have close link to the Saudi Government — or element of the saudi Government — and indeed be their agent . it be not I say that : just last week , US district court judge George Daniels sit in New York find there be " reasonable evidence " that two saudi citizen — one of whom be al - Bayoumi — be send by the Saudi Government to assist the hijacker . that raise some extremely serious question that I would like the Security Minister to answer . I gently say to he that the ongoing civil proceeding in New York by no mean preclude he from answer ; I ask he not to hide behind that . first , why do the UK police release al - Bayoumi so quickly when they hold other suspect , include someone in an adjacent cell , for extended period — in that case for five month ? secondly , do the Saudi Government or the US Government pressure the UK Government to release al - Bayoumi early and not pursue the matter ? do the Security Minister agree with the judge that al - Bayoumi assist terrorist and that he be send by the Saudi Government to do so ? will the Security Minister release all the relevant document , include those hold in the National Archives ? will he look into this matter and report back to the House ? finally , do he agree that the Intelligence and Security Committee should urgently investigate this matter ? I be grateful to the shadow Home Secretary for his remark . he understandably reference the article in yesterday ' s edition of the Sunday Times , which I accept raise a number of important question that be absolutely worthy of scrutiny and deserving of the House ' s attention . I give he an assurance that the Government and I , as Security Minister , will look closely at the matter raise in the context of the debate . I do not accept the point he make that we be seek to hide behind the legal proceeding take place in the US . an article be publish in a newspaper yesterday , and I give both the shadow Home Secretary and the right hon . member for Goole and Pocklington ( David Davis ) an assurance that we will look carefully at the detail contain within it . the shadow Home Secretary also make a reasonable point about the Intelligence and Security Committee . as an experienced member and a former Minister , he will know that it be not for I to direct the activity of the ISC . it be an independent Committee , and it be very much a matter for the Chair and the Committee to decide what they wish to pursue . however , know the Chair as I do — he will be well known to hon . member right across the House — I would be surprised if he do not want to take a look at it . I call the liberal Democrat spokesperson , Ben Maguire . I thank the Minister for his update , and I echo his tribute to the victim of the appalling 9 / 11 attack . however , after recent revelation about Omar al - Bayoumi , his alleged involvement with the saudi intelligence service and his link to the 9 / 11 hijacker , a number of press question remain unanswered . first , why be british investigator not give access to all the evidence that the FBI hold , include the Capitol Hill video and the aircraft sketch ? who in the UK Government be brief about al - Bayoumi ' s arrest at the time ? why be there no clear record of ministerial oversight ? do the saudi authority make representation to the UK Government regard al - Bayoumi ' s detention ? if so , do this ultimately influence the decision to release he ? finally , and most importantly , what safeguard be now in place to make sure that crucial evidence from foreign intelligence agency can not be withhold from british counter - terrorism investigation ? I be grateful to the hon . Gentleman , not least because he rightly raise the important point that we should always seek to remember and reflect on the sacrifice and the loss of the victim and survivor of terrorism . he be right : the victim and survivor of the horrific terrorist attack that have scarred community here and around the world must be remember . this Government take that incredibly seriously , and in that spirit we have recently consult on the creation of a national day for victim and survivor of terrorism . it be vital that the day reflect the voice and experience of those who have be directly impact by terrorism offence . the hon . Gentleman ask a number of detailed question , but I will not be able to respond in detail to all of they , for reason that I have already outline . I can say that we will look closely at the matter that have be raise . I hope he see that there be reason why we can not get into the detail of this today , but I give he and the House and assurance that we will look closely at this . my right hon . friend the Member for Goole and Pocklington ( David Davis ) do the House a service today in raise this important matter , but there be wide issue associate with the extradition treaty with America . the House will recall that the treaty be set up when Sir Tony Blair be Prime Minister to address terrorism , but in recent year , it have controversially be use for a much wide remit ; from time to time , it have look as though commercial and national advantage be seek from it . that suggest that the time may be right to review it . will the Minister look at the matter carefully , and consider whether now be the time to do that ? I agree with the right hon . Gentleman that this be an important matter with wide ramification . I will not commit to the formal review that he describe , but I commit to he , and to the House , that we will look carefully at the issue that have be raise and the point he make , and I will endeavour to come back to he and other on this issue as soon as possible . do the Minister accept that ever since the saudi nationality of the vast majority of the 9 / 11 hijacker become know , there have be deep suspicion about the role of the then saudi Government in the atrocity that take place ? to what extent do the Government believe that the nature and attitude of the Saudi Government have change over the past 24 year ? I hope that the right hon . Gentleman will understand that on this occasion , I want to look forward , rather than back . the United Kingdom Government hugely value the relationship that we have with Saudi Arabia , and I visit it relatively recently . it be an important regional partner , and we want to work as closely and constructively with it as we can . we know that 67 Britons die on 9 / 11 . do the Minister agree that we owe it to they , their memory and the family to get to the bottom of what look like very fishy report over the weekend on how this individual be handle ? will he assure the House that the police at the time have operational independence — an issue that he refer to in his response to the previous urgent question ? do he understand that the british public be deeply sceptical about the stance take by the Kingdom of Saudi Arabia , particularly as the 2018 murder of Jamal Khashoggi be still very much at the forefront of their mind ? on the right hon . member ' s final point , I refer he to the response I give to his right hon . friend the Member for New Forest East ( Sir Julian Lewis ) a moment ago , but I agree about the importance of this matter . that day will be engraine in the mind of we all ; I certainly remember exactly where I be . the world change , and my life change alongside it . I absolutely share his concern about these matter , and I completely agree with his point about the responsibility we have for the UK victim of that horrendous terrorist attack . I give he an assurance of the seriousness with which we take these matter . I thank the Minister for his update and his answer . do he not agree that our obligation to expose international terrorism and support our ally in the fight against those responsible for the 9 / 11 bombing be incredibly clear ? every step must be take to ensure that anyone on british soil understand that we will never be a shield for terrorist . how will he ensure that every possible step be take to make sure that this man be question — and hold to account if , in fact , he be guilty ? I be grateful to the hon . member , as I always be , not least because he speak with great authority on matter relate to terrorism . I have have the privilege of discuss it with he on many occasion . he raise important point . I can only reiterate the importance that this Government attach to keep the public safe and work with our international ally to defeat international terrorism . this government will do everything that we need to do to stand against the terrorist and with those affect by their destructive activity . Defence Industrial Strategy with permission , Madam Deputy Speaker , I wish to make a statement on the defence industrial strategy . today we fulfil another manifesto commitment by publish our plan to strengthen our security and grow our economy . it be a plan to back British - base industry , create british job and drive british innovation . before I set out the detail of the strategy , I would like to place on the record my thank to my right hon . friend the Member for Liverpool Garston ( Maria Eagle ) for her work in develop the strategy . I also extend a warm welcome to my hon . friend the Member for North East Derbyshire ( Louise Sandher - Jones ) , who have join the Ministry of Defence team . this be a plan support by £ 773 million of investment — a plan to make defence an engine for economic growth in every nation and region of our country . the man and woman who serve our nation be rightly respect across the world for their dedication and professionalism , yet as we know from the war in Ukraine , when a country be force to fight , its armed force be only as strong as the industry that stand behind they . the UK have one of the most advanced , innovative defence industrial basis the world over , but we be in a new era of threat , which demand a new era of UK defence . our strategic defence review set out our vision to make Britain safe — secure at home and strong abroad . through our defence industrial strategy , we will ensure that we have an industry to deliver that vision . all the pledge make today can only be meet because this Labour Government have commit the large sustained increase in defence spending since the end of the cold war : 2 . 6 % of gdp by 2027 , and 3 . 5 % by 2035 , alongside our NATO ally . but with the promise to invest more come the responsibility to invest well . by implement our strategy , we will ensure that worker and business across the UK feel the benefit of the defence dividend . in opposition , the now Defence Secretary tell the House : " labour ' s determination to see british investment direct first to british industry be fundamental . " — [ Official Report , 23 March 2021 ; Vol . 691 , c . 798 . ] today , ambition in opposition become action in government . use every lever available to the Government , our strategy will prioritise British - base business . we will make it easy for British - base firm to do business with the Ministry of Defence . we will launch an office of small business growth to support small and medium - sized enterprise in access MOD contract , and we will give great clarity by share our five - year acquisition pipeline , allow business to invest with confidence . the £ 10 billion frigate contract sign with Norway last week be the big warship deal in our history — a demonstration that when we export defence capability , we not only strengthen our security abroad , but create high - skilled job at home . through our strategy , we will back british business to go out and win — win more contract and create more job . the new office of defence export bring responsibility for defence export back into the Ministry of Defence and create a Government - to - government export structure that reflect what our ally and industry need . sustain sovereign capability be the cornerstone of national security , so our strategy set out the requirement to onshore key asset . we will maintain the advantage afford by open international competition , but in a way that improve value for the british taxpayer . for the first time ever , we will introduce an offset policy , design in consultation with industry . it will mean that when we buy from our ally , the UK economy will be strengthen in return through new job and novel technology . our defence industrial base represent a commitment to innovation and excellence . today , it support over 460 , 000 job and over 24 , 000 apprenticeship across the UK , the vast majority of which be unionised . as a trade union member , I know that good , well - pay and unionised job be good not only for defence but for growth . the defence industry be a source of not only prosperity but pride ; it prove that we be still a nation of maker . when I speak with defence worker , I see their deep sense of purpose in what they do . they be right to feel that way ; their effort keep our nation safe . through our strategy , more people will be afford the opportunity and reward of work in this industry . to ensure that the benefit of the defence dividend be share across every nation and region of the UK , we be invest £ 250 million in defence growth deal . our deal will build on inherent strength in defence community by improve skill and infrastructure . the first phase will be launch in Plymouth , where we will focus on advanced marine technology and autonomous system , and in south Yorkshire , where we will build on our recent investment in defence and steel . further location in Scotland , Wales and Northern Ireland will be announce , because there be not only a defence dividend from our uplift in defence spending , but a Union dividend , strengthen our United Kingdom . ADS analysis indicate that the defence industry workforce could grow by 50 , 000 people by 2035 , when defence spending increase to 3 % of gdp . to ensure that the UK can take full advantage , we must ensure that we have the worker with the right skill to fulfil those role , so I be today announce the big ever investment in defence skill : £ 182 million of new Government funding to establish five defence technical excellence college , so that we can promote to over 800 , 000 school pupil the benefit of a career in the defence industry ; and our new defence skill passport , which will make it easy and fast for veteran and worker in other industry to move into the defence sector . over the past few year , defence firm have express grow concern about attend job fair . the harassment and intimidation to which they have be subject have force company to cancel event on university campus . the campaign to boycott and target defence firm misunderstand the purpose of deterrence . we know the full measure of freedom and security in Britain because of what our defence industry do . the strategy will help the industry to attract the talent it need by create a dedicated presence on the UCAS website , a new defence apprenticeship and graduate clearing system , and a defence university alliance to strengthen career in the sector . the war in Ukraine remind we that innovation be the central pillar of deterrence . to ensure that we meet our objective of well capability and increase growth , we be committed to spend at least 10 % of our equipment budget on novel technology . the newly establish UK Defence Innovation be back by £ 400 million of ringfenced investment and have the authority to reallocate funding and resource , ensure a focus on priority and value for money . today ' s strategy outline how we will employ ukdi to rapidly produce technology that give our armed force an advantage . we will set out the first of the innovation challenge that we want industry to go after , as well as how we will well support firm in test their innovation . this Government inherit what the Public Accounts Committee describe as a " broken procurement system " . for too long , defence have be burden by waste , delay and complexity , yet today we know that whoever get technology to its frontline force the fast , win . we have prove that we can do it for Ukraine ; now we must do it for Britain . our segmented approach to procurement set ambitious target to drastically reduce the timescale to get new project on contract . as part of the big shake - up to the Ministry of Defence in over 50 year , we have create the role of national armament director , and because we want UK firm to win not just at home but abroad , we will improve our export licensing system with a new digital platform , well training for staff , and reform procedure , include allow exporter to apply for licence during the bidding process . unlike previous strategy , our one be fund . it be also the culmination of month of detailed work and close engagement with industry , academia , and trade union . throughout the process , our aim have be to produce a strategy with the defence sector , rather than to it . with a clear plan back by historic investment , our government , alongside industry , will now deliver for Britain . I commend this statement to the House . I call the shadow Secretary of State for Defence . I be grateful to the Minister for early sight of both his statement and the hard copy document . before I respond to the statement , may I express on behalf of the Opposition our wholehearte condemnation of the late drone attack on Kyiv , the large of the war , with small child among the dead ? it be a reminder of why we need to step up and rearm at pace and scale , to strengthen our deterrence in a dangerous world . the strategy ' s statement of intent , publish last December state : " the Defence Industrial Strategy will be develop at pace . . . and will be publish in late Spring 2025 " . it be now autumn — it have be delay when we need real pace from the Government , and that be part of a pattern . some 26 time Ministers promise on the Floor of the House that the strategic defence review would be publish in the spring , but it be publish in the summer . the defence housing strategy be promise for the summer , and we now understand that it will be publish as late as the Christmas recess . can the Minister guarantee that the defence industrial policy will be publish this year ? it be not just labour ' s review that be be publish far later than promise . the SDR promise that a national armament director would be in place from 1 April 2025 . on page 6 , and as the Minister just say , the defence industrial strategy state that " we have create the role of national armament director " . if the Government have create the role , could they kindly tell we the name ? be Andy Start the interim NAD , or be he the new permanent empower NAD ? if so , be he on his previous salary , or the much high one for the new role ? key appointment and strategy — month late . War be change rapidly , but Labour be move far too slowly . on the content of the defence industrial strategy , we welcome further measure to boost the skill base of our defence sector . while we will wait to see the full detail of the growth deal , we strongly share the Government ' s goal of spread the prosperity benefit of defence around the United Kingdom . can the Minister tell we when those will be up and run , and whether the £ 250 million investment represent new money that be not previously include in the MOD budget ? I also welcome measure to boost defence export , not least establish a real government - to - government offer , and restore the defence export team back into the MOD — that be something I be work on , and I be glad the Government be implement it . our main concern about the strategy be that it lack the ambition to fire up our defence industrial base at the scale and pace require , at a time when the threat we face be so stark . the blunt reality be that , for all labour ' s talk , actual procurement have be largely on hold since the election , with the now notorious write answer confirm in spring that the Government have purchase just three new drone since the election last July . quite simply , they need to start sign actual capability contract . thousand of job be at stake in some of those major procurement that be mean to have be resolve in the SDR , but on which we still await a decision . for example , on Friday I have the pleasure to visit Leonardo in Yeovil , the cornerstone of UK military rotary . it be clear that the New Medium Helicopter procurement be critical to its future . when I announce the NMH competition , I deliberately strengthen tender scoring to support defence job here in the UK . be the Government still commit to NMH ? if so , when will they give the green light ? we hope that will be at the Defence and Security Equipment International . for that matter , when will we see further progress on Skynet , the Red Arrows replacement , M270 artillery and the many other key decision that the industry be wait on ? we want to see pace in procurement , not endless dithering and delay . however , we all know the reason why the waiting go on for so many UK defence company , large and small : the Government have not prioritise boost defence spending meaningfully in the near term . instead , they use smoke and mirror to inflate what appear to be go into the MOD . for example , the Government reclassify the intelligence budget into defence , so that they can claim to be spend 2 . 6 % by 2027 , when the reality be that the MOD budget — that which actually fund the equipment plan — will be equivalent to only 2 . 2 % of gdp in that same year . while key procurement decision continue to be put off , tomorrow Labour will plough on as fast as possible with surrender sovereignty of our critical defence base on Diego Garcia at a cost of £ 35 billion . the first payment be of £ 250 million next year and I can safely say that , instead of give that to the Government of Mauritius , we would spend the money on rapid procurement of drone and counter - drone tech for the British Army from our brilliant british defence sme . that be what we want to see from today ' s strategy — the delivery of a strong , sovereign drone industrial base , and the same for space , rotary , military vehicle and so many other , as well as artificial intelligence and tech . warm word deliver late be not enough . we need to see a real - world ramp up of the defence industrial base , with serious investment and not smoke and mirror , the prioritisation of UK defence company , and a rapid boost in our ability to deter the rise threat we face . I think the shadow Defence Secretary really want to welcome this strategy , but be find it difficult , because the politic have get in the way . I will deal with some of that , but first let I say that I be grateful to he for his word about the attack in Kyiv . it be so important that , although we may disagree about some thing across this House , there be strong cross - party support against Putin ' s illegal invasion . that must never wane . I suggest politely to the hon . Gentleman that the mess in defence procurement that we inherit be one that he be in charge of when he be in government . it be , therefore , a bit cheeky of he — though , generally speak , I like cheekiness — to raise these question . the platform that he ask about should have be sort out under his government , but never be . he know for sure that our investment will be in the defence investment plan we will publish later this year . he also know that for the national armament director , recruitment be well advanced — we have appoint Andy Start as the interim NAD , but it be important that we get the right person for the role . we will continue that process . the shadow Secretary of State also ask about defence growth deal , and that be new money . he also know that we have sign 900 deal for defence procurement contract since the election . we will sign more on the back of the defence investment plan later this year . the hon . Gentleman also accuse we of dither and delay , but I fear that that be political projection from the failure of his time in government . we have a clear increase in defence spending and a clear strategy publish today that direct that increase defence budget at british company , that back british sme and that create the skill that our industry need . I know that he want to back it . I know that he be passionate about drone , which be why I know that he will back our doubling of funding for drone and autonomous system in the SDR . I say to he politely : this be a huge opportunity for british business up and down the country , in every single nation and region of our land , and the strategy set out the objective and opportunity . I hope that , on reflection , he will be able to welcome the strategy thoroughly and to give it full - hearted support , because our industry deserve the support of this House . it have the support of this Labour Government , and we will continue to increase defence spending , direct more of it at british business . I call the Chair of the Defence Committee . I welcome the Minister ' s announcement and advance sight of the Government ' s defence industrial strategy , which rightly seek to strengthen our sovereign capability and to bolster british defence business . one element of the strategy be offset , as set out on page 7 of the document , whereby contract with overseas company will lead to british job and novel technology . the Minister will be aware , however , that while the practice be use in other nation , previous attempt have be abandon , because they have lead to increase cost and complex contract problem . how will the Minister ensure that the Government get the detail correct , that the practice will indeed benefit british worker and that the cost be not merely load on to other contract ? the offset policy that we will shortly consult on with industry provide not just the opportunity for we to bring our industry close together , but mean that in circumstance where we have to buy from a foreign provider , which could be because of quality or specific opportunity , we have the ability to then invest more in UK business . this be commonplace and have feature in the Norway deal and in procurement by the Australian Government and South Korea . it be a model that work and it create an environment where we can mesh our industry together more closely with those of our ally , help to share research and development cost for new platform and ensure that when we be not able to spend money on british purchase , british industry still benefit from increase skill and increase investment in novel technology . this be an area that will directly benefit UK firm and our entire defence ecosystem , especially with those investment in skill , which will last a lifetime for the worker involve and show a real defence dividend . I call the liberal Democrat spokesperson . I thank the Minister for advance sight of the defence industrial statement . I welcome the announcement today of the new defence industrial strategy because for too many year , the Conservatives choose to ignore the challenge across our defence industrial base . in light of the threat that we face from an imperial Putin and other revisionist power , it be right that this Government have a serious approach to the defence industrial base in our country . the opportunity offer through the defence skill passport will add vital channel for people who be already in employment to make the transition to the sector . UK business be play a vital role in support military operation in Ukraine , yet we know that many business operate internationality . will the Minister ensure that all british individual work in the defence sector in office abroad will also have the skill that they need to support our ally ? as the need to work closely with our european ally continue to grow , will he provide an update on what progress the Government have make on secure the UK ' s access to the EU Security Action for Europe fund ? it be vital that we properly incorporate small and medium - sized company into the defence supply chain across Britain . while I welcome the Government ' s commitment to a new defence office for small business growth , will the Minister set out how the new office will effectively support the integration of small and medium - sized company into supply and procurement ? it be crucial that the UK be prioritise spend its money at home and with the good business . to create a forward - think defence industry , will the Minister support an innovative approach to the development of new defence capability that continue to give business opportunity to innovate , even when the product be in use ? while the Type 26 deal with Norway be a positive step in work closely with our ally , will the Minister confirm that the delivery timeline for expand the UK ' s own Type 26 fleet will not be delay ? finally , last week my hon . friend the Member for St Ives ( Andrew George ) ask the then Foreign Secretary to assure the House that the Government would not award a £ 2 billion contract to israeli defence manufacturer Elbit , to which he reply with a resound yes . will the Minister reconfirm that position today ? I thank the hon . member for welcome the strategy — it be good to see cross - party support for our defence industry . I also welcome her word about the support that we provide to Ukraine . a lesson that we be learn from the war in Ukraine be that we can procure fast , well and more effectively use increase freedom . that be precisely the lesson from our work support our ukrainian friend that we be seek to apply in order to support UK armed force . negotiation on UK participation in SAFE be lead jointly by the Cabinet Office and the Ministry of Defence . we will seek to continue those conversation . there need to be provision of value for money for the british taxpayer and opportunity for british business , and I be confident that the discussion will be productive . the SME office that we be seek to create be one way of help those small business that feel that they have an innovative project for defence , but struggle with the labyrinthine bureaucracy and confusion about who to go to . have a one - stop shop that enable people to access those contract and navigate the process will be a real boost for sme sell their product into the Ministry of Defence . the hon . member be right about the need for spiral development , but in reduce the contracting time , we need to be alive to the fact that the technology that we procure need to be spiral develop at pace , so that we do not have a legacy system that then get spiral development many year later . on the hon . member ' s two final question , the Type 26 deal with Norway be a superb boost for shipbuilding on the Clyde . discussion with our norwegian friend have already start about the build slot , but the Royal Navy will receive our Type 26 frigate in the 2030 as plan . no decision have be make about the recruitment contract that she mention . the intention be to make a decision in February 2026 , but I have hear what she say in relation to that . on Thursday , I have the pleasure of visit BAE Systems in my constituency with the Prime Minister . I speak to many of the apprentice there , who be look forward to a very long and secure future in their job . can the training academy model use at Scotstoun be consider for integration into the defence academy ? might Glasgow be one of the location for such an academy , presumably follow discussion with the Scottish Government ? I thank my hon . friend for champion the work that take place at Scotstoun . in both Govan and Scotstoun , we have an incredible workforce build the world ' s good anti - submarine warfare frigate , and I be very glad that they have be get such a lot of attention since the Norway deal , because they deserve it . the skill academy that BAE have build on the Clyde , as well as the skill academy it have build in Barrow for the submarine build work , be good in class . they really provide an opportunity to skill people up for a lifetime of opportunity , and they be precisely the type of investment that we want to see more defence company make . I will take her question as an early bid for one of those college . I look forward to continue work with she and other Glasgow mp on how we make the most of the Type 26 project . the Swedish Archer self - propel gun be in the process of replace the as - 90 , and it will itself be replace by the German Remote Controlled Howitzer 155 system . can the Minister say when the in - service date of the Howitzer will be ? how much UK componentry will be in it ? how many UK job do he anticipate will be generate by it ? it be entirely right that we donate the AS - 90 platform ; nearly all of they be now in operation with our ukrainian friend . that be the right decision , which be originally take by the right hon . Gentleman ' s own party , support by the Labour party . it be right that we have transfer those . the Archer be a good platform that will provide interim capability ; I can get he the stat , and I will write to he with further detail . it be absolutely right that we equip our force with the late technology and do so where possible by procure with our ally to reduce the R & D cost and increase the real benefit from they . I welcome the defence industrial strategy . in Aldershot and Farnborough , we have a strong ecosystem that include the home of the British Army , Standing Joint Command , QinetiQ and a hub of amazing sme on Cody technology park , so I be really pleased to see the Government acknowledge my community ' s role in put the UK at the cutting edge of defence innovation in this strategy . I be also pleased to see regional investment through the growth deal . what assessment have the Minister make of quick - win place such as Aldershot and Farnborough that be already deliver for the Government on defence but , with the right extra support and a brief from Government , could do even more ? I thank my hon . friend for champion her local business . her constituency be not only the home of the British Army , but an incredible base for innovation and advanced technology . there be real opportunity to grow this sector far in her constituency and across the UK , and the defence industrial strategy seek to do that by direct more of the increase in the defence budget at British - base firm and invest in the skill require . with a constituency as hungry and ambitious as hers , we will need even more skill . that be why the investment in FE college , school and university partnership be so essential in provide those skill . I be happy to meet she to discuss this matter far . I congratulate the Minister on his promotion . I have just return from the US with the NATO Parliamentary Assembly , where we review disruptive technology from AI to quantum and see how it have a chance to change the defence industrial base . what consideration of that fast - move technology be there in this defence industrial strategy ? I thank the hon . gentleman for his question and for championing novel technology . the £ 400 million that we have allocate to UK Defence Innovation be intend to champion those disruptive high - end technology , but we have also be clear that we want to spend 10 % of our equipment budget on those advanced piece of technology . we also need to support the wide R & D ecosystem that support those technology , which be why we also make announcement in the strategy about support our university and research partnership that deliver they . certainly , with US project rely in many case on british technology , there be a really strong ecosystem for learn the lesson from Ukraine and maintain a technological edge . there be real opportunity for UK business to do more , and the more link we have with our US friend on those advanced technology and R & D , the well . I welcome the Government ' s commitment to support for Ukraine , to our security and to our regional economy . the north - east send proportionately more of its young people into the armed force than any other region in the country , yet the Ministry of Defence spend less with our business and industry than it do with any other region , despite our fantastic , high - value advanced manufacturing . it appear that we have not be offer a defence growth deal , so will the Minister meet I and stakeholder to address this question urgently ? my right hon . friend the Member for Liverpool Garston ( Maria Eagle ) have agree to do so ; will he make that commitment ? I reply to the debate on defence in the north - east only a few week ago , and I be very happy to meet my hon . friend to look at that issue . this be not just about how we back the current defence industry that exist right across the country , include in the north - east ; it be about how we provide route for firm that might not think of themselves as defence company to sell their product and service into defence . make those route easy to navigate , especially with the new SME offer , will greatly support many of the business in my hon . friend ' s constituency . I be happy to meet she and her regional colleague to make that case far . the Government say over the summer that the Dreadnought programme be on track , despite the fire last year at Barrow , the challenge of covid and the other Government programme that be run delay . however , there be a lot of latitude in say that the programme will be deliver in the early 2030 . be the Minister able to clarify in which year the first vessel will be in service ? that have significant implication for the length at sea of exist submariner . I thank the right hon . gentleman for his question , and in particular for frame it around our submariner . the Secretary of State and the Prime Minister have both be to zero - day event , at which our nuclear bomber return to base after many month away . their tour be far too long , and to ensure we can bring those down , we need to not only bring on the new Dreadnought - class submarine but make sure that the submarine that be in refit — the Vanguard class — get to sea fast . we be make effort to deliver both those thing . it be difficult for I to give the full in - service date on the Floor of the House , but I be happy to write to the right hon . gentleman with some detail that I may be able to publish . I thank the Minister for his statement . I welcome this industrial strategy , which — as my hon . friend the Member for Slough ( Mr Dhesi ) say — demonstrate how closely align a strong domestic defence sector be with our economic security and sovereignty . can the Minister add a bit more detail about what assessment his Department have make of the potential further export opportunity arise from this industrial strategy , which will strengthen not only UK economic growth but our economic and defence relationship with our ally ? I have just return from South Korea , where I hold a number of discussion with Government Ministers about export opportunity and , importantly , partnership — about how we can use british ingenuity and expertise in support of our ally ' generate capability , which benefit all of we in a win - win situation . there be export opportunity across every single sector of british defence manufacturing . in bring defence export into the Ministry of Defence , we aim to align the infrastructure that we have within the MOD , both in our overseas representation and in our expertise , to power those deal so that we can announce more deal like the Type 26 deal and the £ 1 . 6 billion lightweight multi - role missile contract , with missile be make in Northern Ireland and export to Ukraine . there be huge opportunity for we to do even more , and it be good to have my hon . friend ' s support for power up those export , especially for those sme that could be the powerhouse of the next - generation technology . I be sure that the Minister , as a fellow Devon MP , will be only too well aware of our thriving high - tech cluster and the support it provide to the defence industry from its base in Torbay . what assurance can the Minister give our high - tech cluster in Torbay that it will be take account of as this strategy develop , so that it can play its part in support our nation ' s defence ? as a Plymouth MP , I know that the success of the defence industry in Plymouth be about what happen not just in the PL postcode , but in the wide regional ecosystem . Torbay , especially with its marine technology , have an awful lot to offer . an important part of how we power growth be ensure that the Plymouth growth deal and , indeed , all the growth deal that we have announce today benefit the wide region , and not just the particular location . the increase in skill and the focus on buy British from British - base firm will help business right across the country , include in the hon . member ' s constituency . this morning , I be at the Nuclear Skills Academy in Derby . it be a partnership between Rolls - Royce and the University of Derby that teach the skill need to create the reactor that power our submarine , and it deliver 200 apprenticeship a year . the defence industrial strategy deliver the big investment in defence skill in decade . can the Minister tell we more about how it will help small defence supplier to secure the skill that they need , too ? I be grateful to my hon . friend for raise the Rolls - Royce skill work , because Derby be one of the good - in - class example in this area . that company can invest in its people because of the long - term security that this Government have provide with the multibillion - pound commitment to buy new nuclear reactor from Derby for our nuclear submarine . our skill investment be not just about the prime invest in skill for that single business ; it be about the skill ecosystem , so we must invest for all the supplier and sme as well . there be no point in prime have full apprenticeship if the supplier they buy from , which be essential to the end product , do not have enough skill . that be precisely why skill be at the very heart of the defence industrial strategy we have announce today . exemplary example like Rolls - Royce be superb in deliver those skill . I place on record my excitement at see RAF Wyton in my constituency directly mention in the defence industrial strategy . last week , I be at RAF Wyton for a hugely successful discussion on its future as a defence technology cluster , with senior officer from the cyber and specialist operation command , the leadership of Huntingdonshire district council and planner from the Cambridgeshire and Peterborough combine authority . I invite the procurement Minister and the Defence Secretary to visit RAF Wyton — I believe they may be due to anyway — not only to see the tremendous work that defence intelligence do , but to see its suitability as the defence , energy and capability resilience centre of excellence . that would address my fear that the land may be sell off for housing by the Defence Infrastructure Organisation by accident in the interim . I also invite they both to the Huntingdonshire defence showcase right here in Parliament next month . I thank the hon . member for champion his constituency . there be a real opportunity at RAF Wyton , not just in term of the military purpose that defence intelligence provide there — that be obviously difficult to talk about in the public space — but in term of the spin - off and industrial opportunity that the wide estate offer . I would be happy to attend those event , and I look forward to continue the conversation about Wyton and return to visit there soon . today ' s blockbuster strategy completely rewire many of the institution at the heart of our defence financing : the National Wealth Fund , the British Business Bank and UK Export Finance . with the news that the chinese bond market may now be open to russian defence company , do my hon . friend agree that we need to keep innovate and keep evolve how we do defence financing to support our own industrial base ? first , I thank my hon . friend for the work he have be do on how we open up finance to small business in particular and how we deal with some of the policy that restrict access to finance for those firm that work in defence . he be absolutely right that internationally we be see more of those nation that sometimes oppose our value come together , but we need to make sure we be innovate with our finance and that sme have access to capital . that be one reason why we be seek to create a more predictable pipeline of acquisition that enable business , especially small business , to borrow to invest . if Scotland be lucky , we will get a per capita share of the £ 250 million in the growth deal , which be barely twice what the SNP Scottish Government have invest in the skill academy in BAE alone . however , the omen be not good , because Scotland be routinely short - change in defence expenditure . the London Government be spend more in the south - east of England than they do in Wales , Scotland and Northern Ireland put together . the Minister ' s own region seem set to benefit , and I be not sure where the Union dividend be between Portsmouth and Yorkshire . see as he be hold the pen and write the cheque , which hopefully will not bounce , will Scotland at the very least get its per capita share of that £ 250 million ? we hear such negativity from the Scottish National party . on a day when we have announce a growth deal for Scotland , create skill and infrastructure , rather than welcome for that investment , we hear more negativity . it continue the pattern that we have see from the SNP in Scotland : not interested in defence , not interested in defence job , not interested in the growth that that bring . only when there be a win do SNP Members finally come out and say something positive . there be a lot to be do in Scotland to grow that sector . we be back the scottish defence industry , and I hope that the hon . Gentleman ' s party will do so soon . we know that when we back british job , british industry and british innovator , community across our country reap the reward . what step will the Minister take to ensure that our proudly home - grow small and medium - sized enterprise can be supportive in deliver this industrial strategy ? I have see some incredible innovation in our defence sme . such company have the opportunity to transform the warfighting capability of our force and to support our ally , but for far too many of they it have be too difficult to find the person who be award the contract , to navigate the process , to understand how to access the forward supply , or even to get security clearance to understand what their competitor be do . this defence industrial strategy seek to rectify those problem by create a single new one - stop shop for sme so that all of they , in every part of the UK , can access MOD contract and we can benefit from their innovation and agility . I imagine that the timing of the defence industrial strategy be link to the Defence Security and Equipment International conference that be happen in London this week , so could the Minister have a word with the Mayor of London , emphasise the importance of that event for the defence industrial strategy ? the brilliant brain in Malvern in my constituency have come up with something that be very topical and timely : a well way to deal with those who seek to spoof and jam the GPS signal . it be deliver with MOD funding , and be be sell to other country around the world , but the UK do not seem to be buy it . could the Minister look into that specific issue ? if the hon . Lady write to I about it , I will certainly look into it . this morning I be on the bridge of HMS Mersey , one of our offshore patrol vessel , which be moor outside the ExCeL centre in east London as part of the DSEI conference . this be a huge opportunity for growth — and , of course , there be 10 , 000 defence job in London and an opportunity to grow even more in every part of the UK , include the nation ' s capital . I welcome the Minister ' s statement , and congratulate he on his new role . it be fantastic that Plymouth have be name as the site of one of the defence growth deal ; this be very positive for South East Cornwall , give our close tie with the worker who cross the River Tamar daily use Tamar crossing , and the autonomous naval vessel training in our local cornish water . in fact , 23 % of Babcock ' s devonport workforce live in South East Cornwall . will the Minister outline how the positive impact of this announcement will be feel throughout the region , and will he assure I that local housing and transport improvement will be consider critical to the successful delivery of this important deal ? I thank my constituency neighbour for her advocacy . all the growth deal that we have announce today , include the Plymouth growth deal , will help the wide region in each location , not just the specific location , to build a skill base that will help the supplier as well as the prime in those location . my hon . friend be right : we also need to look at skill and at housing . the Barrow model , for instance , be a good one for we to look at , because Barrow need to grow big in order to build the submarine that the Royal Navy need . that be not just about the shipyard , although investment from this Government be go into it ; it be about housing , education and health in that community . this be precisely the model that be be follow for other location across the UK , include those in the south - west . rise — may I ask member to be brief , and the Minister to be even short ? over the summer I join the Chief of the General Staff on a visit to Supacat at Dunkeswell in Devon . I learn there that to keep supply chain active , manufacturer need continuous order that keep British - make capability sharp . I be pleased to hear that Plymouth be go to enjoy a cut of the £ 250 million pledge for defence growth deal , but can the Minister let we know about the next order for the incredible Jackal 3 high mobility transporter ? as the hon . Gentleman know , the Jackal 3 be make in Devonport , in the constituency that I represent . it be a good platform . we will be make further announcement about order across a whole range of land vehicle , which company across the UK will be able to bid into . the work on the Jackal 3 continue , with the long wheelbase variant be produce at the moment . can the Minister assure I that , along with the huge defence contract that this Government have already secure for shipyard in Scotland , this strategy will also offer great opportunity for fabrication yard , include at Methil in my constituency ? it be save from closure by Labour Ministers , and its brilliant workforce be already deliver a new £ 8 million Government contract under its new owner , Navantia UK . I thank my hon . friend for raise that example . our £ 8 million investment will create the facility for the build of the Royal Fleet Auxiliary ' s new fleet solid support ship . that be an important part of keep our Royal Navy supply well into the future . I be grateful that he speak about manufacturing , because there be huge opportunity in this strategy for business like the one he mention . I very much welcome the indication that Northern Ireland will participate in the defence growth deal , but will the Minister explain the interplay , if any , with the devolved government ? I ask because we in Northern Ireland have the misfortune of have an anti - british and anti - british - defence Economy Minister in the shape of a Sinn F é in Minister . can I have an assurance that she will not be able to thwart any of Northern Ireland ' s benefit under this deal ? I ask that in the context that today , sadly , the MOD have to abandon its job fair participation in Londonderry , courtesy of Sinn F é in pressure . we be proud that the growth deal will be in every single part of the United Kingdom , include Northern Ireland . the precise location of those in the devolved administration will be set follow discussion with those devolve administration , include in conjunction with those in Northern Ireland . we be absolutely clear that there be a growth opportunity to provide new , well - pay and good job to people there . that be why we will work with partner in Northern Ireland to find the right location and to invest in the skill that the industry there need . I thank the Minister for his statement , as well as for last week ' s news of the significant infrastructure investment in the Rosyth dockyard in my constituency , which be highly welcome for job in the area . as the Minister say , the real defence dividend will be the long - term skill . we have see skill devolve to the Scottish Government , but they have utterly fail when it come to defence skill because of their absolutely childish attitude towards the defence industry . seventy - two hour do not make up for 20 year of failure . will the Minister meet I to discuss option to ensure that skill , and the delivery of skill opportunity in Scotland ' s defence sector , can be deliver for people in my constituency and across Scotland , so that they can take advantage of the long - term opportunity and sustainable job that exist ? Scotland have good representative on this side of the House : representative who value defence job in Scotland and the people who work in those job , and who see growth opportunity . I know that there be huge opportunity in Rosyth , in my hon . friend ' s constituency — not just the submarine recycling work and the build of the Type 31 frigate , but supply chain opportunity for other platform . we will continue to invest in Scotland and I hope that , after the Scottish Parliament election , we can find a new partnership between the Scottish Government , whoever may form that , and the UK Government , so that we have less politic and more focus on growth . now that the killer in the Kremlin have reinstate the serious prospect of all - out war on the continent of Europe , do the Minister accept that this place a premium on national autonomy in our procurement process ? in future with procurement issue , will the Government make it clear to what extent we can proceed with acquire the necessary munition , irrespective of what be happen to the ally with whom we might normally co - operate ? I thank the right hon . Gentleman for his customarily thoughtful question . he will know of our intention to build six new munition factory , include a new energetic factory , precisely because there be a shortage and there be concern about supply and resilience . he will also know that we be seek to onshore a number of capability . the defence industrial strategy deal with a number of those capability , especially around national security , which we want to see enhance our sovereign capability . I encourage he to read that part of the strategy shortly . this defence industrial strategy show that we finally have a Government who take our british defence industry seriously . a foundation of domestic order enable british business to compete effectively for export order . can the Minister outline the nature of the support from UK Defence Innovation that our defence and defence - adjacent sme might need in order to help they commercialise their technology ? I hope he will consider Teesside and the north - east for a future skill academy and any future growth zone deal . I thank my hon . friend for his advocacy for his community . there be certainly opportunity in every part of the country , include on Teesside , for defence company and for company that be not sell into defence currently , but which have an opportunity to do so . the £ 400 million investment in UK Defence Innovation be design to go after the most innovative and disruptive technology . prime have a good role in this , but so do sme . I encourage all business to lean into that opportunity , and to really go after the increase funding and the export and contractual opportunity that that will provide . the Minister have make a number of announcement about skill in the defence industrial strategy , which be much appreciated , but can he explain how they will integrate with exist skill framework and whether the industry will be give the flexibility to develop new course at the " wartime pace " that the strategic defence review reference ? the hon . Gentleman be exactly right . for instance , the work that ADS be do on its new curriculum be really interesting and exciting . there be a real opportunity to go after the skill challenge nationwide . in order to give the man and woman in our armed force the kit they need and to export to our ally , we need to invest more in skill . it be something in which this nation have under - invest for far too long . that change with the defence industrial strategy today . I welcome the Minister ' s statement . the defence industrial strategy will strengthen our security and grow our economy . these reform will boost job in community such as my West Dunbartonshire constituency , which be sandwich between the £ 250 million investment in Faslane and the £ 10 billion contract with Norway , guarantee shipbuilding on the Clyde for year to come . will the Minister agree to meet I , the leader of my local authority and the chief executive of West Dunbartonshire council to explore the opportunity for bring further defence investment and employment to West Dunbartonshire ? I would be very happy to meet my hon . Friend and Councillor Rooney , his local authority leader . there be real opportunity to look at some of the site , especially give the investment in nuclear technology in my hon . friend ' s part of the world . I know that he be seek engagement with the Department for Business and Trade about the location in West Dunbartonshire , and I be happy to meet he to discuss this matter far . in his opening remark , the Minister mention the importance of the strategic defence review to the industrial strategy . when that strategy be announce , some union , organisation and business be give preferential access to it , but the Minister have consistently refuse to say who and when . write question have receive flannel as answer , and freedom of information request be now almost a month out of date . what be the Minister try to hide , and when will he answer the question ? on a day when the hon . Lady could be celebrate the work of sme in her constituency and talk up british growth , she be here again with a complaint . there be a clear process with the SDR , which we follow , on the predication of the previous Administration . we have follow a clear plan today to brief the opposition and to make sure that it be clear that we be back british business . I wish she have take the opportunity to do so as well . sme like Affinity at RAF Valley , in my constituency , offer apprenticeship that equip young people with crucial engineering skill . it be vital that the defence industrial strategy ' s new clearing - style system for apprenticeship work with local sme and college to expand these opportunity . can the Minister clarify how the system will operate in Wales , where apprenticeship be devolve ? that be precisely why we be seek more engagement on defence with the devolved Administrations . defence be a reserved matter , but skill be devolve , so we need to form a new partnership between the different government across the United Kingdom , include in Wales . the skill around RAF Valley be really very impressive , and there be huge opportunity for growth . if we get this right , we will create more good , well - pay job in the hon . Lady ' s constituency and across Wales — an opportunity that this Government be go to seize with both hand . I be delighted that the face of procurement be change and that , hopefully , we will see a telescoping of the time between the flash of inspiration and the bang of kinetic effector , as they say . the neutral vendor framework for innovation be a very important part of that , but will the Minister give I an assurance that the Business and Trade Committee ' s recommendation — that we have metric so that we can measure output and not simply input — can be bring forward ? I thank the hon . member , and I agree with he . I be a big fan of a data - lead dashboard , and the Ministry of Defence will be produce those , because when it come to procurement we need a great datum - lead approach and a focus on prioritisation . we will be go after area that have fall behind , which I be afraid the last Government fail to do . that be our new approach . I have already meet the Chair of the Committee , and I look forward to meet he far to discuss how we can take on board the recommendation to make sure we get this system right . to provide certainty for the whole defence sector , but particularly for the small and medium - sized business in my constituency , will the Minister confirm when negotiation on the UK join the € 150 billion Security Action for Europe will conclude and a decision will be make , so that those business have the certainty and long - term security that this strategy be mean to provide ? the EU - UK reset deal sign by the Prime Minister recently open the door to discussion on SAFE , and the Cabinet Office and the MOD be jointly work on those discussion to make sure they happen properly . we need to make sure we achieve value for money , and that we build and support UK business sell product to our european ally . there be a huge opportunity here , and we will continue those discussion . I do not want to set an arbitrary deadline , but those discussion be ongoing and I hope the Cabinet Office and the MOD will be able to come back with good news in due course . I welcome the Government ' s announcement of a dedicated procurement hub in Northern Ireland to support our sme , although I note that no location have be announce in Northern Ireland . can I remind the Minister of the excellent opportunity that the Aldergrove base in my constituency present and how it would be an excellent location for an uncrewed system centre ? will he meet I and the leadership of Antrim and Newtownabbey borough council to develop that opportunity far ? there be no well champion than the hon . gentleman ; I have meet he a number of time when he have speak about his constituency . I agree with he that there be real opportunity in Northern Ireland for defence investment , and I look forward to the continue discussion with the Northern Ireland Executive , as well as with local community , Members of Parliament and council , to make sure we find the right location for the investment and that Northern Ireland get the defence growth deal we have announce today — and get it soon . I thank the hon . gentleman for the statement . I be really excited about the emphasis on skill . I note the ambitious timetable to create the five academy create by the end of 2026 . in the spirit of the cheekiness that he say he admire , can I encourage he to pop over the constituency border from Aldershot to Surrey Heath to find a constituency that would be a ready and expedient site for one of those academy ? the site already have Royal Military Academy Sandhurst and Pirbright , and it be the historic home of Chobham armour . defence be part of our history and our heritage , and I hope it be also part of our future . I take that as a strong early bid , and I be happy to talk to the hon . Gentleman about how we can maximise skill in his constituency . I thank the Minister very much for the incredibly good news that he and the Labour Government have deliver today in this Chamber . every one of we across this great United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland will relish the idea of job come our way . we in the Democratic Unionist party welcome the defence industrial strategy , acknowledge the need for world - class defence and make the most of our world - class defence business . one of those , Thales , employ hundred of my Strangford constituent , and it have be instrumental in protect Ukraine . there be some 200 new job — include , I understand , 30 apprenticeship — no more than three month ago . with news circulate that defence spending commitment will create a total of 85 , 000 job across the sector in the next 10 year , will the Minister reaffirm the role of Northern Ireland in the industry and indeed in the defence of this great nation ? let I be very clear : there be growth opportunity in every nation and region of the United Kingdom , include Northern Ireland . we have today announce a defence growth deal for Northern Ireland , which build on the incredible skill that we already see in defence company in Northern Ireland . this Government be very proud to announce the £ 1 . 6 billion contract for the lightweight multirole missile , which will be build in Northern Ireland . it will be use to shoot down russian drone attack our ally in Ukraine , which be precisely how we can make defence an engine of growth as well as support our security objective . the worker in Northern Ireland should be very proud of the work they be do ; I certainly be . point of order on a point of order , Madam Deputy Speaker . the hon . member for Clacton ( Nigel Farage ) , at a congressional hearing and in write evidence , have suggest that the US Government explore possible trade consequence in response to the UK ' s Online Safety Act 2023 . would you agree that suggest that a foreign Government take measure harmful to the interest of this country be not behaviour commensurate with the office of a Member of the UK Parliament ? indeed , would you agree with several constituent of Clacton who have describe the Member ' s statement as " treacherous " ? I be grateful to the hon . member for give notice of his point of order . I take it that he notify the hon . member for Clacton that he intend to refer to he in the Chamber . indicate assent . the hon . Member be nod . the Chair be not responsible for anything that hon . member say outside the Chamber — that in itself would be a full - time job — but he have put his point on the record . renter ' right Bill : Programme ( no . 2 ) Motion make , and question put forthwith ( Standing Order no . 83A ( 7 ) ) , that the follow provision shall apply to the Renters ' right Bill for the purpose of supplement the order of 9 October 2024 ( Renters ' right Bill : Programme ) : consideration of Lords Amendments ( 1 ) proceeding on consideration of Lords Amendments shall ( so far as not previously conclude ) be bring to a conclusion four hour after their commencement . ( 2 ) the Lords Amendments shall be consider in the following order : 11 , 14 , 18 , 19 , 26 , 27 , 39 , 53 , 55 to 62 , 64 , 67 , 1 to 10 , 12 and 13 , 15 to 17 , 20 to 25 , 28 to 38 , 40 to 52 , 54 , 63 , 65 and 66 , 68 to 77 . subsequent stage ( 3 ) any further message from the Lords may be consider forthwith without any question be put . ( 4 ) proceeding on any further message from the Lords shall ( so far as not previously conclude ) be bring to a conclusion one hour after their commencement . — ( Sir Nicholas Dakin . ) question agree to . renter ' right Bill consideration of Lords amendment I must draw the House ' s attention to the fact that Lords amendment 39 and 68 engage Commons financial privilege . if either of those Lords amendment be agree to , I will cause the customary entry waive Commons financial privilege to be enter in the Journal . clause 12 - right to request permission to keep a pet I beg to move , that this House disagree with Lords amendment 11 . with this it will be convenient to discuss : lord amendment 14 , government motion to disagree , and Government amendment ( a ) in lieu . lord amendment 18 , and Government motion to disagree . lord amendment 19 , and Government motion to disagree . lord amendment 26 , and government motion to disagree . lord amendment 27 , and Government motion to disagree . lord amendment 39 , and government motion to disagree . lord amendment 53 , and government motion to disagree . lord amendment 55 to 62 , government motion to disagree , and Government amendment ( a ) in lieu . lord amendment 64 , and government motion to disagree . lord amendment 67 , government motion to disagree , and Government amendment ( a ) in lieu . lord amendment 1 to 10 , 12 , 13 , 15 to 17 , 20 to 25 , 28 to 38 , 40 to 52 , 54 , 63 , 65 , 66 and 68 to 77 . this Government be elect with a clear mandate to do what the Conservatives fail to do in the last Parliament — namely , to modernise the regulation of our country ' s insecure and unjust private rented sector , and empower private renter by provide they with great security right and protection . our Renters ' Rights Bill do just that , and it need to receive Royal Assent as quickly as possible so that England ' s 11 million private renter can benefit from its provision . before I turn to the Lords amendment , I want to thank Baroness Taylor for so ably guide the Bill through the other place . I put on record my appreciation of all the peer who contribute to its detailed scrutiny . as you will know , Madam Deputy Speaker , the Government make several important change to the Bill in the other place with a view to ensure that it will work as intended and in response to the legitimate concern raise about the implementation of specific provision . in the interest of time , I will update the House only on the two that be most apposite . the first change concern the date from which a tenant be require to pay a new rent in instance where the first - tier tribunal have set a new rent amount follow a tenant ' s challenge to a propose increase . the Government be elect on a clear manifesto commitment to empower tenant to challenge unreasonable rent increase . it be essential that we deliver on that commitment not only to protect tenant from undue financial pressure , but to prevent rent hike from be use as a form of back - door eviction once section 21 notice have be abolish . however , recognise that there be inherent uncertainty about the volume of rent increase challenge that will be bring when the new tenancy system come into force , and as a safeguard against a scenario in which the first - tier tribunal be overwhelm by a sharp increase in challenge , Lords amendment 6 to 8 introduce a new delegate power that will enable the backdating of rent increase follow determination by the tribunal of new rent amount . I want to reiterate what Baroness Taylor make clear in the other place — namely , that it be not the Government ' s intention to make use of this new power unless and until it be consider necessary to avoid lengthy delay for genuine case to be hear . if use , it would be subject to the affirmative procedure to allow appropriate parliamentary scrutiny . in addition to introduce that important safeguard , the Government also conclude that there be a compelling case for the use of an alternative body or mechanism to make initial rent determination . subject to a final viability assessment , we intend to establish such an alternative body or mechanism as soon as possible , and will confirm further detail in due course . the second important change the Government make in the other place concern insurance to cover potential damage from pet . as hon . member will be aware , the Bill as originally introduce , mirror provision in the previous Government ' s Renters ( Reform ) Bill , enable landlord to request such insurance in instance where a tenant have request a pet . in response to concern express by several peer that the insurance industry appear unlikely to provide suitable financial product at the speed and scale require , and that the reasonable request of tenant to keep pet might be hamper as a result , Lords amendment 10 , 12 and 13 remove the provision in the Bill which make landlord consent to a request to keep a pet conditional on the tenant take out , or pay for , pet damage insurance . just last week , I be ask a similar question back home ; the legislation back home be not cover by this House . the issue for those who have animal be that almost every person who have an animal in a flat , apartment or other property always look after the property as if it be their own and the issue of animal damage do not come up . it do , however , come up the odd time , so be it not well — I think the Minister be say this — to have an obligation rather than legislation to ensure that the tenant cover any damage by a pet , because most tenant will be accountable for their pet no matter what ? as ever , I thank the hon . gentleman for his intervention . he make a good point . there be evidence that pet damage be , in many case , not extensive or a particular issue . where pet damage occur , as I will come on to make clear in response to the relevant Lords amendment , we think that the provision in the Tenant Fees Act 2019 , which allow for tenant deposit to be change in response to such issue , mean that we have the necessary delegate power , but I will set out further detail on that particular issue in due course . I will now turn to the amendment make by peer in the other place . we welcome the scrutiny and challenge provide , and be willing to make sensible concession in some area , but most of the amendment in question serve to undermine the core principle of the Bill and for that reason we can not accept they . let I make clear precisely , in each instance , where that be the case , start with Lords amendment 53 . lord amendment 53 dramatically broaden the scope of possession ground 4A , so that it encompass not only full - time student live in house in multiple occupation , but non - typical student , such as old student with family undertake postgraduate study who may live in self - contain one and two - bed property . Ground 4A exist precisely because the Government recognise the unique nature of the student rental market and be determined to ensure that the annual cycle of student letting continue accordingly . however , ground 4A be deliberately design to ensure that the benefit of the new tenancy system introduce in the Bill be not deny to non - typical student . we believe restrict its use to HMOs or dwelling - house in HMOs strike the right balance , and I therefore urge the House to reject Lords amendment 53 . lord amendment 64 introduce a new ground for possession for the sole purpose of allow a landlord to regain their property to house a carer for themselves or a member of their family live with they . everyone in this Chamber recognise the vital work carer do to support people to live independently and with dignity . however , while the Government be profoundly sympathetic to the need of those who require care , I be afraid we can not support this amendment for two main reason . first , while I appreciate entirely that some peer currently own and let rental property in close proximity to their home , with a view to one day use they to house a carer for themselves or member of their family , there be no compelling evidence to suggest that this practice be sufficiently widespread to justify the insertion into the Bill at this late stage of a dedicated possession ground to cater specifically for it . secondly , the definition of " carer " in the amendment — namely , anyone provide any form of care in a voluntary or contractual arrangement , be so broad that the scope for abuse , in our view , be substantial . I therefore urge the House to reject the amendment . Lords amendment 18 would reduce the prohibition on re - let or re - market a property follow the use of possession ground 1a from 12 month to six . we recognise that there will be occasion when landlord regain vacant possession of their property use ground 1a but be unable subsequently to sell it despite repeat attempt to do so , but we be not prepared to weaken the strong safeguard against abuse provide by the 12 - month no - let provision . it be essential to prevent landlord misuse ground 1A and evict tenant who be not at fault , whether that be because they have make a legitimate complaint or simply because the landlord want to re - let at a high rate . the Government remain firmly committed to the 12 - month no - let restriction , and I urge the House to reject Lords amendment 18 on that basis . Lords amendment 19 be a related amendment that exempt share owner from the 12 - month re - let and re - marketing restriction , as well as other important restriction . I want to make it clear that the Government recognise the plight of share owner live in building that require remediation . I know from my own effort to support share owner in my constituency of Greenwich and Woolwich that those affect by the building safety crisis often face unaffordable cost , often with no viable exit route other than a distressed sale . it be worth note that to well support affect share owner , the Government have already take a number of step to provide great clarity about what flexibility and assistance share owner should expect from register provider , include in relation to sublet at market rate . we also recognise that there be more that might be do , outside this legislation , to mitigate the impact of the building safety crisis on share owner , and be commit to explore all option . however , while I very much commend Lord Young of Cookham for champion the interest of share owner in difficulty , and be more than happy to continue to engage with he to determine if there be a way to provide they with great support that do not undermine the core principle of the Bill , I be afraid that I can not accept Lords amendment 19 at this time , purely because the Government remain of the view that it could undermine protection for the small subset of tenant who happen to rent a sublet home from a share owner . lord amendment 11 would allow landlord to require an additional deposit , equivalent to three week ' rent , as a condition of consent to a tenant ' s request to keep a pet . we can not support this amendment . require a further three week ' deposit would cost the average tenant in England over £ 900 . such sum would be unaffordable for many tenant and would greatly exceed the average deposit deduction for pet damage of £ 300 . we be satisfied — this speak to the point make by the hon . member for Strangford ( Jim Shannon ) — that the exist requirement for five week ' deposit for typical tenancy be sufficient to cover the risk of any damage relate to pet ownership . crucially , as I mention , we already have the delegate power necessary , under the Tenant Fees Act 2019 , to allow high deposit for tenancy with pet , should evidence come forward to the contrary . for those reason , I urge the House to reject Lords amendment 11 . lord amendment 26 and 27 would require local authority to meet the criminal , rather than the civil , standard of proof when impose penalty for rental discrimination and rental bidding breach . the Government be absolutely clear that the civil standard , which be align with similar legislation , such as the wide anti - discrimination provision of the Equality Act 2010 , be the appropriate one to apply in these circumstance . require local authority to meet the more stringent criminal standard of proof for provision that can not lead to a criminal offence where the conduct persist would make local authority enforcement extremely challenging , and would be prohibitively resource - intensive . we can not accept the amendment for those reason , and I urge the House to reject they . finally , Lords amendment 39 would bring service family accommodation within scope of the modernised decent home standard that the Government be introduce . I begin by once again acknowledge the integral role that safe and decent accommodation play in the life of our service personnel and their family . the Government be absolutely determined to improve the standard of service family accommodation across the entire defence estate — in Scotland , Wales and Northern Ireland , as well as England . however , the Government can not accept the amendment . as have be debate at length at various stage of the Bill , the Ministry of Defence be absolutely clear that subject secure defence site to local authority inspection , as this amendment would do , be unworkable due to access and security constraint . in any case , as we have make clear many time , the MOD already apply the decent home standard as a benchmark , have go far with its decent home plus standard for service family accommodation , and have commit to comply with Awaab ' s law requirement , and to mirror any of its timescale for deal with damp and mould in its key performance indicator . as the House will know , early this year , the MOD announce an additional £ 1 . 5 billion investment in service family accommodation as part of a £ 7 billion commitment over the next five year , and in the come month , the Government will publish a defence housing strategy , set out clear renewal standard and further step to improve accommodation for the man and woman who serve our country . importantly , those renewal standard will apply to the whole UK defence estate , ensure that the different nation of the UK be not subject to different decency standard , as would be the case under Lords amendment 39 . we believe that there be very strong reason for object to that amendment , but I appreciate fully that peer want certainty that all service accommodation will be bring up to the requisite standard . with a view to provide great confidence about the Government ' s clear intention in this area , I can confirm today that the MOD will lay before Parliament and publish on gov . uk an annual report on the standard of service family accommodation in the UK . I hope that the transparency and accountability that annual reporting will facilitate will provide sufficient reassurance of the Government ' s commitment to the commendable objective that underpin Lords amendment 39 . however , for the reason I have provide , we will not be able to accept it today . I mention at the outset that the Government be willing to make sensible concession in some area , and that be the case for Lords amendment 55 to 57 , which would expand ground 5A to allow landlord to evict their tenant to house self - employ worker and other type of worker engage in agriculture . peer also agree to Lords amendment 58 to 62 , which would expand ground 5c in order to allow landlord to evict a wide range of worker than just tenant who be employee . have reflect on our position , the Government have table amendment in lieu that narrowly expand ground 5A to allow agricultural landlord to evict assure tenant in order to house both employee and non - employ worker engage in agriculture . we believe this small technical change will support the Government ' s clear intention of ensure that the agricultural sector can continue to function effectively without compromise wide security of tenure , and I be pleased that both Lord Carrington and the National Farmers Union have indicate their support for these change . to conclude , the Bill have undoubtedly be improve as a result of the scrutiny to which it have be subject , but the Government be not prepared to allow our core principle to be undermine in the way that the amendment would . I urge the House to support the Government ' s position , and I look forward to the remainder of the debate . I call the shadow Secretary of State . the UK need a vibrant and fluid private rent sector . we need it to deliver community that be happy and cohesive , and to deliver fairness , stability and security for family . I have be look at the Government ' s position on the Bill , and I pay tribute to the Minister for Housing and Planning , the hon . Member for Greenwich and Woolwich ( Matthew Pennycook ) , for the work he have do on it — or be he the right hon . member ? indicate dissent . well , he deserve to be the right hon . Gentleman . he have be do the hard yard ; he have do load of work on this Bill . I be sure he be disappoint that he do not get to lead the Department — congratulation to the new Secretary of State — but I have no doubt that the opportunity will come in the near future . I would just say : be patient for the moment . while I have no doubt that the Bill be full of good intention , it be poorly though through and counterproductive . in fact , I be assume it be poorly think through , but it be entirely feasible that the measure within it be well though through , and be design to undermine the private rent sector . it be inept , either by accident or on purpose — I will go with inept by accident , because that be more in keep with the Government ' s action in this Department . the Bill be clearly a mishmash of measure on issue that be back - Bench hobby horse — issue that those on the Front Bench do not have the authority or the courage to put to bed . it be entirely counterproductive , as have be recognise and highlight by their lordship in the other place . the Bill risk drive private landlord out of the sector , reduce the supply of private rent accommodation and push up rent for those in the private rent sector . limit the supply of such accommodation mean limit the option for tenant in the private rented sector , and leave they bad off . we do not need to look very far to see what happen when government get this wrong . in Scotland , fix - term tenancy be abolish , rent control impose and regulation tighten , and what be the result ? few landlord , shrink supply and the fast rise in rent in the UK , with Edinburgh and Glasgow facing steep rent rise than ineptly labour - run London . the Labour Government in Westminster be about to make the same mistake , because Government Back Benchers be , for whatever reason , obsess with " fix " an already highly successful sector . the private rented sector have the high satisfaction level of any tenure type — high than level in the social rent sector or among owner - occupier . I do not know what correspondence the right hon . Gentleman be look at , but the correspondence I receive from my constituent in Hillingdon do not tell a story of a sector that be secure and safe ; instead , my constituent tell I that they be battle damp and mould , and have have 35 % rent increase in recent year . be that success , in the opposition ' s view ? the hon . Gentleman make the classic statistical error of assume that his inbox be representative of all the people in the sector . have it not occur to he that people who be happy in their private rent accommodation do not tend to write to their MP , say , " Apropos of nothing , I just want to let you know that I be happy " ? I have it on good authority from my hon . friend the Member for Ruislip , Northwood and Pinner ( David Simmonds ) — my good friend and colleague — that the hon . member for Uxbridge and South Ruislip ( Danny Beales ) be not do a terribly good job of champion the social rent sector in his constituency . he seek to deny the private rented sector , while simultaneously deny people the social rent sector . I be not sure where he think people in his constituency should live . the point be that the Bill be a mishmash of incoherent proposal , which , instead of be design to improve the private rented sector , be design to keep angsty Back Benchers happy , but Front Benchers be already start to learn that they can not pay political Danegeld to their Back Benchers . I give the Front - Bench team due notice : their Back Benchers will be insatiable . they will take whatever red meat they be throw , and they will ask for more . we have already see this , Madam Deputy Speaker , with the propose change to social security and disability benefit . the Front Benchers have plan , but their Back Benchers have other plan , and guess who win ? those show courageous leadership on the turbulent back Benches . the Government will see the same again on this issue . the opposition understand that a good tenure mix be good for the UK . we take measure to improve the private rented sector , but we make sure that we do it in the right order . we make sure that the court be ready . I be intrigue by the right hon . Gentleman ' s remark about the success of the private rent sector . if the sector be so successful and be work so well , why have the opposition consistently hold the position — both when they be in government and , I believe , go into the election — that they would go forward with end no - fault eviction ? I be confused . I would be grateful if he could explain . it be interesting that on the one hand , we have voice on the Front Bench say that we do not do anything in government , while at the same time , voice on the Labour back Benches say that we be do something . will the right hon . Gentleman give way again ? no . perhaps Labour Members should co - ordinate their criticism . the previous Conservative Government understand that there be a need to reform the system , but that every part of the system need to be ready . that be why we make sure that the justice system be ready first before we start make change to the legal framework , give tenant , landlord and court the time to adjust . however , the Labour Government have abandon that discipline . the change put forward by their lordship come about through careful consideration of the provision in the Bill and their implication in real - world scenario , not the fantasy world of many Labour Back Benchers . the Labour Government be defeat in the other place on several important amendment . there be a pattern to the Government ' s defeat : time and again , Ministers accept a principle but when it come to take action to deal with the principle , they fall short . I will give some example from amendment on Report in the other place . amendment 87 and 88 in the name of Lord Keen would raise the standard of proof for financial penalty to " beyond reasonable doubt " . the principle be clear : set serious penalty require have serious evidence . the noble Lord Keen make the case powerfully in the other place , yet the Government still refuse to act . in do so they be introduce a huge degree of uncertainty for both landlord and council , and uncertainty be toxic to the provision of home in the sector . make these change will reduce the housing supply . the Minister mention amendment 5 in the name of the noble Baroness Scott , which would extend ground 4A to all student home , not just those with three or more bedroom . this be another example of the Government accept the principle and the need to act but fail to do so . in the student rent sector it be important that tenancy match the academic year to give landlord in the sector a credible chance . the Government establish that as a principle and agree with it but then exclude one and two - bedroom property as if student be never accommodate in they . my own son — as Back Benchers be keen to personalise example — be a student who be currently accommodate in a two - bedroom flat . why would the landlord of that accommodation be outside of scope but the landlord of a student property with one more bedroom be within scope ? the idea that we can not work out who be or be not let to student be a nonsense . student have their own council tax category , and it be often the case that they can only get student accommodation and enjoy the benefit of the student discount for council tax by prove that they be a student . it would be a really easy cut - off to say that all student accommodation fall within scope . the Government accept the principle but then fail to address the issue — they accept the logic but do nothing about it . amendment 53a in the name of the noble Lord de Clifford would ensure that tenant who want to rent with pet and landlord who want to rent to people with pet can both have a degree of security . the Government accept the principle that pet be likely to cause more damage to a rental property than would be cause if a tenant do not have pet . they accept that principle when they put forward the idea of a special insurance product to cover such damage . if they do not believe that pet be likely to cause more damage , they would not have go down the road of explore an insurance product specifically for pet owner , but they do . they establish the principle , then when it become clear that the insurance product be too difficult and the sector would not bring they forward , they basically say , " you know what , we ' re just go to ignore that " — again , recognise a challenge but do nothing about it . amendment 53a propose a sensible and credible additional deposit to protect against the high likelihood of damage from a pet . I should declare an interest that I have pet and I rent a property . I need to keep a close eye on my terrier , because they love dig . sometimes they dig in the garden , but they be not so disciplined not to attempt to dig in the carpet in the house . I recognise that tenant have to take additional responsibility , but I also recognise that it be totally legitimate for landlord to want to seek additional protection . the Government recognise that but then do nothing about it . amendment 21 , also in the name of the noble Lord de Clifford , be about create the framework whereby a landlord can evict a tenant in order to create space for someone who would then care for they . the reasoning that we hear from the Government Front Bench just now be quite shocking — that the only people who might be interested in put this forward would be member of the other place , with the implication be that they have large property and it be all about self - interest . the argument be that there be only a small number of people that this might be relevant to and because they be small in number we can ignore they . it be an interesting political philosophy that small group of people can comfortably be ignore by government . that be certainly not the politic I want to put across . early in response to my hon . friend the Member for Uxbridge and South Ruislip ( Danny Beales ) , the shadow Secretary of State say that my hon . friend do not need to pay any attention to the people in his inbox who have contact he . be he not advocate exactly that — we should not listen because it be a small number of people , and we should accept these amendment so that this legislation can be water down ? be he not argue both side of the same coin on this ? if the hon . Gentleman be go to criticise what I say , he should have at least listen to what I say . what I say be that extrapolate — rise — no , no , get it right first time . what I say be that extrapolate from a Member of Parliament ' s inbox be not a good way of gauge the full spectrum of opinion within a cohort of people . at no point do I say — and I would never say — that we should ignore the people who write to we , and no one should assume that we do . I be pretty certain that the hon . Gentleman would not , and I certainly do not . that be absolutely not what I say . the point I be make be that the Government ' s argument be , " there aren ' t that many people , and frankly they ' re all posh , so we can ignore they . " that be basically the framing of their argument , but tell that to the extended family of people , typically of ethnic minority origin , who often live in close proximity to each other . there will be community all across the country where the elder of the family have rent property that have tenant in they , but because those property be near where they live , they envisage at some point in the future member of their extended family move into the property in order to provide care for they . disregard and diminish this as an idea just because it be something that the Government Front Bench accuse only the posh Members of the other place of do be rather distasteful . the shadow Secretary of State fail to address the second concern the Government have about amendment 21 , which be the substantial risk of abuse that will flow from the definition of a " carer " . the definition under the amendment could be anyone provide any form of voluntary care . it could be someone who provide the weekly shop . do he not see the risk of abuse that come with a ground that be so broadly draw ? that be our other concern , and he have not address it . there be always opportunity for abuse , but we can not be close off a provision that would be really valuable to many family around the country because there be a risk of abuse . if we be to do that , there would be load of area where Government would not legislate . we do not disregard an opportunity just because of the potential for abuse ; we manage that potential for abuse . I will move on a bit more quickly as I want to ensure that all labour Back Benchers get their opportunity to speak . [ interruption . ] it be their legislation . lord amendment 58 in the name of Lord Cromwell would reduce the ban on re - let from 12 month to six month . that be a wholly pragmatic point . there be the idea in the Bill that a landlord would have to wait for 12 month , but if it be clear after six month that , despite genuine effort — there be provision to ensure that effort be genuine — there be no chance of sell , it be entirely reasonable that a landlord should seek to re - let . that be not as quickly as member on the Labour Benches would do so ; nevertheless , it be an entirely fair provision . the large government defeat in the other place come on amendment 59 in the name of Lord Young of Cookham , which be about the exemption for share owner from the 12 - month ban on re - letting . the Minister say at the Dispatch Box that he recognise that this area create challenge , but I urge the Government not to dig in their heel on the issue . the cohort of people envisage by the amendment be often those most in need of flexibility — people who be not of significant financial mean — and limit their option when it come to , perhaps , a distressed asset would be entirely wrong . I have no doubt that he recognise that . I urge he to move quickly to a resolution on this matter to reassure the Chamber and the other place that those people will not be disadvantage by the Bill . the Lords amendment be well think through . they attempt to take this mishmash of a Bill and knock it into some credible shape , provide protection for tenant and a bit of reassurance for landlord so that they can continue to provide a supply of private - rent accommodation to help people get on the housing ladder and to live in home they love and value in community that they cherish . if the Government choose to blindly ignore those amendment , I have no doubt that the Bill will have the effect of reduce the number of landlord , reduce the number of home and increase rent , which be the opposite of what any of we in the Chamber should want . that be why the opposition will support the amendment . once again , I stand here proud to speak in favour of this groundbreaking legislation that finally bring some balance back between the landlord ' s right to profit from an asset and the renter ' s right to a home . I oppose in particular Lords amendment 26 , 27 and 18 propose by the landlord lobby in the other place . amendment 26 and 27 would increase the evidence bar for all civil penalty offence to the criminal standard of proof — beyond reasonable doubt rather than on the balance of probability . that would gut the ban on discrimination against housing benefit recipient , the ban on refuse to let to family and the ban on bidding war . those measure would be almost unenforceable if the amendment stand . discrimination be notoriously hard to prove , and we all know that early interaction between a renter and a prospective landlord be often not in writing , so prove beyond reasonable doubt that a prospective renter be prevent from let a property because they might be a benefit claimant or have kid would be extremely challenging ; it be the same for prove bidding war . council already struggle to pursue civil penalty case because of the staff time and resource involve in gather evidence to support those case . introduce that new , high bar of evidence for already challenging case would make they almost unenforceable . it would also be out of line with other legislation , such as the Equality Act 2010 , which require only the civil standard of proof . if we do not oppose those Lords amendment , such unlawful practice will continue unchecked , and renter will continue to face homelessness as a result . I also oppose Lords amendment 18 , which would reduce the restricted period from 12 month to six month . the Nationwide Foundation find that one in five landlord sale eviction in Scotland do not end up with the sale of a property . it be so clear that this change period would make it far too easy for landlord and agent to claim they be sell the property , only to re - let it at a high rent shortly after . let we leave no loophole for rogue landlord . a no - let period , with financial penalty for breach , provide a clear and significant deterrent against such behaviour , but six month be too short to deter abuse — especially for landlord with large portfolio . twelve month be an effective deterrent against unlawful , dishonest eviction , and we should keep that measure . as I come to the end of what I want to say , I welcome the new ministerial team and thank the member of the former ministerial team for their work on the Bill , and I make one plea to the Minister , who I be so glad to see still in his place : we must get on with this . as soon as this brilliant , groundbreake Bill receive Royal Assent , let we get a commencement date in , and let we make that no more than three month later , so that renter on that day will know that , three month far along , no one can throw they out of their home " just cos " . with every month of delay and every month that go by , another 1 , 000 family be remove from their home by bailiff follow a no - fault eviction . in the year since we take power , 30 , 000 household have lose their home to no - fault eviction . it be time to get on with it . to everyone who rent their home , I say : this Government and the Labour party will always have your back . I call the liberal Democrat spokesperson . I be grateful to the Minister for present the Government ' s position on the Lords amendment , as indeed he present their position on the 92 amendment we table in Committee . I only regret that , in do so , he reject all 92 of they . I be go to congratulate the Secretary of State on his new position , but he have escape just in time . I will come to our amendment — the other place take a different view on some of they — but I will first declare my interest in a registered provider of social housing . a generation have be cut off from the dream of home ownership . after half a century of flog off council house — over 4 . 5 million have be sell off since 1980 by successive conservative government — there be now , in effect , none leave for the thousand of family who now need they . that be why the Liberal Democrats have a vision to restore hope to million who aspire to a decent home by build our target of 150 , 000 social and council rent home per year , back up with a commitment of an extra £ 6 billion on top of the affordable housing programme budget , fund by fairly reform capital gain tax so that more people benefit from relief but those who make big gain pay more . alongside that , the liberal Democrats want a new generation of rent - to - own home so that people can get on to the ownership ladder . it be the big and most ambitious programme since council housing be invent by Lloyd George and Addison back at the beginning of the 20th century . we have also long campaign for an end to no - fault eviction and for long and more stable tenancy for tenant . the Government have put both those key measure in the Bill , and that be why we support it and want to see it enact . tenant have live for far too long with insecurity and the fear that , if they speak up , they might lose their home . some of the Lords amendment before we would improve the Bill , while other would weaken it . lord amendment 11 would require tenant to pay pet deposit , which would pile on new financial burden , put the right to own pet out of reach for those already struggle . it be not in the spirit of the Bill , so we can not support it . similarly , Lords amendment 18 would cut the prohibition on re - let unsold property from 12 month to six . that might sound like a neat compromise , but in practice it would give cover to any rogue landlord look for an excuse to evict . a six - month ban would be far too short to give tenant the protection from abuse that they deserve . lord amendment 26 seek to raise the bar for enforcement by move the burden of proof from civil to criminal . in Torbay , we have almost 50 % more people who rent in the private sector than the national average . while the vast majority of landlord be good landlord , sadly there be some rotten apple out there . push against Lords amendment 26 be essential , because we need to ensure that local authority have the power to hold these landlord to account . I hope my hon . friend agree . I do agree with my hon . friend , and I pay tribute to the sterling work he do in Torbay , and have do in the past as leader of the council , on these issue . that change in the burden of proof may sound technical , but in fact it would gut the power of local authority to hold bad landlord to account , as my hon . friend have just say . at a stroke , it would make justice for tenant far hard to achieve . lord amendment 53 point in the same wrong direction . it seek to introduce fix - term tenancy , but the whole point of the Bill be to shift to periodic tenancy — arrangement that give renter both flexibility and more security . drag we back to fix term , which would become standard across that particular element of student housing , would undermine those core principle . on the other hand , there be amendment that make the Bill fair and more workable , which we support . lord amendment 19 recognise the reality face by share ownership leaseholder , who can be can be , and be , hit disproportionately hard when sale fall through , through no fault of their own . without that exemption , they could face financial ruin . this be a simple matter of justice and we support it . lord amendment 64 , which would create a new possession ground where a landlord need to house a carer , be in keep with the Liberal Democrats ’ belief in the importance of support the million of carer out there who be so often overlook . it be right that the law should recognise the vital role they play , and if there be risk of abuse , it be open to the Government to table their own amendment to set out how they would make the same provision for accommodation need by carer . lord amendment 39 , which would legislate for a decent home standard for our military , go to the heart of who we be as a society and our obligation to those who serve . I push for this amendment at early stage in the Commons , and indeed this have long be the Liberal Democrats ’ position , have be raise by my hon . friend the Member for North Shropshire ( Helen Morgan ) in the previous Parliament . it be therefore disappointing that , while the Government have come forward with their own amendment on other matter , they have not come up with any such amendment on decent home for our military , although that have be agree across the party in the other place . do my hon . friend agree that if the Ministry of Defence itself say that the MOD housing standard be already high than the decent home standard , the Government should do the decent thing and accept Lords amendment 39 and put it on the face of the Bill ? indeed , our military deserve no less than this be on the face of the Bill , in whichever way the Government wish to do it . if it be so easy and , as my hon . friend point out , it be the Government ' s position , surely it can hold no fear for they . it would be disappointing not to have those amendment . we be tell that 90 % of service accommodation meet the decent home standard — my hon . friend the Member for Epsom and Ewell ( Helen Maguire ) have clearly already read this part of my speech — but those figure come from contractor who be responsible for manage those property and have an interest in say that they already meet the standard . there be no independent assessment . the Defence Committee paint a very different picture , when family report to it . the Committee state : " it be disingenuous for DIO to present glossy brochure about be ' decent home plus ' when they be anything but . it be clear that the DIO ' s property frequently do not meet the standard . " crucially , it add : " moreover , there be no local authority " — or anyone else — " to hold they to account as would be the case for private and other local landlord . " we be also tell that it would be impractical to extend the decent home standard to military housing because of access " behind the wire " , yet former Chief of the Defence Staff , Lord Stirrup , remind colleague in the other place that civilian official already go into far more sensitive area of military basis , so that be not a serious objection . do those on the Lib Dem Benches have any concern about one of the issue that I raise : apply the decent home standard to the defence estate in England when a different standard will apply to Scotland and Wales — to other part of the United Kingdom ? fracture the defence estate in that way be problematic . any opportunity to give our service people decent home , begin with England , should be take . I be surprised that the Minister have not grasp it with both hand . the Minister and the Government be in the position , with a large majority , to legislate for this in whichever way they choose , but it need to be on the face of the legislation . that be what our military deserve . warm word about thing improve be not enough ; we have hear they before . my hon . friend the Member for North Shropshire gain a categoric assurance from the last government ' s Housing Minister at the Dispatch Box that that Government would legislate . they do not . the hon . Gentleman say nothing have change , yet again , but do he not welcome — as I do , as a constituency MP with a significant amount of military housing around RAF Northolt — the significant £ 1 billion - plus investment into military housing and the insourcing back into public ownership of thousand of MOD home , after the previous Government ' s botched privatisation deal , which cost taxpayer huge amount of public money ? I welcome the move to which the hon . Gentleman refer , include the insourcing , but the responsibility for determine whether the home meet the " decent home plus " standard be down to contractor , who have a commercial interest in report that . the difference with the decent home standard generally be that it be subject to independent inspection . that be a crucial difference . surely there should be a robust and accountable regime set out in primary legislation to ensure that that investment continue and those standard be reach . that be the least that our service people should be able to expect . as I be say , my hon . friend the Member for North Shropshire be give categoric assurance that the Government would legislate in this regard , but they do not and neither have this Government . Lord Stirrup , the former Chief of the Defence Staff , remind the Lords , speak from experience , that this be not a new problem but one that government have fail to tackle for decade . he say : " for decade now , I have see at close hand the deficiency in service family ' accommodation … for year , I have listen to successive government undertake to get to grip with the issue . for decade , I have see they fail to do so … so why should I , or anybody who come after I , put any faith in any Government ' s promise that be not back up by enforceable measure ? " — [ Official Report , House of Lords , 15 July 2025 ; Vol . 847 , c . 1759 . ] that be the nub of the issue . service family have hear promise for decade . now , surely , be the time for action . our military deserve the gold standard , and that mean they deserve legislative provision for decent home , however the Government wish to do it . I urge the hon . gentleman to engage with the clear concession I make from the Dispatch Box : the confirmation that the Ministry of Defence will lay before Parliament — and publish on gov . uk — an annual report on the standard of service family accommodation in the UK , give transparency , accountability , and reassurance that the standard we all want to see improve and be meet will be . I welcome any report that will deal with this issue , but the fact be that unless the government accept an amendment or table their own amendment to provide this protection for service family in primary legislation , our service people will be the only category of renter who be not guarantee the decent home standard in primary legislation . private renter will be , social renter will be , but our military service family will not be . that can not be right . the balance be wrong and the Government need to do more ; they need to legislate . the Government ' s final objection be that they want to do it differently . so be it . I will wait with bated breath , as I be sure the whole House will , for the Government ' s amendment give servicemen and servicewomen the gold standard they deserve . since the Government have table no amendment of their own , however , we shall continue to press our , both here and in the other place . our armed force should not be the only group in Britain exclude from the right to a decent home in legislative term . that be what Lords amendment 39 deliver , and it must stand part of the Bill . this Bill be about a vision for well home and for dignity , security and fairness for renter . that must include the family of our armed force , such as those of the 40 Commando Royal Marines in Norton Fitzwarren and elsewhere in Taunton . I be proud to start a petition to save Norton Manor camp follow its propose closure by the previous Conservative Government . that commitment must sit alongside our national mission to build more social and council home — 150 , 000 per year — to restore hope for a whole generation . that be what Liberal Democrats be fight for , and that be the change the country desperately need . the Bill before we be one of the most important and impactful Bills currently before Parliament . I say that not as someone who have see a few email in my inbox , but as someone who have feel the impact of the sector , have experience homelessness twice in my teenage year and have be evict through a section 21 eviction . as a renter as an adult for many year in London , I know the worry that many go through when push for simple repair to be make or for mould to be address , fear that ultimately their reward for assert their legal right will be a section 21 eviction . the private rented sector in this country be unbalanced and insecure , and the right of tenant be far outweigh by the power of the landlord in our legal system . like many in this place , I be aware of countless case of constituent who have experience section 21 eviction and poor treatment right across the sector — treatment that the Bill will go a significant way to remedy . that be why I hope member will support the Government in oppose the Lords amendment , which seek to weaken , neuter and undermine key provision of the Bill . specifically , I want to mention Lords amendment 26 , 27 , 11 and 18 ; I be pleased that the Minister have outline that the Government will oppose they . lord amendment 26 and 27 would require local authority to meet a criminal standard of proof to impose financial penalty for discrimination and rental bidding . that seem completely inappropriate for the offence , with a relatively small maximum penalty of £ 7 , 000 . that be also completely out of kilter with other provision that local authority would enforce to a similar civil standard . it would be incredibly hard to meet that burden of proof for many of those offence . how would a tenant prove beyond reasonable doubt that , for instance , they have be discriminate against for be on benefit ? anyone in that situation would know quite clearly that that be incredibly difficult — if not impossible — to do . clearly , the amendment would neuter the provision of the Bill . local authority have incredibly limit resource , particularly for enforcement action , and such a high bar would be likely to deter they from pursue those offence far . lord amendment 11 , which would allow a landlord to require a pet deposit of up to three week ' rent as a condition of consent to a tenant keep a pet in their property , be again disproportionate . first , it would hit the poorest hard . I be pleased that the Opposition spokesperson , the right hon . member for Braintree ( Sir James Cleverly ) , have pet and have no problem with such a provision , but many people not on a parliamentary salary would struggle to pay three week ' extra deposit on top of the five week ' deposit already in place . the Minister mention an average cost of £ 900 . in a constituency like mine in London , the cost would be even more than £ 900 ; for a rent three or four - bed family home , it would probably be several thousand pound . that be a completely disproportionate charge for simply have a cat or dog at home . secondly , there be no evidence that such a pet deposit be require to protect a property . recent research by the University of Hull find that three quarter of pet - own tenancy result in absolutely no claim against the exist deposit level , so I would argue that the five - week deposit be more than adequate to support pet - own household . in fact , Battersea Dogs & Cats Home find that own a pet increase the length of time someone stay in a tenancy and reduced tenant turnover , benefit the landlord financially , not harm they . I be also significantly oppose to Lords amendment 18 , which would reduce the period for which landlord could not re - let their property from 12 month to six month after they have evict a tenant on the basis that they intend to sell their property . my concern be that this six - month reduction be not sufficient time to meaningfully disincentivise landlord from game the system and would reintroduce section 21 through the back door . take the London market , for instance , where average rent have increase by 32 % over the last five year — the successful sector that Opposition Members have highlight . six month be not long enough to dissuade a landlord from benefit from that sort of rental increase over short period of time . the inconvenience that a 12 - month time period would cause to a well - mean landlord who be struggle to sell be relatively minor compare with the potential harm cause to the many tenant who would be affect by such a loophole . in conclusion , house be home , not just investment . this Bill be write to rebalance the relationship between the landlord and the tenant in the tenant ' s favour , fix a decade - long power imbalance that have deprioritise the right of tenant to a safe , stable and affordable home . all the amendment have in common a share motive to shift the balance back towards landlord to weaken this landmark legislation . that would save some good landlord a small inconvenience , but it would be at the expense of the right and protection afford to each and every tenant . that be not reasonable or justifiable , and that be why I will vote against the amendment . I hope that other will do the same and give renter the right and security they deserve . renter have wait long enough : this Bill be overdue , and it be time to deliver . the Conservatives have their chance . they promise reform , then water it down . the Renters ( Reform ) Bill gather dust while tenant be leave to suffer , so Liberal Democrats absolutely welcome this Government ' s Renters ' Rights Bill . but let we be clear : this Bill must hold firm in protect the right of tenant . my inbox be overflow with experience that should shame we all : family sleep on the floor , window that whistle in the wind , home riddle with damp and mould , and tenant harass by landlord to intimidate they out of their home . this be not just about comfort and health ; it be about dignity , justice and fairness . energy efficiency must be front and centre . too many renter be live in home that make they sick and be pay through the nose to heat they . fuel poverty be a national scandal , and the Bill have a role to play in end that . while the spotlight be on private renter , we must not forget those in social housing or in home own by institution . they deserve the same right , protection and standard . I want to talk to Lords amendment 39 and Ministry of Defence housing . it be outrageous that the family of those who serve and who risk their life for we be deny the legal protection that other will enjoy . these family be often uproot , isolate and leave behind while love one serve abroad or at sea . yet they be tell that they do not qualify for the same decent housing standard as everyone else . I have meet family and service personnel around the country and even around the world through the armed force parliamentary scheme , and one of the issue most frequently cite by those thinking of leave the armed force be their housing . too many of their home be below par . the Government say that most MOD home already meet the standard — fine , then what be the harm in give these family the legal right to decent housing ? if the home be good , the law will confirm it . if they be not , that be why we need the law . let we be honest : many tenant , whether in military housing , church estate or country manor , be afraid to speak out . they be afraid to challenge their landlord and lose their home . right must be for everyone , accessible without fear or favour . the Government claim that council can not access the home for security reason , but I be sure the Minister will know , as do those of we who have military home in our area , that most family home be not behind the wire . for those that be , there be solution . we must find a solution and ensure that these family have the same right . no one should be deny decent housing because of who they work for . I want to address the attempt to water down the Bill . we in this House all know that some landlord use the excuse of sell up to evict tenant only to re - let at a high price . do the hon . Member agree that Lords amendment 18 , which would shorten that re - let period from 12 month to six month , would severely undermine one of the main aim of the Bill — to end no - fault eviction — by make it disappointingly easy for landlord to evict on just that basis ? I thank the hon . member for raise that point and save I the trouble of do so . absolutely , landlord give excuse that be perhaps not all they seem to be . I have hear from tenant who be terrify of be evict under section 21 , with landlord rush to act before the law change and evict with absolutely no excuse . I have hear from renter who feel like they be in a David and Goliath battle . lord amendment 11 be an attempt to treat pet more harshly . the proposer of the amendment have it wrong . as the hon . member for Uxbridge and South Ruislip ( Danny Beales ) say , tenant with pet be good news for landlord : research show that their landlord be well off by £ 3 , 800 over 12 year thank to low vacancy rate and marketing cost for their property . I would be a landlord who happily take pet . amendment 26 require a criminal standard of proof for a civil matter . in my mind , that be not justice but obstruction . last week , I meet the housing ombudsman service . it tell I that one in five call that it deal with be from people it can not help : private renter , people in new build and people in conversion . the system be break and the scale be tip too far from our tenant . the Bill must fix that . we need one ombudsman , one law , one standard , one rule : wherever someone live , if their home be own by someone else and it be not up to scratch , they should be able to challenge it , get it fix and live in a decent home . housing be not just brick and mortar ; it be the foundation of everything else — health , education , family and work . every renter deserve a home that be safe , warm , and fair . I declare an interest as the chair of the all - party parliamentary group on cat . as an animal owner myself — I have two cat — I rise to give voice to the many concern express to I by pet owner across the country . their concern relate specifically to Lords amendment 11 , which would allow landlord to request a pet deposit equivalent to three week ' rent . the amendment be narrowly agree to on Report in the House of Lords in July , in response to the Government ' s decision to remove the right for landlord to require tenant to take out pet damage insurance . Cats Protection have argue that the Government ' s decision to remove the provision allow landlord to request pet - relate damage insurance be the right one , as the insurance sector be not ready to meet demand competitively . the Minister in the Lords outline many argument against the pet deposit amendment , include that an extra three week ' deposit be unaffordable for many tenant . she also refer to a report commission by Battersea Cats & Dogs Home and the University of Huddersfield , which find that 76 % of landlord report that they do not encounter any damage cause by dog or cat in their rental property . she note that the Government be " content that landlord would be suitably protect against the cost of pet damage through exist tenancy deposit " , and I wholly agree . Cats Protection be also strongly of the view that charge an additional pet deposit be neither necessary nor proportionate . measure already exist for landlord to seek additional compensation from the tenant in the very rare circumstance in which damage cause by a pet may exceed the value of the exist security deposit . the amendment could see tenant force to find up to £ 1 , 500 extra for a one - bedroom flat in high - rent area . that would mean that those without additional ready fund be price out of have a pet . another problem with the addition of a pet deposit be the potential lack of transparency in landlord decision on what constitute pet damage and what constitute the type of damage that would otherwise be fund by the standard security deposit . some landlord may just see the extra fund as an option to withhold more money for standard wear and tear . damage can be avoid with the use of throw and rug , for example . I know that Cats Protection and Dogs Trust adopter be always give information on how to provide enrichment activity to keep pet happy . perhaps the right hon . member for Braintree ( Sir James Cleverly ) would like to take advantage of those to ensure that his terrier do not tear up his carpet . I be concerned that the amendment will reintroduce the very inequity that the pet provision be design to remove , put the price of pet ownership out of reach for many tenant and entrench geographical inequality . we all know how beneficial pet ownership be not just for the welfare of the animal , but for our wellbeing . " cat and their stat " , a 2024 Cats Protection report , find that over half a million household who would like a cat do not have one simply because their rental agreement forbid it . I strongly believe that the additional pet deposit should be withdraw from the Bill ; the standard security deposit be more than adequate to cover any damage cause by a pet . I will oppose Lords amendment 11 , and I encourage colleague from across the House to do likewise . I rise to speak to Lords amendment 11 and on the wide issue of pet ownership , which many other member have speak about . pet ownership in rent accommodation be an issue on which I have campaign for many year in this House . some member will remember the Dogs and Domestic Animals ( Accommodation and Protection ) Bill , otherwise know as Jasmine ' s law , that I introduce to the House in 2020 . it support the principle of a pet in every home . the british people care deeply for the welfare of animal , especially in my Romford constituency . we all understand how important animal be to the life of human being . as the owner of two Staffordshire bull terrier , Buster and Spike , who be sadly no long with we , I know just how important the companionship of pet be to so many people , especially those who live on their own . own a dog or cat , or any kind of household pet , improve both physical and mental health , provide vital companionship and help to tackle loneliness . in fact , pet ownership be estimate to save our NHS around £ 2 . 5 billion a year by reduce the number of GP and hospital visit . despite those clear benefit , housing issue remain the second most common reason for animal to be relinquish to animal shelter and sanctuary such as Battersea Dogs and Cats Home , which I be privileged to visit only a few week ago . I have have many link to that charitable organisation over the year , particularly during my time as shadow Minister for animal welfare some year ago . with grow number of people rent , it be absolutely essential that the Bill work in support of responsible pet ownership in rent home , rather than put further barrier in the way . that be why I must express my opposition to amendment 11 , and any clause that make it hard for tenant to keep pet . the introduction of large up - front deposit will only serve to price many people out from own pet , especially in the ongoing cost of living crisis . it be absolutely wrong that someone should be prevent from own an animal that they love and want to be with because of this situation . the law need change , as I have argue for many year , include with Ministers in the previous Government , whom I have to go and see before they eventually agree that this policy be the right one . I hope that my shadow Front - Bench colleague will reconsider their stance . I commend the hon . member for Uxbridge and South Ruislip ( Danny Beales ) , for Mid Dorset and North Poole ( Vikki Slade ) and for Paisley and Renfrewshire South ( Johanna Baxter ) for all their comment on this issue . what should have be a Bill to unlock pet ownership for those in million of home now risk exclude they altogether , entrench the idea that pet ownership be a privilege for homeowner only — that can not be right . I do not believe that be what the Government intend . early proposal on pet insurance — I know issue to do with that have be raise today , but they can be overcome — provide a fair balance between the concern of landlord and the ability of tenant to meet the cost . insurance spread the expense more evenly across the year , and avoid the burden of large , one - off deposit . it be disappointing that that approach appear to have be set aside by the Lords amendment . finally , I urge his Majesty ' s Government to work closely with animal welfare charity , and the animal welfare sector in general , when develop the guidance that will accompany the Bill . I speak as an honorary member of the Kennel Club — perhaps I should have declare that at the start — and a supporter of the Dogs Trust , Battersea Dogs and Cats home , and of course Cats Protection ; it be important always to remember our cat . we need a clear definition of what constitute unreasonable ground for a landlord to refuse a tenant ' s request for a pet . that clarity will help landlord and tenant alike , and avoid unnecessary dispute end up before the ombudsman or court . Jasmine ' s law have always be about the simple belief that people should not have to choose between a home and a beloved companion . we must not let the Bill , through the Lords amendment , and particularly Lords amendment 11 , undermine that vital principle . I wish to speak against Lords amendment 58 to 62 , which expand eviction ground , and Lords amendment 27 . I also wish briefly to revisit the core principle of the Bill , which be : end no - fault eviction , and provide stability , not just for individual but for the private rented sector ; introduce a private renter ' database and an ombudsman , to restore right to private renter , as well as transparency , so that they understand their tenancy in more detail ; and to establish Awaab ' s law in the sector . those be vital intervention in the private rent sector , which we know be diverse , and it be important that the Bill become law as soon as possible . all of we , on both side of the Chamber , will recognise the impact that uncertainty on the issue have have on the private rent sector for a number of year . I have to say that it be pretty unedifying to listen to the opposition renege on their previous commitment to end no - fault eviction . the first commitment from the Conservatives to end no - fault eviction be in 2019 — I think that be about four conservative Prime Ministers ago , but I have give up counting . I understand that the shadow Housing Secretary might not remember the position that the previous Prime Minister take on the issue , but this provision can not come into law soon enough . the number of private rent sector no - fault eviction notice that my constituent receive , and the instability that they cause in the sector , be cause real harm and distress to those who live in it . lord amendment 58 to 62 would expand possession ground 5c , and those completely unnecessary expansion provide yet more uncertainty in the sector . they open up the risk of further additional claim , and of introduce other ground for eviction , which undermine the overall principle of the Bill . I support my colleague who have speak against Lords amendment 27 , which would raise the evidence bar . it be completely unrealistic to think that it would be possible to do that , not only because bidding war and contest often take place through verbal dialogue , but because of the lack of resource available to local authority to investigate such case . I do not believe that the amendment be practical , or be table in particularly good faith . we want renter ’ right restore , and a balance between renter and landlord . I can not stress enough the urgent need to bring forward the Bill , to give confidence to renter , all those who rely on people live in private rent accommodation , and those live and work across the UK who need the sector to be successful . I urge member to vote against the Lords amendment , and to support the Government in get the Bill into statute . I welcome the Government ' s move to empower tenant . for too long in this country , own property have be see as a way to create additional wealth , rather than the intention be to provide a safe , secure and warm home for tenant . not all landlord be bad , but there be some bad apple out there , and all those who be unable to get on to the housing ladder , or who actively choose to rent , deserve security of tenure , and confidence that they will not be evict at the whim of a landlord , which often mean be force to move out of the area , and uproot child from school . I declare an interest , because my young daughter have spend four year rent in London , and for the last two , she have be live in horrific , mould - cover flat . she have to move out of the last one early , because the mould crawl up the wall be so bad that it be affect the health , and ruin the belonging , of she and her flatmate . in 2025 , that be simply not acceptable . for the thousand of people live in unsuitable accommodation , we must ensure that local authority can take action against negligent landlord . for that reason , the liberal Democrats do not support Lords amendment 26 . I support Lords amendment 39 , which would extend the decent home standard to accommodation provide by the Ministry of Defence for use as service family accommodation . in my constituency of South Devon , the prestigious Britainnia royal naval college bring a large number of military family to the town of Dartmouth , some of whom live in MOD housing . those family , who commit to a life of service — the whole family be involve when one member serve our country — deserve , at the very least , a home that be safe , comfortable , warm , energy efficient and decent . I be not sure that I agree with the security argument offer by the Minister , give that much MOD housing be locate outside military basis . it be not beyond possibility to find a way to ensure that local authority can access that housing . liberal Democrats have long campaign for decent home for military family , who deserve exactly the same standard and legal protection as other renter , and I urge the House to support Lords amendment 39 . turn to pet , a friend of mine recently fail to move back to Devon because she simply could not find rent accommodation in her price bracket , and her search be severely hamper by the fact that she have a much - love family dog . be tell that she be not eligible even to look at property because of the dog be discriminatory , and it make a difficult search impossible . we be in an area that be short of house available to rent . if we take the average rent in the south - west of £ 1 , 181 per month , the proposal to allow landlord to request pet damage deposit of up to three week ' rent equate to an additional £ 817 up front , which be simply out of reach for most tenant . the current rental deposit cap of five week ' rent be sufficient to cover any potential pet - relate damage , and nobody should be price out of pet ownership simply because they do not own their own home . I therefore do not support Lords amendment 11 . finally , I turn to agricultural worker . agriculture be one of the large industry and employer in South Devon , which be a predominantly rural constituency . many of those work on farm as dairy worker , relief milker and tractor driver be require to live on site , as they have to work incredibly unsocial hour , and live on site make the job slightly more manageable . I support measure in the Bill that allow repossession when a property be require to house agricultural worker , whether they be employ or self - employ . farmer regularly tell I how difficult it be to find housing for farm worker , with many have to rely on caravans and cabin that be not suitable for long - term living . as it be increasingly common in farming for worker to be self - employ , we must ensure that they , too , be cover by the ground for repossession , so I support Lords amendment 55 . I be glad that I manage to sneak in this speech , and I hope I will finish it . there have be many speech make by member on both side of the Chamber , many of which have focus on the many thing that the Bill will hopefully achieve . I confirm that my hon . friend the Member for Paisley and Renfrewshire South ( Johanna Baxter ) do have two very cute cat . I now turn to a more serious issue : domestic abuse and domestic violence . one of the most challenging case that I have pick up as a Member of Parliament since last July be that of my constituent Caitlin , whose situation I have raise on the Floor of the House previously . Caitlin ' s partner be arrest for coercive control less than a week after she sign a tenancy agreement with he . Caitlin have never live in the property that they rent together , but have have to pay thousand of pound of rent on that property , because her mother be the guarantor and he refuse to pay rent on it . the simple fact be that Caitlin do not have the right she need to be able to get out of that situation , which have have huge financial and personal impact on she , her mother and her family . I be remind of what my hon . friend the Member for Birmingham Yardley ( Jess Phillips ) say when she come to a fundraiser in Lichfield a few year ago : government often talk about the need to defend the nation and their first responsibility be to keep people safe — with more gun , more tank and more police officer ; all thing that we need to maintain our freedom — but too often skate over the fact that for huge proportion of the population we can not even guarantee their safety at home . in support Caitlin , I have work with the Domestic Abuse Housing Alliance , an organisation of more than 150 housing association and local authority work to ensure that every survivor can choose a home where they be safe and free from abuse . I have speak to those at the alliance about the Bill and some of the amendment that we be consider . I will read their reflection into the record , as they have important implication for the issue I be raise . part of what those at the Domestic Abuse Housing Alliance want to see , and that they urge the Minister to do , do not require a legislative response . we should , however , press local authority to ensure that , if they be to be give investigative and enforcement power , their staff be train to recognise domestic abuse and coercive control as a separate issue , rather than treat that solely as a tenancy or antisocial behaviour issue . the Domestic Abuse Housing Alliance ask we to ensure that " the amendment make by the House of Lords , that threaten to weaken the Bill , be remove . these change would water down right in England ' s least secure tenure and put survivor at great risk . halve re - let protection , increase deposit for pet , and create new repossession ground all undermine stability and safety for survivor . the Bill must return to the Commons in its strong form to deliver real security . survivor must not be collateral damage in a parliamentary compromise — the Bill be a once - in - a - generation opportunity to put housing , security and safety at the heart of renter ’ right . " when I hear that from an organisation such as the Domestic Abuse Housing Alliance , I find it difficult not to be proud to walk through the Lobby and support my Government in get rid of the watering - down amendment from the other place . we have an opportunity to make real change for survivor , and I be proud to be part of it . with the leave of the House , I will close what have be a brief but good - natured and consider debate . I thank all right hon . and hon . member who have speak . in open the debate , I set out in some detail the reason the Government be resist the bulk of the amendment make in the other place , but in the time remain , I will far substantiate some of the Government ' s argument and respond to a number of the issue that have be raise in the debate . several hon . member question the Government ' s logic in resist Lords amendment 75 relate to ground 4A . they argue that it be too narrow . as I make clear , ground 4A exist precisely because we recognise the unique nature of the rental market . we think that the ground as it exist cover the majority of the market , but the truth be that no one - size - fit - all solution cover all circumstance . we have be clear : we do not want to deny to non - typical student the benefit of the new tenancy system under the Bill . remove the restriction could lead to student who need more security of tenure , such as single parent live with child or postgraduate couple live together who have put down root in an area be evict more regularly . the possession ground as originally draft strike the right balance and we will resist the amendment on that basis . several hon . member raise the issue of pet insurance and question why the Government have change their position . debate in the other place be extensive . furthermore , alongside that , draw on the expertise of peer such as the Earl of Kinnoull , Lord de Clifford and Lord Trees , the Government consult the Association of British Insurers and the British Insurance Brokers ' Association . follow such engagement , we conclude that we be no long confident — as we once be , and as the previous Government be — that the insurance and underwriting sector will have sufficient or suitable product available at the scale and speed require for either landlord or tenant to purchase . we do not want to leave tenant in a position where they can not comply with condition set out as part of the pet consent grant by their landlord , as that would mean — as several hon . member have make clear — that they simply would not be able to have a pet , which would defeat the object of have the pet provision in the Bill . the Government ' s position , I be pleased to say , be support by Battersea Dogs and Cats Home and other organisation . I hope that hon . member note that . a report produce by the University of Huddersfield , which be commission by Battersea Dogs and Cats Home , find that 76 % of landlord report that they do not encounter any damage cause by dog or cat in their rental property . when damage be cause by pet , that be an average additional cost of £ 300 per property , compare with £ 775 for non - pet - relate damage . the report also show that renter with pet tend to stay long in their property than those without pet , indicate financial and social advantage for landlord in foster long and more stable tenancy . in the rare case where the insurance and deposit do not cover the cost of the damage cause by a pet , a landlord could take the tenant to a small claim court by bring a money claim to recoup any outstanding fund . on that basis , and have reflect , we be satisfied that the exist requirement for five week ' deposit for typical tenancy be sufficient to cover the risk of increase damage by pet ownership . as I note in my opening speech , however , the Government will continue to keep that under review . we already have power available to allow for high deposit for pet if need . the very topical and pertinent issue of share owner affect by the building safety crisis be raise by a number of member . the Government be absolutely clear : we recognise their plight . as I make clear , we have already take a number of measure to well support share owner in that position . we recognise more can be do outside this Bill . we be more than happy to continue conversation with peer , hon . member and organisation such as the Shared Owners ' Network about what more we can do in this space on issue such as valuation , sub - let request and repurchase . we remain of the view , however , that the amendment in question could undermine protection for that cohort of tenant who happen to rent a sub - let home from a share owner . carefully consider argument make by the peer and their validity , we will have further conversation . I will carry on those conversation to ensure that we be satisfied whether a solution that do not undermine the core principle of the Bill would allow we to provide that great support to share owner . carer and the carer ground be raise by a number of hon . member . we have all recognise the contribution that carer make , but we believe that not only be there not sufficient evidence that the scenario in question be extensive — that it be common — but that there be real risk of the ground be abuse . the shadow Secretary of State , the right hon . member for Braintree ( Sir James Cleverly ) , mention the example of family across the country who own property and who may wish to move a family member back in as a carer . I gently point out to the right hon . Gentleman that , if the carer be a family member as set out in ground 1 , a landlord can already use that ground to gain possession , enable they to accommodate a carer . we think that Lords amendment 64 be draw too widely and be open to abuse . we will resist it on that basis . finally , I come to the last couple of issue that be raise . several hon . member make a powerful case for not accept Lords amendment 26 and 27 , relate to the criminal standard of proof . we be absolutely clear that the civil — not criminal — standard of proof be the appropriate one . the standard of proof be low for the breach in question — breach of the rental discrimination and rental bidding clause in the Bill — precisely because they be purely civil , rather than criminal matter . raise that standard of proof to align with other criminal offence would logically result in repeat instance of those breach on rental discrimination and rental bidding , attract the high fine of £ 40 , 000 , rather than £ 7 , 000 . I do not understand the logic of the Opposition ' s position , but we very much think that those breach should remain subject to the civil standard of proof , with the penalty of £ 7 , 000 and without the impact on local authority across the country . I will briefly address the argument make by Liberal Democrat Members about service family accommodation . we have have extensive debate about the subject and I know that they be come from an honourable place when they make those argument , but I gently point out that the Ministry of Defence have make it clear that in its view , subject secure defence site to local authority inspection , as propose in the amendment table by Baroness Grender , be unworkable because of access and security arrangement . as several hon . member have say , let we find a solution to that . the MOD do not think there be a workable solution and be worried about fracture how standard be apply across the defence estate , as this legislation apply only to England . as I have say , in the come month , the Government will bring forward a defence housing strategy , set out clear renewal standard and further step to improve accommodation . I have offer a very clear concession from the Dispatch Box that we will provide for annual reporting to give the transparency and accountability that those standard will be meet . I be grateful to the Minister for give way and for his engagement in the issue of service family accommodation . will he consider bring forward primary legislation , on the face of this Bill or another Bill , so that service family be give the same legislative protection that private and social tenant be give ? I be more than happy to continue the conversation with the hon . Gentleman and with Liberal Democrat peer in the other place , but our argument today be that we can not accept the amendment table by Baroness Grender . we think that the concession that I have offer today from the Dispatch Box should be sufficient to satisfy the concern that have be raise . I will briefly address the incredibly important issue of implementation , which be raise by my hon . friend the Member for Tipton and Wednesbury ( Antonia Bance ) . this Bill must receive Royal Assent as soon as possible . the time that it have take for the legislation to make its progress through the House be not cost - free . family across the country have be subject to no - fault section 21 eviction , which we know be a lead cause of homelessness , and renter across the country need the Bill on the statute book . follow Royal Assent , we will allow for a smooth transition to the new system , and we will support tenant , landlord and agent to understand and adjust to the new rule . we want to make that change as smoothly and efficiently as possible , and to introduce the new tenancy for the private rent sector in one stage . on that date , the new tenancy system will apply to all private tenancy : exist tenancy will convert to the new system and any new tenancy sign on or after the date will be govern by the new rule . we will work closely with all part of the sector to ensure a smooth transition and we will provide sufficient notice ahead of implementation . to conclude , this Labour Government be go to succeed where their conservative predecessor fail . we will level decisively the play field between landlord and tenant , and transform the experience of private renting in England . while we have show ourselves more than willing to make sensible change to the Bill in response to concern raise , we be not prepared to accept amendment that undermine its core principle . I look forward to continue the constructive conversation that I have have with peer over recent week , with a view to secure agreement across both Houses in the near future , and I commend the Government ' s position to the House . question put , that this House disagree with Lords amendment 11 . diane Abbott Jack Abbott Debbie Abrahams Shockat Adam Zubir Ahmed Luke Akehurst Bayo Alaba Dan Aldridge Heidi Alexander Sadik Al - Hassan Rushanara Ali Rosena Allin - Khan Gideon Amos Callum Anderson Fleur Anderson Steffan Aquarone Scott Arthur Jessica Asato James Asser Jas Athwal Catherine Atkinson Lewis Atkinson Josh Babarinde Calvin Bailey David Baines Alex Baker Richard Baker Alex Ballinger Antonia Bance Paula Barker Alex Barros - Curtis Johanna Baxter Danny Beales Lorraine Beavers Apsana Begum Torsten Bell Hilary Benn Alison Bennett Si â n Berry Clive Betts Polly Billington Olivia Blake Rachel Blake Christopher Bloore Elsie Blundell Kevin Bonavia Jade Botterill Sureena Brackenridge Jonathan Brash Alex Brewer Phil Brickell Julia Buckley Richard Burgon Maureen Burke Dawn Butler Ruth Cadbury Nesil Caliskan Alan Campbell Gregory Campbell Irene Campbell Juliet Campbell Markus Campbell - Savours Charlotte Cane Dan Carden Sam Carling Alistair Carmichael Alistair carn David Chadwick Danny Chambers Bambos Charalambous Luke Charters Ellie chown Ben Coleman Jacob Collier Lizzi Collinge Tom Collins Victoria Collins Liam Conlon Sarah Coombes Beccy Cooper Daisy Cooper Yvette Cooper Jeremy Corbyn Deirdre Costigan Pam Cox Neil Coyle Jennifer Craft Mary Creagh Stella Creasy Torcuil Crichton Nicholas Dakin Ashley Dalton Adam Dance Steve Darling Emily Darlington Jonathan Davies Paul Davies Shaun Davies Alex Davies - Jones Bobby Dean Josh Dean Carla Denyer Tan Dhesi Jim Dickson Anna Dixon Samantha Dixon Anneliese Dodds Stephen Doughty Graeme Downie Neil Duncan - Jordan Sarah Dyke Maria Eagle Colum Eastwood Lauren Edwards Sarah Edwards Clive Efford Damien Egan Maya Ellis Chris Elmore Florence Eshalomi Bill Esterson Chris Evans Miatta Fahnbulleh Linsey Farnsworth Tim Farron Josh Fenton - Glynn Mark Ferguson Patricia Ferguson Natalie Fleet Emma Foody Richard Foord will Forster Vicky Foxcroft Mary Foy Daniel Francis Z ö e Franklin James Frith Allison Gardner Anna Gelderd Alan Gemmell Andrew George Gill german Sarah Gibson Preet Kaur Gill Becky Gittins Mary Glindon Olly Glover Marie Goldman Ben Goldsborough Tom Gordon Georgia Gould John Grady Sarah Green Nia Griffith Andrew Gwynne Amanda Hack Louise Haigh Sarah Hall Fabian Hamilton Paulette Hamilton Emma Hardy Carolyn Harris Lloyd Hatton Helen Hayes Tom Hayes Claire Hazelgrove John Healey Pippa Heylings Meg Hillier Chris Hinchliff Jonathan Hinder Wera Hobhouse Rachel Hopkins Claire Hughes rupa Huq Patrick Hurley Imran Hussain Leigh Ingham Natasha Irons Sally Jameson Christine Jardine Liz Jarvis Terry Jermy Adam Jogee Diana R . Johnson Kim Johnson Clive Jones Gerald Jones Lillian Jones Ruth Jones Sarah Jones Gurinder Josan Sojan Joseph Warinder Juss Chris Kane Mike Kane Satvir Kaur Afzal Khan Ayoub Khan Naushabah Khan Stephen Kinnock Jayne Kirkham Sonia Kumar Uma Kumaran Laura Kyrke - Smith Peter Lamb David Lammy Ian Lavery Kim Leadbeater Andrew Lewin Simon Lightwood Rebecca Long - Bailey Josh MacAlister James MacCleary Angus MacDonald Andy MacNae Ben Maguire Helen Maguire Seema Malhotra Mike Martin Rachael Maskell Keir Mather Brian Mathew Alex Mayer Charlie Maynard Douglas McAllister Kerry McCarthy Andy McDonald Chris McDonald Blair McDougall Lola McEvoy Pat McFadden Alex McIntyre Gordon McKee Kevin McKenna Catherine McKinnell Jim McMahon Anna McMorrin Frank McNally Calum Miller John Milne Julie Minns Abtisam Mohamed Perran Moon Layla Moran Jessica Morden Helen Morgan Stephen Morgan Grahame Morris Joe Morris Tom Morrison Margaret Mullane Luke Murphy Chris Murray James Murray Katrina Murray Susan Murray Luke Myer James Naish Connor Naismith Kanishka Narayan Pamela Nash Josh Newbury Charlotte Nichols Alex Norris Dan Norris Chi Onwurah Simon Opher Abena Oppong - Asare Kate Osamor Kate Osborne Tristan Osborne Taiwo Owatemi Darren Paffey Matthew Patrick Michael Payne Jonathan Pearce Matthew Pennycook Toby Perkins Manuela Perteghella Jess Phillips Bridget Phillipson Al Pinkerton David Pinto - Duschinsky Lee Pitcher Jo Platt Luke Pollard Lucy Powell Gregor Poynton Peter Prinsley Richard Quigley Yasmin Qureshi Steve Race Connor Rand Andrew Ranger Steve Reed Joani Reid Emma Reynolds Jonathan Reynolds Joshua Reynolds Martin Rhodes Bell Ribeiro - Addy Jake Richards Jenny Riddell - Carpenter Lucy Rigby Marie Rimmer Dave Robertson Gavin Robinson Tim Roca Matt Rodda Ian Roome Tom Rutland Oliver Ryan Anna Sabine Sarah Sackman Jeevun Sandher Louise Jones Roz Savage Michelle Scrogham Mark Sewards Naseem Shah Baggy Shanker Michael Shanks Jim Shannon Tulip Siddiq Josh Simons Vikki Slade Andrew Slaughter John Slinger Lisa Smart David Smith Jeff Smith Nick Smith Sarah Smith Karin Smyth Gareth Snell Alex Sobel Ian Sollom Euan Stainbank Kenneth Stevenson Jamie Stone will Stone Alistair Strathern Alan Strickland Graham Stringer Kirsteen Sullivan Lauren Sullivan Zarah Sultana Peter Swallow Robin Swann Mark Tami Alison Taylor Luke Taylor Rachel Taylor Cameron Thomas Fred Thomas Gareth Thomas Adam Thompson Emily Thornberry Marie Tidball Stephen Timms Jessica Toale Dan Tomlinson Jon Trickett Henry Tufnell Anna Turley Matt Turmaine Laurence Turner Derek Twigg Liz Twist Harpreet Uppal Valerie Vaz Christopher Vince Caroline Voaden Imogen Walker Melanie Ward Paul Waugh Chris Webb Michelle Welsh Andrew Western Matt Western Michael Wheeler John Whitby Katie White Nadia Whittome Max Wilkinson David Williams Munira Wilson Sammy Wilson Steve Witherden Sean Woodcock Rosie wrighte Martin Wrigley Yuan Yang Mohammad Yasin Steve Yemm Claire Young Daniel Zeichner Gen Kitchen Christian Wakeford Jim Allister Lee Anderson Stuart Anderson Stuart Andrew Edward Argar Victoria Atkins Gareth Bacon Harriett Baldwin Steve Barclay Peter Bedford Saqib Bhatti Bob Blackman Sarah Bool Andrew Bowie Karen Bradley Aphra Brandreth Suella Braverman Alex Burghart James Cartlidge James Cleverly Geoffrey Clifton - Brown Lewis cock John Cooper Alberto Costa Claire Coutinho Harriet Cross Gareth Davies Mims davy Charlie Dewhirst Oliver Dowden Iain Duncan Smith Luke Evans Ashley Fox Richard Fuller Roger Gale Mark Garnier John Glen Andrew Griffith Alison Griffiths Rebecca Harris John Hayes Damian Hinds Simon Hoare Richard Holden Kevin Hollinrake Jeremy Hunt Bernard Jenkin Robert Jenrick Dr Caroline Johnson Alicia Kearns Danny Kruger John Lamont Julian Lewis Julia Lopez Alan Mak Kit Malthouse James McMurdock Andrew Mitchell Gagan Mohindra Robbie Moore Joy Morrissey Kieran Mullan Andrew Murrison Jesse Norman Ben Obese - Jecty Neil o ' Brien Priti Patel Rebecca Paul Chris Philp Sarah Pochin Mark Pritchard Shivani Raja Jack Rankin Joe Robertson Neil Shastri - Hurst Alec Shelbrooke David Simmonds Julian Smith Rebecca Smith Andrew Snowden Ben Spencer Patrick Spencer Gregory Stafford Blake Stephenson Graham Stuart Desmond Swayne Bradley Thomas Richard Tice Matt Vickers Helen Whately Gavin Williamson Mike Wood Jeremy Wright Jerome Mayhew Paul Holmes the House divide : Ayes 398 , Noes 93 . question accordingly agree to . lord amendment 11 disagree to . Lords amendment 14 disagree to . government amendment ( a ) make in lieu of Lords amendment 14 . clause 15 - other duty Motion make , and question put , that this House disagree with Lords amendment 18 . — ( Matthew Pennycook . ) diane Abbott Jack Abbott Debbie Abrahams Shockat Adam Zubir Ahmed Luke Akehurst Bayo Alaba Dan Aldridge Heidi Alexander Sadik Al - Hassan Rushanara Ali Rosena Allin - Khan Gideon Amos Callum Anderson Fleur Anderson Steffan Aquarone Scott Arthur Jessica Asato James Asser Jas Athwal Catherine Atkinson Lewis Atkinson Josh Babarinde Calvin Bailey David Baines Alex Baker Richard Baker Alex Ballinger Antonia Bance Paula Barker Alex Barros - Curtis Johanna Baxter Danny Beales Lorraine Beavers Apsana Begum Torsten Bell Hilary Benn Alison Bennett Si â n Berry Clive Betts Polly Billington Olivia Blake Rachel Blake Christopher Bloore Elsie Blundell Kevin Bonavia Jade Botterill Sureena Brackenridge Jonathan Brash Alex Brewer Phil Brickell Jessica Brown - Fuller Julia Buckley Richard Burgon Maureen Burke Dawn Butler Ruth Cadbury Nesil Caliskan Alan Campbell Gregory Campbell Irene Campbell Juliet Campbell Markus Campbell - Savours Charlotte Cane Dan Carden Sam Carling Alistair Carmichael Alistair carn David Chadwick Danny Chambers Bambos Charalambous Luke Charters Ellie Chowns Chris Coghlan Ben Coleman Jacob Collier Lizzi Collinge Tom Collins Victoria Collins Liam Conlon Sarah Coombes Beccy Cooper Daisy Cooper Yvette Cooper Jeremy Corbyn Deirdre Costigan Pam Cox Neil Coyle Jennifer Craft Mary Creagh Stella Creasy Torcuil Crichton Nicholas Dakin Ashley Dalton Adam Dance Steve Darling Emily Darlington Jonathan Davies Paul Davies Shaun Davies Alex Davies - Jones Bobby Dean Josh Dean Carla Denyer Tan Dhesi Jim Dickson Anna Dixon Samantha Dixon Anneliese Dodds Stephen Doughty Graeme Downie Neil Duncan - Jordan Sarah Dyke Maria Eagle Colum Eastwood Lauren Edwards Sarah Edwards Clive Efford Damien Egan Maya Ellis Chris Elmore Florence Eshalomi Bill Esterson Chris Evans Miatta Fahnbulleh Linsey Farnsworth Josh Fenton - Glynn Mark Ferguson Patricia Ferguson Natalie Fleet Emma Foody Richard Foord will Forster Vicky Foxcroft Mary Foy Daniel Francis Z ö e Franklin James Frith Allison Gardner Anna Gelderd Alan Gemmell Andrew George Gill german Sarah Gibson Preet Kaur Gill Rachel Gilmour Becky Gittins Mary Glindon Olly Glover Marie Goldman Ben Goldsborough Tom Gordon Georgia Gould John Grady Sarah Green Nia Griffith Andrew Gwynne Amanda Hack Louise Haigh Sarah Hall Fabian Hamilton Paulette Hamilton Emma Hardy Carolyn Harris Lloyd Hatton Helen Hayes Tom Hayes Claire Hazelgrove John Healey Pippa Heylings Meg Hillier Chris Hinchliff Jonathan Hinder Wera Hobhouse Rachel Hopkins Claire Hughes rupa Huq Patrick Hurley Imran Hussain Leigh Ingham Natasha Irons Sally Jameson Christine Jardine Liz Jarvis Terry Jermy Adam Jogee Diana R . Johnson Kim Johnson Clive Jones Gerald Jones Lillian Jones Ruth Jones Sarah Jones Gurinder Josan Sojan Joseph Warinder Juss Chris Kane Mike Kane Satvir Kaur Afzal Khan Ayoub Khan Naushabah Khan Stephen Kinnock Jayne Kirkham Sonia Kumar Uma Kumaran Laura Kyrke - Smith Peter Lamb David Lammy Ian Lavery Kim Leadbeater Andrew Lewin Clive Lewis Simon Lightwood Rebecca Long - Bailey Josh MacAlister James MacCleary Angus MacDonald Andy MacNae Ben Maguire Helen Maguire Seema Malhotra Mike Martin Rachael Maskell Keir Mather Brian Mathew Alex Mayer Charlie Maynard Douglas McAllister Kerry McCarthy Andy McDonald Chris McDonald Blair McDougall Lola McEvoy Pat McFadden Alex McIntyre Gordon McKee Kevin McKenna Catherine McKinnell Jim McMahon Anna McMorrin Frank McNally Kirsty McNeill Calum Miller John Milne Julie Minns Abtisam Mohamed Perran Moon Layla Moran Jessica Morden Helen Morgan Stephen Morgan Grahame Morris Joe Morris Tom Morrison Margaret Mullane Luke Murphy Chris Murray James Murray Katrina Murray Susan Murray Luke Myer James Naish Connor Naismith Kanishka Narayan Pamela Nash Josh Newbury Charlotte Nichols Alex Norris Dan Norris Chi Onwurah Simon Opher Abena Oppong - Asare Kate Osamor Kate Osborne Tristan Osborne Taiwo Owatemi Darren Paffey Matthew Patrick Michael Payne Jonathan Pearce Matthew Pennycook Toby Perkins Manuela Perteghella Jess Phillips Bridget Phillipson Al Pinkerton David Pinto - Duschinsky Lee Pitcher Jo Platt Luke Pollard Lucy Powell Gregor Poynton Peter Prinsley Richard Quigley Yasmin Qureshi Steve Race Connor Rand Andrew Ranger Steve Reed Joani Reid Emma Reynolds Jonathan Reynolds Joshua Reynolds Martin Rhodes Bell Ribeiro - Addy Jake Richards Jenny Riddell - Carpenter Lucy Rigby Marie Rimmer Dave Robertson Gavin Robinson Tim Roca Matt Rodda Ian Roome Tom Rutland Oliver Ryan Anna Sabine Sarah Sackman Jeevun Sandher Louise Jones Roz Savage Michelle Scrogham Mark Sewards Naseem Shah Baggy Shanker Michael Shanks Jim Shannon Tulip Siddiq Josh Simons Vikki Slade Andrew Slaughter John Slinger Lisa Smart David Smith Jeff Smith Nick Smith Sarah Smith Karin Smyth Gareth Snell Alex Sobel Ian Sollom Euan Stainbank Kenneth Stevenson Jamie Stone will Stone Alistair Strathern Alan Strickland Graham Stringer Kirsteen Sullivan Lauren Sullivan Zarah Sultana Peter Swallow Robin Swann Mark Tami Alison Taylor Luke Taylor Rachel Taylor Cameron Thomas Fred Thomas Gareth Thomas Adam Thompson Emily Thornberry Marie Tidball Stephen Timms Jessica Toale Dan Tomlinson Jon Trickett Henry Tufnell Anna Turley Matt Turmaine Laurence Turner Derek Twigg Liz Twist Harpreet Uppal Valerie Vaz Christopher Vince Caroline Voaden Imogen Walker Melanie Ward Paul Waugh Chris Webb Michelle Welsh Andrew Western Matt Western Michael Wheeler John Whitby Katie White Nadia Whittome Max Wilkinson David Williams Munira Wilson Sammy Wilson Steve Witherden Sean Woodcock Rosie wrighte Martin Wrigley Yuan Yang Mohammad Yasin Steve Yemm Claire Young Daniel Zeichner Christian Wakeford Gen Kitchen Jim Allister Lee Anderson Stuart Anderson Stuart Andrew Edward Argar Victoria Atkins Gareth Bacon Harriett Baldwin Steve Barclay Peter Bedford Saqib Bhatti Bob Blackman Sarah Bool Andrew Bowie Karen Bradley Aphra Brandreth Suella Braverman Alex Burghart James Cartlidge James Cleverly Geoffrey Clifton - Brown Lewis cock John Cooper Alberto Costa Claire Coutinho Geoffrey Cox Harriet Cross Gareth Davies Mims davy Charlie Dewhirst Oliver Dowden Iain Duncan Smith Luke Evans Ashley Fox Mark Francois Richard Fuller Roger Gale Mark Garnier John Glen Andrew Griffith Alison Griffiths Rebecca Harris John Hayes Damian Hinds Simon Hoare Richard Holden Kevin Hollinrake Jeremy Hunt Bernard Jenkin Robert Jenrick Dr Caroline Johnson Lincoln Jopp Alicia Kearns Danny Kruger John Lamont Julian Lewis Julia Lopez Alan Mak Kit Malthouse James McMurdock Andrew Mitchell Gagan Mohindra Robbie Moore Joy Morrissey Kieran Mullan Andrew Murrison Jesse Norman Ben Obese - Jecty Neil o ' Brien Priti Patel Rebecca Paul Chris Philp Sarah Pochin Mark Pritchard Shivani Raja Jack Rankin Joe Robertson Andrew Rosindell Neil Shastri - Hurst Alec Shelbrooke David Simmonds Julian Smith Rebecca Smith Andrew Snowden Ben Spencer Patrick Spencer Gregory Stafford Blake Stephenson Graham Stuart Desmond Swayne Bradley Thomas Richard Tice Matt Vickers Helen Whately Gavin Williamson Mike Wood Jeremy Wright Paul Holmes Jerome Mayhew the House divide : Ayes 402 , Noes 97 . question accordingly agree to . Lords amendment 18 disagree to . motion make , and question put , that this House disagree with Lords amendment 19 . — ( Matthew Pennycook . ) diane Abbott Jack Abbott Debbie Abrahams Shockat Adam Zubir Ahmed Luke Akehurst Bayo Alaba Dan Aldridge Heidi Alexander Sadik Al - Hassan Rushanara Ali Rosena Allin - Khan Jim Allister Callum Anderson Fleur Anderson Scott Arthur Jessica Asato James Asser Jas Athwal Catherine Atkinson Lewis Atkinson Calvin Bailey David Baines Alex Baker Richard Baker Alex Ballinger Antonia Bance Paula Barker Alex Barros - Curtis Johanna Baxter Danny Beales Lorraine Beavers Apsana Begum Hilary Benn Si â n Berry Clive Betts Polly Billington Olivia Blake Rachel Blake Christopher Bloore Elsie Blundell Kevin Bonavia Jade Botterill Sureena Brackenridge Jonathan Brash Phil Brickell Julia Buckley Richard Burgon Maureen Burke Dawn Butler Ruth Cadbury Nesil Caliskan Alan Campbell Gregory Campbell Irene Campbell Juliet Campbell Markus Campbell - Savours Dan Carden Sam Carling Alistair carn Bambos Charalambous Luke Charters Ellie chown Ben Coleman Jacob Collier Lizzi Collinge Tom Collins Liam Conlon Sarah Coombes Beccy Cooper Yvette Cooper Jeremy Corbyn Deirdre Costigan Pam Cox Neil Coyle Jennifer Craft Mary Creagh Stella Creasy Torcuil Crichton Nicholas Dakin Ashley Dalton Emily Darlington Jonathan Davies Paul Davies Shaun Davies Alex Davies - Jones Josh Dean Carla Denyer Tan Dhesi Jim Dickson Anna Dixon Samantha Dixon Anneliese Dodds Stephen Doughty Graeme Downie Neil Duncan - Jordan Maria Eagle Colum Eastwood Lauren Edwards Sarah Edwards Clive Efford Damien Egan Maya Ellis Chris Elmore Florence Eshalomi Bill Esterson Chris Evans Miatta Fahnbulleh Linsey Farnsworth Josh Fenton - Glynn Mark Ferguson Patricia Ferguson Natalie Fleet Emma Foody Vicky Foxcroft Mary Foy Daniel Francis James Frith Allison Gardner Anna Gelderd Alan Gemmell Gill german Preet Kaur Gill Becky Gittins Mary Glindon Ben Goldsborough Georgia Gould John Grady Nia Griffith Andrew Gwynne Amanda Hack Louise Haigh Sarah Hall Fabian Hamilton Paulette Hamilton Emma Hardy Carolyn Harris Helen Hayes Tom Hayes Claire Hazelgrove Meg Hillier Chris Hinchliff Jonathan Hinder Rachel Hopkins Claire Hughes rupa Huq Patrick Hurley Imran Hussain Leigh Ingham Natasha Irons Sally Jameson Terry Jermy Adam Jogee Diana R . Johnson Kim Johnson Gerald Jones Lillian Jones Ruth Jones Sarah Jones Gurinder Josan Sojan Joseph Warinder Juss Chris Kane Mike Kane Satvir Kaur Afzal Khan Ayoub Khan Naushabah Khan Stephen Kinnock Jayne Kirkham Sonia Kumar Uma Kumaran Laura Kyrke - Smith Peter Lamb David Lammy Ian Lavery Kim Leadbeater Andrew Lewin Clive Lewis Simon Lightwood Rebecca Long - Bailey Josh MacAlister Andy MacNae Seema Malhotra Rachael Maskell Keir Mather Alex Mayer Douglas McAllister Kerry McCarthy Andy McDonald Chris McDonald Blair McDougall Lola McEvoy Pat McFadden Alex McIntyre Gordon McKee Kevin McKenna Catherine McKinnell Jim McMahon Anna McMorrin Frank McNally Kirsty McNeill Julie Minns Abtisam Mohamed Perran Moon Jessica Morden Stephen Morgan Grahame Morris Joe Morris Margaret Mullane Luke Murphy Chris Murray James Murray Katrina Murray Luke Myer James Naish Connor Naismith Kanishka Narayan Pamela Nash Josh Newbury Charlotte Nichols Alex Norris Dan Norris Chi Onwurah Abena Oppong - Asare Kate Osamor Kate Osborne Tristan Osborne Taiwo Owatemi Darren Paffey Matthew Patrick Michael Payne Jonathan Pearce Matthew Pennycook Toby Perkins Jess Phillips Bridget Phillipson David Pinto - Duschinsky Lee Pitcher Jo Platt Luke Pollard Lucy Powell Gregor Poynton Peter Prinsley Richard Quigley Yasmin Qureshi Steve Race Connor Rand Andrew Ranger Steve Reed Joani Reid Emma Reynolds Jonathan Reynolds Martin Rhodes Bell Ribeiro - Addy Jake Richards Jenny Riddell - Carpenter Lucy Rigby Marie Rimmer Dave Robertson Gavin Robinson Tim Roca Matt Rodda Tom Rutland Oliver Ryan Sarah Sackman Jeevun Sandher Louise Jones Michelle Scrogham Mark Sewards Naseem Shah Baggy Shanker Michael Shanks Jim Shannon Tulip Siddiq Josh Simons Andrew Slaughter John Slinger David Smith Jeff Smith Nick Smith Sarah Smith Karin Smyth Gareth Snell Alex Sobel Euan Stainbank Kenneth Stevenson will Stone Alistair Strathern Alan Strickland Graham Stringer Kirsteen Sullivan Lauren Sullivan Zarah Sultana Peter Swallow Robin Swann Mark Tami Alison Taylor Rachel Taylor Fred Thomas Gareth Thomas Adam Thompson Emily Thornberry Marie Tidball Stephen Timms Jessica Toale Dan Tomlinson Jon Trickett Henry Tufnell Anna Turley Matt Turmaine Laurence Turner Derek Twigg Liz Twist Harpreet Uppal Valerie Vaz Christopher Vince Imogen Walker Melanie Ward Paul Waugh Chris Webb Michelle Welsh Andrew Western Matt Western Michael Wheeler John Whitby Katie White Nadia Whittome David Williams Sammy Wilson Steve Witherden Sean Woodcock Rosie Wrighting Yuan Yang Mohammad Yasin Steve Yemm Daniel Zeichner Christian Wakeford Gen Kitchen Gideon Amos Lee Anderson Stuart Anderson Stuart Andrew Steffan Aquarone Edward Argar Victoria Atkins Josh Babarinde Gareth Bacon Harriett Baldwin Steve Barclay Peter Bedford Alison Bennett Saqib Bhatti Bob Blackman Sarah Bool Andrew Bowie Karen Bradley Aphra Brandreth Suella Braverman Alex Brewer Jessica Brown - Fuller Alex Burghart Charlotte Cane Alistair Carmichael James Cartlidge David Chadwick Danny Chambers James Cleverly Geoffrey Clifton - Brown Lewis Cocking Chris Coghlan Victoria Collins Daisy Cooper John Cooper Alberto Costa Claire Coutinho Geoffrey Cox Harriet Cross Adam Dance Steve Darling Gareth davy Mims davy Bobby Dean Charlie Dewhirst Oliver Dowden Iain Duncan Smith Sarah Dyke Luke Evans Richard Foord will Forster Ashley Fox Mark Francois Z ö e Franklin Richard Fuller Roger Gale Mark Garnier Andrew George Sarah Gibson Rachel Gilmour John Glen Olly Glover Marie Goldman Tom Gordon Sarah Green Alison Griffiths Andrew Griffith Rebecca Harris John Hayes Pippa Heylings Damian Hinds Simon Hoare Wera Hobhouse Richard Holden Kevin Hollinrake Jeremy Hunt Christine Jardine Liz Jarvis Bernard Jenkin Robert Jenrick Dr Caroline Johnson Clive Jones Lincoln Jopp Alicia Kearns Danny Kruger John Lamont Julian Lewis Julia Lopez James MacCleary Angus MacDonald Ben Maguire Helen Maguire Alan Mak Kit Malthouse Mike Martin Brian Mathew Charlie Maynard James McMurdock Calum Miller John Milne Andrew Mitchell Gagan Mohindra Robbie Moore Layla Moran Helen Morgan Tom Morrison Joy Morrissey Kieran Mullan Susan Murray Andrew Murrison Jesse Norman Ben Obese - Jecty Neil o ' Brien Priti Patel Rebecca Paul Manuela Perteghella Chris Philp Al Pinkerton Sarah Pochin Mark Pritchard Shivani Raja Jack Rankin Joshua Reynolds Joe Robertson Ian Roome Andrew Rosindell Anna Sabine Roz Savage Neil Shastri - Hurst Alec Shelbrooke David Simmonds Vikki Slade Lisa Smart Julian Smith Rebecca Smith Andrew Snowden Ian Sollom Ben Spencer Patrick Spencer Gregory Stafford Blake Stephenson Jamie Stone Graham Stuart Desmond Swayne Luke Taylor Bradley Thomas Cameron Thomas Richard Tice Matt Vickers Caroline Voaden Helen Whately Max Wilkinson Gavin Williamson Munira Wilson Mike Wood Jeremy Wright Martin Wrigley Claire Young Jerome Mayhew Paul Holmes the House divide : Ayes 336 , Noes 158 . question accordingly agree to . Lords amendment 19 disagree to . clause 42 - Interpretation of Chapter 3 Motion make , and question put , that this House disagree with Lords amendment 26 . — ( Matthew Pennycook . ) diane Abbott Jack Abbott Debbie Abrahams Shockat Adam Zubir Ahmed Luke Akehurst Bayo Alaba Dan Aldridge Heidi Alexander Sadik Al - Hassan Rushanara Ali Rosena Allin - Khan Jim Allister Gideon Amos Callum Anderson Fleur Anderson Steffan Aquarone Scott Arthur Jessica Asato James Asser Jas Athwal Catherine Atkinson Lewis Atkinson Josh Babarinde Calvin Bailey David Baines Alex Baker Richard Baker Alex Ballinger Antonia Bance Paula Barker Alex Barros - Curtis Johanna Baxter Danny Beales Lorraine Beavers Apsana Begum Torsten Bell Hilary Benn Alison Bennett Si â n Berry Clive Betts Polly Billington Olivia Blake Rachel Blake Christopher Bloore Elsie Blundell Kevin Bonavia Jade Botterill Sureena Brackenridge Jonathan Brash Alex Brewer Phil Brickell Jessica Brown - Fuller Julia Buckley Richard Burgon Maureen Burke Dawn Butler Ruth Cadbury Nesil Caliskan Alan Campbell Gregory Campbell Irene Campbell Juliet Campbell Markus Campbell - Savours Charlotte Cane Dan Carden Sam Carling Alistair Carmichael Alistair carn David Chadwick Danny Chambers Bambos Charalambous Luke Charters Ellie Chowns Chris Coghlan Ben Coleman Jacob Collier Lizzi Collinge Tom Collins Victoria Collins Liam Conlon Sarah Coombes Beccy Cooper Daisy Cooper Yvette Cooper Jeremy Corbyn Deirdre Costigan Pam Cox Neil Coyle Jennifer Craft Mary Creagh Stella Creasy Torcuil Crichton Nicholas Dakin Ashley Dalton Adam Dance Steve Darling Emily Darlington Jonathan Davies Paul Davies Shaun Davies Alex Davies - Jones Bobby Dean Josh Dean Carla Denyer Tan Dhesi Jim Dickson Anna Dixon Samantha Dixon Anneliese Dodds Stephen Doughty Graeme Downie Neil Duncan - Jordan Sarah Dyke Maria Eagle Colum Eastwood Lauren Edwards Sarah Edwards Clive Efford Damien Egan Maya Ellis Chris Elmore Florence Eshalomi Bill Esterson Chris Evans Miatta Fahnbulleh Linsey Farnsworth Josh Fenton - Glynn Mark Ferguson Patricia Ferguson Natalie Fleet Emma Foody Richard Foord will Forster Vicky Foxcroft Mary Foy Daniel Francis Z ö e Franklin James Frith Allison Gardner Anna Gelderd Alan Gemmell Andrew George Gill german Sarah Gibson Preet Kaur Gill Rachel Gilmour Becky Gittins Mary Glindon Olly Glover Marie Goldman Ben Goldsborough Tom Gordon Georgia Gould John Grady Sarah Green Nia Griffith Andrew Gwynne Amanda Hack Louise Haigh Sarah Hall Fabian Hamilton Paulette Hamilton Emma Hardy Carolyn Harris Lloyd Hatton Helen Hayes Tom Hayes Claire Hazelgrove John Healey Pippa Heylings Meg Hillier Chris Hinchliff Jonathan Hinder Wera Hobhouse Rachel Hopkins Claire Hughes rupa Huq Patrick Hurley Imran Hussain Leigh Ingham Natasha Irons Sally Jameson Christine Jardine Liz Jarvis Terry Jermy Adam Jogee Diana R . Johnson Kim Johnson Clive Jones Gerald Jones Lillian Jones Ruth Jones Sarah Jones Gurinder Josan Sojan Joseph Warinder Juss Chris Kane Mike Kane Satvir Kaur Afzal Khan Ayoub Khan Naushabah Khan Stephen Kinnock Jayne Kirkham Sonia Kumar Uma Kumaran Laura Kyrke - Smith Peter Lamb David Lammy Ian Lavery Kim Leadbeater Andrew Lewin Clive Lewis Simon Lightwood Rebecca Long - Bailey Josh MacAlister James MacCleary Angus MacDonald Andy MacNae Ben Maguire Helen Maguire Seema Malhotra Mike Martin Rachael Maskell Keir Mather Brian Mathew Alex Mayer Charlie Maynard Douglas McAllister Kerry McCarthy Andy McDonald Chris McDonald Blair McDougall Lola McEvoy Pat McFadden Alex McIntyre Gordon McKee Kevin McKenna Catherine McKinnell Jim McMahon Anna McMorrin Frank McNally Kirsty McNeill Calum Miller John Milne Julie Minns Abtisam Mohamed Perran Moon Layla Moran Jessica Morden Helen Morgan Stephen Morgan Grahame Morris Joe Morris Tom Morrison Margaret Mullane Luke Murphy Chris Murray James Murray Katrina Murray Susan Murray Luke Myer James Naish Connor Naismith Kanishka Narayan Pamela Nash Josh Newbury Charlotte Nichols Alex Norris Dan Norris Chi Onwurah Simon Opher Abena Oppong - Asare Kate Osamor Kate Osborne Tristan Osborne Taiwo Owatemi Darren Paffey Matthew Patrick Michael Payne Jonathan Pearce Matthew Pennycook Toby Perkins Manuela Perteghella Jess Phillips Bridget Phillipson Al Pinkerton David Pinto - Duschinsky Lee Pitcher Jo Platt Luke Pollard Lucy Powell Gregor Poynton Yasmin Qureshi Steve Race Connor Rand Andrew Ranger Steve Reed Joani Reid Emma Reynolds Jonathan Reynolds Joshua Reynolds Martin Rhodes Bell Ribeiro - Addy Jake Richards Jenny Riddell - Carpenter Lucy Rigby Marie Rimmer Dave Robertson Gavin Robinson Tim Roca Matt Rodda Ian Roome Tom Rutland Oliver Ryan Anna Sabine Sarah Sackman Jeevun Sandher Louise Jones Roz Savage Michelle Scrogham Mark Sewards Naseem Shah Baggy Shanker Michael Shanks Jim Shannon Tulip Siddiq Josh Simons Vikki Slade Andrew Slaughter John Slinger Lisa Smart David Smith Jeff Smith Nick Smith Sarah Smith Karin Smyth Gareth Snell Alex Sobel Ian Sollom Euan Stainbank Kenneth Stevenson Jamie Stone will Stone Alistair Strathern Alan Strickland Graham Stringer Kirsteen Sullivan Lauren Sullivan Zarah Sultana Peter Swallow Robin Swann Mark Tami Alison Taylor David Taylor Luke Taylor Rachel Taylor Cameron Thomas Fred Thomas Gareth Thomas Adam Thompson Emily Thornberry Marie Tidball Stephen Timms Jessica Toale Dan Tomlinson Jon Trickett Henry Tufnell Anna Turley Matt Turmaine Laurence Turner Derek Twigg Liz Twist Harpreet Uppal Valerie Vaz Christopher Vince Caroline Voaden Imogen Walker Melanie Ward Paul Waugh Chris Webb Michelle Welsh Andrew Western Matt Western Michael Wheeler John Whitby Katie White Nadia Whittome Max Wilkinson David Williams Munira Wilson Sammy Wilson Steve Witherden Sean Woodcock Rosie wrighte Martin Wrigley Yuan Yang Mohammad Yasin Steve Yemm Claire Young Daniel Zeichner Christian Wakeford Gen Kitchen Lee Anderson Stuart Anderson Stuart Andrew Edward Argar Victoria Atkins Gareth Bacon Harriett Baldwin Steve Barclay Peter Bedford Saqib Bhatti Bob Blackman Sarah Bool Andrew Bowie Karen Bradley Aphra Brandreth Suella Braverman Alex Burghart James Cartlidge James Cleverly Geoffrey Clifton - Brown Lewis cock John Cooper Alberto Costa Geoffrey Cox Harriet Cross Gareth Davies Mims davy Charlie Dewhirst Oliver Dowden Iain Duncan Smith Luke Evans Ashley Fox Mark Francois Richard Fuller Roger Gale Mark Garnier John Glen Andrew Griffith Alison Griffiths Rebecca Harris John Hayes Damian Hinds Simon Hoare Richard Holden Kevin Hollinrake Jeremy Hunt Bernard Jenkin Dr Caroline Johnson Lincoln Jopp Alicia Kearns Danny Kruger John Lamont Julian Lewis Julia Lopez Alan Mak Kit Malthouse James McMurdock Andrew Mitchell Gagan Mohindra Robbie Moore Joy Morrissey Kieran Mullan Andrew Murrison Jesse Norman Ben Obese - Jecty Neil o ' Brien Priti Patel Rebecca Paul Chris Philp Sarah Pochin Mark Pritchard Shivani Raja Jack Rankin Joe Robertson Andrew Rosindell Neil Shastri - Hurst Alec Shelbrooke David Simmonds Julian Smith Rebecca Smith Andrew Snowden Ben Spencer Patrick Spencer Gregory Stafford Blake Stephenson Graham Stuart Desmond Swayne Bradley Thomas Richard Tice Matt Vickers Helen Whately Gavin Williamson Mike Wood Jeremy Wright Paul Holmes Jerome Mayhew the House divide : Ayes 404 , Noes 98 . question accordingly agree to . Lords amendment 26 disagree to . Lords amendment 27 disagree to . clause 101 - decent home standard Motion make , and question put , that this House disagree with Lords amendment 39 . — ( Matthew Pennycook . ) diane Abbott Jack Abbott Debbie Abrahams Zubir Ahmed Luke Akehurst Bayo Alaba Dan Aldridge Heidi Alexander Sadik Al - Hassan Rushanara Ali Rosena Allin - Khan Callum Anderson Fleur Anderson Scott Arthur Jessica Asato James Asser Jas Athwal Catherine Atkinson Lewis Atkinson Calvin Bailey David Baines Alex Baker Richard Baker Alex Ballinger Antonia Bance Paula Barker Alex Barros - Curtis Johanna Baxter Danny Beales Lorraine Beavers torsten Bell Hilary Benn Clive Betts Polly Billington Olivia Blake Rachel Blake Christopher Bloore Elsie Blundell Kevin Bonavia Jade Botterill Sureena Brackenridge Jonathan Brash Phil Brickell Julia Buckley Richard Burgon Maureen Burke Dawn Butler Ruth Cadbury Nesil Caliskan Alan Campbell Irene Campbell Juliet Campbell Markus Campbell - Savours Dan Carden Sam Carling Alistair carn Bambos Charalambous Ben Coleman Jacob Collier Lizzi Collinge Tom Collins Liam Conlon Sarah Coombes Beccy Cooper Yvette Cooper Deirdre Costigan Pam Cox Neil Coyle Jennifer Craft Mary Creagh Stella Creasy Torcuil Crichton Nicholas Dakin Ashley Dalton Emily Darlington Jonathan Davies Paul Davies Shaun Davies Alex Davies - Jones Josh Dean Tan Dhesi Jim Dickson Anna Dixon Samantha Dixon Anneliese Dodds Stephen Doughty Graeme Downie Neil Duncan - Jordan Maria Eagle Colum Eastwood Lauren Edwards Sarah Edwards Clive Efford Damien Egan Maya Ellis Chris Elmore Florence Eshalomi Bill Esterson Chris Evans Miatta Fahnbulleh Linsey Farnsworth Josh Fenton - Glynn Mark Ferguson Patricia Ferguson Natalie Fleet Emma Foody Vicky Foxcroft Mary Foy Daniel Francis James Frith Anna Gelderd Alan Gemmell Gill german Preet Kaur Gill Becky Gittins Mary Glindon Ben Goldsborough Georgia Gould John Grady Nia Griffith Andrew Gwynne Amanda Hack Louise Haigh Sarah Hall Fabian Hamilton Paulette Hamilton Emma Hardy Carolyn Harris Lloyd Hatton Helen Hayes Tom Hayes Claire Hazelgrove Meg Hillier Chris Hinchliff Jonathan Hinder Rachel Hopkins Claire Hughes Patrick Hurley Imran Hussain Leigh Ingham Natasha Irons Sally Jameson Terry Jermy Adam Jogee Diana R . Johnson Kim Johnson Gerald Jones Lillian Jones Ruth Jones Sarah Jones Gurinder Josan Sojan Joseph Warinder Juss Chris Kane Mike Kane Satvir Kaur Afzal Khan Naushabah Khan Stephen Kinnock Jayne Kirkham Sonia Kumar Uma Kumaran Laura Kyrke - Smith Peter Lamb David Lammy Ian Lavery Kim Leadbeater Andrew Lewin Clive Lewis Simon Lightwood Rebecca Long - Bailey Josh MacAlister Andy MacNae Seema Malhotra Rachael Maskell Keir Mather Alex Mayer Douglas McAllister Kerry McCarthy Andy McDonald Chris McDonald Blair McDougall Lola McEvoy Pat McFadden Alex McIntyre Gordon McKee Kevin McKenna Catherine McKinnell Jim McMahon Anna McMorrin Frank McNally Kirsty McNeill Julie Minns Abtisam Mohamed Perran Moon Jessica Morden Stephen Morgan Grahame Morris Joe Morris Margaret Mullane Luke Murphy Chris Murray James Murray Katrina Murray Luke Myer James Naish Connor Naismith Kanishka Narayan Pamela Nash Josh Newbury Charlotte Nichols Alex Norris Dan Norris Chi Onwurah Simon Opher Abena Oppong - Asare Kate Osamor Kate Osborne Tristan Osborne Taiwo Owatemi Darren Paffey Matthew Patrick Michael Payne Jonathan Pearce Matthew Pennycook Toby Perkins Jess Phillips Bridget Phillipson David Pinto - Duschinsky Lee Pitcher Jo Platt Luke Pollard Lucy Powell Gregor Poynton Peter Prinsley Richard Quigley Yasmin Qureshi Steve Race Connor Rand Andrew Ranger Steve Reed Joani Reid Emma Reynolds Jonathan Reynolds Martin Rhodes Bell Ribeiro - Addy Jake Richards Jenny Riddell - Carpenter Lucy Rigby Marie Rimmer Dave Robertson Tim Roca Matt Rodda Tom Rutland Oliver Ryan Sarah Sackman Jeevun Sandher Louise Jones Michelle Scrogham Mark Sewards Naseem Shah Baggy Shanker Michael Shanks Tulip Siddiq Josh Simons Andrew Slaughter John Slinger David Smith Nick Smith Sarah Smith Karin Smyth Gareth Snell Alex Sobel Euan Stainbank Kenneth Stevenson will Stone Alistair Strathern Alan Strickland Graham Stringer Kirsteen Sullivan Lauren Sullivan Peter Swallow Mark Tami Alison Taylor David Taylor Rachel Taylor Fred Thomas Gareth Thomas Adam Thompson Emily Thornberry Marie Tidball Stephen Timms Jessica Toale Dan Tomlinson Jon Trickett Henry Tufnell Anna Turley Matt Turmaine Laurence Turner Derek Twigg Liz Twist Harpreet Uppal Valerie Vaz Christopher Vince Imogen Walker Melanie Ward Paul Waugh Chris Webb Michelle Welsh Andrew Western Matt Western Michael Wheeler John Whitby Katie White Nadia Whittome David Williams Steve Witherden Sean Woodcock Rosie Wrighting Yuan Yang Mohammad Yasin Steve Yemm Daniel Zeichner Christian Wakeford Gen Kitchen Shockat Adam Jim Allister Gideon Amos Lee Anderson Stuart Anderson Stuart Andrew Steffan Aquarone Edward Argar Victoria Atkins Josh Babarinde Gareth Bacon Harriett Baldwin Steve Barclay Peter Bedford Alison Bennett Si â n Berry Saqib Bhatti Bob Blackman Sarah Bool Andrew Bowie Karen Bradley Aphra Brandreth Suella Braverman Alex Brewer Jessica Brown - Fuller Alex Burghart Gregory Campbell Charlotte Cane Alistair Carmichael James Cartlidge David Chadwick Danny Chambers Ellie chown James Cleverly Geoffrey Clifton - Brown Lewis Cocking Chris Coghlan Victoria Collins Daisy Cooper John Cooper Alberto Costa Claire Coutinho Geoffrey Cox Harriet Cross Adam Dance Steve Darling Gareth davy Mims davy Bobby Dean Carla Denyer Charlie Dewhirst Oliver Dowden Iain Duncan Smith Sarah Dyke Luke Evans Richard Foord will Forster Ashley Fox Mark Francois Z ö e Franklin Richard Fuller Roger Gale Mark Garnier Andrew George Sarah Gibson Rachel Gilmour John Glen Olly Glover Marie Goldman Tom Gordon Sarah Green Andrew Griffith Alison Griffiths Rebecca Harris John Hayes Pippa Heylings Damian Hinds Simon Hoare Wera Hobhouse Richard Holden Kevin Hollinrake Paul Holmes Jeremy Hunt Christine Jardine Liz Jarvis Bernard Jenkin Robert Jenrick Dr Caroline Johnson Clive Jones Lincoln Jopp Alicia Kearns Ayoub Khan Danny Kruger John Lamont Julian Lewis Julia Lopez James MacCleary Angus MacDonald Ben Maguire Helen Maguire Alan Mak Kit Malthouse Mike Martin Brian Mathew Jerome Mayhew Charlie Maynard James McMurdock Calum Miller John Milne Andrew Mitchell Gagan Mohindra Robbie Moore Layla Moran Helen Morgan Tom Morrison Joy Morrissey Kieran Mullan Susan Murray Andrew Murrison Jesse Norman Ben Obese - Jecty Neil o ' Brien Priti Patel Rebecca Paul Manuela Perteghella Chris Philp Al Pinkerton Sarah Pochin Mark Pritchard Shivani Raja Jack Rankin Joshua Reynolds Joe Robertson Gavin Robinson Ian Roome Andrew Rosindell Anna Sabine Roz Savage Jim Shannon Neil Shastri - Hurst Alec Shelbrooke Vikki Slade Lisa Smart Julian Smith Rebecca Smith Andrew Snowden Ian Sollom Ben Spencer Patrick Spencer Gregory Stafford Blake Stephenson Jamie Stone Graham Stuart Zarah Sultana Robin Swann Desmond Swayne Luke Taylor Bradley Thomas Cameron Thomas Richard Tice Matt Vickers Caroline Voaden Helen Whately Max Wilkinson Gavin Williamson Munira Wilson Sammy Wilson Jeremy Wright Martin Wrigley Claire Young Mike Wood David Simmonds the House divide : Ayes 325 , Noes 171 . question accordingly agree to . lord amendment 39 disagree to . schedule 1 - change to ground for possession Motion make and question put , that this House disagree with Lords amendment 53 . — ( Matthew Pennycook . ) diane Abbott Jack Abbott Debbie Abrahams Shockat Adam Zubir Ahmed Luke Akehurst Bayo Alaba Dan Aldridge Heidi Alexander Sadik Al - Hassan Rushanara Ali Rosena Allin - Khan Gideon Amos Callum Anderson Fleur Anderson Steffan Aquarone Scott Arthur Jessica Asato James Asser Jas Athwal Catherine Atkinson Lewis Atkinson Josh Babarinde Calvin Bailey David Baines Alex Baker Richard Baker Alex Ballinger Antonia Bance Paula Barker Alex Barros - Curtis Johanna Baxter Danny Beales Lorraine Beavers Apsana Begum Torsten Bell Hilary Benn Alison Bennett Si â n Berry Clive Betts Polly Billington Olivia Blake Rachel Blake Christopher Bloore Elsie Blundell Kevin Bonavia Jade Botterill Sureena Brackenridge Jonathan Brash Alex Brewer Phil Brickell Jessica Brown - Fuller Julia Buckley Richard Burgon Maureen Burke Dawn Butler Ruth Cadbury Nesil Caliskan Alan Campbell Gregory Campbell Irene Campbell Juliet Campbell Markus Campbell - Savours Charlotte Cane Dan Carden Sam Carling Alistair carn David Chadwick Danny Chambers Bambos Charalambous Luke Charters Ellie Chowns Chris Coghlan Ben Coleman Jacob Collier Lizzi Collinge Tom Collins Victoria Collins Liam Conlon Sarah Coombes Beccy Cooper Daisy Cooper Yvette Cooper Jeremy Corbyn Deirdre Costigan Pam Cox Neil Coyle Jennifer Craft Mary Creagh Stella Creasy Torcuil Crichton Nicholas Dakin Ashley Dalton Adam Dance Steve Darling Emily Darlington Jonathan Davies Paul Davies Shaun Davies Alex Davies - Jones Bobby Dean Josh Dean Carla Denyer Tan Dhesi Jim Dickson Anna Dixon Samantha Dixon Anneliese Dodds Stephen Doughty Graeme Downie Neil Duncan - Jordan Sarah Dyke Maria Eagle Colum Eastwood Lauren Edwards Sarah Edwards Clive Efford Damien Egan Maya Ellis Chris Elmore Florence Eshalomi Bill Esterson Chris Evans Miatta Fahnbulleh Linsey Farnsworth Josh Fenton - Glynn Mark Ferguson Patricia Ferguson Natalie Fleet Richard Foord will Forster Vicky Foxcroft Mary Foy Daniel Francis Z ö e Franklin James Frith Allison Gardner Anna Gelderd Alan Gemmell Andrew George Gill german Sarah Gibson Preet Kaur Gill Rachel Gilmour Becky Gittins Mary Glindon Olly Glover Marie Goldman Ben Goldsborough Tom Gordon Georgia Gould John Grady Sarah Green Nia Griffith Andrew Gwynne Amanda Hack Louise Haigh Sarah Hall Fabian Hamilton Paulette Hamilton Emma Hardy Carolyn Harris Lloyd Hatton Helen Hayes Tom Hayes Claire Hazelgrove Meg Hillier Chris Hinchliff Jonathan Hinder Wera Hobhouse Rachel Hopkins Claire Hughes rupa Huq Patrick Hurley Imran Hussain Leigh Ingham Natasha Irons Sally Jameson Christine Jardine Liz Jarvis Terry Jermy Adam Jogee Diana R . Johnson Kim Johnson Clive Jones Gerald Jones Lillian Jones Ruth Jones Sarah Jones Gurinder Josan Sojan Joseph Warinder Juss Chris Kane Mike Kane Satvir Kaur Afzal Khan Ayoub Khan Naushabah Khan Stephen Kinnock Jayne Kirkham Sonia Kumar Uma Kumaran Laura Kyrke - Smith Peter Lamb David Lammy Ian Lavery Kim Leadbeater Andrew Lewin Clive Lewis Simon Lightwood Rebecca Long - Bailey Josh MacAlister James MacCleary Angus MacDonald Andy MacNae Ben Maguire Helen Maguire Seema Malhotra Mike Martin Rachael Maskell Keir Mather Brian Mathew Alex Mayer Charlie Maynard Douglas McAllister Kerry McCarthy Andy McDonald Chris McDonald Blair McDougall Lola McEvoy Pat McFadden Alex McIntyre Gordon McKee Kevin McKenna Catherine McKinnell Jim McMahon Anna McMorrin Frank McNally Kirsty McNeill Calum Miller John Milne Julie Minns Abtisam Mohamed Perran Moon Layla Moran Jessica Morden Helen Morgan Stephen Morgan Grahame Morris Joe Morris Tom Morrison Margaret Mullane Luke Murphy Chris Murray James Murray Katrina Murray Susan Murray Luke Myer James Naish Connor Naismith Kanishka Narayan Pamela Nash Josh Newbury Charlotte Nichols Alex Norris Dan Norris Chi Onwurah Simon Opher Abena Oppong - Asare Kate Osamor Kate Osborne Tristan Osborne Darren Paffey Matthew Patrick Michael Payne Jonathan Pearce Matthew Pennycook Manuela Perteghella Jess Phillips Bridget Phillipson Al Pinkerton David Pinto - Duschinsky Lee Pitcher Jo Platt Luke Pollard Lucy Powell Gregor Poynton Peter Prinsley Richard Quigley Yasmin Qureshi Steve Race Connor Rand Andrew Ranger Steve Reed Joani Reid Emma Reynolds Jonathan Reynolds Joshua Reynolds Martin Rhodes Bell Ribeiro - Addy Jake Richards Jenny Riddell - Carpenter Lucy Rigby Marie Rimmer Dave Robertson Gavin Robinson Tim Roca Matt Rodda Ian Roome Tom Rutland Oliver Ryan Anna Sabine Sarah Sackman Jeevun Sandher Louise Jones Roz Savage Michelle Scrogham Mark Sewards Naseem Shah Baggy Shanker Michael Shanks Jim Shannon Tulip Siddiq Josh Simons Vikki Slade Andrew Slaughter John Slinger Lisa Smart David Smith Jeff Smith Nick Smith Sarah Smith Karin Smyth Gareth Snell Alex Sobel Ian Sollom Euan Stainbank Kenneth Stevenson Jamie Stone will Stone Alistair Strathern Alan Strickland Graham Stringer Kirsteen Sullivan Lauren Sullivan Zarah Sultana Peter Swallow Robin Swann Mark Tami Alison Taylor David Taylor Luke Taylor Rachel Taylor Cameron Thomas Fred Thomas Gareth Thomas Adam Thompson Emily Thornberry Marie Tidball Stephen Timms Jessica Toale Dan Tomlinson Jon Trickett Henry Tufnell Anna Turley Matt Turmaine Laurence Turner Derek Twigg Liz Twist Harpreet Uppal Valerie Vaz Christopher Vince Caroline Voaden Christian Wakeford Imogen Walker Melanie Ward Paul Waugh Chris Webb Michelle Welsh Andrew Western Matt Western Michael Wheeler John Whitby Katie White Nadia Whittome Max Wilkinson David Williams Munira Wilson Sammy Wilson Steve Witherden Sean Woodcock Rosie wrighte Martin Wrigley Yuan Yang Mohammad Yasin Steve Yemm Claire Young Daniel Zeichner Taiwo Owatemi Gen Kitchen Jim Allister Lee Anderson Stuart Anderson Stuart Andrew Edward Argar Victoria Atkins Gareth Bacon Harriett Baldwin Steve Barclay Peter Bedford Saqib Bhatti Bob Blackman Sarah Bool Andrew Bowie Karen Bradley Aphra Brandreth Suella Braverman Alex Burghart James Cartlidge James Cleverly Geoffrey Clifton - Brown Lewis cock John Cooper Alberto Costa Claire Coutinho Geoffrey Cox Harriet Cross Gareth Davies Mims davy Charlie Dewhirst Oliver Dowden Iain Duncan Smith Luke Evans Ashley Fox Mark Francois Richard Fuller Roger Gale Mark Garnier John Glen Andrew Griffith Alison Griffiths John Hayes Damian Hinds Simon Hoare Richard Holden Kevin Hollinrake Paul Holmes Jeremy Hunt Bernard Jenkin Robert Jenrick Dr Caroline Johnson Lincoln Jopp Alicia Kearns Danny Kruger John Lamont Julian Lewis Julia Lopez Alan Mak Kit Malthouse Jerome Mayhew James McMurdock Andrew Mitchell Gagan Mohindra Robbie Moore Joy Morrissey Kieran Mullan Andrew Murrison Jesse Norman Ben Obese - Jecty Neil o ' Brien Priti Patel Rebecca Paul Chris Philp Mark Pritchard Shivani Raja Jack Rankin Joe Robertson Andrew Rosindell Neil Shastri - Hurst Alec Shelbrooke Julian Smith Rebecca Smith Andrew Snowden Ben Spencer Patrick Spencer Gregory Stafford Blake Stephenson Graham Stuart Desmond Swayne Bradley Thomas Richard Tice Matt Vickers Helen Whately Gavin Williamson Jeremy Wright Mike Wood David Simmonds the House divide : Ayes 401 , Noes 96 . question accordingly agree to . Lords amendment 53 disagree to . lord amendment 55 to 62 disagree to . government amendment ( a ) make in lieu of Lords amendment 55 to 62 . motion make , and question put , that this House disagree with Lords amendment 64 . — ( Matthew Pennycook . ) diane Abbott Jack Abbott Debbie Abrahams Shockat Adam Zubir Ahmed Luke Akehurst Bayo Alaba Dan Aldridge Heidi Alexander Sadik Al - Hassan Rushanara Ali Rosena Allin - Khan Callum Anderson Fleur Anderson Scott Arthur Jessica Asato James Asser Jas Athwal Catherine Atkinson Lewis Atkinson Calvin Bailey David Baines Alex Baker Richard Baker Alex Ballinger Antonia Bance Paula Barker Alex Barros - Curtis Johanna Baxter Danny Beales Lorraine Beavers Apsana Begum Torsten Bell Hilary Benn Si â n Berry Clive Betts Polly Billington Olivia Blake Rachel Blake Christopher Bloore Elsie Blundell Kevin Bonavia Jade Botterill Sureena Brackenridge Jonathan Brash Phil Brickell Julia Buckley Richard Burgon Maureen Burke Dawn Butler Ruth Cadbury Nesil Caliskan Alan Campbell Gregory Campbell Irene Campbell Juliet Campbell Markus Campbell - Savours Dan Carden Sam Carling Alistair carn Bambos Charalambous Luke Charters Ellie chown Ben Coleman Jacob Collier Lizzi Collinge Tom Collins Liam Conlon Sarah coombe Beccy Cooper Deirdre Costigan Pam Cox Neil Coyle Jennifer Craft Mary Creagh Stella Creasy Torcuil Crichton Nicholas Dakin Ashley Dalton Emily Darlington Jonathan Davies Paul Davies Shaun Davies Alex Davies - Jones Josh Dean Carla Denyer Tan Dhesi Jim Dickson Anna Dixon Samantha Dixon Anneliese Dodds Stephen Doughty Graeme Downie Neil Duncan - Jordan Maria Eagle Colum Eastwood Lauren Edwards Sarah Edwards Clive Efford Damien Egan Maya Ellis Chris Elmore Florence Eshalomi Bill Esterson Chris Evans Miatta Fahnbulleh Linsey Farnsworth Josh Fenton - Glynn Mark Ferguson Patricia Ferguson Natalie Fleet Emma Foody Vicky Foxcroft Mary Foy Daniel Francis James Frith Allison Gardner Anna Gelderd Alan Gemmell Gill german Preet Kaur Gill Becky Gittins Mary Glindon Ben Goldsborough Georgia Gould John Grady Nia Griffith Andrew Gwynne Amanda Hack Louise Haigh Sarah Hall Fabian Hamilton Paulette Hamilton Emma Hardy Carolyn Harris Lloyd Hatton Helen Hayes Tom Hayes Claire Hazelgrove Meg Hillier Chris Hinchliff Jonathan Hinder Rachel Hopkins Claire Hughes rupa Huq Patrick Hurley Imran Hussain Leigh Ingham Natasha Irons Sally Jameson Terry Jermy Adam Jogee Diana R . Johnson Kim Johnson Gerald Jones Lillian Jones Ruth Jones Sarah Jones Gurinder Josan Sojan Joseph Warinder Juss Chris Kane Mike Kane Satvir Kaur Afzal Khan Ayoub Khan Naushabah Khan Stephen Kinnock Jayne Kirkham Sonia Kumar Uma Kumaran Laura Kyrke - Smith Peter Lamb Ian Lavery Kim Leadbeater Andrew Lewin Clive Lewis Simon Lightwood Rebecca Long - Bailey Josh MacAlister Andy MacNae Seema Malhotra Rachael Maskell Keir Mather Alex Mayer Douglas McAllister Kerry McCarthy Andy McDonald Chris McDonald Blair McDougall Lola McEvoy Alex McIntyre Gordon McKee Kevin McKenna Catherine McKinnell Jim McMahon Anna McMorrin Frank McNally Kirsty McNeill Julie Minns Abtisam Mohamed Perran Moon Jessica Morden Stephen Morgan Grahame Morris Joe Morris Margaret Mullane Luke Murphy Chris Murray James Murray Katrina Murray Luke Myer James Naish Connor Naismith Kanishka Narayan Pamela Nash Josh Newbury Charlotte Nichols Alex Norris Dan Norris Chi Onwurah Simon Opher Abena Oppong - Asare Kate Osamor Kate Osborne Tristan Osborne Taiwo Owatemi Darren Paffey Matthew Patrick Michael Payne Jonathan Pearce Matthew Pennycook Toby Perkins Jess Phillips Bridget Phillipson David Pinto - Duschinsky Lee Pitcher Jo Platt Luke Pollard Lucy Powell Gregor Poynton Peter Prinsley Richard Quigley Yasmin Qureshi Steve Race Connor Rand Andrew Ranger Steve Reed Joani Reid Emma Reynolds Jonathan Reynolds Martin Rhodes Bell Ribeiro - Addy Jake Richards Jenny Riddell - Carpenter Lucy Rigby Marie Rimmer Dave Robertson Gavin Robinson Tim Roca Matt Rodda Tom Rutland Oliver Ryan Sarah Sackman Jeevun Sandher Louise Jones Michelle Scrogham Mark Sewards Naseem Shah Baggy Shanker Michael Shanks Jim Shannon Tulip Siddiq Josh Simons Andrew Slaughter John Slinger David Smith Jeff Smith Nick Smith Sarah Smith Karin Smyth Gareth Snell Alex Sobel Euan Stainbank Kenneth Stevenson will Stone Alistair Strathern Alan Strickland Kirsteen Sullivan Lauren Sullivan Zarah Sultana Peter Swallow Robin Swann Mark Tami Alison Taylor David Taylor Rachel Taylor Fred Thomas Gareth Thomas Adam Thompson Emily Thornberry Marie Tidball Stephen Timms Jessica Toale Dan Tomlinson Jon Trickett Henry Tufnell Anna Turley Matt Turmaine Laurence Turner Derek Twigg Liz Twist Harpreet Uppal Valerie Vaz Christopher Vince Imogen Walker Melanie Ward Paul Waugh Chris Webb Michelle Welsh Andrew Western Matt Western Michael Wheeler John Whitby Katie White Nadia Whittome David Williams Sammy Wilson Steve Witherden Sean Woodcock Rosie Wrighting Yuan Yang Mohammad Yasin Steve Yemm Daniel Zeichner Christian Wakeford Gen Kitchen Jim Allister Gideon Amos Lee Anderson Stuart Anderson Stuart Andrew Steffan Aquarone Edward Argar Victoria Atkins Josh Babarinde Gareth Bacon Harriett Baldwin Steve Barclay Peter Bedford Alison Bennett Saqib Bhatti Bob Blackman Sarah Bool Andrew Bowie Karen Bradley Aphra Brandreth Suella Braverman Alex Brewer Jessica Brown - Fuller Alex Burghart Charlotte Cane Alistair Carmichael James Cartlidge David Chadwick Danny Chambers James Cleverly Geoffrey Clifton - Brown Lewis Cocking Chris Coghlan Victoria Collins Daisy Cooper John Cooper Alberto Costa Claire Coutinho Geoffrey Cox Harriet Cross Adam Dance Steve Darling Gareth davy Mims davy Bobby Dean Charlie Dewhirst Oliver Dowden Iain Duncan Smith Sarah Dyke Luke Evans Tim Farron Richard Foord will Forster Ashley Fox Mark Francois Z ö e Franklin Richard Fuller Roger Gale Mark Garnier Andrew George Sarah Gibson Rachel Gilmour John Glen Olly Glover Marie Goldman Tom Gordon Sarah Green Andrew Griffith Alison Griffiths Rebecca Harris John Hayes Pippa Heylings Damian Hinds Simon Hoare Wera Hobhouse Richard Holden Kevin Hollinrake Paul Holmes Jeremy Hunt Christine Jardine Liz Jarvis Bernard Jenkin Robert Jenrick Dr Caroline Johnson Clive Jones Lincoln Jopp Alicia Kearns Danny Kruger John Lamont Julian Lewis Julia Lopez James MacCleary Angus MacDonald Ben Maguire Helen Maguire Alan Mak Kit Malthouse Mike Martin Brian Mathew Jerome Mayhew Charlie Maynard James McMurdock Calum Miller John Milne Andrew Mitchell Gagan Mohindra Robbie Moore Layla Moran Helen Morgan Tom Morrison Joy Morrissey Kieran Mullan Susan Murray Andrew Murrison Jesse Norman Ben Obese - Jecty Neil o ' Brien Priti Patel Rebecca Paul Manuela Perteghella Chris Philp Al Pinkerton Sarah Pochin Mark Pritchard Shivani Raja Jack Rankin Joshua Reynolds Joe Robertson Ian Roome Andrew Rosindell Anna Sabine Roz Savage Neil Shastri - Hurst Alec Shelbrooke Vikki Slade Lisa Smart Julian Smith Rebecca Smith Andrew Snowden Ian Sollom Ben Spencer Patrick Spencer Gregory Stafford Blake Stephenson Jamie Stone Graham Stuart Desmond Swayne Luke Taylor Bradley Thomas Cameron Thomas Richard Tice Matt Vickers Caroline Voaden Helen Whately Max Wilkinson Gavin Williamson Munira Wilson Jeremy Wright Martin Wrigley Claire Young Mike Wood David Simmonds the House divide : Ayes 335 , Noes 160 . question accordingly agree to . Lords amendment 64 disagree to . lord amendment 67 disagree to . government amendment ( a ) make in lieu of Lords amendment 67 . lord amendment 1 to 10 , 12 , 13 , 15 to 17 , 20 to 25 , 28 to 38 , 40 to 52 , 54 , 63 , 65 , 66 and 68 to 77 agree to , with Commons financial privilege waive in respect of Lords amendment 68 . order , that a Committee be appoint to draw up reason to be assign to the Lords for disagree with their amendment 11 , 18 , 19 , 26 , 27 , 39 , 53 and 64 ; that Matthew Pennycook , Gen Kitchen , Harpreet Uppal , Michael Wheeler , Rachel Blake , Sir James Cleverly and Gideon Amos be member of the Committee ; that Matthew Pennycook be the Chair of the Committee ; that three be the quorum of the Committee . that the Committee do withdraw immediately . — ( Deirdre Costigan . ) committee to withdraw immediately ; reason to be report and communicate to the Lords . I rise to present a petition on disabled bus pass and their use during peak hour . at the moment , across England , there be a 9 . 30 be barrier , as before that time people be not guarantee to be able to use their disabled bus pass . this vary wildly across England , depend on whether different local authority subsidise and enhance that concession . I believe , as do the petitioner and other , that people live with their disability 24 / 7 and that those disability do not know the bound of such arbitrary time limit . I thank Jackie Snape of Disability Action Yorkshire , the Royal National Institute of Blind People , Waterside Changemakers and all the other campaign group who have help with the campaign and the petition . we know that disabled people already face unfair and additional barrier when participate in society . these structural and societal inequality include high living cost and limited transport option . the petitioner therefore request that the House of Commons urge the Government to allow disabled people to use their bus pass at all time of day , include during peak hour , to promote fairness , independence and equal access to public transport . follow be the full text of the petition : [ the Petition of resident of North Yorkshire , declare that restrict the use of disabled person ' bus pass during peak hour be unfair and place additional barrier on disabled people , who already face significant structural and societal inequality , include high living cost and limited transport option . the petitioner therefore request that the House of Commons urge the Government to allow disabled people to use their bus pass at all time of day , include during peak hour , to promote fairness , independence , and equal access to public transport . ] [ p003099 ] Remote Coastal Communities Motion make , and question propose , that this House do now adjourn . — ( Deirdre Costigan . ) Meur ra , Madam Deputy Speaker . I be pleased to have secure this debate on Government support for remote coastal community . my constituency of Camborne , Redruth and Hayle be one such area , and there be grow evidence that such constituency face distinct and underestimated challenge . I welcome the Under - Secretary of State for Housing , Communities and Local Government , my hon . friend the Member for Peckham ( Miatta Fahnbulleh ) , to her new position . accord to the Office for National Statistics , around 8 . 7 million people — 15 % of the population — live in coastal settlement in England and Wales in 2021 . these community deserve strong representation in Parliament because , just as the human body often shut down extremity at time of extreme shock , our remote coastal community tend to feel the chill of economic neglect first , experience public service withdrawal , under - investment and erode socioeconomic opportunity . to illustrate , a report by Onward find that coastal neighbourhood be 42 % more likely to be in the low decile for income deprivation than inland area , and half as likely to be in the good . do my hon . friend agree that the Government ' s fair funding review be right to take into account the sparsity and rurality of coastal area and visitor number into the new calculation ? for example , a hotel in Cornwall in the winter can cost £ 53 , but in the summer it can cost £ 100 , and county council spend twice as much on home - to - school transport as London borough , prove how much more it cost to provide those service in rural area . I agree entirely with my hon . friend , although I think the Government should go far in relation to visitor number , because the current proposal look only at day tripper . I will come on to that issue a little later in my speech . we know that place matter . a recent report from the Resolution Foundation find that one third of pay difference between labour market stem from the place themselves , not the people who live there . that should be a wake - up call for all of we . there be several interrelated pressure drive this deprivation that be not adequately currently reflect in Government assessment of need . I commend the hon . gentleman for bring forward the debate . as I say when I speak to he early , there have be many debate on coastal erosion and remote coastal community . in my constituency of Strangford , as in the hon . Gentleman ' s constituency , the problem of coastal erosion be finance from Westminster some year ago , but that have now fall by the wayside . the issue be not just about coastal erosion , but about social erosion — the closure of the pub , the post office and the shop , and reduce public transport , if it even exist . ever mindful that the drive to change that must come from Westminster , do the hon . Gentleman agree that there must be more money put into community budget to address great social isolation ? I agree . that be why , on the back of this debate , I be call on the Government to develop a specific remote coastal strategy . first , there be the pressure of geographical remoteness itself . physical isolation and sparse population drive up the cost and complexity of deliver public service . in Cornwall , our landscape of small , scatter settlement and constrain transport link mean that service provision be inherently far more expensive ; those cost be not capture by labour and property index alone . on transport link , do the hon . Gentleman agree that the final repair in phase 5 of the dawlish rail resilience programme be vital to remote coastal community in both Devon and Cornwall ? I agree . the dawlish line be very important in relation to Cornwall , and it need to be a consideration for relevant Ministers . member may not realise that , sit here , we be close to Middlesbrough than to Camborne in my constituency , but remoteness be not just about distance ; it be a barrier to access , opportunity and resilience . when I visit teacher in Torbay secondary school , I reflect on how there be often a bay mentality and a lack of aspiration for youngster . do the hon . Gentleman agree that often in our local coastal community there be a lack of aspiration compare with many metropolitan area , where there be great richness of culture and opportunity for our young people ? I entirely agree , and I will address that later in my speech . the second pressure be seasonal demand from tourism . while the visitor economy have long hold strategic value for coastal community , the seasonal influx of tourist place immense strain on already creak public service , such as waste collection , highway , beach safety and emergency response , which face significant seasonal surge . those fluctuation be not capture in standard funding model , yet they have real budgetary impact . tourism can bring prosperity , but also pressure . in Cornwall , summer mean more traffic , more waste and more emergency call , and significantly high cost than those associate with the resident population alone . my constituency be a lot close to here than the constituency of my hon . friend — it be just a bit far down the Thames . we have a strong tourist economy , but due to the housing pressure across the country these day , the housing and accommodation on the Isle of Sheppey hide a masked community live in holiday accommodation all year round , particularly in caravan . that be not pick up in the Government datum at either a national or local level . I be interested to hear from my hon . friend whether that be a problem for he as well ; in my community , it mean that we have high level of deprivation that simply be not be account for in the current Government spending plan or formulae . I welcome the Government ' s revision to the spending formulae , which will help my constituency , but we could go far . I entirely agree with my hon . friend . again , I will come on to that a little later in my speech . on high cost , the pressure that be feel most acutely by resident of Camborne , Redruth and Hayle , as I hear on the doorstep or in constituency surgery , be housing . coastal housing market , shape by seasonal appeal , have a high proportion of second home and short - term holiday let , which significantly reduce supply and drive price beyond the mean of local people , while many of those home sit empty for month . I appreciate the decision that this Government have make on stamp duty to dampen demand for second home , but I be horrified to hear last week that the Reform party suggest that the excessive purchase of second home in Cornwall be not a problem . I be disappointed that Reform member be not here now . in my constituency , high level of second home ownership , short - term holiday let and holiday home reduce the housing supply for local family and force they away from their important support system . do my hon . friend agree that we need strong support for generally affordable housing delivery in coastal area such as our , back by sufficient infrastructure ? my hon . friend be absolutely right , and that be something I will talk about in a moment . there be a particular pressure in Cornwall , but there be also pressure in other remote coastal area relate to second home ownership and Airbnbs — sorry , I should say short - term let . accord to 2024 datum from Lighthouse , Cornwall have the large supply of short - term let in the country . the figure be around 24 , 000 property , which be up by 30 % since 2019 . I have long support a compulsory registration scheme for short - term let — one that include fire safety regulation — and I look forward to the Government ' s forthcoming housing strategy . cornwall suffer from a chronic lack of affordable home — I appreciate that it share that problem with other remote coastal location . with the second high housing target in the country and over 23 , 000 people on the housing waiting list , the scale of need be clear , but our remote geography , infrastructure limitation and construction skill shortage make conventional housing delivery extremely challenging . I thank the hon . member for give way and for secure this important debate . he be focus on tourism and housing , but in my coastal constituency , there be many business — particularly in the fishing industry — that could benefit from investment to deliver economic growth . in May , the Government launch the fishing and coastal growth fund , worth £ 360 million over 12 year . do the hon . Member agree that in her response to this debate , the Minister should update the House on the progress of that funding , and that those fund should be allocate proportionately to reflect the size of Scotland ' s fishing industry ? I thank the hon . member for his intervention . I be sure that in the fullness of time , we will receive more detail on that funding , which will be very important for the fishing industry — we be certainly very keen to ensure we see the benefit of it within Cornwall . it have to be practical , and it have to be apply where it be most appropriate . the issue of home be an important one . when home become investment rather than home for local people , community lose their heart and young people lose their future . as such , the next pressure I want to highlight be educational isolation and the lack of opportunity face young people in remote coastal location , which have be mention . research from Plymouth Marjon University show that school in such location struggle in vital area , include school staff recruitment and retention , support and external investment . poor transport link , rural road and seasonal traffic make travel difficult , limit opportunity for both pupil and teacher and deter potential recruit . our young people be present with Hobson ' s choice : move inland to find work opportunity , or face an uncertain future with limited prospect of a home of their own . that migration reinforce geographic inequality . in a recent report on the issue , the Institute for Fiscal Studies note : " reduce economic disparity … require bring opportunity to people — not just raise skill , but build place where skill be reward . " its report specifically highlight that coastal area tend to lose out , with migration reduce average earning by over 5 % in part of Cornwall . young people face the " half - compass effect " , with the sea on one side , poor transport on the other , and limit access to employer . a direct consequence of that lack of youth opportunity can be see in the age profile of remote coastal community . accord to the Office for National Statistics , the median age in coastal build - up area be 42 — three year old than in non - coastal area — and 25 % of resident over 16 be retire , compare with 20 . 6 % inland . I thank my hon . friend for secure this important debate . he be Labour ' s south by south - west to my north by north - west . it be good to have our community connect to a Government who make change for rural area and coastal community . my constituency have much in common with his ; it face the same challenge of connectivity , demographic and housing , and it also have the same potential with fishery , the people themselves , the culture , the language and the renewable resource , which all of the community should have a share in . do he agree that we need not only more central government support , but more devolution ? my constituency have be badly treat by devolution : we face the ferry fiasco that have cost half a billion pound ; we have face the farce of highly protect marine area be impose on we by devolve Government that would have close down our entire fishery ; and because of depopulation , we face the fiasco of reduce funding — be punish for people move away . do he agree that we need not only more central government support , but more power in these peripheral area so that we can run our own affair ? I thank my hon . friend for his pertinent point about remote coastal area and the challenge we face . obviously , he face a particular challenge that we do not face in Cornwall , as he also have to put up with an SNP Government . since many resident live outside build - up area , the true figure on age might be even high . Cornwall have see sustained population growth , largely drive by the migration of old people draw to its geographical appeal as a place to retire . this old migration population mean increase health and care need . datum from the Institute of Cornish Studies show that 43 % of household move to Cornwall from elsewhere be economically inactive , place huge further strain on public service . funding formula rarely account for that reality . we have more demand for carer , more long - term health condition , and more demand on health and social care system . in remote area like Cornwall , care be hard to reach and far more expensive to deliver . with our age population come the health inequality that deeply affect remote coastal community . the chief medical officer ' s 2021 report on health and wellbee in coastal community identify a coastal excess of disease drive by deprivation , age profile and behaviour such as obesity , smoking and alcohol use . life expectancy , healthy life expectancy and disability - free life expectancy be all low in coastal area . the report make it clear that in coastal community , these factor converge to the detriment of local people , who face income insecurity , low - pay seasonal work and limited educational capital . the 10 - year health plan do acknowledge the challenge face by coastal community , particularly in its shift from hospital to community care , but more need to be do . I thank the hon . member for secure this debate . do he agree with I about the extra pressure on people live in remote rural coastal community , such as Ilfracombe in Devon ? the life expectancy there be 10 year low than in other part of Devon . the integrate care board need to be fund for the cost of support the local minor injury unit at Ilfracombe hospital , especially during tourist time , when the population of my area double . I be just glad that we have a Labour Government who be take the national health service far more seriously than the previous Government do . my deep concern be that deprivation be not adequately reflect in standardised measurement , particularly the index of multiple deprivation , as the Government ' s primary tool for assess need . research from Plymouth Marjon University due to be publish on 26 September introduce the concept of " pretty poverty " — deprivation mask by Cornwall ' s postcard beauty . the six key finding of the report show that the index of multiple deprivation do not give enough weight to transport dependency , housing displacement , employment precarity , healthcare withdrawal , educational isolation and community resilience . although the measurement have strength , without reform it we risk miss the deep structural issue face remote coastal community . in June , as be mention early by my hon . friend the Member for Truro and Falmouth ( Jayne Kirkham ) , the Government launch the fair funding review , acknowledge that outdated model have short - change place like Cornwall . it include a long overdue remoteness adjustment , previously drop in 2018 , and recognition of some of the cost associate with tourism . however , in Cornwall , the ending of the share prosperity fund , which have be use to develop economic prosperity — announce on the same day that million of pound be make available for mayoral combine authority in the north and midland — be a bitter pill to swallow . the index of multiple deprivation do not see the full picture , and when measurement fail , funding fail . I be pleased to see that a new iteration of the index will be release later this year , and that the Department for Environment , Food and Rural Affairs have be bring into the process to consider rural affair , but the specific need of remote coastal community must be consider as well . time and again , evidence show that remote coastal community be often conflate with rural area , overlook in key metric and treat as peripheral . decision about these community must be base on accurate , meaningful assessment of deprivation . I urge Ministers to commit themselves to review the forthcoming research from Plymouth Marjon University , because although it focus on Cornwall , the issue that it raise be likely to apply across most other remote coastal area . I also ask this Minister to commit herself to a dedicated remote coastal strategy to deal with these issue holistically . our remote coastal area have so much economic potential , but up until now Government policy have seem to favour investment in urban mayoral authority area in London , Birmingham and Manchester . do the hon . Member agree that the Government need to go far , and appoint a Minister for coastal community ? I be not sure that such a Minister be what we need . what we need be absolute focus and a cross - departmental Government strategy for remote coastal area . in these area , we feel acutely the focus on urban area and , in particular , mayoral combined authority . without sustained investment in remote coastal area , in housing , transport , skill and economic development , our collective economic potential will remain untapped . I call Andrew George . Meur ra , Madam Deputy Speaker , and I congratulate my constituency neighbour , the hon . member for Camborne and Redruth ( Perran Moon ) , not only on secure the debate but on the way in which he cover the issue and make such a strong case for the very special need of remote and coastal area . we hope that the new group of Ministers will attend to those need , although the previous Ministers be do good work in this regard , and I be not in any way dismiss or disapprove of that work . as the hon . Gentleman say , only 8 % of the population of England , Wales and Cornwall be coastal . in my constituency , which cover west Cornwall and the Isles of Scilly , 95 % of the population live in coastal community — and , be in the far south - west of the country , we be in that sense remote . Most people in our area actually see London as remote ; indeed , remoteness be a concept that depend on which end of the telescope we be look through . the big difficulty for people live in coastal area be the remoteness of where the decision be take , and for they the remoteness be the other way around : people in the centre be often not listen to , or not hear , the word and the need of people in rural area and , in particular , people in coastal area such as the hon . Gentleman ' s , mine and those of all the other member who have speak this evening . I welcome the Minister , who need time to absorb the magnificence of the hon . Gentleman ' s speech . I be use my speech as a buffer during which she can absorb that magnificence , but I want to add a few point , which I hope she will take on board , in addition to those that the hon . Gentleman make . I particularly want to embellish a little furth his point about housing . it be not an accident that coastal area often contain a lot of highly desirable housing market , where a lot of people with wealth be very keen to invest their money — that be very much an investment , although sometimes they also buy house for personal recreational use . what we have find in Cornwall in recent year , especially since the small business rate relief be introduce in 2012 , be that there have be an almost industrial level of shifting of second home — from council tax to business rate — that be purport to be or actually have become holiday let for business rating purpose . owner apply for small business rate relief , and then pay nothing . we be talk about wealthy people , who can afford more than one home , simply flip their property , with the benefit of their tax lawyer and other , depend on what be to their advantage in term of tax . frankly , one must take into account the obscenity of the fact that all those who have do that and be entitle to small business rate relief also benefit from covid aid — so they receive four level of payment amount to £ 20 , 000 apiece . in the case of Cornwall , most of those people have their primary address outside Cornwall , and one might argue that they do not need a penny piece of that money , but they still claim it . by the end of the last decade half a billion pound of taxpayer ' money have go towards subsidise the wealthy have holiday home in Cornwall . I have make this point to Treasury Ministers and Housing Ministers before , and I be somewhat surprised that Ministers have not yet be prepared to look at this policy and to consider at least review it . surely it be far well to spend half a billion pound on first home for the thousand of family in desperate need , rather than simply shovel that money into the pocket of wealthy second home owner . I hope that the Minister will be prepared to look at that . my next point be perhaps rather unique to the Isles of Scilly . some of the big pressure that scillonian face relate to transport , give that they be 30 mile off the mainland . not a lot of people appreciate that from east to west , my constituency be about 70 mile when one take into account all that wet stuff between Land ' s end and the Isles of Scilly . it be a very expensive area to cover , either by air or by ferry . what we be seek for the Isles of Scilly be something approach parity with the scottish island . People on the Isles of Scilly pay four , five or sometimes six time the amount that people in scottish island would normally expect to pay to get on a ferry or to fly to and from the island . that also have an impact on freight and on build cost on the island , mean that although we desperately need affordable home , it be very difficult to get they off the ground within the viability threshold of Homes England . it be a very significant challenge . there be no parity in relation to old people ' s bus pass , because there be not a bus and those subsidy therefore do not exist . People who live in the off - island have to pay significant amount — £ 20 or £ 30 — for a ferry just to get from an off - island to St Mary ' s to do some shopping . there be no such thing as subsidised transport , and the £ 3 fare , as for the bus , would be really nice between the island if we could possibly get it . the Isles of Scilly do not have parity with the mainland on that . the Isles of Scilly also do not have parity on post - 16 education . there be not sufficient capacity in the island to provide it there , so all the 16 or 17 - year - old — under the mandatory rule that apply for post - 16 education — need to go to the mainland , but there be insufficient fund available to be able to do that . I be talk to Baroness Smith at the moment to try to make sure that the Isles of Scilly get the full support , so that student get the backing not only for transport cost , but for accommodation and support . there be a lot of cost in relation to the Isles of Scilly that be simply not meet , and I hope the Minister be seize of that . the final point , which the hon . Gentleman , who represent Camborne , Redruth and Hayle , emphasise — and I know he will be serve on the English Devolution and Community Empowerment Bill Committee — be that it be absolutely important to get devolution right . in some coastal area such as Cornwall it be really important not simply to apply the same bland uniformity that we might be able to get away with for other location . place such as Cornwall need a unique settlement . we be make good progress on that with the Minister ' s predecessor , who be certainly understand , and the conversation be go well . I hope that the Minister will be listen to the voice of Cornwall on the devolution settlement . the only region for Cornwall clearly have to be Cornwall , and there be very strong argument for it . I do not have the opportunity to make they this evening , but I know the hon . Gentleman and , indeed , all six member from Cornwall — and the Isles of Scilly — be very keen to make sure that the message get to this new group of Ministers that Cornwall deserve a special settlement on devolution . if the speech of the hon . member for St Ives ( Andrew George ) be nothing more than a buffer , I dread to think what mine will be . I congratulate my hon . friend the Member for Camborne and Redruth ( Perran Moon ) on secure this important debate . Middlesbrough South and East Cleveland be an odd constituency , and my hon . Friend mention the Middlesbrough part of it . East Cleveland be a rural and coastal community define by its proximity to the North sea . from the cliff of Huntcliff and Boulby , which be some of the high in England , to the hidden gem of Skinningrove beach , it be a place of great natural beauty . it be also a place of great talent , yet too often that talent be lose . I completely agree with my hon . friend about the brain - drain migration of young people inland to find opportunity elsewhere . time and again , employer in my constituency have meet I and tell I of their frustration at see their talent pool displace to nearby urban centre or even far into Leeds , York , Newcastle and so on . I hear the same from young people themselves , who feel they have to get out to get on , and that be hold our community back in so many way . there have be a lot of discussion about devolution , quite rightly , and I completely agree that it have to be do in the right way . we have a devolve combined authority in our region , and I feel quite strongly that our coastal community and our rural community be not fully acknowledge in some of the strategy bring forward by the regional government . skill be a great example . I think insufficient work be put in to make sure that young people can access opportunity in some of the new industry come into Teesside . as my hon . friend mention , public transport be another example ; get from the furth part of my constituency to urban centre be extremely difficult and very challenging for young people , and that be exacerbate some of these divide and the deprivation that we see . coastal community be often describe as leave behind . I really want to get across the point that we be not a problem to be resolve , as I think my hon . Friend say , but an opportunity . it be a decade since IPPR North publish a report , " northern Prosperity be National Prosperity " . that can be extend to many community across the country . by unlock economic growth in remote area , we can benefit the whole country and the whole economy . we be untapped in our potential . motion lapse ( Standing Order no . 9 ( 3 ) ) . motion make , and question propose , that this House do now adjourn . — ( Deirdre Costigan . ) government of many colour have miss a trick by not invest and unlock economic growth in our community . we be not a problem , but we could be if not address . do the hon . Gentleman agree that if coastal community have just a fraction of the investment in public transport that be make in place such as London and other big metropolitan area , they would flourish beyond belief ? I do agree . that be part of the problem in our part of the world . by invest in infrastructure , whether that be public transport or grid connectivity for our manufacturer , the entire economy across the country can benefit . I have one village , Aysdalegate , which do not have a clean water supply ; these be the basic of modern - day life . my hon . friend the Member for Camborne and Redruth mention , towards the start of his speech , that the economic divide among our region have lead to a kind of fray of the social fabric . there be a danger that we become more vulnerable to the anger , resentment and radicalisation that we often see in our politic . it be a mistake to assume that radicalisation can only happen to a very small number of people who be particularly vulnerable . it can happen to anyone when the economic condition be ripe , particularly at a time when social medium giant have build algorithm design to keep we angry and afraid , and to make we think that our country have never be so bad . it be important to remember that that be not real . when we visit our coastal community , we see that England be alive and well . it be there in fishing village , farmstead , the stained glass of church window , dry stone wall and roll field . it be there in marketplace , allotment and so much else . we must not lose sight of that . that England be alive and kicking . that unpixellated England be wait for we all to come home . I be grateful to my hon . friend the Member for Camborne and Redruth ( Perran Moon ) for secure this important debate for my first day in this job , and for his tireless advocacy on behalf of coastal community . I completely agree : coastal community be a vital part of our national identity , serve as postcard of national pride , and a reminder of our heritage and share maritime history . but behind those postcard lie another story , as my hon . friend have rightly allude to , for the beauty of our coast can mask the everyday reality of the people who live there all year round . these community face a unique set of circumstance . we know , as my hon . Friend point out , that coastal community tend to have old population and low rate of employment , which often mean few opportunity for young people . we know that the Social Mobility Commission find that coastal community have some of the least favourable condition for childhood in the country ; a disproportionately high number of child be eligible for free school meal and their parent have relatively low qualification level . we know that these community tend to suffer from a lack of connectivity — a point that hon . member have make — geographically , economically and digitally , with bad 4 g coverage and few business opportunity than in high - growth sector . let I assure the House that this Government understand the challenge face by coastal community . the Government ' s mission be to reverse inequality and unlock the full potential of all our community , include our coastal community , to ensure that they play a vital role in our economy and our future . I appreciate the Minister list the disadvantage that we have in our coastal community , although she do not mention the fact that our health service be overwhelmed in the summer . the dawlish minor injury unit not be open due to lack of staffing , for example , do not help when number in our town double in the few week of summer . it really be very disadvantageous for the local resident . I thank the hon . member for make that important point about the pressure face by our coastal community , particularly at peak tourist point . it be important that we acknowledge that . what we be try to do as a Government , through long - overdue reform to the local government finance system , be redirect around £ 2 billion of exist funding to the place and community that need it the most , which will enable council — include in our coastal area — to deliver reliably for their resident . we also acknowledge and recognise that delivery cost vary across the country . deprivation , remoteness , vary ability to raise taxis locally and the impact of commuter and tourist , as the hon . Member point out , can all affect how hard it can be to deliver service in coastal community . that be why we be committed to ensure that those factor be account for in future funding allocation — an important move that will have an impact on our community . I be concern about the get it right First Time NHS template that the health service apply to our health service in Devon and Cornwall . it be a system that be very much draw from the metropolitan experience of health provision and do not account for sparsity and the fact that we have sea either side of we . can the Minister assure we that get it right First Time will take account of place where there be rurality and coastal impact on our health service ? whether it be our NHS or our public service , there be a challenge for we to ensure that we be design service that work for different community and that recognise the diversity of those community , and that be what we be commit to as a Department . we be commit to work with our colleague across Government to ensure we be provide the service that people need , tailor to the need of local community . that be a big thrust of the devolution agenda , which I be very committed to and passionate about , on which we have make big progress as a Government , and will continue to do so . I have submit proposal to the Tees Valley combined authority to get East Cleveland ' s economy move — the focus of my Invest in East Cleveland event on Friday . will the Minister commit to work with I to bring investment into our rural and coastal community so that we can unlock job and growth for the whole country ? I thank my hon . friend for champion his area and for the work he be do locally , and I will absolutely commit to work with he . the opportunity to unlock the potential of our area be huge , and I be very committed to play my part to help we to deliver that . alongside that , we be clear that we want to deliver a wide range of programme to address economic , social and health disparity across the country , include in our coastal area ; in Camborne and Redruth , for example , we be already invest £ 24 . 7 million via the Camborne town deal through to March 2027 , as well as £ 12 million via the UK share prosperity fund until the end of this financial year . in addition , our £ 1 . 5 billion plan for neighbourhood will deliver up to £ 20 million of funding and support over the next decade into 75 community across the country . one in three of those community be coastal , mean that up to £ 500 million will directly support regeneration in coastal town and neighbourhood . at the spending review , the Chancellor announce an expansion of this programme to as many as 350 place , include 25 new trailblazer area , such as Barrow and Bootle South , with these area receive early support to tackle local challenge and drive growth . the programme will help community to improve cultural venue , health and wellbeing service and , critically , local infrastructure . it will champion local leadership , foster community engagement and strengthen social cohesion . member raise challenge around flooding , which the Department recognise . the Department for Environment , Food and Rural Affairs be take action to improve resilience in coastal area , particularly on the key issue of flooding . we be conscious that we need to take action as we respond to climate change . the flood resilience taskforce be improve the co - ordination between national and local agency , which we need to get right . we have invest a record £ 2 . 65 billion over this year and last year for the construction and maintenance of flood scheme , support 1 , 000 project and protect 52 , 000 property by March 2026 . over the next three year , a furth £ 4 . 2 billion will be invest in flood and coastal defence . critically , we recognise the strategic importance of coastal community such as Barrow , which play a vital role in our national security . this Government have commit to provide £ 200 million over 10 year to improve education , employment , skill and health and wellbeing , alongside investment in the town centre . there be significant opportunity for we to capitalise on the natural asset and strength of our coastline , include by support clean energy industry . finally , on the key question of fair funding , we recognise that we need to take well account of the driver of deprivation when we allocate funding . we be consult on the proposal and take in all the representation we have be give , and we will respond in due course . member should be assure that we recognise the specific challenge in coastal area , such as connectivity , and their impact on deprivation . we be try to factor that into the approach we be take with the fair funding formula . as a proud coastal nation , there be many opportunity available to we , and this Government be already take step to make sure that we capitalise on they . we be commit to work with member across the House to unlock the full potential of our coastal community . I thank my hon . friend the Member for Camborne and Redruth for bring forward this important debate and for be a tireless champion of coastal community . I look forward to work with he and colleague from across Cornwall and across the House . I be so sorry to interrupt the Minister ' s peroration , but she cover without detail the funding formula for local authority and whether it will properly address the poverty and deprivation in rural area . Cornwall be the poor region in the country and achieve european objective 1 status — one of the high level of regional development aid — but it be not see in Government eye as the poor region , certainly as far as the criterion be concern . will the Minister ensure that the criterion the Government use properly assess the level of deprivation in rural area ? we be very exercised about ensure that we support area of deprivation , and we always keep all index and metric under review . my hon . friend the Member for Camborne and Redruth talk about the research , which I look forward to read in detail . ultimately , my objective be the objective of hon . member . we know that there be area that face huge challenge , and we need to get the right support to they . in order to do that , we must ensure that we understand the issue and be target they . obviously the metric that be use have a critical role , and the House have my commitment that we will keep this area under review . I be committed to work with member across the House on this issue . we recognise the importance of our coastal community and we see huge opportunity . the Government be put in place a large number of programme and support scheme , and we be keen to work together to make sure that we unlock those opportunity . House adjourn .