Oral Answers to Questions Science , Innovation and Technology the Secretary of State be ask — Mathematical Sciences Academy if he will make it his policy to establish an academy for mathematical science . the Government be commit to increase the research and development allocation to a record £ 20 . 4 billion in 2024 - 25 . Lord Vallance continue to meet mathematical science representative to determine how good to support the sector . the Government be support the mathematical science sector in way that good deliver for the taxpayer , without the time and expense require to set up a new organisation . in the last financial year , the Department underspent by nearly £ 600 million . the propose national maths academy be due to cost just £ 6 million — 1 % of that total . People be disappoint by this cancellation . can the Secretary of State explain whether he cancel the academy because he do not value the role of our national academy , or because he do not think mathematical science be important ? I have just explain all of the way we be help , assist , support and drive mathematical science . the hon . Member have just list all of the way his party have fail that sector by underspend in many part of Government and fail to commit the spending to the project that he be now call on this government to support . do the Secretary of State agree that the recent announcement of new funding for research and development in the Budget give the sector really good clarity about investment across the come year and about the way forward that this Government wish to take ? I be grateful for my hon . friend ' s question . he be quite right to highlight that , finally , science and technology in this country have a Government on its side and put their money where their mouth be . ai : copyright in the Creative Industries what step his Department be take to protect the copyright of people work in the creative industry in the context of artificial intelligence . we be absolutely determined to make sure that copyright and intellectual property be protect , as they always have be in this country . our consultation be design to do two specific thing : to make sure there be legal certainty for AI developer and creative industry alike , and to make sure there be more licensing of copyright material by AI developer . I thank my hon . friend for that answer . however , visual artist earn far below the minimum wage , and rely on copyright royalty to finance their work and continue to contribute to our world - lead creative industry — in Thanet and across the country . what reassurance can the Minister give that the plan for a copyright exception for AI learning will not far contribute to that financial instability and weaken the lifeblood of our creative economy ? my hon . friend be absolutely right . she could big up her own constituency a little more , because Margate be probably one of the great centre of artist in this country . it be where Turner be train and go to school , and where we have Turner Contemporary . it be also where Tracey Emin be do so much work and many other artist as well . it be a brilliant hub . we want to make sure — as we do in the last Labour Government , when we introduce the artist ' s resale right — that artist can earn a living from their art . that be what we be determined to do . just as last year New Zealand and Australia enter into the same agreement for an artist ' s resale right , we want to make sure that there be a future revenue stream for every single artist in this country . do the Minister agree that transparency be crucial if creator be to understand where their work be be use by AI developer ? can he therefore assure I that the Government will legislate on transparency whatever the outcome of the consultation on copyright reform ? the right hon . Gentleman make a good point about transparency , which be a key element of our consultation . we have present a package because we want to ensure there be a win - win here . we want AI developer to have the legal certainty that they need to develop their product in the UK as UK producer , and for creative industry to know when their work be be use , so that if they want to say no they can say no , and if they want to say yes they will be properly remunerate for it . NHS Diagnostic Processes : Technological innovation what progress his Department have make on support technological innovation to accelerate nhs diagnostic process . my Department be work incredibly closely with the Department of Health and Social Care , and the Secretary of State for Health and Social Care and I be join at the hip on these issue . that include unprecedented investment in research and development to understand how well to diagnose disease . there be co - investment in initiative such as health innovation network , which have enable 1 . 2 million patient to access proven innovation , and the digital centre of Government , which we have create , be partner closely with the NHS to improve the deployment and innovation of technology . I thank the Secretary of State for his response . my constituency of Cannock Chase have wide health inequality , and particularly high level of respiratory illness and bladder and brain cancer . in some part of the country , NHS trust be rapidly speed up diagnostic waiting time by use highly accurate AI model , with the result check by human clinician . will the Secretary of State confirm that the Government be support such safe tech innovation to help fulfil our mission to build an NHS fit for the future ? I can indeed commit to that . the Government see the embrace of prove technology and innovation as fundamental to the future survival of the NHS . I be incredibly happy to see that last autumn , the Royal Wolverhampton NHS trust begin enrol patient in a global - first trial of completely personalise cancer vaccine , as part of a £ 1 billion investment negotiate by my Department . that show the way forward and how co - operation between Departments will deliver for patient and public service user across the country . early diagnosis save life . randox in my constituency run a number of NHS health check from the Isle of Wight through to Lanarkshire . will the Secretary of State encourage great use of those check , and will he visit Randox with I to see how we can far advance that technology ? I confirm that I have be work with the Health Secretary — indeed , we recently visit St Tommy ' s across the road from here to see how new technology be be use in diagnostic . it be increase the number of scan and improve the quality of those scan to diagnose disease early and prevent it from have the bad outcome . that be be roll out across the country , and I be work closely with the Health Secretary to ensure that such innovation be put to good use for the country . I call the Chair of the Science , Innovation and Technology Committee . last month , the Select Committee bring festive cheer by hear how british science be advance the eradication of disease such as cervical cancer , HIV / AIDS and malaria , through innovative and exciting new treatment and diagnostic . we also hear about the challenge of drive innovation through the NHS . Newcastle company AMLo Biosciences say that adoption be much quick in the US , and other criticise bureaucratic procurement process and a culture of inertia . successive government have struggle with this challenge , so what specific step be the Secretary of State take with the Health Secretary to ensure that british patient benefit from innovation ? I be grateful for that question and for the work that my hon . friend ' s Committee be do to highlight the incredibly important challenge that we face as a Government and a country . for the first time , the Health Secretary have adopt the spreading of innovation through the NHS as a personal mission as part of the role of the Secretary of State , and we co - chair the Office for Life Sciences . together , our two Departments be not only seek to harness the power of technology , but work together , under the leadership of the Health Secretary , to drive that innovation . such innovation can not be lock up in one innovative health trust ; it must be put to use across the NHS for every patient from every part of the United Kingdom . what progress have be make on use AI algorithm to analyse medical image of thing such as tumour , fracture or other medical condition ? that be a pithy question , I think , Mr Speaker . I be grateful for the hon . member ' s question . I have visit Huddersfield hospital , which be one of the first hospital to fully integrate AI in its radiotherapy and scan work . have stand there and see its power for early diagnosis through its ability to detect pattern at an incredibly early stage , I be leave in no doubt that , have my mother be scan at that hospital , she would still be alive today . she be scan three time , but the progress of her lung cancer be miss and she die several week after collapse , with it not have be detect . this be the power of technology . AI be a human power that will transform life and we be determined to ensure — order . Secretary of State , please . I be sure you want I to get to the other question . I call the liberal Democrat spokesperson . many of the company I have speak to who be support technological innovation in the NHS and beyond talk about their frustration at the comparative difficulty of get funding in the UK and say that the British Business Bank could do much more to de - risk investment and unlock innovation . what be the Government do to reform funding and provide an oasis in what have become know as the funding valley of death ? the first thing that we have do be increase to record level overall the Government ' s investment in R & D . pioneer work be also go on through Innovate UK , the Advanced Research and Invention Agency and the different funding body that be available to take different level of risk when it come to support , create and upscale innovation . the work that the Chancellor be do to reform our pension system will unlock capital , because fundamentally we must get more domestic capital into the venture capital community so that we can get domestic innovation support by domestic capital to upscale and solve the challenge that the hon . member talk about . Gigabit broadband : rural Areas if he will take step to help tackle barrier to the roll - out of gigabit broadband to rural area . only this week , we announce a £ 289 million contract that will deliver gigabit - capable broadband to 131 , 000 difficult - to - reach premise across England and Wales . we be determined to make sure that in every part of the country , include in the hon . member ' s constituency , we reach all those place . I be grateful to the Minister for his answer . in some village in my constituency such as Cannington and Nether Stowey , few than 10 % of household have access to gigabit broadband , and download speed be among the slow in the country . will he advise how his Department will ensure that , under the new contract , Openreach fulfil its obligation and my constituent get that fast broadband ? first , I commend the hon . member , because this be the fourth time that he have ask a question of I broadly in this territory . in the word of Browning , " Hark , the dominant ' s persistence till it must be answer to ! " he be quite right : there be village in his constituency where there be no proper gigabit - capable internet available . I be determined to deal with that , and I be happy to meet he because , in the word of the musical " Oklahoma ! " , I be " a girl who cain ' t say no " . I be very happy to meet he — I can say no . [ laughter . ] come on ! Employer National Insurance Contributions what assessment he have make of the potential impact of increase in employer national insurance contribution on the science and technology sector . the Government have increase investment in R & D to record level . we have also repair the public finance , include the black hole leave by the previous Administration . we have do so by protect the small business through the impact of double the employment allowance to £ 10 , 500 , mean that 865 , 000 employer will pay nothing in additional tax . I thank the Secretary of State for his response . however , university , which be at the heart of the UK ' s research ecosystem , face an additional £ 372 million in annual cost due to the rise in employer national insurance . that threaten their ability to fund cutting - edge research , recruit top talent and support early career researcher . do he recognise the detrimental impact that will have on research in this country ? will he explore measure to ensure that our global competitiveness in science and innovation be not undermine ? we have find way to get new investment into university , which we be put on a solid financial footing . this be just the start . we always know that we could not fix all the problem that we inherit from that last Administration in six month , but we be find way to take that great start forward to get new investment into university . I reassure the House that the war on university by that Administration have end . I call the shadow Secretary of State . thank you , Mr Speaker . " company like our will be less incentivise to grow " . that be the conclusion of Paul Taylor , founder of british tech unicorn Thought Machine , which employ more than 500 people . Britain be now miss out on new job and investment as a direct result of Labour ' s national insurance job tax . when the Chancellor start punish our tech sector , the Secretary of State fail to stand up to she . why ? we have put the public finance on a solid footing . our economy be now stable in a way that have not be the case for 14 year . the Conservatives want all the benefit of the last Budget without say how they will pay for any of it . until they do , they will not be take seriously by anyone , include the business that the hon . Gentleman reference . the truth be that the Labour Government be fail our tech worker , because they do not care about our tech sector . last September , Paul say that he be very keen to list Thought Machine in London instead of New York , and one of his precondition before list be be able to grow the business as much as possible . why do the Secretary of State allow the Chancellor to make growth hard for Britain ' s tech sector at the Budget ? I think the hon . Gentleman miss the investment summit that the Government hold just before Christmas , at which a record £ 60 billion be invest into this country , £ 24 billion of which be ai - relate . that be almost as much go directly into AI as be commit in total at the previous Government ' s investment summit . this Government be unlock investment ; the previous Administration wreck our economy and public service , and fail to secure faith in our economy for foreign company to invest in this country . innovation : staffordshire what step his Department be take to increase level of innovation in Staffordshire . in case the House have not hear , this Government be drive innovation , with a record £ 20 . 4 billion of research and development investment for 2025 - 26 , power an innovation - lead economy across the UK . in Staffordshire , UK Research and Innovation be back more than £ 29 million for 70 cutting - edge research and innovation project . a stand - out example be Innovate UK ' s support for the Staffordshire net zero skill for growth project , which be equip the country to seize opportunity in the net zero transition . town such as those in my constituency be key to the economy , but can face unique challenge in access innovation opportunity . please could the Minister tell I how she plan to ensure that town such as Stafford and Eccleshall be able to access new job , skill , investment and growth opportunity ? the Department have a clear vision to ensure that the UK remain at the forefront of global innovation — a place where cut - edge business of all size can start and grow , and where local people have high - quality job , build on local strength . I be delighted to hear about the new multimillion - pound facility be build at Newcastle and Stafford college ' Stafford campus in my hon . friend ' s constituency , support by £ 15 million of Government investment . it will welcome learner from September and will help to provide the technical skill that business need , both now and in the future , to support regional and national productivity . access to Public Services : technology what step his Department be take to utilise technology to improve access to public service . DSIT be lead the charge by establish the digital centre of Government to harness technology and transform our public service . we be committed to improve digital inclusion and accessibility to ensure high - quality online service that be available to everyone . in the come month , the Department will outline its plan and priority for a digital centre and to advance digital inclusion . Sunderland be recently name the UK ' s smart city by the Times . it be a pleasure to welcome the Secretary of State when he visit recently . More than 5 , 000 home in our city now have assistive technology instal , support the independence of old and disabled people and improve their access to care . how do the Government plan to build on the example of Sunderland to improve access to public service across the UK ? the Government recognise the potential for digital technology to support people to live independently . we will set new national standard for care technology and develop trusted guidance so that people who draw on care , their family and care provider can confidently buy what work and get the safe , most effective tech into their home or service . in addition , we will take forward a range of initiative in 2025 - 26 , include fund more home adaptation and promote the well use of care technology . what step be her Department take to help old people who do not feel comfortable utilise technology to access public service ? the hon . Gentleman will be happy to hear that the Public Sector Bodies ( Websites and Mobile Applications ) ( no . 2 ) Accessibility Regulations 2018 require most public sector organisation to ensure their service be accessible to disabled and old people by meet the requirement of the web content accessibility guideline and by publish an accessibility statement in the prescribed format . the Government Digital Service ' s accessibility monitor team review public sector website to ensure compliance with the accessibility regulation and support department to improve their service . I call the shadow Minister . I welcome the Minister ' s approach to improve access through technology . however , the majority of the concern that colleague and I receive be from those who can not use technology . rather than improve access , for some , technology can act as a barrier . what be her assessment of the impact of digital exclusion in the UK ? will the digital inclusion strategy that she have announce include digital exclusion at all level of Government ? Digital inclusion be a priority for this Government . we have set up the digital inclusion and skill unit to ensure that everyone have the access , skill , support and confidence to participate in modern digital society , whatever their circumstance . work be ongoing to develop our approach to digital inclusion and co - ordinate across Departments , and we hope to announce more on that soon . we will work closely with the third sector , the industry , devolve Governments and local authority to ensure that future intervention be target and base on individual ' need . topical Questions if he will make a statement on his departmental responsibility . we have see fear and lie spread about life in Britain , with those who have do little or nothing to combat child sexual abuse stretch every sinew to jump on the bandwagon . this Government be commit to justice for the victim and punishment for the perpetrator of abuse wherever it happen and whoever commit it , and I pay tribute to the work of the Prime Minister and , in particular , the Under - Secretary of State for the Home Department , my hon . friend the Member for Birmingham Yardley ( Jess Phillips ) , in that regard . the illegal content code that Ofcom set out last month be the single big change to online safety for a generation . in 2023 , the Lords Communications and Digital Committee find that 1 . 7 million household be without internet . will the Secretary of State outline how the Government be work to ensure that no one be leave behind by the forthcoming switchover to internet protocol television ? the hon . Lady ask an important question . Broadcast tv be legally protect until 2034 . this Government be commit to ensure audience can access television in a way that suit they . too many people be exclude from digital activity because they lack the basic skill . in the not - too - distant future , I will be launch the digital inclusion plan . I know that the hon . Lady take cross - party work very seriously , so I hope she will meet I so I can brief she on that work and involve her idea as we develop it . I refer the House to my entry in the Register of Members ' Financial Interests . globally , billion of pound of investment be flow into company that be create new technology to power datum centre , and community across the UK should be share the opportunity of well - pay , skilled job that that investment offer . in Derby , Rolls - Royce be a world leader in the development of small modular reactor . do the Secretary of State agree that Rolls - Royce show british innovation at its strong , and would be a dynamic partner for any technology company wish to invest in the future ? I agree , of course . technological innovation will be key to the move to net zero , and the UK will be at the forefront of that . smr be particularly exciting . I have meet Rolls - Royce , which have a great advocate in my hon . friend . I look forward to hear more from he and see how we can support this exciting technology into the future . what step be the Government take to support pioneer british company , such as Cranfield Aerospace Solutions in Mid Bedfordshire , in their pursuit of hydrogen - power flight ? how will the industrial strategy ensure that the UK remain a global leader in sustainable aviation technology ? the hon . Gentleman raise a very important point , one that the Government be commit to . that be why we increase research and development spending to the high of any Government in this country . it will have a direct impact on the issue he raise . before we begin pmq , I be delighted to welcome to the Gallery the Speaker of the Lok Sabha of India . Prime Minister the Prime Minister be ask — Engagements if he will list his official engagement for Wednesday 8 January . I wish all member of this House a happy new year . our thought be with those affect by the recent flooding . we thank the responder who be work hard to keep community safe . this week , we publish our elective reform plan to rebuild our NHS and end the Tory backlog . we will deliver where the previous Government fail , empower patient , boost productivity , more care in the community and incentivising reform . this morning I have meeting with ministerial colleague and other . in addition to my duty in this House , I shall have further such meeting later today . on behalf of everyone in Southwark and , I hope , the whole House , I offer the Prime Minister condolence on the loss of his brother over Christmas , and I wish everyone a happy new year . last July , the public overwhelmingly back Labour ' s manifesto commitment to halve violence against woman and girl . can the Prime Minister set out how today ' s vote on the child ' s wellbee Bill be a crucial step to deliver that promise and protect child without the delay of an unnecessary further lengthy inquiry ? I thank my hon . friend and other colleague for their remark about my brother . my hon . friend raise a very important issue . violence against woman and girl , abuse and child sexual exploitation be sicken , and many victim have be let down for a very long time by warped idea about community relation and the protection of institution . he raise the question of inquiry . there have be a number of inquiry , both national and local , include one cover Oldham . reasonable people can agree or disagree on whether a further inquiry be necessary . this morning , I meet some of the victim and survivor of this scandal . they be clear with I that they want action now , not the delay of a further inquiry . the Jay inquiry , the last national inquiry , be seven year . a further inquiry would take we to 2031 . action be what be require . but whatever anyone ' s view on whether a further inquiry be need , what I find shocking be that anyone in this House would vote down the child ' s wellbee Bill this afternoon , with vital protection for the most vulnerable in our society . I urge the Leader of the Opposition to withdraw her wreck amendment . I call the Leader of the Opposition . the whole House have hear that the Prime Minister lose his brother during the Christmas period , so can I offer he , on behalf of my party , our sincere condolence ? the new year have start with a focus on the decade - long rape gang scandal . across the country , thousand of girl be torture and sexually abuse at the hand of man who treat they as thing to be use and dispose of , destroy many life forever . the Prime Minister mention previous inquiry . he be right : there have be an inquiry into child sexual abuse , but it be not about the rape gang scandal . in its 468 page , it mention Rotherham just once . be the Prime Minister confident that we know the full extent of rape gang activity ? first , I thank the right hon . Lady for her condolence , and I thank she for reach out over the Christmas period when I lose my brother . I really do appreciate that , and I appreciate it today . on the question of a further inquiry , there have be a number of inquiry , some of they localise , include the Mayor of Manchester ' s recent inquiry . the national inquiry Professor Jay carry out take seven year . it have 20 recommendation , none of which be actually implement by the Conservative party when it be in government . this be a really serious issue and we must focus , obviously , on the victim and survivor . there be no fixed view on the victim and survivor about a further national inquiry . there be mixed view . but there be a view , and I share this view , that what be need now be action on what we already know . we already know — myself from personal knowledge when I be chief prosecutor — that warp idea , myth and stereotype about victim be at the heart of this . we have know that for a decade . the Jay report call for mandatory reporting ; I call for it 11 year ago . what we need now be action . what can not be tolerate be the idea that this afternoon Opposition Members will vote down a Bill that protect child — [ interruption . ] let I just say this . one of the provision in that Bill be to protect vulnerable child today , who be out of school , to prevent abuser from ever take those child out of school . I implore Opposition member to defy the mislead leadership of the Leader of the opposition and vote for a really important Bill . I be shocked that the Prime Minister would say that action be not take . he know full well that we accept 18 of the 20 recommendation from the Jay inquiry , and go far , launch a gang taskforce which find 550 more perpetrator . that show that there be still work to be do . in Rotherham alone , there have be more than 1 , 400 victim . across Oldham , Bradford , Bristol , Rochdale and dozen more town , there have be thousand more victim , but no one have join the dot . no one have the total picture , and it be almost certainly still go on . one victim from Telford — I know the Prime Minister say that victim have different view ; we have different view across this House — say that she want a national inquiry because " it will hold people accountable in a way that previous inquiry haven ' t " it be very possible to have action , take on more , and still have a national inquiry . why will the Prime Minister not listen to victim and launch a national inquiry which would have the power to summon witness and make they give evidence under oath ? the right hon . Lady say that the last Government accept the recommendation , but they do not act on they . one of the central recommendation be for mandatory reporting , and it still have not be enact . I call for it 11 year ago . opposition Members have be tweet and talk ; we have be act . the Leader of the opposition have be a Member of Parliament for , I think , eight year , and her party be in government for seven and a half of those eight year . she be the Children ' s Minister . she be the Women and Equalities Minister . I can not recall she once raise this issue in the House , or once call for a national inquiry . it be only in recent day that she have jump on the bandwagon . in fairness , if I be wrong about that and she have raise it , I invite she to say so now , and I will happily withdraw the remark that she have not raise it in the House in the eight year she have be here , until today . the Prime Minister be be very specific . I have raise this issue : I have raise it in speech , and I have raise it publicly . the Prime Minister know that as a Minister I would not have be speak on this specific issue , because I be not a Home Office Minister , but let I remind he about other victim who come to I whom I do help . the victim of the Tavistock scandal come to I , as a Minister , and I do not send they away , like his Safeguarding Minister . I make sure , as his Labour party be call I transphobic , that we launch the Cass review , which even his Health Secretary have accept . we do right by victim . the reason why a national inquiry be important be that this issue be systemic . it involve local and national official , the police , prosecutor and politician . the Prime Minister talk about some of the local inquiry , but these interlinked issue can not be cover by local inquiry alone . in fact , the leader of the Manchester inquiry resign because they could not get evidence , they could not summon witness , and not a single person in a position of authority have be hold to account . the Prime Minister call for nine inquiry during the last Parliament . do he not see that resist this one mean that people will start to worry about a cover - up ? this be an important issue , and we have to focus on the victim and survivor . the lie , misinformation and slinging of mud do not help they one bit . the right hon . Lady raise a victim ' s question , and quite rightly too . I accept that victim and survivor be in different place on this . those I have speak to be worried about the delay of a further inquiry . the last inquiry take seven year , which would take we to 2031 . among the issue that have be raise with I — the right hon . Lady have be speak to victim , and they will have raise this with she — be that it be very hard for victim and survivor to come forward to explain what have happen to they . they do not want to be rush through this process , which be why the last one take seven year . it be not sensible to suggest that it can be do in a hurry , on the cheap and comprehensively . that would take we to , let we say , 2030 or 2031 . the victim I have speak to want action today . I agree with they on that , but what I genuinely do not understand be why anybody would vote against the child ' s wellbee Bill , which will protect child who be vulnerable today . it will kill the Bill . it will stop the provision for child at risk today . I implore the opposition to vote for the Bill . do not wreck it in this misguided way . it be very possible to have short inquiry , especially if they cover area that have not be look at yet . we do not need to repeat the work that have already be do ; let we look at new area . former Labour MP Ann Cryer say that there be councillor and mps all over the country who know what be go on but be terrify of be label racist . a national inquiry would ask if there be a racial or cultural motivation behind some of these crime , where white girl be see , as Jack Straw say , as " easy meat " . the hon . member for Rotherham ( Sarah Champion ) be sack from Labour ' s Front Bench for speak out about rape gang . do the Prime Minister now recognise that sack people for tell the truth create a chilling effect that mean victim be not listen to ? I be very happy to call out anybody who have not act properly in these case . I have do it many , many time before , and it do not matter to I which political party they be in . I will call they out , and I will condemn they . when I be chief prosecutor , I take measure to confront this issue head - on . the first of the mass prosecution for an asian gang be in Rochdale . my team come to see I , and they put a number of asian man in the dock . they want the green light for the first of these case to take place . I give that green light , but on one condition , because it come to my attention that one of the man who be go into the dock have previously be arrest but not charge . I say , " you can bring the first of these mass prosecution , but only if you look back at the file " — where we do not charge — " and tell I what go wrong in a report so that I can start to put it right . " that be what start the reform I bring about . that be the approach I take in practice , while other be tweet and talk . it be the approach I would take now in any case where there be wrongdoing here , but what we have get to do now — Professor Jay have say this . we have have a number of strong finding . there be 20 on the table from Professor Jay . we have get to get on with action ; do not block it this afternoon . we need to focus on what this be really about . this be not about the Prime Minister ' s work in the CPS , and I would say very respectfully to the Prime Minister that it be not about you ; it be about the victim . be a leader , not a lawyer . we know that people be scared to tell the truth because they think they would be call racist . if we want to stop this from ever happen again , we can not be afraid . the Labour party have adopt the appg definition of " Islamophobia " . the same APPG report say that talk about sex groomer be an example of Islamophobia . this be exactly why people be scared to tell the truth , and the lack of clarity mean that innocent british Muslims be smear by association . that be not fair , and only a national inquiry can solve this . will the Prime Minister look again at the Labour party ' s adoption of the definition of " Islamophobia " and its chilling effect , and rule out introduce it in government ? I will call out any aspect that have prevent anybody from come forward , or any case from go forward , when it come to violence against woman and girl , child abuse or child sexual exploitation , as I have be do for the good part of 15 year . yes , some people will say there should be a further inquiry — I accept that — but that mean all the victim and survivor who give evidence need to be in a position to do so , and not all of they be . I have be speak to they . some think they be , but it will take time . all of the institution will have to give evidence ; that will take time . this will delay thing until 2031 . we already know what the major flaw be . my argument be that we should get on with that action . that be why we be bring forward the Bill this afternoon . the Prime Minister have effectively tell we that he be not able to do two thing at the same time — [ interruption . ] this issue of a delay be a weak excuse . I would say to he that , by refuse this inquiry , he be enable those people who wish to smear all british Muslims base on the action of a small minority . he be talk about distraction tactic . let we have the truth . the Prime Minister can not tell the House the full scale of the scandal . he do not want question ask of Labour politician who may be complicit . he will not listen — [ interruption . ] he will not listen to the victim who be call for a national inquiry . he be make this all about this afternoon ' s Bill . later today , he will tell Labour MPs , include those represent Telford , Rochdale , Bristol , Derby , Aylesbury , Oldham , Bradford , Peterborough , Coventry , Middlesbrough , Newcastle and Ramsgate , to vote against a national inquiry into the gang that have systematically gang - rape child in their constituency . this be one of the bad scandal in british history — [ interruption . ] order . this be a very , very important issue that matter to the country . it matter to all of our constituent , and I want to make sure they can hear what be be say by the Leader of the Opposition and the Prime Minister . this be one of the bad scandal in recent british history . how will Labour Members explain to their constituent that obey the Prime Minister ' s Whip be more important than do the right thing ? the right hon . Lady be right to say it be one of the bad scandal ; it be terrible . that be why I act on it . she recently acquire view be that it be a scandal , have spend a lot of time on social medium over Christmas . not once in eight year do she stand here and say what she have just say — not once in eight year . the previous Government do not act on the recommendation . they want a national inquiry . we have a national inquiry : the Jay inquiry . the report make 20 recommendation — not a single one implement . she talk about do two thing at once . the Conservatives can not kill the Bill this afternoon — wreck the Bill — and protect child . everyone will remember the dreadful case of Sara Sharif . this be the girl who be take out of school and abuse by an abuser . this afternoon ' s Bill fix that gap . I be look across the House , and I know there be hon . member on the Opposition Benches who know very well that what be in this Bill be necessary , that it be the right thing to do , and would want to vote for the Bill . I urge they to think twice about follow the short - sighted , misguided , bandwagon - jumping , non - leadership approach of the Leader of the Opposition . my constituent Annemarie , like countless other armed force family across Aldershot and Farnborough , be live in shabby military accommodation which , after 14 year of conservative neglect , be simply not good enough . I therefore welcome the Ministry of Defence plan to buy back thousand of home in my constituency . will the Prime Minister set out how sort out the bad deal leave by the Tory Government will make life well for Annemarie and other like she live at the home of the British Army ? I thank my hon . friend for her question . we all owe an extraordinary debt of thank to those who serve . by reacquire over 36 , 000 service family home , include 1 , 700 in her constituency , we can rapidly transform substandard accommodation . the deal we have do also save the taxpayer around £ 230 million per year in rent and follow the large pay rise for the armed force in over 20 year . there be , of course , still work to do , but this be a major step forward . I call the leader of the Liberal Democrats . happy new year , Mr Speaker . I join other in offer my personal condolence to the Prime Minister on the loss of his brother . may I take this opportunity to express my sadness at the passing of a much - love member of the Liberal Democrat family , Baroness Jenny Randerson ? fix the care crisis be urgent for the million of elderly and disabled people who be not get the care they need , for the million of family carer who be make huge sacrifice to fill the gap , and for the NHS , when over 12 , 000 people be stick in hospital bed and can not get out of hospital because the care be not there for they . the Prime Minister be right to say that we need a cross - party approach , but as Sir Andrew Dilnot have say today , that need not take three year . will the Prime Minister please speed up that work so that 2025 be the year we finally rise to the challenge of fix care ? I thank the right hon . gentleman for raise this important issue and thank he for his condolence . yes , we do need to get this right . I want a cross - party consensus on the issue and I invite he to work with we , as I know he will . it be important and he be right to say that we need some action now . we have take immediate action by provide £ 3 . 7 billion of additional funding in the Budget for social care and another £ 86 million to allow 7 , 800 more disabled and elderly people to live more independent life , and we have increase the carer ' s allowance . we have set this up in stage , so we can act and improve as we go along , while make sure we have consensus for the big change that may be propose in the review . I invite he and member from across the House to work with we , so we can get this right and ensure what we put in place endure beyond just a few year . if the government do not bring in long - term social care reform this year , their NHS reform in this Parliament will fail , so I hope the Prime Minister will revisit the timetable . move on , while the hon . member for Clacton ( Nigel Farage ) may miss out on his big allowance from Elon Musk , the spectre of the rich man in the world try to buy a british political party should give we all pause for thought . after year of the Conservatives take million of pound of russian money , will the Prime Minister now work with we to bring in long overdue reform to party funding , so that power in this country lie with the voter , not wealthy overseas oligarch ? I think we all have a smile on Sunday when the hon . member for Clacton ( Nigel Farage ) say how cool it be to have the support of Musk , only for Musk to say he should be remove just a few hour later — that be the rough and tough of politic . of course , we be look at the question of funding more generally . I welcome the effort this Labour Government have make to reset our relationship with the European Union and to seek to remove unnecessary trade barrier . the trading link between the UK and mainland Europe be of particular importance to my constituency , so will the Prime Minister support my effort , and those of other Kent colleague , to restore an international train service to Ashford international station to help economic growth in my constituency , Kent and the wide south - east ? I thank my hon . friend for raise this question . business in his constituency have be badly let down by the deal make by the last Government . we be reset and strengthen that relationship , on the economy , energy and security , to deliver the growth we need . I know this be an issue of considerable frustration to his constituent . the decision in question be ultimately for Eurostar , but we be keen to see international service reinstate to Ashford as soon as possible and I will be happy for the Rail Minister to update he on the late discussion . I call the leader of the Scottish National party . I will begin by do something unusual , which be to commend the Prime Minister on his early answer to the Leader of the Opposition . I also pass on my party ' s condolence to he on the loss of his brother . outside this place , temperature continue to plummet , energy bill continue to rise and the winter fuel allowance have be unacceptably take away from so many vulnerable pensioner . the Prime Minister intimate prior to Christmas that he have no regret about any of the decision that he have take in office . do he understand that the public do ? I thank the right hon . gentleman for his condolence . we take some tough decision . they lead to a Budget that deliver the large settlement to Scotland since devolution begin . if he think we should now reverse that , he should say so . the money have be give , so now the SNP have the money , the power and no more excuse for the non - delivery that we see in Scotland . if the right hon . Gentleman want I to reverse that , he should say so . feel safe in our community be among the most basic of human need , but after 14 year of Tory cut to Durham ' s frontline police — after break the criminal justice system , too many of my constituent be victim of violence , theft and antisocial behaviour and those crime too often go unpunished . I know the Prime Minister have have a lifelong commitment to protect victim . what assurance can he give my constituent that our new Government will be tough on crime and on the cause of crime ? my hon . friend be right to raise that important issue . I have to say , when he say that there be cut to police and somebody opposite say " boring ! " , that tell we everything we need to know about the last 14 year . my hon . friend be right : we need to crack down on those commit vile act in our community . that be why our plan for change put 13 , 000 extra police and police community support officer into neighbourhood policing , and include a 3 . 5 % real - term increase and tough new respect order . where they lose control , we will take back control and deliver safe and secure community . my constituent Dipak first open the door to his pharmacy in 1991 and he have be serve the Chelmsford community ever since , greet many of his patient by name . however , Dipak ' s business be struggle . his NHS contract no long cover the cost of the drug he have to dispense . for example , he have sometimes be force to pay over 100 time more than his contract provide for a particular mental health drug . Dipak be dip into his life saving to keep his pharmacy afloat and I be sure that many other pharmacist across the country be do the same . do the Prime Minister agree that no pharmacist should be force to use their own money to keep their pharmacy viable ? I thank the hon . Lady for raise that important and challenging case . community pharmacist like Dipak play a vital role in our health service . as she know , the Department of Health and Social Care set drug tariff price and regularly assess what pharmacy be reimburse to ensure that overall they be pay fairly . if the hon . Lady be prepared to share the detail far with I , I will have a review carry out by the team of the case she have raise . last year , I be honour to accept an invitation from the European Jewish Association to go to Krakow and discuss the role of Holocaust education in tackle the rise tide of antisemitism across Europe . we also visit Auschwitz and Auschwitz - Birkenau , where we lay wreath and pay tribute to the many victim of the Holocaust . give that this month mark the 80th anniversary of the liberation of those evil place , will the Prime Minister set out what this government be do on Holocaust education to ensure that never again mean never again ? I thank my hon . friend for raise that . antisemitism be completely abhorrent and have no place whatsoever in our society . I recently meet jewish community leader in Downing Street to discuss what far we can do to combat antisemitism , and that include allocate £ 54 million for the Community Security Trust to continue its vital work , commit to build a new Holocaust memorial and learn centre and provide at least £ 2 . 2 million to continue the funding for Lessons from Auschwitz . I look forward to work with other on those important proposal . business such as Hicks in Harpenden , charity such as the Hospice of St Francis in Berkhamsted , and health and social care provider such as the Elms medical practice in Harpenden , be among those up and down this country that be warn the Government about the negative impact of the propose change to national insurance contribution . when will the Prime Minister hee those warning and , at the very least , look at exemption for health and social care provider , as have be do for the NHS ? we have to deliver a Budget to wipe the slate clean , to deliver a stable basis for our economy and , at the same time , to repair our public service . that be why we invest £ 25 . 6 billion over two year in the NHS , include additional funding for GPs and hospice . we be take measure to ensure that funding be there to support our vital service . every week , I visit constituent live in the most appalling , overcrowded social housing , some with triple bunk bed in the bedroom and the parent on a sofa bed in the living room . the near available property to buy would be £ 500 , 000 , and that be out of reach for these hard - work family . I really welcome our Government ' s commitment to 1 . 5 million new home . will the Prime Minister agree that we need clear target for the number of social housing unit , so that family in Hackney can live in dignity ? my hon . friend describe an appalling housing situation , and one that will be familiar to a number of mps on both side of the House . that be why we will deliver the 1 . 5 million home that we desperately need across the country . the Budget announce £ 500 million for the affordable home programme — that be hugely important — £ 100 million of which will go the Greater London Authority . we will also reform the right to buy , to deliver a fairer , well value and more sustainable scheme where long - stand tenant can buy their own home . over the past 10 year , more than £ 500 million have be hand to holiday home owner in Cornwall through various tax loophole , while local family be be evict from their home to make way for yet more holiday home . as the housing crisis worsen , the six Cornwall mp be determined to reverse this situation and address the issue before the end of this Parliament . will the Prime Minister agree to meet we , so that we get the full backing of Government and deliver first , rather than second , home for the good of Cornwall and the Isles of Scilly ? I thank the hon . gentleman for raise this matter . we be commit to build those 1 . 5 million home , which include 4 , 500 new home every year in Cornwall . I do recognise the point that the hon . Member make , which be that excessive concentration of short - term let and second home in place such as Cornwall can impact the availability and affordability of home . that be why we will enable council to charge a premium on the council tax bill of second home , abolish the furnish home letting regime and introduce a registration scheme for short - term let . I be happy to make sure that he and his cornish colleague get the meeting that they want with the Housing Minister to discuss that far . this Government be commit to use the criminal justice system to tackle violence against woman and girl , but when an abuser can use a child custody battle to continue their abuse , as have happen in the case of one of my constituent , it be clear that we need to raise the issue in the civil court too . will the Prime Minister please look at end the absurd assumption that a domestic abuser ' s involvement in a child ' s live be advantageous to their welfare ? yes , absolutely . my hon . friend be right ; family court must never be a tool that domestic abuser can use to continue their appalling abuse . that be why we be expand the number of new pathfinder court to provide dedicated support to survivor and protect the welfare of child . we be review the presumption of parental involvement and will set out our position in due course . I will make sure that he meet the relevant Minister to discuss this far . may I associate myself with the remark of the liberal Democrat leader and other today ? I wish a happy new year to everyone , but 2025 be already prove a challenge for many of my constituent — pensioner , family , small business , the hospitality industry , GPs and social care provider , as other have say . they know that the SNP have fail to deliver for Scotland . they hear the Prime Minister when he say that the Conservatives leave the economy in a mess , and they know that government have to make difficult decision . but what they be ask I be : when will this Government do something positive for they to overcome the negative impact that they be face from the Budget ? I thank the hon . Lady for her question . may I express to her something that I should have express to the Leader of the Liberal Democrats , which be our condolence about Jenny Randerson ? I apologise ; I overlook that early . the hon . Lady raise the failure of the SNP and the legacy of the Tories . I be proud that this Labour Government deliver the large budget settlement for Scotland since devolution . that mean , in answer to her question , that 100 , 000 worker in Scotland benefit from the increase to the national minimum and living wage each year . an estimate 3 . 2 million people in Scotland will benefit from the extension of the 5p cut in fuel duty , which of course come on top of the £ 125 million to set up great british Energy in Aberdeen . it reinforce the point that the SNP have the power but have a terrible record , and the Tories leave a terrible legacy . we be get on with deliver for Scotland . last year , this Labour Government deliver justice for member of the mineworker ' pension scheme , and 45 , 000 member of the similar british coal staff superannuation scheme be keen to see their £ 2 . 3 billion investment reserve return to they , which could boost coalfield community such as mine in Cannock Chase . will the Prime Minister meet retire miner , trustee and coalfield MPs to discuss what can be do for BCSSS member up and down the country ? I thank my hon . friend for raise this issue . I be pleased that the first increase payment to mineworker ' pension scheme member be make at the end of November . I understand the strong feeling on the british coal staff superannuation scheme , which be why the Minister for industry meet the trustee last year . we will work with the coal staff trustee to consider their proposal once the new mineworker ' pension scheme arrangement have be agree . first , we have a Chancellor who embellish her cv , then we have a Transport Secretary with a fraud conviction , and now we have an anti - corruption Minister who be be investigate for corruption . I know that the Prime Minister like live in free accommodation , but do he really think that it be appropriate that his Minister be be give free housing by the political ally of some very dubious foreign regime ? the City Minister have act appropriately by refer herself to the independent adviser . we bring in our new ministerial code to allow Ministers to ask to establish the fact , and I be not go to give a running commentary on that important exercise . thank you , Mr Speaker , for the help that you have give I over the last couple of day . I write to the England and Wales Cricket Board regard the upcoming game against Afghanistan on 26 February , and the championship trophy . I have meet with the ECB , and we be call for the game to be boycott . I thank everybody for the support that I have have across this House and in the other place . I also thank the Prime Minister very much for his intervention with the International Cricket Council yesterday , but will he please agree to meet his counterpart in South Africa and Australia , and ask they to boycott the game as well ? there have be an appalling erosion of the right of woman and girl in Afghanistan . we should all condemn that suppression of freedom in the strong term . that be why we have provide additional aid , at least 50 % of which will go to woman and girl . the Department for Culture , Media and Sport be in touch with our international counterpart on this issue . I welcome the England and Wales Cricket Board make strong representation to the International Cricket Council on Afghanistan ' s woman ' s cricket team . set aside the matter of groom gang , the Opposition amendment on today ' s Order Paper set out very clearly why the Bill that we will be debate be so deeply flawed . if it be to become an Act of Parliament , it will have to be completely rewrite in Committee . the Prime Minister have make much from the Dispatch Box of his service as the public prosecutor , so could he tell the House why , during his time in that capacity , he decline to instigate a prosecution , for rape and sexual abuse , against Mohamed Fayed ? that case never cross my desk . that complete Prime Minister ' s question . on a point of order , Mr Speaker . during an answer about police number , the Prime Minister say that someone on the Conservative Benches shout " boring ! " may I correct the record follow a request from Hansard ? I actually say " Bingo ! " , because of the repetitive and overused clich é s that the Prime Minister be use . you have correct the record . I would not have own up in the way you do , but there we be . Quantitative Easing ( prohibition ) Motion for leave to bring in a Bill ( Standing Order no . 23 ) I beg to move , that leave be give to bring in a Bill to prohibit quantitative easing ; to prohibit the Government from indemnify any loss that may result from quantitative easing ; and for connected purpose . the purpose of this draft legislation be to ensure that the state be as economically accountable to the people as the people be to the state . that mean terminate the state ' s ability to debase the value of money through practice such as quantitative easing , which be not an option for the individual . clip , sweating , plug and cutting be form of coin debasement either by Government or individual . the most famous modern UK example be the great debasement between 1544 and 1551 , when Henry VIII reduce the gold and silver content of coinage by the use of base metal such as copper in order to fund his bacchanalian overspending and war with France . it have be a common feature of Government behaviour over the 5 , 000 year of gold trading history , and it continue today in the form of quantitative easing . with no gold standard to constrain unproductive investment and direct capital to sound and profitable investment venture , policymaker today have become obsess with short - term stimulus centre on the performance of stock and bond market . central bank have become uncontrolle , unconstrained and reckless in their pursuit of deliver non - stop , unsustainable global growth drive by credit . QE be what third - world dictator use to indulge in shortly before their currency descend into chaos , but it have now become a mainstream tool to avoid the darwinian reality of capitalism . history be litter with example of government , dictator and king abuse their hard - work citizen . coinage during Rome ' s ascendant year be bold , large and widely accept , but it reduce in size , weight and content as her empire wane . there be John Law ' s Mississippi scheme in France in 1716 to 1720 , when he and the Duke of Orl é ans , who be regent for Louis XV , preside over an establishment - back scheme on the premise that paper money be preferrable to gold or a metal - back currency , and that share be a superior form of money as they pay dividend . it be , in essence , the first national central bank . it end in chaotic collapse , and it badly damage France and her economy . national debt be support by print money in the same way as today through QE via central bank globally . I fear that the ending will be the same in due course . in Weimar Germany , after the first world war , the Reichsbank have become accustomed to print money to fund the wartime economy , increase mark in circulation from two billion to 45 billion between 1914 and 1919 . state debt rise by 30 time , from 5 billion mark to 153 billion mark . that continue with the value of the mark go into freefall in early 1923 and the issuance of note of up to 100 trillion mark , before sense return . it be a time of moral decline , short - termism and prostitution that benefit the opportunist , not the long - term wealth creator . with currency devaluation come a decline in all that have previously be cherish , include loyalty , faith , moral , innocence and honour . over recent time , capitalism in the UK and globally have be undermine as state have grow in size and central bank have distort logic . systemic risk management via the clearing bank in the ' 70 be gradually replace by more overt intervention , include by Alan Greenspan in 1987 , and in 1997 when Long - Term Capital Management , an offshore company , be bail out by the US Government . the year 2008 be a watershed moment , when Gordon Brown bail out financial institution at an estimate cost to taxpayer of £ 137 billion , follow by quantitative easing between March 2009 and August 2016 . that be dwarf by the action of Hank Paulson and Ben Bernanke in the US in 2008 . they use $ 700 billion of intervention to prop up the financial system generally , particularly AIG . during the covid crisis of 2020 and 2021 , when many bad decision be take by an already bloated state , between £ 310 billion and £ 410 billion — equivalent to between £ 4 , 600 and £ 6 , 100 per person in the UK — be spend in a number of questionable centrally plan intervention . in rather the same way as early Weimar Germany , Britain find itself heavily indebted and continue to run multiple deficit , make matter progressively bad . our moral decline be clearly evident , as true capitalism have be undermine by regular intervention , increase state regulation and a grow , bloated and inefficient state . it be interesting that Weimar Germany ' s revival start with the dismissal of many civil servant , and social welfare spending be massively cut . the french Government ' s recent funding crisis make it look even more like a national Ponzi scheme than in the UK . both wing of french politic refuse to sanction debt reduction despite the budget deficit be expect to rise to over 113 % of gdp by this year . market concern be push the euro low and France ' s borrowing cost high , with bond yield briefly surpass Spain ' s for the first time since 2008 . Javier Milei , Argentina ' s President since 2023 , have bring significant economic reform with his radical libertarian agenda , earn both praise and criticism . Milei ' s focus have be on cut public sector spending , reduce inflation and implement drastic fiscal adjustment , which have lead to improvement in Argentina ' s economy . inflation have fall from nearly 300 % to around 119 % , public sector job have be reduce by 35 , 000 , and the country have achieve a primary fiscal surplus . Argentina ' s economy have also exit recession , with a growth rate of 3 . 9 % , and borrowing cost have drop , signal reduce debt default risk . Elon Musk have be appoint to lead Donald Trump ' s new Department of government efficiency , which he will co - run with Trump ally and entrepreneur Vivek Ramaswamy . Musk say that the Department ' s creation would address Government waste and inefficiency . trump describe DOGE as a transformative initiative aim at slash bureaucracy , cut regulation and restructure federal agency , and liken it to the Manhattan project . money be the foundation of all human exchange of enterprise and replace barter in the early community . it allow for the transfer of skill through a transferable medium such as a coin , a note or indeed a transfer . by a continuous process of inflation , no matter how it be perpetrate , government can confiscate — secretly and unobserve — an important part of the wealth of their citizen . as they do so , the size of the state inevitably grow , and it become a self - serve , greedy master of the people it should be serve . common - sense logic and human relationship among work people be inevitably undermine , and there be a general moral decline in society . taxis should be transparent , justifiable and simple . the cost of government should be cover by taxis alone , limit the growth of excessive statism . gold have historically be the standard store of value and protection against currency debasement for over 5 , 000 year . it be interesting that profligate government always denigrate gold - holding , and hold it be often ban by government in crisis who have deceive their electorate . the word of President Woodrow Wilson after he sign the Federal Reserve Act should serve as a warning to all of we : " I be a most unhappy man . I have unwittingly ruin my country . a great industrial nation be control by its system of credit . our system of credit be concentrate . the growth of the nation , therefore , and all our activity be in the hand of a few man . we have come to be one of the worst rule , one of the most completely control and dominate government in the civilised world — no long a Government by free option , no long a Government by conviction and the vote of the majority , but a government by the opinion and duress of a small group of dominant man . " Friedrich von Hayek , an eminent austrian - school economist , say : " I do not think it be an exaggeration to say history be largely a history of inflation , usually inflation engineer by government for the gain of government . " give the historical track record of state abuse their citizen by various form of currency debasement , include QE , the default position should be to make it illegal , unless this democratically elect House have an inform vote support debasement . this Bill seek to achieve that position , and I commend it to the House . question put and agree to . order . one of we have to sit down , Rupert — I have get to do my bit . you come back in a minute . who will prepare and bring in the Bill ? Richard Tice , Jim Allister , myself and other , Mr Speaker . you have get to name they . you can not not name they . James McMurdock — [ interruption . ] maybe Rachel Reeves , I don ' t know . [ laughter . ] can you just read the name for clarity , so that Hansard have they ? Richard Tice , Jim Allister , James McMurdock , Lee Anderson and myself , Mr Speaker . order , that Rupert Lowe , Richard Tice , Jim Allister , James McMurdock and Lee Anderson present the Bill . Rupert Lowe accordingly present the Bill . Bill read the first time ; to be read a second time on Friday 24 January , and to be print ( Bill 155 ) . child ' s Wellbeing and Schools Bill Second read [ relevant document : Seventh Report of the Education Committee of Session 2022 - 23 , persistent absence and support for disadvantaged pupil , HC 970 , and the Government response , Session 2023 - 24 , HC 368 ; oral evidence take before the Education Committee on 17 December 2024 , on Children ' s Social Care , HC 430 ] the reason amendment in the name of the Leader of the opposition have be select . I beg to move , that the Bill be now read a second time . in the week in which we return to this House and our child return to school , I be proud to be the Secretary of State for Education in a truly child - centre government . the action I take and the decision I make be always in pursuit of what be good for the child of this country , and that start with keep they safe . after little more than six month in power , we be deliver the change that be many year overdue . no more lesson learn , no more paper pushing and no more foot drag : it be time for Government to act , and this Government will act with the urgency that our child deserve and our country demand . this Bill put forward bold new measure to keep child safe . these include a new legal obligation for safeguard partner to work hand in hand with education , because it be often teacher who first see the sign of abuse and neglect ; a new duty to establish multi - agency child protection team , because keep child safe be everyone ' s business ; a new power to put in place a unique identifier for child , share information so that no child fall through the crack ; a new compulsory register of child not in school in every area of England , because if child be not in school , we need to know where they be ; and a new requirement for local authority consent for parent to home - educate their child if they be on a child protection plan or subject to child protection inquiry . I respect parent ' right to make choice about their child ' s education , but child ' s safety must always come first , and under this government , their safety will always come first . let we be crystal clear : a vote against this Bill today be a vote against the safety of our child , against their childhood and against their future . today , conservative mp have a choice : they can choose to back measure to protect child , or they can choose to chase headline . they can choose to transform the life of the most vulnerable young people in this country , or they can choose to sacrifice their safety for political gain . they can choose to show the public that they have finally learn the lesson of their resounding election defeat , or they can show voter that they be still unfit to govern . I want to be very clear that the conduct of politician , be they on the Conservative Benches or anywhere else , who put the pursuit of headline today above the safety of child tomorrow be sicken and shameful . a previous generation of conservative politician would not have have the slight hesitation in say that the conduct of today ' s opposition in seek to block this Bill be quite simply beneath contempt . the Secretary of State have mention previous generation of politician , and all of we in this House must recognise that we follow in the footstep of giant . Tony Blair , Lord Adonis and other create the academy system that be build on under the last Conservative Government and bring about a transformation of english education . why do the Secretary of State want to dismantle decade of work by member across this House and bring about a gross socialist uniformity that will destroy the progress that have be make ? that be simply a mischaracterisation , and the right hon . Gentleman know it . I will come on to the wide school measure in this Bill later in my speech , but I note that he have nothing to say in his intervention about the safety of child and the measure we be discuss today . the wreck amendment that the Leader of the Opposition have table would block the very important , very serious measure that the Conservatives have be tell we for day they want to see put in place . if they want those measure , they need to support they . the right hon . member for Beverley and Holderness ( Graham Stuart ) mention uniformity , but the only uniform measure I can see in the Bill be about save parent money on uniform bill , which I think we can all welcome . do the Secretary of State agree that the fragmentation of the school system create by the last Government lead to many young people fall through the gap , which be a huge issue ? I will come on to the wide point of collaboration later in my speech . collaboration across the school system be crucial , but my hon . friend be right to draw attention to the really important measure in the Bill that will put more money back in parent ' pocket by cut the cost of school uniform and bring in breakfast club in primary school across our country . this be child - centre legislation through and through — legislation that back parent to do the good for their child . this Government be on a mission to break down the barrier to opportunity , drive forward by the plan for change unveil by the Prime Minister in December . the Children ' s Wellbeing and Schools Bill be a huge step forward in that journey of reform , start with child safety and building from there . it be an agenda for excellence — for safe and secure childhood , because healthy and happy future be build on nothing less . it be an agenda for excellence — for high and rise standard , because we will accept nothing less . it be an agenda for excellence — for a top - quality core offer in all of our school , because parent demand nothing less . it be an agenda for excellence , because every child in this country deserve nothing less . that be what mission - lead government be all about : child - centre action across Departments , between profession and through partnership . what matter about family be not the shape that they have , but the love they give . that be why , back in October , we announce the expansion of our work on foster and on the trialling of a new kinship care allowance . it be why , in November , I come to this House to set out the big reform of child ' s social care in a generation . it be why this Government then back those change with almost £ 300 million of investment , include the big ever investment in kinship care . it be why today I return to this House to cement our reform in legislation , and to build a child ' s social care system that be forward - look , excellence - drive and child - centre . our first priority be to keep child with their family wherever it be safe to do so , so the Bill mandate all local authority to offer family group decision making . with the guidance of skilled professional , family with child at risk of fall into care will be support to build a plan that work for they . we be strengthen support for kinship care , so that vulnerable child can live with the people they know and trust , wherever that be possible . however , despite the good effort of all involve , some child will inevitably need to enter care , so we must reform the system so that it work for they . I know that member right across this House share my outrage at the excessive and exploitative profit making that we have see from some private provider . it be shameful , it be unacceptable , and it will end . I know that my right hon . friend have a good head for number . will she be do some evaluation of the cost and benefit of invest in kinship care , so that we can reduce not just the cost to the child , but the cost to the taxpayer of expensive child social care ? my hon . friend be absolutely right . in my time with she on the Public Accounts Committee , I learn all too well the importance of those principle . the previous Government have work under way on understanding not just the benefit for child of stay close to those who can care for they good , but the spiral cost and the need to take action . however , what we do not see from that Government be action , and that be why we be today make sure that we deliver well for our child . this Bill give the Government , through the Secretary of State , the power to introduce a profit cap . provider should take note : we will not hesitate to use this power to protect our most vulnerable child . child must always have somewhere to live if private provider unexpectedly collapse . that be why this Bill introduce a new financial oversight scheme to increase transparency and strengthen forward planning . child need support when they leave care , too , so the Bill will require all local authority to offer care leaver emotional and practical support through the Staying close programme — support in find a great place to live , support in access the right service at the right time , and support in go on to live a healthy , happy life . the Children ' s Wellbeing and Schools Bill provide the safe and secure foundation that all child need , and it build on that foundation with urgent reform to all our school , so that every child can achieve and thrive . that mean school be at the beat heart of their community . that be why this Bill legislate for free breakfast club in every state - fund primary school , so that child get a welcoming , soft start to the day . it mean school where child come together to eat , learn and grow . it be good for attendance , good for attainment and good for behaviour . before my election , I spend nearly 20 year as a secondary school teacher , see at first hand the devastating effect of food poverty on child ' s health , concentration and academic performance . I welcome the introduction of free breakfast club in primary school , which will improve child health and learn outcome in England , as see in Wales . however , I urge further action to ensure that all child can thrive . will the Government consider extend free breakfast to secondary school student , and will consideration be give to access to free school lunch as well ? we will of course always keep further action under review . through the child poverty taskforce , which I co - chair the Work and Pensions Secretary , we be consider what further action be require to make sure that family have more money in their pocket and can increase their income , and will take action . the grow number of child we have see in poverty in our country be a source of national shame , and Conservative Members be responsible for that record . school uniform be important for build a sense of community , but too many family tell we that the cost remain a heavy burden , so our Bill limit the number of brand item that school can require pupil to have , put money back in parent ' pocket . I want child in school and ready to learn , and that be why the Government ' s plan for change set a milestone for record number of five - year - old reach a good level of development . that be vital for give every child the good start in life , but that be just the beginning , because I want high and rise standard for every child in every school . that be one of the sure way that we can break the link between background and success for million of child . that matter for every child , not just a lucky few . life should not come down to luck . when government forget that , it be not the child of Conservative Members who lose out ; it be work - class kid across our country . I know that well than most , and I will take no lecture from the conservative party on what it take to deliver well life chance for working - class kid . report figure for 2022 and 2023 show an increase in the proportion of child live in low - income family , and no change in the proportion of child live in absolute low - income family . do the Secretary of State agree that the Bill will improve the household finance of family and the life chance of child in my constituency of Wolverhampton West ? absolutely . the Bill will put hundred of pound back into family finance and back into parent ' pocket by cut the cost of school uniform , and by introduce breakfast club in every state - fund primary school . however , we recognise that there be so much more we need to do , because child poverty scar the life chance of far too many in our country . could the Secretary of State comment on the fall roll in some part of this country , particularly London ? Most local authority unfortunately take the option of closing school , which be very damaging to child and to local community . clause 50 appear to give she some power of intervention , so we could perhaps instead downsize such school , which would mean we keep the sense of they be community school . that be so important , particularly in the poor part of many London borough . can she give we some hope that there will be intervention , so that we keep community school ? a number of provision in the Bill deal precisely with that challenge . we recognise that in London — but shortly this will be the case right across our country — there be challenge that come with fall roll and make sure that we manage that properly . that will require school to work with local council , and to collaborate on manage admission and place planning . it will also require decision on how we make good use of the school estate . that be why we have start encourage primary school to bid to open primary - base nursery . the recent pilot programme for that have close , and we be delighted to see so many application . there be also an opportunity to think about use the space that will open up as a result of fall roll to create additional provision for child with special educational need and disability , so that they can go to a school much close to home , and can go to school with their friend , in their local community . there have be welcome consensus that a high - quality state education should be the right of all child . that consensus have help to ensure that innovation — from Ofsted to the national curriculum and academy — have stand the test of time , as government of all party have drive reform . academy , introduce by the last Labour Government and expand by the Conservative party , have be instrumental in raise standard in our school system . they have deliver brilliant result , particularly for the most disadvantaged child , and they will continue their record of excellence under this Labour Government . however , this consensus must not stifle progress . while the conservative party do make some progress over the past 14 year , it must reckon with its many failure . for example , one in four child leave primary school without meet the expect standard in reading , writing and math . ten of thousand of child do not secure good math or english gcse . one in five child be regularly absent from school ; they be unable to learn if they be not there , and hold back their classmate when they return . there be also hundred of thousand of child in school that perform poorly year after year . protect the foundation should not mean that we do not build on they . after a decade of stagnation — I say a decade because Conservative Members will remember a time when they have an Education Secretary who be determined to deliver reform — now be the time to press on and , once again , deliver for our child . member will see in the Bill a respect for the fundamental , twin with the drive to go far and deliver high and rise standard for each and every child . we inherit a system that be too fragmented , and that too often incentivise harmful competition over helpful collaboration . the Secretary of State give a lot of important statistic about how our child be develop , but their mental health and wellbeing be also important . will she consider a national wellbeing measurement , so we can look at improve the wellbeing of our child ? I welcome the hon . Lady ' s interest in this area , because I share her concern about the grow number of child in our country who be deeply unhappy , and the grow challenge of mental ill health and ensure wellbee . far too many child do not receive access to timely support , and we be look carefully at the issue that she identify . on child ' s welfare and make sure that child start the school day in the good position to learn , I thank my right hon . friend for bring forward plan for breakfast club , so that child be ready to learn , not only because they have have a good meal , but because they be ease into the school day . do she agree that that will help young child , and particularly kid with special educational need , to learn ? I agree with my hon . friend . we have be lead by the evidence on this , which be clear : this measure provide real support to parent at the start of the school day , but also deliver benefit for child ' s learning , development , academic outcome and behaviour . I be delighted that in April we will start roll out the first pilot across school , include school serve child with special educational need and disability , demonstrate the difference that this Labour Government will make to child ' s life chance . I be sure that all member of the House share the right hon . Lady ' s objective of ensure that child get the good education and have the good educational outcome possible , but why be she dismantle the infrastructure that have deliver improvement ? we have specialist school , school able to attract the good teacher , and school able to tailor their curriculum to their pupil . why do she want to dismantle that , if she want to improve educational standard ? that be just not the case . I invite he to read the Bill , and I will come on to further measure that we be propose . if we believe that every child deserve the good , that every classroom deserve a top teacher , and that every state school must be a great school , we can not have excellence for some child and " just fine " or " okay " for the rest . we need all school , work together , to deliver a national , high - quality core offer for all child , and to have the flexibility to innovate beyond that , so that parent know that wherever they live and whatever their local school , this Government be their child ' s great champion . the good school and trust do incredible work , day in , day out , and I pay tribute to they . they be engine of innovation and civic leader , and collaboration and improvement be central to their success . they prove that excellence already exist in the system , and it be time to spread it to all school . that do not mean no competition . competition can be healthy and a spur to excellence , but competition that encourage school to hoard good practice or to export problem to other must be replace by collaboration , and by school work together to solve problem and put child first . I do not just mean collaboration within trust . true collaboration also look outward , so that there be school drive by a share purpose embed in community . our vision twin that deep collaboration with healthy competition , so that every child in every school can benefit from good practice . the Bill bring reform . it demand high and rise standard across the board . we will restore the principle establish by the noble Lord Baker , which be that every child will benefit from the same core national curriculum , follow the curriculum and assessment review . the national curriculum be a conservative achievement — I benefit from it — and this Labour Government will bring that legacy back for every child , give every parent the confidence in standard that they deserve . every child will be teach by an excellent , qualified teacher who have undertake statutory induction . that will be support by give every school the flexibility to create attractive pay and condition offer to recruit and retain excellent teacher , and by back those school already do that to keep it go . I agree , as would all Members , that we want excellent standard for all school . one idea that the Conservative Government have be that if a school be fail , new management would go in to increase standard , yet the Secretary of State want to dismantle that . I would call that vandalism of our education system . no ; I invite the right hon . Lady to look carefully at the measure in the Bill . we will not hesitate to intervene in fail school — indeed , we will intervene a lot soon than the Conservatives do in school that be coast . those school that fall short of the statutory level of intervention will see regional improvement team in their school drive up standard . where there be failure in the system , or where school be not deliver the standard that every child deserve , we will act . that action will always be guide by what be good for the child in those school . that may well be academisation , or it may be target intervention to drive change in practice and drive up standard , rather than to change the structure . the Bill will convert the duty to issue academy order into the power to well deliver high and rise standard for all child , strengthen the range of way through which failure can be tackle . there can be no excuse for fixate on structure and not on standard , because what matter be what work . the Bill end the presumption that new school should be academy , give local authority the freedom to deliver the school that their community need . that include the ability to open new special school — something that member across the House know be a major challenge . this government will work tirelessly to make sure that all child with special educational need and disability receive the support they need to achieve and thrive . the previous Government leave that in the " too difficult " box , but we will tackle it and ensure that all our child get a great education . the Secretary of State mention special school , and member across the Chamber will have postbag fill with letter about far too many child who be not get the support they need with their mental health , whether at special school or otherwise . will she consider put a mental health professional in all our school , include special school , so that our child ' s wellbee can be improve , include their mental health ? I share the hon . Lady ' s concern about the mental health challenge that many of our young people be experience , and we be commit to roll out mental health support right across our school . on the wide challenge of support for child with special educational need and disability , I wish to make clear to the House that the reform we must engage in , and the change require , be complex and will take time . I invite member across the House — the Liberal Democrats and other — to work with we on the change that be require to get this right , because for far too long child with special educational need and disability have be fail by this system . parent have lose trust and confidence in it , and it be bankrupt local council . my right hon . friend have speak about academy and various other form of school . will she confirm that nothing in the Bill would result in a teacher in any school get a pay cut ? my hon . friend bring a wealth of experience as a teacher to the House . I know that teacher will want to hear what this will mean for their pay , so I reiterate that the measure in the Bill and the change that we will bring forward to the schoolteacher ' pay and condition document in the following remit will not cut teacher ' pay . the Secretary of State have speak about her focus on standard . the free school programme have drive up standard across the country , so why be one of her first action to threaten 44 free school project develop by parent , pupil and community ? will she lift the veil of uncertainty over they ? we be look carefully at all the school in the pipeline , but we need to ensure that in every case there be a strong case for the need for the school and good value for the taxpayer . we have inherit an enormous challenge when it come to the public finance , and we have have to make difficult decision because of the £ 22 billion black hole that the hon . Member and his party leave behind . [ interruption . ] the right hon . member for Sevenoaks ( Laura Trott ) , who be chuntere away , be in Cabinet as Chief Secretary to the Treasury and responsible for oversee all of that . return to support for child with special educational need and disability , we will improve inclusivity in mainstream school while ensure that specialist provision can cater for those with the most complex need . the change that the Bill bring be underpin by our wide reform to drive improvement . new school report card will give a full picture of a school ' s performance . new rise — regional improvement for standard and excellence — team will draw on the excellence in our system and bring school together to spread good practice and challenge underperformance . accountability and inspection should be a galvanise force for improvement and a catalyst for quality , raise the floor of success , not lower the ceiling of ambition . it should not drag school down but lift child up . it be about they — it be always about they . I be grateful for my right hon . friend ' s speech , and not least for the opportunity to raise standard for child with disability , child experience anxiety and child who have get care experience . will she look at the role that local authority can play in building collaboration and ensure that they have the funding they need ? the last Government hollow they out , yet they have a crucial role in raise standard and support school . I agree with my hon . friend that we need to ensure that local authority be work with school , health service and other partner in their area . through the last Budget , we be able to deliver additional investment for our local council . we want to see a much great focus and priority on early help and early support and prevention , because we know that that be where we can make the big difference to child ' s life . will the Secretary of State give way ? I will give way a final time and then conclude . I be chair of governor of the 15th academy , and in 2008 I welcome Sir Tony Blair to that academy in Northampton to show he the benefit of the freedom for governor to act with regard to the national curriculum , with regard to pay and condition , and with regard to innovation . I think that Sir Tony Blair and Lord Adonis will be horrify by these change , which will restrict the freedom to innovate and to improve . it be a great shame . that be a total misunderstanding of the Bill . the hon . Gentleman should not seek to speak for other in this regard . we be restore academy to their core intend purpose of drive up standard for the most disadvantaged child in our country , with innovation spread wherever we can do that . I really welcome the measure in the Bill to ensure that the many child be home - school have all the support they need to get back into mainstream education . I be extremely concerned to find out that in the last academic year , 800 child in Hastings be be home - schooled — that be one in 16 child , or 27 classroom of child . while there will be parent provide a good - quality education at home , I know from speak to teacher and to local shop who see these child in their establishment that some be not necessarily get a good education . we need to get those child back into school . I agree with my hon . friend . I recognise the challenge that she face in her constituency and that we see right across our country . we have see a big increase in the number of child be home - educate . while I respect the right of parent to make that choice — there be a complex range of reason why many parent be now make that decision , and there be question about how we support our child with their mental health and wide challenge on the SEND system — let I be absolutely clear to the House that all child not in school , when they be be home - educate , must have a good level of education . we can not allow the situation to continue where we do not have visibility of where child be and they slip between the crack . we will ensure through the Bill that when a child protection investigation be under way or there be a child protection plan , local authority will be able to decline that request from parent , because we all sadly know what can go terribly wrong when we fail to step in and protect child . on that issue , will the Secretary of State give way ? I be afraid that I be conclude now . we be bring together the system ' s many part into a collaborative , coherent whole with child at its heart . our ambition to support child do not stop here . we expect to bring forward further legislation when parliamentary time allow . our work to erase the stain of child poverty must and will continue through the child poverty taskforce , which I be proud to co - chair with the Secretary of State for Work and Pensions . reduce the burden on school , free teacher to teach and child to learn — today be about action . when colleague from across the House read the Bill in all its detail , they will find run through its 60 clause one golden thread , one common theme , one objective , one common cause . it be not structure or ideology , and they will find no pet project or stale dogma . they will see that our focus be firmly on child : their life chance be the aim , their protection be the objective and their success be our common cause . this child ' s Wellbeing and Schools Bill be write for they . it be introduce to the House for they . it will be implement for they — for their safety , for their schooling and for their future . I commend the Bill to the House . I call the shadow Secretary of State . I beg to move an amendment , to leave out from " that " to the end of the question and add : " this House , while welcome measure to improve child protection and safeguarding , decline to give a second reading to the Children ' s Wellbeing and Schools Bill because it undermine the long - stand combination of school freedom and accountability that have lead to educational standard rise in England , effectively abolish academy freedom which have be integral to that success and be regressive in approach , lead to bad outcome for pupil ; because it end freedom over teacher pay and condition , make it hard to attract and retain good teacher ; because it end freedom over Qualified Teacher Status , make teacher recruitment hard ; because it remove school freedom over the curriculum , lead to less innovation ; because repeal the requirement for fail school to become academy and for all new school to be academy will undermine school improvement and remove the competition which have lead to rise standard ; because the Bill will make it hard for good school to expand , reduce parental choice and access to a good education ; and call upon the Government to develop new legislative proposal for child ' s wellbee include establish a national statutory inquiry into historical child sexual exploitation , focus on groom gang . " the Bill in front of we today be a Bill of two half , one of which seek to protect child and improve safeguard and support for child in care . while the opposition will seek to amend various aspect of what be be put forward in Committee , we do see value in it . but the other half of the Bill be the policy equivalent of a wreck ball . it be an all - out assault on teacher , the education system and standard . it be nothing less than education vandalism and we will oppose it with every fibre of our being . the House must be in no doubt that the Bill really matter . it destroy the consensus build over two decade in England on how to improve school — a consensus that have lead to english child be the good in the western world at reading and math . I can not understand why the Government would seek to reverse that progress . what be they hope to achieve ? it seem to be policy build purely on ideology . More than that , it be wrong . I desperately hope that Government Members will come to see that . Madam Deputy Speaker , you would think that a Labour Government would feel proud of the record they have on education under Blair . it be that Labour Government who innovate and make way for academy . when Blair talk about academy , he say that an academy " belong not to some remote bureaucracy , not to the ruler of government , local or national , but to itself , for itself . the school be in charge of its own destiny . " that Blairite principle — a school in charge of its own destiny — be build on and expand by subsequent conservative government . what have be the result of this largely cross - party consensus ? a thriving education system in which english child have soar up the programme for international student assessment ranking . I see before I a move away from all the thing that have enable that success . the Bill seek to turn its back on Labour ' s history and take back those academy freedom on curriculum , on pay and on behaviour . you name it , they be reverse it — all the thing that have do so much to improve our education system . step by step , the very policy that see our school rise up the international league table be be reverse . I guarantee that just as we go up , as a result of the Bill we will come down those very same ranking . and who will suffer ? the poor pupil in society . I have live the dream of the academy programme from the very beginning under London Challenge , and I have see Hackney child go to university — they do not when I be first elect . but the last Government bring in a wreck ball . they make a smorgasbord of free school , and offer an open chequebook to pay over the odd for inadequate site that child be condemn to for year , with no accountability in the system as each bit fractured away . the reason why standard have notionally go up be that some school go 11 year without an inspection after they be rate be outstanding , but they be far from outstanding when they be next inspect . the right hon . Lady need to take responsibility and accountability for what her government do , and applaud the Secretary of State for what she be try to do to put it right . I have a huge amount of respect for the hon . Lady , but she will know that the academy programme be expand more than 50 time under the last government , and we go up the education ranking , not down , under the previous Government . the Bill would abolish academy in all but name , and for what ? because Education Ministers think that they know well than Katharine Birbalsingh and Sir Jon Coles . Blair say in 2005 that " command public service today be no more acceptable than a command economy . " well , someone need to tell the Education Secretary , because that be exactly what she be propose in the Bill . it be anti - rigour , anti - choice and anti - accountability . one of the most impressive aspect of the previous Government be the work institute by Michael Gove to build on the reform of Tony Blair , and carry on by successive Secretaries of State , such as my right hon . friend the Member for East Hampshire ( Damian Hinds ) . will my right hon . friend commit the next Conservative Government to reverse these change and ensure that we have more choice for headteacher on curriculum , hire and firing and expulsion so that we bring competition to the school sector , not the dead hand of a whitehall bureaucrat ? my right hon . friend be absolutely right . to be clear , the Bill propose a pay cut for nearly 20 , 000 teacher in future year , because it impose national term and condition on teacher in academy . I have to ask : what problem be the Government try to solve ? teacher outside of national pay scale be pay more , not less . what have they get against highly pay teacher ? why on earth be the Government come here today and tell ten of thousand of teacher that their pay be too high ? it be absurd . level down seem to be this Government ' s priority . the flexibility give on term and condition allow academy to offer thing such as a long school day . be the Labour Government propose to ban that ? the explanatory note to the Bill set a new standard in double speak when they praise the " positive innovation and good practice in teacher ' pay and condition in some academy " and say that the Government want to " ensure that local authority - maintain school also have the opportunity to implement this " . so what be they do ? be they give these same pay flexibility to local authority school ? they be do opposite . they be take pay flexibility away from academy . do not try and make any sense of this , because it be impossible . it be entirely contradictory . the Government be also remove the requirement for fail school to be take over by an academy , despite recognise the " strong track record of multi academy trust … turn around fail school " . what be they replace it with ? they mention " regional improvement for standard and excellence ( ' rise ' ) team " — official sit in the Department for Education — but in another breath they say that those team will not be involve in fail school . the Government have clearly totally fail ; they do not understand that the reason that fail school become academy by default be that it be the most effective intervention . if it be not mandatory , there will be lot of massive row about what will happen to fail school , and inevitable delay and legal challenge . what be the upshot ? More time with child in fail school not be deal with . what be their plan for fail school ? what be their plan to protect those child from fall behind ? what be the evidence that this approach be well ? have they trialle it anywhere ? why on earth be they put this into a Bill without a clear alternative failure regime in place that evidence show be at least as good ? the Bill be totally unacceptable and misunderstand why the academy order have be so important . I can not say this strongly enough to the Government Benches : it need to change . will the right hon . Lady concede that the academisation process have mean that the off - rolling that we have see up and down this country have lead to the crisis in SEND ? that be the whole point of how the academy system have , apparently , improved standard . it have not — it have decrease inclusion . will she please show we how the academy system have help our child who be now stick at home because they have be off - roll ? I be glad that the hon . Lady have confirm that the Labour party be , indeed , anti - academy . the Bill go on and on — rampant centralisation in search of a cause . why be the Government make all school follow the national curriculum ? where be the evidence that there be a problem ? why be they put in place sweep power to direct academy on unspecified thing ? what possible justification do they have for that ? the note say that it be to prevent " unreasonable use of power " . I say , look in the mirror . my right hon . friend have mention pay and power . I think they lie behind the Bill , because the education union oppose at every step under the last Labour Government and under the last Conservative Government . the dinosaur tendency , which we just hear from the hon . member for Gravesham ( Dr Sullivan ) , show that the Government viscerally dislike the freedom of academy , and they turn their face against the transformation of educational outcome — not least for the poor — because of ideology rather than a genuine commitment to the child . sadly , I think my right hon . friend be absolutely correct . I see no other reason for the academy provision to be in the Bill . it actually say in the explanatory note that the primary aim of this legislation be to make the education system " more consistent " . that be at the heart of the problem today , because more consistency do not a well education system make . it be a classic labour argument : one size must fit all , lop the top off the tall poppy . God forbid that school might be able to innovate and learn from each other , and teacher might have freedom in the classroom to try new thing , back up by a regulator that rigorously inspect and identify failure . that be an excellent education system , but one that aim solely for consistency be not — a system of command and control , stifle teacher , supressing innovation , with everything decide in an office in Whitehall , far away from the classroom . it be same old labour : consistency for all , excellence for none . the right hon . Lady have refer repeatedly to command , control and consistency , as if the latter be a problem . presumably , she be part of the Government that seek to use academy as a mechanism by which to control individual school from Whitehall , rather than have the individual involvement of local authority . the whole point of academy be to drive up standard by free they from state control . the Bill undermine all that , which be why it would abolish academy in all but name . I urge Government Members to look at what the education part of the Bill would do . look at the Labour history under Education Secretaries such Lord Adonis . do not destroy something that the Labour party help to build . the Government must get rid of the academy element of the Bill . they will not improve the school system ; they will make it bad . do not destroy the work and policy of two decade at the stroke of a bureaucrat ' s pen . we must ask ourselves : who this be all about ? be we on the side of ideology , union and bureaucrat , or be we on side of the child and teacher , and make sure that the most disadvantaged get the good possible education ? if it be the latter , the education section of the Bill must go . let I come to the final part of our amendment , on a national groom gang inquiry . this debate have be take too far away from the victim and what be right for they . there be legitimate argument to be have in this area , but the one I will not accept be that to call for an inquiry be to be far right . the Labour Government have to understand that they must explain their action , not just call the opposition name . local inquiry , which the Labour Government say be the answer , do not have legal power to summon witness , take evidence under oath , or requisition evidence . some of the leader of the Manchester inquiry resign after they say that they be block from access information . first , I commend the shadow Minister for this amendment , and for the last part in particular . as everybody in this Chamber probably know , my politic be very much leave of centre , but I fully support what the conservative party be do with this amendment , and my party will also be support the conservative on it . the reason be quite simple : the woman and child who have face injustice over the decade deserve to see the grossly pervert perpetrator who carry out unbelievable thing against child over the year face justice . we seek justice for they . the conservative party seek justice for they . the amendment the Conservatives have put forward today encapsulate the feeling of not just this House , but this nation . I be enormously grateful for the hon . Gentleman ' s support , and I agree completely . this be an enormous scandal , and yet we do not fully know the number of victim or perpetrator , or where it have take place . I hope that the right hon . Lady and Opposition Members will reflect that what we have see recently be a case study in disinformation turbocharge by social medium , include personal smear . today be the late example of how those who flirt with populism misuse sensitive and important issue . it be exemplify by how the shadow Minister and other conservative Members be willing to wreck a Bill that be actually about improve child ' s wellbee . she should reflect on how they chase headline and jump on bandwagon , while my right hon . friend on the Front Bench take action after year of inertia . I have be very clear today that the Bill will destroy the education system in this country and reverse the progress that we have make , and that be why we oppose it . on the hon . Gentleman ' s broad point , I condemn the language that have be use against hon . member in this House . however , he will recall that the Labour party put out a social medium graphic that grey out the then Prime Minister , my right hon . friend the Member for Richmond and Northallerton ( Rishi Sunak ) , and claim that he say that paedophile should not go to prison . it be incumbent on all of we in this House to be moderate in our language . this be an enormous scandal , and yet we do not fully know the number of victim or perpetrator , or where it have take place . the previous Conservative Government set up the grooming gang taskforce , which make more than 500 arrest in the first year . with 1 , 400 victim in Rotherham alone , this will potentially encompass ten of thousand of child . we therefore need a comprehensive national inquiry into groom gang to tell the truth . just for clarification , should Government member do the right thing tonight and vote for our amendment , there would be no wrecking of any Bill — they just need to vote the right way . as ever , my right hon . friend be absolutely correct . there be no reason that action can not be take at the same time as a national inquiry — it be not an either / or . if the Government want to disagree with that , they will have to argue their case on the fact , and not simply smear any opposition to they as far right or say that parliamentary procedure mean it can not happen . will the right hon . Lady give way ? no , I be go to finish . this be an opportunity for mp across the House to give victim the justice they deserve . hon . member have hear our argument on the inquiry and on school . I hope that today , when we vote on our reason amendment , the Government see sense on both . I call the Chair of the Education Committee . our education system and the wide network of service that support child and family offer unparalleled opportunity to make a critical difference to the life chance of the next generation . if government get the policy framework right , they can support every child to thrive in their education , close the disadvantage gap and lie the foundation for good mental health and wellbeing , which will set a child up for life . however , the situation that this Government inherit in July be overall very far from that . there be , of course , many school , teacher and other professional who work with child and young people who be do an exceptional job and achieve good result . as we consider this important legislation , I want to pay tribute to everyone who work to give our child and young people the good possible start in life — a great education , support where they need it and access to opportunity — and those who do the very difficult work of keep the most vulnerable child safe . the challenge in our system be not down to they ; they be the consequence of layer upon layer of policy decision take since 2010 that have make the context in which they work immeasurably hard . I shall mention just a few of those policy decision . the decision to cut the funding for early help and support for family , result in the closure of 1 , 300 sure Start centre , strip away vital support that can prevent family from reach a crisis . while fund for early help and support have reduce , expenditure on child protection and on child in the care system in crisis situation that can often be prevent have go up . the decision to make academy school directly accountable to the Secretary of State and responsible for their own admission policy , and to make free school the main delivery method for new school , have leave local authority , which retain the statutory duty for provide a school place for every child who need one and for SEND provision , without the tool and lever to deliver they , create an unaccountable and unmanageable wild west of admission in many area . the neglect of the SEND system have allow it to reach breaking point , and child be routinely let down ; the capacity of school to meet their need have be erode , and there be a lack of accountability for the role of health service . local authority be be push to the edge of effective bankruptcy ; school attendance have be fall at a completely unacceptable rate ; and our child and young people have the bad mental health and wellbee in Europe . where we should have a system of many part all work together in the good interest of child and family , we have a broken system where some part be miss entirely and other be buckling under the pressure . far too many child — particularly those with SEND — be be let down . in too many case , either child be not protect from harm as they should be , or the outcome of the attempt of the system to protect they be shamefully poor . we need only to look at the shocking over - representation of care - experience people who be homeless or in the criminal justice system to know that our system be fail . we need only to reflect on the name of the child who have be tragically kill at the hand of those who should have protect and nurture they — Star Hobson , Arthur Labinjo - Hughes and Sara Sharif , among other — to know that child protection urgently need to be strengthen . I welcome the Bill , which begin the work of stitch back together a support system for child and family and place child once again at the heart of Government policy . measure such as the creation of a single child identifier and a register of child not in school , restore the ability of local authority to deliver new school place and intervene on admission , tackle profiteer by provider of child ' s home , deliver free breakfast club , reduce cost of uniform and many other measure in the Bill will make a big difference to child and their family . the Education Committee be take a close interest in this legislation , which be relevant to our ongoing inquiry on child ' s social care , SEND and many other aspect of our work , and there be a number of area on which I would like to press Ministers today . the measure to improve child ' s social care be welcome , but it be well establish that local authority face huge cost pressure , which mean that the system do not function as well as it should . local authority that be currently trap in a cycle of spot - purchase residential place for look - after child from expensive out - of - area provider will need support and funding to make the transition to more positive way of work , even if those new way of working can bring down cost in the long term . what investment will the Government make in child ' s social care to ensure that the change in the Bill can be fully deliver with the maximum impact ? the £ 30 million of funding for breakfast club provide in the autumn Budget will extend the exist breakfast club scheme from around 2 , 700 school to around 3 , 450 school , but there be more than 16 , 700 state - fund primary school in the UK . can I therefore press the Government on the need to set out the cost and funding for deliver this policy in every primary school , and for a clear timescale for do so ? parent of child with SEND often find it hard to find childcare for their child . many have express concern at a clause in the Bill that will allow for exemption from the requirement to provide breakfast club for disabled child . some disabled child will also be able to access a breakfast club only if they have home - to - school transport to arrive at school early . will Ministers confirm that the Bill will ensure equal access to breakfast club for child with SEND in mainstream and specialist setting , with support where need to enable child to attend they ? breakfast club ensure that no child have to start the school day hungry , which will be transformative . however , school lunch also really matter , as the most effective way to ensure access to a nutritious hot meal for the most disadvantaged child . will Ministers therefore consider whether auto - enrolment of child already eligible for free school meal can be incorporate into the Bill ? as a minimum , we should ensure that all child who be currently eligible receive a free school lunch . the hon . Lady mention school breakfast . child obesity be up by a third and diabetes be up by a fifth . do she agree that , while free breakfast club be a great opportunity to ensure child be feed , we must also ensure that school meal be healthy and nutritious ; and that , alongside the Bill , school food standard need to be update in line with the most recent nutritional advice , make it clear that they apply to breakfast ? order . we have a very long speaking list , so intervention must be short . I agree with the hon . Lady that school food , in whichever set it be deliver , should be of the high quality . she will know about the pressure on school budget . my constituency have experience among the high drop in funding for local school of anywhere in the country . that have erode the money that school have to spend on high - quality food . I know that that be one of the area on which those on the Government Front Bench will be anxious to deliver over time as public finance permit . the measure to support care leaver be welcome , but be limit to extended stay close support and require local authority to publish the detail of their offer . what further measure do the Minister intend to take to improve outcome for care leaver and to ensure they get the same opportunity as their peer ? only 14 % of care leaver go to university compare with 46 % of non - care - experienced young people . what further measure will the Government take to support care leaver to access and stay in high education ? why be the Government not propose a national offer for care leaver to address the postcode lottery in care , in particular to provide care leaver with the confidence that if they choose to attend university away from home , because that be the good option for they , the same support will be available to they wherever they study ? the policy and practice of other Departments also have a profound effect on the experience of care leaver . can the Minister confirm whether , outside of the Bill , the Government be still consider the expansion of corporate parenting duty , so that every part of the state be require to take seriously its duty to look - after child and care - experienced people ? finally , to deliver on the commitment in the Bill , those who work with child and family will need support . there be challenge in recruitment and retention across many of the profession , from social work to teach to the early year . will the Government set out a workforce strategy to ensure that training place , continue professional development and effective recruitment strategy be in place to secure the staff we need to deliver the transformation our child deserve ? the Bill will introduce a series of measure that will start the process of rebuild support for child and their family , and that be very welcome . my Committee will continue to take an interest in the detail of the Bill and seek to ensure that it be as effective as it can be in deliver a system that can support every child to thrive , and in contribute to the debate about the further step , beyond the scope of the Bill , that will also be need . I call the liberal Democrat spokesperson . after five year in this place , I be relieve and delight that I and other hon . member finally have the chance to consider a piece of legislation that focus on child . the Bill get to the heart of our share duty as public representative to ensure the safety and wellbeing of our child . the Liberal Democrats will approach the Bill in a spirit of constructive co - operation . I urge colleague across the House to do the same for the sake of our child up and down the country . on that particular note , I turn to the reason amendment table in the name of the Leader of the Opposition , the right hon . member for North West Essex ( Mrs Badenoch ) . everyone in this House agree that no child should ever face sexual abuse and exploitation . we all agree that the state must comprehensively investigate all allegation . we must deliver justice and prevent these sicken act from happen again in future . where we disagree be on how to achieve that . we on the liberal Democrat Benches want action that help victim and prevent these crime from happen again . the conservative party want to derail this important Bill instead . we will table amendment ensure the recommendation of the Jay inquiry be implement in full . we will be a party of constructive opposition and we will aim to strengthen the Bill and its crucial measure on child protection and safeguarding . for that reason , we can not accept the opposition ' s wreck amendment . our child ' s safety and wellbeing be simply far too important . we owe it to they all to get this right . can the hon . Lady set out exactly in what way the amendment , which I think be entirely constructive — it accept the safeguard element , but challenge the educational vandalism that be be undertake by the Government — be so objectionable ? I humbly say to the right hon . Gentleman , who have be in this place much long than I have , that I understand that if the reason amendment be pass , the Bill would fall . that be why it be not a constructive amendment . that be why it be a wreck amendment . I do not think kill a Bill that seek to improve safeguard and safety for our child be the way to get justice for innocent victim of sexual abuse . there be much in the Bill that we on the liberal Democrat Benches welcome , but of course there be area of detail where we will seek to probe and strengthen , and measure on which we will seek to go far . as the Bill make its way through the House , we will provide that detailed scrutiny , challenge and improvement . some important change be in the provision on kinship care . the Secretary of State will be aware that this be a subject close to my heart and those of my party colleague . it be an issue close to my heart as well , as I move into the care of my grandparent as a young teenager . do my hon . friend agree that it be crucial we get this absolutely right first time , because it be such a rare opportunity to address kinship care ? minister should keep listen to kinship organisation to fill in the gap that those organisation see in the Bill , particularly in relation to the definition and to mental health care support . I thank my hon . friend for his intervention . he be absolutely right . I welcome the measure that put information about the local kinship care offer on a statutory footing , recognise the crucial role of kinship carer and finally put a statutory definition into law , which we have long call for . yet a definition in and of itself will not provide the financial and practical support that many family and child need . area where the Government be take action be limit to certain sub - group of kinship carer and their child , thus undermine the value of the propose definition . the charity Kinship say it would " hope to see future legislation and the forthcoming multi - year spending review far prioritise wide kinship care reform " . I therefore ask the Secretary of State , and will ask the Minister during the progress of the Bill , when they plan to expand the current pilot scheme to provide allowance to all kinship carer . why do the educational support in the Bill not seek to extend pupil premium plus and priority admission for child in kinship care ? we welcome the Bill ' s provision on child safeguarding , include the register of child not in school . as liberal , our party firmly uphold the right of parent to educate their child at home when it be the good choice for their child . in 99 % of case a parent know what be good for their child , but it be deeply concern that there may be many thousand of child whose whereabouts be simply unknown . that reality can contribute , as we have see all too recently , to tragic safeguarding failure , and that can not continue . can the hon . Lady provide a single instance where a child who be in home education — we must remember that child at school spend about 86 % of their time out of school — who be at harm be not know to social service already ? too easily there be a conflation of a failure of social service , which need to be fix , with home education , which be entirely separate . all the evidence point to the fact that the education and school sector must be a key safeguarding partner , which be why it be in the Bill . when a child have be identify as be at risk , ensure that they be in school , which the Bill seek to do , will help to safeguard they . we see this all too tragically in the recent case of Sara Sharif : she be take out of school and then abuse at home , and tragically die . she be be abuse anyway . the point be that this be just an additional measure to ensure that child like she be safe . I want to reiterate to colleague across the House that we absolutely support and champion the right of parent to home - educate . this be not an attack on home education ; it be about ensure that all child be safe . that be the view of the Children ' s Commissioner , the National Society for the Protection of Cruelty to Children and many other organisation , and in fact party across the House . the Conservatives themselves start to legislate for this in the last Parliament but then bin the provision . there be cross - party consensus on this measure . there be area of detail that we need to dig into during the Bill ' s progress , but in headline term , the register be a crucial tool in the armoury that we give local authority to ensure that our child be safe . as I have say , it have be call for by many organisation and all party . however , the volume of information request from parent place a significant and potentially intrusive burden on those who choose to home - educate for the right reason , so we must ensure that data collection be strictly necessary and proportionate and be be use appropriately . clause 24 set out the case in which parent and carer must seek permission to withdraw child from school . I would question the inclusion of child place in special school . when there be safeguard concern about a child , the local authority should be able to step in to ensure that they receive their education at school . however , some child ' s need will not be meet in the special school in which they be place , and parent may feel that they have no option but to home - educate . in such case , should not the presume option be to improve the child ' s experience of the school or to work with the family to secure alternative provision , rather than use the blunt instrument of clause 24 ? we know that , after year of neglect and mismanagement by the Conservatives , our school be cry out for support . for student , parent and teacher endure crumble building , persistent underfunding and a spiral SEND crisis , hear the Conservatives ' rhetoric today will be utterly gall . the Bill take welcome step in restore local authority ’ power to propose new maintain school — especially give the desperate need in many area for new special school , which local authority have regularly be prevent from establish in recent year — although , it be disappointing that it do nothing else to start address the reform that be so desperately need to improve the special educational need system . we also welcome the co - operation on school admission criterion . together , these change empower community to allocate educational resource locally , but some clarification be need . let I ask specifically what assessment the Government have make of the impact of require every single teacher to have , or to work towards , qualified teacher status , and whether they have speak to the sector about that . we all agree that we want qualified teacher in our school , but there may be some unintended consequence when non - qualified teacher be bring in to run certain service and extracurricular activity . be the Government confident that this measure will not lead to those unintended consequence ? the provision on pay should seek only to set a minimum floor , not a maximum ceiling , on what staff can be pay . I take on board what the Secretary of State say in response to an early intervention — that no one ' s pay would be cut — but that be a retrospective reflection . I hope that in future all school , whether or not they be academy , should be able to pay a premium in order to attract the right staff , if they have the resource to do so . [ interruption . ] from a sedentary position , the Conservatives be say that they will not be able to do that . in Committee , we will seek to amend the Bill to make it clear that this should be a floor , not a ceiling . my experience as an employment lawyer be that academy school generate large amount of employment right litigation because they tend not to treat their staff very well . [ interruption . ] some do , of course , but litigation be not in the good interest of child , and ensure that child have teacher who be adequately pay be a key consideration for Labour Members . I be not in a position to comment on the statistic relate to employment law issue in different type of school . I suspect that whichever type of school we look at , we will find case across the board , but I be not sure that be up for debate today . the title of the Bill include the word " child ' s wellbeing " , but child poverty be the key issue hinder the wellbeing of child in the UK today . the shameful legacy of the Conservative Government be one of far too many child go hungry at school . we Liberal Democrats have put forward a fully cost plan to extend free school meal to the 900 , 000 child in poverty up to the age of 18 who be currently exclude , and it be disappointing that the Government have not take this opportunity to ensure that no child go hungry throughout the school day . a meal at lunch time may be the only hot , nutritious meal that some child get , and all the evidence show that it help they to concentrate and learn through the course of the day and achieve well outcome . we must also bear in mind that hunger do not end at 11 . breakfast club can be useful , but expand lunch provision be a far more ambitious measure , and one that would have a great impact on child hunger . as be point out by the Chair of the Select Committee , the hon . member for Dulwich and West Norwood ( Helen Hayes ) , far too many family who be entitle to claim free school meal be not do so ; there be an estimate 470 , 000 such case . not only be those child miss out on the hot meal to which they be entitle , but their school be miss out on much - need pupil premium funding . I welcome the hon . Lady ' s comment about the need for young people to have hot food . at Jerounds primary school in my constituency , the kitchen be close because of reinforce autoclaved aerate concrete and the last government ' s failure to provide the necessary fund , so none of those child can have hot food . do the hon . Lady agree that be not good enough ? absolutely , and I be very sorry to hear about that case . the last Government do not deal with RAAC in our school building , and it be as a result of work that my colleague and I do , along with Labour Members , to expose some of the shocking extent of it that we finally start to get some traction on the issue . the Liberal Democrat - lead coalition administration in Durham county council introduce auto - enrolment for free school meal in September last year . an extra 2 , 500 child have be sign up , and there have be an extra £ 3 million in pupil premium funding for the county . just imagine the impact that that model could have nationally . I hope that the Government will take this opportunity to expand free school meal and introduce auto - enrolment . I be disappointed to see no mention of mental health in a " wellbee Bill . " this be an opportunity to tackle the mental health crisis that we be see among our child , and it be crucial that we do not allow that opportunity to slide away . give that , on average , six child in every classroom have a mental health condition , the Government could have seize the chance to ensure that every school in the country , whether primary or secondary , have a statutory and fully fund duty to provide a dedicated mental health professional . as the Bill progress , my liberal Democrat colleague and I will seek to do just that , and I be sure that we can count on support from across the House . my hon . friend be make an excellent and balanced case for protect child . many child with mental health problem and autism be educate at home because there be no realistic alternative . do she agree that the Secretary of State should be encourage to ensure that the support give to home - educate family under clause 25 include free access to examination , which can cost hundred of pound ? child be struggle to benefit from a good home education because of the cost . do my hon . friend support that idea ? I be happy to support that . in fact , when the previous Administration introduce the school Bill , which they then decide to bin , the Liberal Democrats in the House of Lords table an amendment that do just that , and I be sure that we will seek to do the same this time around to help the family who choose to home - educate . although this Bill set out some important reform to our school system , the liberal Democrats would like to see great ambition . the attainment gap have widen significantly in recent year , and it be unacceptable that outcome for less affluent and more vulnerable student be get bad . we believe that one piece of the puzzle would be a tutoring guarantee for every disadvantaged pupil who need support . when implement correctly , tutoring have prove its worth time and again . seven in 10 parent whose child receive tutoring at school say that it have raise their child ' s attainment . we know that it also boost young people ' s confidence , and tutoring can help tackle persistent absence , which be a huge issue in our school . I hope the Secretary of State agree that a tutoring guarantee , introduce via this Bill , would be a powerful tool in narrow the attainment gap and ensure that every child get the high - quality education they deserve . let I reiterate that this be a Bill that we must get right . now be not the time to play politic . now be the time to work to keep our child safe , to give they the chance to flourish . that be our task across this House , and it be the mission that my party will pursue as the Bill progress . I do not wish to set a time limit , so if colleague keep their contribution nice and short and tight , we can try to get everybody in . I thank those on the Front Bench for the speed with which they have bring forward the Bill so early in the parliamentary term . as a former teacher and a local authority child ' s lead , I know how important so many of the measure be — an importance match only by how overdue so many of they be too — which be why it be such a shame to see other seek to turn the debate into a political sideshow , when it should really be an opportunity for the House to come together behind some powerful and important safeguarding measure . as a teacher who see at first hand the importance of breakfast club for deliver the good start to a school day for young people , and as a local authority leader who work to expand they , I be really excited to see that clause 21 bring forward Labour ' s commitment to ensure that no child start school hungry . no one should tolerate child start school without the food they need to learn and to be ready for their school day , and I be glad that this Government certainly will not do so . today , however , I want to focus on some of the measure relate to keep some of the most vulnerable child in society safe and ensure that they have the support they need . I be particularly pleased to see clause 24 , which place on local authority an obligation to have a register and visibility of every child off the school roll . as a former local authority lead , I know that read serious case review be an important part of preparation for any role , and certainly for that one . if we read those serious case review and story of what can happen to some of the most vulnerable young people when they be allow to fall off the radar and to slip through the net , and when they be leave open to exploitation and abuse by some of the most evil people in our society , we can be under no illusion as to why this measure be so important . I absolutely understand why , at first reading , those who home - school might have some concern about it , but this be absolutely not an attack on home - schooling . the right to home - school be important , certainly at a time when inclusion and support in school be far from what it should be for child with some of the high need , and it be important that that be protect . but just as every parent have the right and responsibility to do what be right for their child , we all have the right and responsibility to ensure that no child can be leave vulnerable and fall between the crack . this Bill do that , and I be incredibly proud to be stand with colleague and support a measure that I know so many of we have call for in a variety of role over the last decade . do the hon . Gentleman have sympathy with parent who feel that they have be let down by the local authority on support for their child with special educational need , who recognise the historical primacy of parent in determine the education of their child , and who be now see a piece of legislation that remove that right and say that the state , not the parent , decide whether a child can be take out of school ? we all accept that where there be safeguard issue , action should be take , but be the hon . Gentleman really comfortable with change the approach for the ordinary parent after decade of it be the other way around ? I thank the right hon . gentleman for one of his many intervention today . I be not sure I hear an apology for the state in which SEND provision be leave by the previous Government , but I absolutely recognise the point that I think he be try to make . if he read the Bill , however , he will see a lot of assurance . in choose to set the threshold as high as a section 47 assessment — a child protection assessment under the Children Act 1989 — we have be incredibly cautious about where we have draw the line . some outside this House might even say we have be too cautious about where we have draw the line , but it recognise the important balance that have to be strike here , for exactly the reason that the right hon . Gentleman allude to . alongside that , I think colleague across the House recognise the fact that , for far too long , child ' s social care have not be do right by some of the most vulnerable people in our society . at great cost , the system be deliver really poor outcome for vulnerable young people . it be not provide the love and support that they need , and that love and support do not last anywhere near long enough into their adult life . no parent would expect their responsibility to end when their child turn 18 . I would not tolerate that for my child , and I be sure no one in this Chamber would , yet as a society we all too often do so for those who be in our care . that be why the Bill ' s requirement around stay put , and around make sure that we have a publish care leaver offer , will be so important . I welcome the Secretary of State ' s leadership , which have ensure that we have move at pace , and I look forward to continue to work with she and with organisation that speak on behalf of care leaver right across the country , to ensure that the Bill ' s measure be implement in the most effective and robust way possible . those in our care would expect nothing less , and I be sure that all of we across the House will make sure that we hold ourselves to a high standard . alongside that , it be pretty clear and fair to say that , for far too long , the care system have not recognise the value and importance of wide family network in deliver the good possible outcome for vulnerable young people . that be why clause 1 , which bring forward the requirement for family group decision making , could be such a powerful tool . if do well , family group decision - make conference make sure that there be a constellation of family involvement early in a child ' s case , potentially keep they out of the care system and make sure that all the people who can exert a positive influence on that child ' s life can be bring into the process as early as possible . this be a really welcome step forward that could be transformative for the care system . again , I look forward to work with colleague from right across the House to make sure that we can implement this measure in the most effective way possible , work with local authority to deliver all the benefit that family group conference , if do well , have be show to have . along with many Labour colleague and Opposition Members who have campaign on behalf of kinship carer many time in my quite short parliamentary career , I be glad to see the important recognition of their role in this process . kinship carer step up for vulnerable young people in their care , and it can not be right that so many of they be prevent from support young people in their care by a rigid and bureaucratic care system . no kinship carer should have to sign up and become a foster carer just to look after a young person . when they have to do so , it be clear that the system be do too little to enable what be right . that be why it be so important that the measure in this Bill recognise the importance of kinship care , start to codify it and bring in a local offer , which be welcome . alongside that , the important measure to cut down on some of the unnecessary cost in the system — whether they be due to hire agency worker or to excessive profiteer by child ' s home — have to be welcome too . we must make sure that every penny of the money we rightly spend on child ' s service can go towards protect and look after vulnerable young people . there be so much else to welcome in this Bill , which I be sure a great many colleague will touch on . there be definitely more to do , from tackle the crisis that we inherit in SEND provision to make sure that we have the foster carer we need to support our young people . there will be more important work for this Government to do , and I have absolutely no doubt that my Front - Bench colleague will show great leadership on those issue over the month to come . today be about action and do what be right for some of the most vulnerable young people in our society . it be about bring forward measure that could have come before this House a long time ago , but it have take this government , this Minister and this Education Secretary to finally show leadership . I be incredibly proud to be support they today , and I be very happy to be stand on this side of the argument in the Chamber . I be sure that today Labour mp will cheer what they see as the final demise of the Gove - Gibb reform , but the Bill before we reverse far far back than that . if this Bill pass in anything close to its current form , it will be as if Lord Adonis be never the Schools Minister and Lord Blunkett have never sit in the Secretary of State ' s place . it will be as if Tony Blair have never be Prime Minister , and have never make central to his pledge to the british people in 1997 those famous three word : " education , education , education . " to be clear , there be thing in this Bill that we agree with . there be thing that be in our Bill . there be thing that build on the work that we be do on stay Close , on virtual school head , on kinship care and more . of course , there be also thing in the Bill that be design to be eye - catch initiative — something that the Government learn from New Labour — such as the retail offer , to use the jargon , on breakfast club . there be already thousand of breakfast club in our country . by the way , we would like to know what will happen to breakfast club at secondary school , where they would make more of an impact on attendance than in primary school . there be also the provision on uniform . we have have statutory guidance on uniform for a long time , so I have no idea why it be necessary to write it into law . the principal aim seem to be to outlaw primary school require the wearing of a tie . the big part of this Bill — read the detail — be about attack school and trust autonomy and give power back to Whitehall and the local education authority . colleague on both side of the House know there have be a dramatic transformation in educational attainment in this country . we now have the good primary school reader in the western world , and we have see dramatic improvement in secondary school math , reading and science . child eligible for free school meal be now 50 % more likely to go to university than they be in 2010 . why have that happen ? in one word : teacher . it be teacher who have make that happen . but there be also brilliant , dedicated teacher in Wales and Scotland , where those improvement have not happen . the most effective teacher exist in an ecosystem , and what have really create the potential for these improvement be that brilliant teacher have be support by our reform . those reform have always have two side . first , there have be a relentless focus on standard and quality , with a knowledge - rich curriculum and prove method such as synthetic phonic and math mastery . school have be learn from school , with a hub system across the country and , critically , within academy trust , which be the key vehicle for school improvement . we have always know that this focus have to go hand in hand with diversity and choice . parent must be able to select what be good for their child , and we believe there be a role for big school , small school , co - ed school , mixed school , denominational school and so on . of course , academy and free school have enable that diversity to increase far . to have effective school choice , there have to be capacity in the system . there have to be more place than there be child , which be why we have add more than 1 million new place since 2010 , follow the Labour party ' s unbelievable decision to cut 100 , 000 place in its last year in government . finally , to have diversity and choice , parent need clear information . the key Progress 8 metric be so much well than what come before , the five - plus C - plus at GCSE measure or contextual value add . combine with clear Ofsted judgment , this have enable parent to understand quickly and easily what be go on in different school . I could make some point about Progress 8 , but that be not why I be intervene . just yesterday , my local news website report that Dr Brown , the award - win found headteacher of the award - win Maple Hayes Hall school for dyslexia in Lichfield , use his 90th birthday message to say that the obsessive focus on synthetic phonic be hold back pupil . that be not I say that ; it come from the award - win headteacher of an award - win school . I be grateful to the hon . gentleman for let the House know that the new Labour party still reject synthetic phonic , which have the most remarkable depth of evidence behind it , in favour of its fashionable , progressive policy . this be why I say that all the progress achieve by our reform be at imminent risk . labour have already stop new free school , and now there will be far few academy conversion . even exist academy be about to see their freedom erode . what be the practical benefit of all these erosion ? take the qualified teacher status requirement . school be not go around en masse recruiting teacher without qualification , but there can be time when it be right for a school to employ a teacher from the independent sector or another country . what will this requirement achieve ? or take the statutory pay and condition framework . I know of no evidence that academy group be undercut pay and condition — if any Labour Member do , they should please intervene . some academy group pay more , and what do that mean ? it mean they be invest . the right hon . Gentleman need to understand that it be about pay and condition , not just pay , and it need to be national if we be to recruit and retain teacher . the previous Government fail on every single measure to retain and recruit qualified teacher . I be grateful to Labour colleague for their intervention , and for tell this House and the country what they need to know . all these successful school and trust have be do exactly that . they have bring new talent into the profession , and they have help to improve retention , but no , they be not the right people to make that decision , be they ? no , Labour mp and Labour Ministers should be make that decision for they . the vast majority of school follow the national curriculum , but some innovate . what be wrong with that ? what be wrong with add something on top of the national curriculum ? in any case , every school be statutorily require to deliver a balanced and broadly focused curriculum , and they be check on that by Ofsted . finally , there be the power for council to prevent good , popular school from expand . what could that possibly achieve , except create more disappointed family , child and parent ? the one thing these four measure will achieve be tick one more union demand . this Bill can not be see in isolation . look at the Government ' s broad proposal : scrap the Latin excellence programme ; scrap the expansion of the cadet programme in state school ; make Ofsted judgment less transparent ; and tax independent sector education for the first time in our country ' s history , and almost uniquely in the world , in a way that will fill more of the most popular state school and make it hard for family to get their child into the state school of their choice . potentially the big thing of all be the curriculum review . this Bill say that school must follow the national curriculum , before the new national curriculum be set out . it pre - empt the review . we do not know what will be in the review , and we have to keep an open mind and see what come forward , but I remind colleague that the Government be not force to adopt what the independent reviewer come up with , nor be they oblige to stop where the independent reviewer do . in this country , since the start of the national curriculum , we have always take the approach of not specify exactly what kid will learn in sensitive subject such as history , English literature and religious education . People often misunderstand this , but it be not a list of the thing pupil learn in school . have a broad framework have help to guard against the politicisation , or the over - politicisation , of education . it would be very dangerous if , instead , Ministers come up with a more prescriptive approach to the national curriculum , especially if this Bill remove the safety valve of school be able to deviate somewhat . I be listen with interest to the right hon . Gentleman ' s point about the national curriculum , which we know academy currently do not have to follow . I note that 42 % of school across the country no long enter any pupil for GCSE music , and the figure be 41 % for drama and 84 % for dance . do he think that be a factor in this debate ? the hon . Gentleman should have add the GCSE number to the number for technical and vocational qualification , otherwise it be misleading . we all want kid to study the subject they wish to study , and the subject from which they will benefit . I be not sure how what the hon . Gentleman say negate what I just say , which be how we normally debate . the curriculum review be also an assessment review , and we have hear much less about what that mean . we know that the Labour party have form on this when it be last in government , with its target - rich — I might say target - obsessed — approach to achieve five or more gcse at grade C or above , include English and math . on the face of it , that be a perfectly good target , but when I be on the Education Committee back in 2012 , when it be chair by my right hon . friend the Member for Beverley and Holderness ( Graham Stuart ) , we have an inquiry on grade inflation . I count 11 different way in which the figure be massage , such that it look like thing be get well every year but , when the OECD number come out , we be tumble down the international table . it be naive , because what get measure get mangle , and I worry that be about to happen all over again . it do child no favour . also on international ranking , at the end of Labour ' s last term in Government , we be the only country in the developed world where the literacy and numeracy of young adult be poor than that of the generation about to retire . at least in the new Labour era , Labour Members believe they be pursue academic excellence , but I be afraid that have now go out of fashion . the progressive phrase we hear from Labour Members sound good — " accessibility " , " relevance " , " modernity " — but though they be beguile , those thing rarely actually help the child they be think to help . the pursuit of true excellence in state education be not elitist . it be the opposite of elitist ; it level the play field , and it mean that people from all background can be up with those elite . whatever attack Labour make on the independent sector , or to try to take down top - perform state school , the advantage and the privilege will always lie with child , wherever they be , whose parent be actively involve and engage . they will always do well . it be not they who need our reform — it be everyone else . under this Bill , it will be everyone else who suffer . after decade of campaign for the health of child and well school food , I be so pleased that universal primary breakfast club provision be be put on a statutory footing in the Bill . there be no great priority for this Government than raise the healthy generation of child ever . the fact that the conservative party be try to play politic with the wellbeing of child when it come to this Bill be a true reflection of where its priority lie . provide a free breakfast to all primary school pupil be yet another manifesto commitment fulfil , and it will transform the life of child across the country . the Education Endowment Foundation find that school breakfast can help deliver two month - worth of extra attainment at key stage 1 . there will also be huge health outcome . one in three child be already at risk of future food - relate ill health , such as type 2 diabete or heart disease , by the age of 10 . by provide a nutritious breakfast , we can ensure that child start their day at school ready to learn . however , I be concerned that the Bill do not include any kind of nationwide system of monitor the food serve in breakfast club . the school food standard set out over 10 year ago be still not be enforce . child will be at risk — though it will not necessarily happen — of be serve poor - quality breakfast under the scheme . alongside the roll - out , we need to put in place the recommendation in the excellent 2013 school food plan about Ofsted and the enforcement of standard . I hope that will be consider in later stage and iteration of the Bill . speak of health outcome , it be a miss opportunity not to include auto - enrolment for free school meal in the Bill , as other have say today . the Department for Education have report that nationally , 11 % of family who be entitle to claim free school meal have not apply to receive they . that mean that 470 , 000 child in England be miss out on their statutory right to a free school meal . that be due to barrier such as complex application process , language or literacy challenge , stigma and low awareness . the FixOurFood research programme have work with 66 local authority , with huge success , but the burden must be take off local authority . data - share challenge should not prevent child from eat the free school meal to which they be entitle . as the free school meal scheme be a statutory scheme , Government funding for provide those 470 , 000 child with a school lunch should already exist , so auto - enrolment should not be see as extra spending . importantly , auto - enrolment also unlock vital extra pupil premium funding . for example , since 2016 , Sheffield city council have unlock £ 3 . 8 million in extra pupil premium funding every single year to support 5 , 400 child . that be just one example of many available . include provision in the Bill to provide those child with a free lunch would have a very low cost , but an extremely high impact . free school meal , enable by the new breakfast programme , have be show to be beneficial for both attainment and attendance at school . in fact , the case for universal free school meal be also a no - brainer . impact on Urban Health find that every £ 1 invest in universal free school meal return £ 1 . 71 in core benefit . that include massive saving for the NHS through reduction in childhood obesity rate . the London Mayor ' s groundbreake scheme to expand free school meal to all primary - aged pupil have also have unprecedented impact : 84 % of parent say that the scheme have " help " or " significantly help " their household finance . an evaluation report be recently release ; I encourage the Minister for School Standards and the Secretary of State to read that report , if they have not do so already . it contain significant finding that more than make the case for universal free school meal to be roll out . I look forward to see the success of the breakfast club programme as it be roll out — alongside , hopefully , more quality school lunch . I hope that create further appetite for well and expand school food provision in the future . I have no doubt that the Bill be base on socialist dogma . it will reduce choice and competition , and take away parent ' freedom to educate at home . I be against it . I will vote against it , and Government Members will vote for it — that be how politic work in this country — but how on earth can we look at the word " child ' s wellbee " in the title of the Bill , and debate and vote on that subject , when out there in the country , our constituent be talk about what we use to call groom gang , although I think we have move on to call they mass and gang rape ? since 2012 , I have try to campaign for more truth and honesty about what have go on , although the former Labour MP for Keighley , Ann Cryer , be do that as far back as 2002 . every attempt at a proper national debate on the scale of the problem have be shut down . we think initially that in half a dozen northern town , there be a serious problem — mass sexual assault , and rape of child and young woman . however , after recent research , journalist Charlie Peters at GB News say that he be certain that this have take place in at least 50 town in our country , and be still go on today . I sincerely thank the hon . gentleman for give way . I appreciate the need to look at these issue in the round , but do he accept that there be measure in the Bill that will protect child , base on what we already know ? those measure will help stop child across the country be abuse , and make it hard for groomer to get access to they , which be what we all want , be it not ? I hope he agree with I . no , I do not . whatever measure be in the Bill to protect child — we all want to see child protect , for goodness ' sake — will not protect they . the Prime Minister be do his good to tell we that there have be an inquiry : the Jay inquiry . well , there have , and it be 459 page long . groom gang be not mention once . Rotherham be literally mention once , in pass . the scope of that inquiry be like a shotgun : it be to cover a whole range of area in which child be be abuse . what we need , and be call for , be a rifle - shoot inquiry that look specifically at the question : to what extent be gang of pakistani man rape young white girl ? ultimately , it seem to I that there be a deep racist element behind what happen . I might be right or I might be wrong , but do the country not deserve a full , open and national inquiry ? I believe there be now overwhelming support on all side of the political spectrum for that ; Parliament should not be in denial . if the Government will not hold it , we will raise the money at Reform UK and appoint independent arbiter , because we need the truth to be out there . I will vote for the amendment table by the Leader of the Opposition , although I note that as Women and Equalities Minister from 2022 to 2024 , she do not meet a single victim of the rape , and never raise the issue once . insincere though the amendment may be , we will vote for it . however , I beg Labour Members to think . do their constituent not need to know the truth about this great evil that have happen in our country ? rise — we have more than 60 colleague hope to get in , so I will implement a five - minute time limit . every year , around 500 , 000 child in this country be abuse . that number be likely high , because the vast majority of abuse be hide . the Bill be about safeguard they . it be about stop vulnerable child from fall through the crack — for example , by have a register of those who be home - school . it be about try to prevent horrific crime , such as those commit against Sara Sharif , from ever happen again . the Children ' s Charities Coalition have call it " a major step forward " . I want to be clear that no party have completely clean hand on this issue . under successive government , vulnerable child have be systematically fail by the institution that be suppose to protect they , such as the police , social service , local authority , the Crown Prosecution Service and school . they be disbelieve and their life be devalue . we in this House owe it to victim and survivor of the past , present and , sadly , future to give they justice and protection where the state fail so badly . if we be to do that , we can not turn child sexual abuse and exploitation into a political football . I want to be clear that it be by no means all member on the Opposition Benches who be guilty of do that ; there have be dedicate , powerful advocate for child on both side of the House . however , the conservative leadership , and reform mp , march to the beat of Elon Musk ' s drum , be plainly weaponise the pain and trauma of victim for their own political end . I do not know whether they just do not realise how deeply painful and retraumatise it be for survivor to hear their abuse be speak about so flippantly , often in graphic term , by people who profess to care but do not act when they have the power to , just to bolster their unrelated political agenda , or whether they just do not care . I implore hon . member on the Opposition Benches to stop . when they say that child sexual abuse and exploitation be the result of alien culture or a multiculturalism project that have fail , they mask the reality , which be that child sexual abuse and exploitation be happen in every area of this country , and be perpetrate by member of every social class , every race and every religion . reform mp be chuntere on the Opposition Benches , but that be a fact , and when they deny that , they be fail victim and survivor . when they say that abuse be import from other culture , they imply that abuse be the norm and be okay in some culture towards some victim . it never be . just as perpetrator be diverse , so be their victim . if we mask the reality , we can not tackle the problem . what the vast majority of perpetrator have in common be that they be man . of course , it be not all man , but it be enough man and enough victim for male violence to be a national emergency , and one that the whole House must commit to end . do the hon . Lady worry , like I , that the recent attempt in the debate to reopen an inquiry be less about support victim and stamp out sexual violence , and more about incite racial tension ? I share the hon . member ' s concern . I also take the opportunity to applaud she for her work over many year in this House on the all - party parliamentary group for childhood trauma , raise the issue before it be politically convenient to do so . I be thrilled that the Bill include measure to help with family ' cost , such as free breakfast club for all primary school child , which will boost child ' s wellbee . I want to see we go far still and provide free school meal for all child . the Bill also allow the Secretary of State to cap the profit of child ' s home provider , end the obscene scandal of local authority force to shell out huge sum to private provider . finally , I urge that this ambitious and important Bill be back by even further investment in area that will improve child ' s wellbee . we need more money for child and adolescent mental health service , for child ' s social care and to tackle child poverty . I be stand up to talk about the important issue of school uniform , but I will first say that the hon . member for Nottingham East ( Nadia Whittome ) be quite right to point out that child sexual abuse take place across our society . we have just see the Archbishop of Canterbury and other in the Church of England resign over child sexual abuse . for the hon . member for Clacton ( Nigel Farage ) to deny that it affect all aspect of society be , frankly , for the bird . I be a single parent to two teenager and , like many other parent in this place , I know how many expense be involve in send child to school . as they grow and progress through school , they require different pair of shoe , set of stationery and money for school trip . state school should represent a level playing field for child of all background , where pupil be treat with the same respect and give the same opportunity . I recognise that a school uniform allow pupil to go into school with the same appearance and not be discriminate against or bully for what they wear . however , school uniform be one of the big cost in send child to school , and although I welcome the Government ' s commitment to limit the number of brand item student be require to have each year , more need to be do to support parent during the cost of living crisis , when they be already face high energy bill and food cost . from my experience of send my daughter to state school , brand school uniform item be be sell from monopoly supplier for an inflated price , compare with the item buy from high street and charity shop . the Bill talk about restrict school to three brand item of uniform — by the way , I do not read that as exclude primary school from let kid wear tie . the bare minimum of three brand item of a jumper , a polo shirt and a skirt for my daughter ' s school cost more than double that from a high street shop . for a family with three child to have two set of three brand item per year cost more than £ 300 , compare with £ 108 from my local supermarket in Frome — nearly three time as much . that do not even account for a sport kit and shoe , or for the fact that child often require new item each year as they grow . there be also part of my constituency of Frome and East Somerset that operate a three - tier school system , mean child move around three different school with three different uniform before they be 16 . that can mean that parent have to adapt to three totally different uniform , colour and requirement . we should aim to strike a balance between student look smart and not make uniform overly complicated and exclusive . the simple the uniform , which be base on staple and easily available item and colour , the more reusable it be . we should foster an environment where school clothe can be easily hand down through family , regardless of gender , and exchange between family , either through the school or through charity shop , instead of focus on brand new item for each child . that also reduce clothing and textile waste . will the Minister consider , for example , why three item be choose rather than one , such as a school tie or jumper , which make student easily identifiable as be from a particular school , but which leave maximum option for parent to buy the other uniform element from other retailer ? will she also consider what other additional measure could be take to keep down the cost of a uniform ? kitte out a child for a new term at school be an expensive business , and anything the Government can do to support parent in keep those cost down would be most welcome . this Bill provide we with an important moment . for many decade , child ' s social care have be overlook — an afterthought for Government . over the past 30 year , politician of all colour have too often fail the most vulnerable child in this country — the child who be unable to be look after by their own family . I be delighted that this Education Secretary and her team have put those child at the heart of this legislation . it be testament to her personal commitment to social justice and fairness . the statistic on outcome for child in care and the risk of exploitation be well know . they represent 1 % of the child population , but 37 % of those in youth justice . just 15 % of those look - after child receive gcse from C to A * , compare with the national average of 55 % . however , I wish to focus on the child placement estate . it be a dry topic , but if we do not provide sufficient and safe accommodation for these child , then the rest be broadly redundant . I have personal experience of this area . before be elect as an MP , I be a barrister often work in child protection law . many Friday afternoon would be spend in court , seek order on an urgent basis for removal of child from their primary carer before the weekend . my work would be do once judgment have be give and I have draft the order , but for my social work team , their work have only just begin . they would have to collect the child , often rely on the police to assist , and then , often late in the evening , the arduous task of attempt to find suitable accommodation for these child would begin . they would make call late into the night , plead with reluctant foster carer , or residential unit , to take in these young people , who would often sit obediently at the local authority office wait for their fate to be decide . I have know of time when child sleep on the floor of such office while search be be undertake . the lack of sufficient accommodation in this country be a complete disgrace . the previous Government can not say that they be not warn about this . in 2020 , the High Court take the unusual step of send a judgment to the relevant Ministers , raise the issue of the lack of appropriate accommodation for such child — I be just try to find the right place in my speech . will my hon . friend give way ? I would be very grateful . do he agree that provision in the Bill for measure such as regional care co - operative , which would agglomerate service — bring they together — across local authority , to do some of the work of commission , recruit and build up child ' s home would help with the problem that he describe ? my hon . friend ' s review , which he draw up before be elect to this place , contain some of the provision that be now in this legislation , so he should be praise for that work . as I be say , the High Court raise this issue in 2020 . it take the unusual step of send a judgment to the relevant Minister set out the " nationwide problem " of demand outstrip supply in accommodation for child in care . the fact of that case show the human cost of a lack of investment and strategy . a 15 - year - old girl , from a family unable to care for she , have have 14 different placement in 12 month . none be suitable . she have repeatedly flee unregulated accommodation unit and be deem to be at serious risk of self - harm and sexual exploitation . those who have raise the important issue of child sexual exploitation but have show no interest in child ' s care service should hang their head in shame for try to make political capital out of this very , very important issue . this Bill take important step in this regard . my hon . friend the Member for Whitehaven and Workington ( Josh MacAlister ) have already raise the important matter of regional co - operation , which will certainly add capacity . as have be mention , there be also the financial backdrop . I have no doubt that Ministers will be make representation to the Chancellor about the estimate £ 6 . 2 billion funding gap for local authority in social care , but this be not just about money . although capacity be undoubtedly require , the system also need national and local leadership , and a national and local strategy . there remain , despite this very welcome Bill , a lack of a comprehensive and national plan for care placement . there be a lack of an overarching assessment of how this market will fulfil the function necessary in the year and decade ahead . bluntly , we will still not know what be need and where across the nation . and we know from experience that the market will not do it for we ; we have learn that lesson already . we must have an accurate assessment of the need in the sector — the type of placement , and the number and location of care setting across the country . there also need to be a funding strategy . my private Member ' s Bill , the look after child ( Distance Placements ) Bill , provide for a modest change in this area , simply require all local authority to think ahead , to have a plan for the type of placement that they be able to offer , and a strategy for where they will need base on an assessment of the demand . although there be a requirement in the guidance , there now need to be a statutory responsibility for local authority to think ahead in this area . at the moment , the issue be about not merely capacity , but where the accommodation be . More than a fifth of child in care live more than 20 mile from their home . there be one account of a child be place over 500 mile from her community . these be young life be separate from their community , their brother , sister , friend and teacher , with all the associated damage to their relationship and education . and this problem have increase by over 50 % since 2019 . I hope the Government will properly consider the modest suggestion that local authority should simply have a sufficiency plan for where to place these child . I will briefly touch on one final aspect , which be the identifier of child . this be a useful and important step to safeguard child . I hope Ministers will have discussion on a cross - departmental basis with the Home Office as well as the Department of Health and Social Care about the development of digital identification and patient passport in those area as well . clause 7 , which introduce propose new section 23czaa to the Children Act 1989 on stay close support , build on the previous Conservative Government ' s " Stable Homes , build on Love " strategy . in particular , I refer to the pledge to strengthen the stay close offer and provide a statutory basis for it . I therefore welcome the commitment to this in the Bill , particularly the requirement of local authority to provide suitable accommodation for formerly look after child well into adulthood . at an event last year that I have the privilege to co - host , which be also attend by the Under - Secretary of State for Education , the Member for Lewisham East ( Janet Daby ) , who be no long in her place , we hear from four young people — Tahir , Bella , William and Jess — who have all be support by home for good and Safe Families in support lodging . supported lodging be where a young person stay with a family who provide they with life skill . there be more to it — I can explain another time — but those be the basic of it . all the young people share powerful story of how live within a household have enable they to pursue education and work and give they a place to call home and , in some case , as one describe , a second family . how can support lodging help with the aim of stay close in this Bill ? in October 2024 , the " Voices of Supported Lodgings " be publish , which have contribution from the four young people whom I have mention . it find that every stay close support category that be list in the Bill have be prove to be provide by support lodging . on health and wellbeing , 84 % of the young people report that support lodging feel like home . on relationship , 89 % have a good relationship with their host . on education , employment and training , young people in support lodging be 8 % more likely to be in education and employment or training than other care leaver . and on participation in society , 90 % of these young people feel more confident in their ability to live independently . let we not forget that these be look - after child — child who have spend a considerable amount of time in care . will the Government amend the Bill to specifically reference support lodging provision as a high - quality example of the stay close support that local authority could provide for local care leaver ? and with this , will they commit to provide the ability for local authority to develop support lodging in their area through recruitment and the training of host ? for some young formerly look - after people , private rent accommodation may be where they wish to live . however , without family to support they in secure a deposit or even act as a guarantor , will the Government seek to extend the role of local authority as corporate parent to require they to facilitate a rent deposit and guarantor scheme for look - after child ? I also wish to touch on home - schooling . I do not get home - school , and I do not always think that it be the good option , but for many it be the choice that they have make for their child . but it feel like this Bill a hammer to crack a nut . I fully appreciate that there be a risk of child go miss from education , and that home - schooling can be use for inappropriate reason , but many parent , include many constituent who have write to I , have opt to home - educate and be do an excellent job and be deeply concerned about the propose over - regulation that they face in the Bill . I too have a number of representation from constituent who be concern about the purpose behind these change . what additional information do they elicit to the local authority when a proper education be be receive ? do my hon . friend agree that some clarity be require there , otherwise it just seem an unnecessary and intrusive intervention ? sometimes , those constituent ask question about what the intent be behind the intervention of local authority . I absolutely agree with my right hon . friend . the Bill be seek a detailed explanation from parent of what they be plan to do at home with their child . quite frankly , it will hinder the work that they be do in educate those child . school be probably not readily provide some of that information either . I be concern by the implication in the Bill that the state be well at parenting than parent themselves . the change in the Bill directly contradict section 7 of the Education Act 1996 , which affirm a parent ' s legal duty to ensure that their child " receive efficient full - time education … either by regular attendance at school or otherwise . " that be important , because it underscore the principle that parent , not the state , hold primary responsibility for the education of their child , except in the minority of case where there be harm or neglect . let we not forget that many parent opt to home - school because the state system have fail their child . I urge caution with the provision in the Bill , which will add further stress to such parent , who have already have to fight long and hard for their child . I applaud my hon . friend for the point that she be make . I , too , have have representation from excellent home - school parent . do she think that there be a way , with reason and understanding on both side , for a balance to be strike between the need to safeguard the right of responsible parent to home - school their child and the need to prevent the abuse of child by parent who have other , more sinister , objective ? my right hon . friend be correct . there have to be a middle ground that we could find . I suggest that we be use a hammer to crack a nut . a lot of these parent be not against have to say something about what they be do , but to suggest that they have to give chapter and verse to their local authority , which in many case will have fail they already — that relationship may well have break down — feel like too much of a strike . will the hon . Lady give way ? I will make some progress , because I will not get any extra time for take a further intervention . the requirement in the Bill therefore risk hinder family who , for legitimate reason — often because of failure in the SEND provision that they need — have opt to educate their child at home . I have three question for Ministers . will the Government confirm that the evidence base for this part of the Bill be found on accurate datum and genuine need , which reflect the question ask by my right hon . friend the Members for Salisbury ( John Glen ) and for New Forest East ( Sir Julian Lewis ) ? secondly , what assessment have be make of the potential consequence of the Bill for home - educate family and their ability to provide a tailor high - quality education , and might we inadvertently hinder they in do that ? thirdly , will the Government work to protect the right of home educator and prioritise the wellbeing of child over administrative convenience ? we have hear all sort of contribution this afternoon on many topic , but as I say in my maiden speech , look - after child be one of the key thing that I wish to speak about . I believe very strongly in the right of parent to choose what be good for their child . I really hope that the Government will listen to today ' s contribution on both point , and that some amendment will be table in the next stage of scrutiny that would tighten up the Bill and make for an even well piece of legislation . I thank my right hon . friend the Secretary of State for Education for bring forward this landmark piece of genuinely transformational legislation . as someone who spend three year in the voluntary sector fight for vulnerable child , I know that the Bill prioritise child and their need , right many of the wrong of the last 14 year of failure under the Conservatives . the Bill signify a much - need movement towards preventive service , which be shamefully slash by the conservative party . sure Start , with its huge impact on child development , disappear . youth service be decimate . due to the huge cut by the Conservative party , in England we spend 11 time more on late intervention , and spending on early intervention have fall by 44 % since 2010 . the reform lay out today , couple with the funding need to realise they properly , have the potential to ensure that , with the right support , more child can remain safely live with their birth family . the Bill should also ensure that when child need to live with foster parent or in a residential home , we be able to provide they with the good possible care . these child , after all , be the responsibility of the state . we be their parent , and we need to have the same high ambition for they as we do for our own child . the recognition in the Bill that young people need more support when they first leave care must also be celebrate . the Bill will help to improve the situation by finally extend stay close to all area of the country . that be a key recommendation of the independent review of child ' s social care . that review also recommend extend corporate parenting principle , so that they apply not just to child ' s service but to a great range of public organisation . in November , the Government outline that that important reform would be implement . will the Secretary of State confirm that extend corporate parenting responsibility remain part of the Government ' s plan to improve support for care leaver ? we have also hear about the postcode lottery in the help available for care leaver . the support that a young person receive too often depend on where they live , not what they need . that be why we need a national offer of support , which could include thing suggest by the child ' s charity Barnardo ' s , such as the right to a free bus pass , free prescription , and help with rental deposit . like the Children ' s Commissioner for England , I believe that the Bill present an opportunity for this House to ensure finally that child in England , like their counterpart in Scotland and Wales , receive equal protection from assault and battery . we can not adequately ensure child ' s welfare if we fail to protect their physical safety and wellbeing . a 2021 review in the Lancet of 70 study find that physical punishment have no positive outcome for child , and be instead link to great child behaviour problem over time . the Royal College of Paediatrics and Child Health also find that child who experience physical punishment be 2 . 6 time more likely to experience mental health problem , and potentially 2 . 3 time more likely to experience more serious form of physical abuse . these child be also more likely to believe that violence be an acceptable and normal way of express frustration , contribute to a cycle of violence in society that we need to break . though physical punishment may , for many of we , seem a relic of the past , datum from 2020 - 21 find that more than one in five 10 - year - old have experience physical punishment , and the NSPCC have see a threefold increase in the number of child welfare call mention physical punishment in the past couple of year . give that 71 % of adult believe that physical punishment be unacceptable , the time to end this injustice be now . in the context of one child die every four day from deliberately inflict injury , and the horrific murder of Sara Sharif , whose father seek to justify her treatment under the dark cloak of discipline , it be clear that the threat of violence that child face should no long be give legal cover . the Bill do so much for child and young people , and it be my view that by extend corporate parenting , ensure equal protection and establish a national care leaver offer , we can do even more to ensure that everyone grow up be give the opportunity to flourish . give that the Opposition amendment have be select , I will not stand here and outline my disgust at what have happen with regard to the historic groom gang scandal . the british people want answer , so I will ask question of the Labour party , and several of they . will the Government commit to deport all guilty foreign national involve urgently , include family member who be aware of the crime and therefore complicit ? wife , sister , mother and cousin , if they know and say nothing , be just as guilty as the rapist themselves . will the Government commit to strip citizenship from dual national implicate and deport they as well ? race or religion must protect nobody . will the Government commit to pause all pakistani visa and foreign aid into the country until the Pakistani Government agree to accept any of their deported citizen who have perpetrate these crime on british soil , and imprison these rapist and their accomplice in Pakistan however they see fit ? will the Government undertake a full investigation into official who have knowledge of these crime yet fail to act ? a specified taskforce to root out this evil should be establish . we should not just fire these vile individual but prosecute they . how many girl be estimate to have be rape ? be there a tally for the overall number of rape ? horrifyingly , it may well be in the million . we just do not know . how many vulnerable young girl be estimate to still be involve in these gang ? if there be no estimate figure , why not ? will a regular update be publish detail ongoing prosecution and sentencing ? will the Government publish a full nationality breakdown of those convict for such offence , along with the location of their crime ? how many know foreign rapist be there per town , per region ? will the Government publish a breakdown of the immigration status of those involve ? on what ground be they in the UK ? do they have previous conviction ? how many foreign national find guilty have be release but not deport ? will the hon . Gentleman give way ? I will carry on , if that be all right . how many re - offence have occur since release ? how many of these monster be walk on the same street as the girl they rape and abuse ? one report suggest that a victim come face to face with her rapist in the supermarket . be the Government comfortable with that ? how many of the foreign rapist be in receipt of any form of state benefit ? will the hon . member give way ? I will carry on , if that be all right . how many who be release receive any state benefit ? how many child have be bear follow a rape by those man ? how many have be give access to the child against the mother ' s wish , and how many have use the child as a route to remain in the UK ? will the Government commit to prevent that in future ? how many deportation have be block due to the rapist ' s right to a family life or due to other European Court of Human Rights influence ? will the Government set up a dedicated , confidential and accessible official process for whistleblower to safely raise their concern about foreign rape gang , ensure that it be safe , secure and easy to find ? will the Government release all court transcript relate to those case so that the british people can understand just part of the horror for themselves ? how many of those document have be hide due to the cost of release ? that should not be an obstacle to the transparency of those trial . will lifelong sentence be consider for british citizen involve in the crime , and for those in position of power who act to cover up the scale of the abuse ? which politician , local and national , have knowledge of the event but fail to act — again , go as far as actively conceal what be truly happen ? those be the fact that the british people want and deserve to know . all those question have also be submit in write form , and I look forward to receive open and transparent answer . the mass rape of young white working - class girl by gang of pakistani rapist be a rotting stain on our nation . this be not about Elon Musk . this be not a bandwagon of the far right . this be about the victim and ensure that swift and brutal justice be deliver to those demon responsible . it be about distinguish between right and wrong . will the hon . member give way ? I have finish . I welcome the Bill because it address a lot of the underlie problem we have in our school and education and , indeed , in the protection of child . I welcome the Secretary of State ' s commitment to make this a child - centre Bill . I feel disgusted by what the hon . member for Great Yarmouth ( Rupert Lowe ) have just say . can anyone imagine listen to that as a victim or a survivor ? I be sure his intent be to get to the truth and get justice , but the language — I ask he please to think about who hear our word . on 26 November 2024 , in her letter to the chair of the child safeguard practice review panel , the Secretary of State for Education say : " the forthcoming child ' s Wellbeing Bill be a vital mechanism for improve the life of vulnerable child … there be a renew government focus on tackle child sexual abuse … which will necessarily include our response to the iicsa recommendation . " I want to take this opportunity to ask the Secretary of State which of those recommendation fall squarely within the Bill . I hope , with cross - party support , that we can encourage the Secretary of State to adopt they . the independent inquiry into child sexual abuse publish 20 recommendation , try to address the whole of child sexual abuse in this country , to get support for those victim and survivor and early intervention to prevent the crime , and to get the prosecution we all desperately want . recommendation 1 be that there should be a core dataset . currently , the Bill ' s single unique identifier number be not the same as a core dataset . there be a need for a unified set of datum that allow authority to understand well the prevalence of abuse , to identify pattern and to inform evidence - base policymaking . we have a patchy , fragmented datum system that hinder effective prevention and intervention . IICSA ask for the creation of a single core dataset that include the characteristic of victim and allege perpetrator of child sexual abuse , vulnerability factor and the setting and context in which the abuse occur . recommendation 2 be for a child protection authority for England and Wales . recommendation 3 be for a Cabinet Minister for child protection , and that need to be someone who cut across all the different Departments , because that be where we be fail child right now — we do not have a join - up approach to child protection . recommendation 4 be for a public awareness campaign , and cultural awareness be include throughout the recommendation . we need to make child aware of the risk they face , but we also need to tackle cultural insensitivity and much bad wherever we find they . that be particularly pertinent to I , because I be proud that I get the previous Government to ensure that every child , from primary school , have relationship education . however , in September 2024 the Department for Education publish an independent evidence review on " teach relationship education to prevent sexual abuse " . it find that teacher be still not receive adequate training . there be not adequate resource for those teacher , so I urge the Secretary of State to use the Bill to do something about that . specifically , will she ringfence relationship , health and sex education training budget ? a fantastic organisation in my South Devon constituency call Child Assault Prevention , which I work with when I work for Devon Rape Crisis , have to close its door two year ago because its funding be cut by the previous Government . it be do vital work with primary school child , teach they about the danger of sexual assault and how to avoid it . I would welcome the Government look at reinstate funding to such organisation that be work with young child in this sensitive area . I absolutely echo what the hon . Member say ; that work be so important . recommendation 13 be on mandatory reporting . I be keen to hear the Home Secretary say that it will be one of her objective , but it also need to cover those in all position of trust . I be very concerned that if we have mandatory reporting without the resource for the administration to act on that , it become no more than a tick - box exercise , and that the very teacher and training staff who should be protect child get penalise and , bad , prosecute as a consequence ? IICSA take seven year and cost £ 186 million . it have over 2 million page of evidence and 725 witness . over 6 , 000 victim and survivor put their trust in the process and give evidence . they do all this and we spend all this money so that the recommendation would be implement . there be also a Home Office report . again , I spend a year of my life put into the Home Office report in 2020 , which give the solution . I spend two year in the IICSA inquiry specifically around groom gang . the recommendation have not be adopt . I say with the deep respect to all those call for a national inquiry to instead put all their energy into get the recommendation adopt . with the good will in the world — you all know I ; I be not make a party political point — another inquiry will mean another 10 year of waiting . what I want to see , and what I truly believe we all want to see , be child protection right now . I urge hon . member please to consider what they be do and to use Report as the time to make the amendment to get the change they want . there be two side to the Bill . indeed , it could easily have be two Bills , and it may have make for strong legislation have it be deal with as two Bills . I commend the Government on one aspect , which be child ' s wellbee , and so much that be part of the Bill be good and commendable . it be wonderful to see the building up of the work be do on the stay close programme , which be already demonstrate positive result , and the evidence show the impact it have on people ' s life . I be delighted to see that much of the work undertake by the hon . member for Whitehaven and Workington ( Josh MacAlister ) when he be commission to do the report under the last Government have be embrace and be be take as part of it and be build upon . I be also delighted about the work do on foster and kinship care , which we know have such a positive impact on the life of so many young people — it be good to see that in the Bill . however , the other side of the Bill , on school , be cause for very serious concern . the Government have say : " the current discrepancy between maintain school and academy leave potential for inconsistency in education standard , opportunity and outcome for pupil from different type of school . " that be an interesting point . look through the clause , it seem to be not about drive excellence in our schooling system , but about drag the excellent down . I will take this chance to go through some of those clause — and perhaps even the Ministers might take the time to familiarise themselves with they . clause 45 end academy school ' freedom on teacher pay . the idea that academy school be use that freedom to do anything other than attract the teacher and specialist that they need to get the good for their pupil be crazy . some multi - academy trust offer term and condition on sick pay after six week that be only a little above the statutory minimum . if one of their teacher fall seriously ill , they should have access to the same protection available to any other teacher . the Bill remove academy ' ability to do more for teacher . the Ark academy trust , for example , pay its teacher an average of 2 . 5 % more than every national pay point . where academy have area of specialism , they have use they as an opportunity to pay more and bring the good teacher in . as we progress through the Bill , clause 50 give the school adjudicator the power the set public admission number for school , include academy , give local authority great influence over admission number for school in their area . in reality , that will mean that the very good school lose out on the ability to expand rapidly and offer more child the opportunity to go there . that be increasingly important at a time when overall student number be start to decline . the good school have less opportunity to offer more space to pupil in their community . clause 44 repeal the requirement to turn fail local authority school into academy . there be already a great deal of ambiguity about fail school . what will the Government do about they ? that have not be make clear . ofsted ' s power have be water down , which will mean that fail school continue to exist and there will be no change . do my right hon . friend agree that Ministers must set out how fail school will be tackle ? we can not have a system in which child be leave in school that let they down without immediate action . that be what the academy programme seek to address . my right hon . friend be absolutely correct . there be total silence on what will happen . there be no sense that where a school be fail , action will be take to ensure that successful academy trust take over those school and drive improvement . what we have hear from the Government since they come into office have be about get rid of excellence . I be very proud of a number of the programme that we introduce , such as the Latin excellence programme or more cadet force in school . the evidence point to the fact that those thing have a real impact on child ' s attainment , and often for child from the most disadvantaged background . those programme have just be scrap . there be a sense that the Government want a homogeneous school system in which brilliance and excellence , and the freedom for teacher and school to deliver the very good for their pupil , be stamp out . there be a sense that minister know good — that whitehall be the master — and that that will drive our education system forward . many aspect of the Bill be positive in relation to child ' s wellbee , but I urge the Minister to consider the other aspect that will systemically destroy the progress make by both Labour and conservative Governments in drive forward academic excellence , and in allow state school to offer some of the thing that private school offer , which they have not be able to do before . at my comprehensive school , join a cadet force or learn Latin be simply not option . the Bill be about dumbe down . it be not about raise aspiration ; it be not about raise excellence . actually , the Bill will ensure that every child grow up in this country will have the good possible start in life , and will break down the barrier to opportunity . like the right hon . member for Stone , Great Wyrley and Penkridge ( Sir Gavin Williamson ) , I go to a comprehensive , and I believe that comprehensive , state - run education should be excellent — that be why I support the Bill . every teacher I speak to before the election be cheese off with what be happen in education . they be so depressed about what they be do — that be one of the reason I get involve in this . every teacher I have speak to who have read the Bill support it . surely we should be listen to they . colleague have mention mental health . the Government will bring a mental health worker into every school . that be not in this Bill , because it be a matter for the Department of Health and Social Care , but it will transform that area . the hon . Gentleman just say that the Government would bring a mental health worker into every school . could he repeat that , for the avoidance of doubt ? that be our manifesto commitment . one reason I be here be that , under the last Tory Government , a child in my constituency have to wait six month for treatment follow a suicide attempt at school , and that be simply not acceptable . on the review of the curriculum , every teacher I have speak to have say that we need to improve the art and music , which would in itself improve wellbee . rather less controversially , I will concentrate on clause 22 and the provision of free breakfast club . I have be a gp for the past 30 year , and I understand that health and education be inextricably link — we can not learn when we be hungry . free breakfast club will ensure that every child , irrespective of their background , have the foundation they need to start the day . there be strong evidence that obesity be a massive problem harm the wellbeing of our child . some 10 % of child enter reception be obese , and in year 6 , 22 % be obese . free breakfast club will reduce those number . in Stroud , we have be work really closely with local primary school to get nutritious local food into the school diet , not rely on national company to do so . we have a commitment to try to procure 50 % of that food from the local agricultural community ; I be very proud of that , and keen to encourage it . another point about breakfast club be that it be really important that child eat together — that be what we use to do at our primary school . it foster a feeling of wellbeing , and the Long Table in Stroud be an organisation that encourage that . we need to be careful of the food industry lobby , which be incredibly powerful and have be provide free food for breakfast club . all I would say be that there be no such thing as a free breakfast . company be try to promote their own product , and we must be very wary of they . there be quite a lot of evidence that free school meal reduce obesity , and I would support their universal roll - out , not just in Wales and London . in London , there have be a reduction in obesity level as well as improvement in learning , so let we work towards that when condition allow . in the interim , we should go for auto - enrolment for free school meal , which would improve funding for school and enable about 400 , 000 child to receive those meal . I conclude by commend the Government for commit to ensure that every child have the opportunity to thrive . the Bill be a bold step towards address inequality and improve the life of the next generation . by introduce free breakfast club , this Government be not only tackle hunger but invest in health and education . as such , I urge my hon . friend not to get waylay by the political thing that be go on around this Bill . it be an excellent bill , and we need to support it . rise — to ensure that as many colleague as possible can get in , and that not many be disappoint by not get in , we be go to reduce the speak limit to four minute . I call Vikki Slade . thank you , Madam Deputy Speaker . I will go as quickly as I can , because I have time my speech to five minute . the death of Sara Sharif shock we all . as my hon . friend the Member for Woking ( Mr Forster ) say before recess , we have the opportunity to change the law so that her legacy be to be " the last vulnerable child to be kill by people who should have look after she . " — [ Official Report , 18 December 2024 ; Vol . 759 , c . 312 . ] we often recall the name of Victoria Climbi é and baby Peter Connelly , but so many more child and baby have be the innocent victim of evil parent and family member , neglectful professional and siloe system . their memory should be etch on our heart as we consider this Bill . I welcome the move in part 1 of the Bill to strengthen the multi - agency approach , but I agree with the Children ' s Commissioner and the hon . member for Lowestoft ( Jess Asato ) that we should go far in protect child from assault . some of the injury inflict on child such as Sara Sharif under the guise of reasonable punishment have be beyond belief , but if " reasonable punishment " be not define in law , that must make it very difficult for some social worker to take the appropriate action . I have be shock by just how many of the child death report be of baby — infant who have not reach school or nursery and whose voice be literally unheard . I worry that the role of the health visitor in the life of new parent have be so greatly reduce . as a new mum , I would join other parent at regular weigh - in session and playgroup alongside health visitor , right through to when my child start nursery . GPs in my constituency of Mid Dorset and North Poole have tell I that they would previously liaise with the health visitor in their surgery to warn family who be at risk — perhaps a mum have come in for a smear test and they be worried about domestic abuse , or a father have come in and they be worried about alcohol abuse . they could send the health visitor in and check up on those family , but that do not happen any more , thank to the smashing of the system under the previous Government . turn to the school part of the Bill , I be sorely disappointed that it lack anything to support child with special educational need and disability . there be no requirement for school to be inclusive of such child , and nothing about the need for teacher to be train in autism or social and emotional health . previously , when challenge the Minister , I have urge more action and have be tell to wait for this Bill , but if there be an ofsted judgment , it would be " require improvement " . when my child be push out of school , unable to cope full time and obviously not go to achieve the heady height of five gcse and 90 % attendance , we seriously consider home education . to hear your child say , " Mum , they don ' t want I here " break your heart . the lack of accountability in academy be just not okay , so I welcome the move to bring academy more under the control of local authority . home education be a right of parent , and it can be transformational for some child . my constituent Katie , who choose to educate her child at home , have raise concern about school refer a family to social service if they indicate their wish to move to home education . will the Minister confirm that it will not be possible for a school to refer a family simply because they choose to opt out ? there be also concern about the risk to parent flee domestic abuse when the other parent do not have any involvement , because under this Bill the register require permission from both parent and will list both parent , which simply would not be possible in that situation . if that mean that single parent family be exclude , that be simply not okay . finally , there be an opportunity to properly support family for whom school do not work . propose new section 436 g , on page 55 of the Bill , talk about support , but provide none . we need parent to have the ability to access the national curriculum , free resource and free examination . there be so many fantastic provision in this Bill that it be quite hard to know where to start . however , the first thing I want to say be that the move to restrict the number of brand school uniform item will , I know , be so welcome by parent in my Congleton constituency . so many of they who have speak to I be struggle and find it really very difficult to make end meet , as they have do for many year . I have speak to parent who be work two job and desperately try to put food on the table . I know that those parent will also strongly welcome the provision of free breakfast club . I have speak to the Secretary of State about the importance of child with special educational need be able to access those breakfast club and holiday provision . I know she look at that in the pilot of free breakfast club , and I we will continue to emphasise it . the other thing I would like to mention about free breakfast club be toothbrushe , which we certainly talk about during the general election . I believe there be pilot for toothbrushe in breakfast club , and I would love to see that roll out widely . toothbrushing be so crucial , and work parent who drop child off early of course find it difficult to ensure that their child ' s tooth be brush before school . it be well do every day , so I would welcome our extend that as far as possible . my favourite thing about the Bill be that it really demonstrate our commitment to all the child in our community , in all school , have the good possible opportunity , both because it be morally imperative and because the education of today be the national productivity of the workforce tomorrow . we all have to keep that in the front of our mind , and I know that the Minister absolutely do . I would like to say one or two thing about the identifi system we be bring in with this Bill . many colleague have refer to some horrific situation that this seek to avoid , and to the position of child who be outside school . I want to reassure parent in my constituency that those who have choose to home - school absolutely have my support . this be not about penalise parent who make that choice , or about restrict freedom of choice ; it be about protect child who be already identify as extremely vulnerable . I know that everyone here support that , or I would hope they do . I want to mention the use of the single identifier to track the potential educational outcome of child in temporary accommodation . I have speak before in this House of my significant concern about how , when child lose their accommodation , they often lose their school place and may spend considerable period outside the education system . some child lose their accommodation repeatedly during their childhood , and therefore move school on multiple occasion . I think the capacity to track that , and to track the outcome for those child , be really important . that be a hugely important power in the Bill , and I hope we will use it in that way . lastly , thank everyone for the intelligent and constructive point they have make today , and the Liberal Democrats for their constructive support for the Bill — there be other in the House who really could learn from their example . my interest in this all start when I become a governor of the second school ever to become an academy , back in the late 1990 . I then spend some time with the former Director of Public Prosecutions on improve the practice of prosecute rape gang and child sexual abuser in the early 2010 . what all that demonstrate to I be that much will revolve around the quality of the professional practice that the Bill lead to , rather than what we put into law in this Parliament . we can debate many thing that we want to see improve , but it be important that we recognise and thank the social worker , police officer and medical staff who currently ensure that we in the UK have one of the most effective and safest child protection system of any nation in the world . it be important to acknowledge that . as many member have say , there be much in the Bill that Conservative Members will welcome . for example , the implementation of family group decision making , build on the family group conferencing model , and the work to build on the success that virtual headteacher have have in drive up attainment and ensure that child in care be now among the good school attender of any group of child in our country , be to be commend . in particular , in the case of propose new section 16eb on bring partnership together , the work together guidance that be last update in 2023 will have to do a lot of heavy lifting to ensure that the aspiration we set out work in practice , particularly in respect of education . the main purpose of the Bill be to create a responsibility for local authority to bring education to the table , but it do not go so far as to create a duty or obligation on school , nursery and childminder to participate reciprocally . that have be an issue for a long time in our system . it be an issue with area child protection committee , local safeguarding child board and local safeguarding partnership , so we must ensure that we get it right . will minister ensure that the guidance make clear to school leader , governor and trust that they have an obligation to ensure that they fully commit to , and participate in , those local safeguarding arrangement ? I have two final and important point . first , I entirely agree with the point make by the hon . member for Lowestoft ( Jess Asato ) . I ask the Deputy Prime Minister about end the reasonable chastisement defence in law , and although I understand it be a matter of Home Office legislation , I be astonish to hear the Secretary of State for Education say that she be " open - minded " about the issue . I would like a clear assurance from the Government that they will respond to those call , and that we will ensure that we close that loophole for good , for child such as Dwelaniyah Robinson and Sara Sharif , whose death have occur with people try to justify violence on the basis that it be reasonable punishment . we must ensure that all child enjoy equal protection in our country . finally , let I turn to the call for a national inquiry . the Prime Minister say in response to question this afternoon that he be open - minded about that , and the Safeguarding Minister have say the same thing . those of we with experience will know that when we look at publicly available serious case review , all of which we can read on the NSPCC website , we see that these case be often complicated . there be groom gang , and there be also drug gang of people who be both abuse and abuser , who coerce boy into sexual activity . there be schoolteacher and clergyman who carry out this activity . we must ensure that , although certain group of victim and perpetrator may be in the headline , we recognise the diversity and complexity of this issue if we be to deal with it effectively . it sadden I to make this contribution . three main aspect of the Bill be of particular concern to I : the proposal to make it compulsory for academy to teach the national curriculum ; the harmonisation of teacher ' pay across academy and maintain school ; and the pathway for future fail school . when I be elect in 1997 , two of our four secondary school be in the bottom perform 5 % of school in London , and London be the bad region in the country . today we have three academy — Harris Academy Merton , Harris Academy Morden , and St Mark ' s Academy — and I be delighted to tell the House that they be all Ofsted - rate " outstanding " . I wish to thank the principal , Julian Sparks , Aisha Samad , Hannah Fahey and their team for all their effort . accord to Ofsted ' s late inspection report , one of the key to the success of Harris Academy Merton be its " aspirational curriculum " — its version of our national curriculum that be flexible and tailor to pupil ' individual need . Ofsted state that teacher at the academy be able to carefully consider what pupil need to learn , and the right time for pupil to revisit that knowledge . that be a proven recipe for success , not just at Harris Academy Merton but in academy across England . I struggle to see how remove the right to a carefully tailor education will benefit student who need the additional support that such an education provide . force school such as Harris academy to teach the national curriculum risk undermine one of the key to their success . I have serious concern about the proposal to change the pathway for turn around fail school . I know from bitter personal experience that any change to the status of a school can become highly political . the current system , in which fail school automatically become academy , provide clarity and de - politicisation , and ensure a rapid transition . I fear that make that process discretionary would result in a large increase in judicial review , pressure on council and prolonged uncertainty , which be in nobody ' s interest . I understand that a change might be need to ensure that fail school be take over by the right academy for their need , and not by a weak academy , and there should be a list of those academy that be not up to it , but we should not put the process at risk . my contribution be bear of 27 year ' experience . I have fight teach union and anti - academy group , because the most important thing be the ability of child to achieve — not our aspiring to that , and say , " that ' s what we want , " but put the structure in place that actually bring that about . do not put that at risk . I will vote for the reason amendment and against the Bill , not only because of the catastrophic damage that the Bill will do to the academy movement , as so amply explain by the hon . member for Mitcham and Morden ( Dame Siobhain McDonagh ) , but because it fail to take the opportunity for a national public inquiry dedicate to the child rape and groom scandal . yes , victim and survivor want action now , but they also want answer . I fear that there be a great misunderstanding and misinformation about the previous national inquiry lead by Professor Jay . that be an all - encompass umbrella inquiry on child sex exploitation . do the hon . Member agree that there be a two - year inquiry on organise network and sexual exploitation , which be groom gang , in the language of inquiry ? the chief executive of the National Association for People abuse in Childhood say : " we urge the Government to focus on deliver improvement … rather than propose new inquiry that may potentially delay action even far " . I shall come to the hon . Lady ' s point , but the reality be that Professor Jay ' s inquiry be an overarch one , and its reference to groom gang be minuscule . it mention only Rotherham , but we know that there be dozen of town — primarily labour - lead town — where horrific thing have take place . victim and survivor want not only action but answer . this be an opportunity for both . the hon . Lady refer to the need for action , but surely , in this great nation of ours , we can ensure both , in parallel . we can say , " yes , these action be require , follow the recommendation of the Jay inquiry , but alongside that , for continue public confidence and to get the answer that victim and survivor want , we need to keep explore in specific town . " the inquiry the hon . Gentleman seek be part of the overarch inquiry . there be 12 separate inquiry . one of they last two year , and result in a 185 - page report that be specific about groom gang . what more information do we need ? we know who the perpetrator be , we know the model and we know the victim . what we want be prosecution , and support for the victim . the hon . Lady be quite right that the victim and survivor , where we know they , want answer , action and prosecution , but I regret to say that there be many town where people do not know the perpetrator and the truth have not be expose . the reality be that many council have a vested interest in not dig into the truth , because it will expose the failing of their councillor and officer . that be why we must have a national inquiry dedicate to this horrific issue . we should be ambitious and say that it do not need to take three , five or seven year , for heaven ' s sake . let we do it in one year , and get it do . let we have the appropriate number of people inquire into town after town , examine the result , and get the answer . that be what will restore the confidence of the british people — action immediately , and answer within a year or so . surely , as a nation , we can do this . I first meet my constituent Claire Throssell at a remembrance service at my old secondary school in Penistone . every year , the headteacher mark the death of Claire ' s son , former pupil Jack and Paul Sykes , who die at the hand of their father , know to be domestically abusive , in a house fire that he start while on a permit contact visit . the name of most of the child who have be murder at the hand of their domestically abusive parent in the decade since Claire ' s boy be kill remain unspoken , but we must not forget they . woman ' s aid research find that between 2005 and 2015 , 19 child , include Jack and Paul , have be kill as a result of unsafe contact with abusive parent . those child have to remain nameless to avoid cause further distress to their family . many more death will have follow , uncounted and unrecalled . the number of child at risk may be on an even high scale ; in the year to March 2024 , in England and Wales , 215 , 640 " child in need " social care case assessment identify that either a child or parent be experience domestic abuse . one name be sadly know to we only too well : Sara Sharif . her tragic death make the need for action on this issue all the more poignant , the sentencing of her murderer have take place just before Christmas . the Bill will help protect child like Sara . it will create a safe , high - quality education system for every child , and will introduce a register of child who be not in school , to help ensure that no child fall through the gap when home - educate . our Government be take strong action in response to Sara ' s death through the Bill ' s establishment of a single unique identifier for child , and the introduction of new duty that will improve information sharing across and within agency , bring together multi - agency child protection team from education , social work and the police . I commend the Secretary of State for Education for bring forward a Bill so transformative of child protection , and so powerful in strengthen regulation on the use of agency worker in child ' s social care . my constituent Claire Throssell promise she two boy that no other child would die in the same tragic circumstance . I be proud that our mission - lead Government have a mission to halve violence against woman and girl in a decade , and recognise the need to use every Government tool available to target perpetrator and address the root cause of abuse and violence . achieve this mission and fulfil the promise that Claire make to her child will require we to connect the incredible strategic work in the Bill with the urgent need to change the law to remove the family court ' presumption in favour of contact . this principle , add via the Children and Families Act 2014 to the Children Act 1989 , allow known abuser to have contact with their child , put their life at risk . will the hon . Lady give way ? no , I will make progress . the Bill will implement child - centre government , emphatically embed it in education and child ' s social care , and there must be parallel work to put child first in the family court . that important piece of the jigsaw puzzle will complement the Bill . I commend the Bill to this House . it take a landmark approach to safeguard child at risk , and I be proud to support it . I pay tribute to the hon . member for Rotherham ( Sarah Champion ) for all the work that she have do on child sexual abuse . I want to speak on two limited measure in the Bill : first , the registration of child not in school , a positive measure that build on the work of the previous Government ; and secondly , the clause on teacher training . we know from our casework that the measure on a register be positive and will play a big role in ensure that child be not lose or hide in the system . in implement and apply the measure , I urge the Government to consult with SEN charity and organisation , particularly organisation work with autistic kid and family . ambitious about Autism make the case that the register should contain more datum on the profile of child not at school , disaggregate by primary need . it be vital for autistic child and family that we put on a clear foot the expectation that there will be detailed profile datum , so that school and council can offer more tailored support in get they back to school . child with pathological demand avoidance require a completely different approach when it come to negotiate school entry , and we must ensure that their need be meet with patience and understanding . my right hon . friend will be aware that although many home - educate child with autism be know to local authority , there be very poor support for they . how will this burdensome , expensive register — it will be even more expensive if he have his way — transform the support that child need , rather than be just another bureaucratic exercise that continue the current woeful level of support ? I thank my right hon . friend for that intervention , but I make clear my support for the register . the other aspect to have more rule and regulation for family of autistic child be the inadvertent risk of penalise those family through fine and the imposition of strict rule , which will obviously add to the harm and stress that they often face . I urge Ministers and civil servant to reflect on that . why should those parent be fine if they be do all they can to get their child into school ? even more problematic be the fact that for autistic kid , the clear , firm and harsh rule — even with all the good intent that I believe there be — can add further trauma and make school entry even more difficult . that already happen with registration . school be rightly under pressure from Government to ensure that child get to school on time . however , parent of autistic child , particularly with a PDA profile , have do amazingly well to get their child to the school gate at all , and the total focus on registration at a certain time of day at all cost risk school refusal and , ultimately , child miss education . both ambitious about Autism and the Children ' s Commissioner ' s report on support for autism and other condition argue that a much well understanding of the different aspect of autism be key to get child back to school . at the heart of this matter be parent . time after time , parent of autistic child be judge and challenge because school and authority assume that the issue be behaviour or bad parenting , or that the issue have a very simple cause . make sure the measure in the Bill have a deep understanding of what those family and kid be go through be absolutely vital . the teaching measure will help . I again point to the work of the previous Government , support by the Autism Society , make positive stride to introduce autism training in initial teacher training . the more that individual teacher training programme have specific model about different aspect of autism and challenge to school entry , and the more that can be do on continuous professional development for all staff — teacher , administration staff and receptionist — be key . autism be often at the centre of school refusal and non - attendance . as the Bill progress through the House and into implementation , look at these measure with the autistic child front of mind will not only transform the school experience of child and family , but in my view help address the core goal of the measure to improve school attendance . will the right hon . Gentleman give way ? sorry ! I be pleased to speak in support of the Bill and wish to speak to the cost of living impact it begin to address . every child matter : not just political guidance , but an ideal to live by and to come into politic for . I therefore welcome the first step that the Bill represent : step towards a change in the security and fortune of all young people in Bury and Britain . ensure the wellbeing of a child and the whereabouts of a child in Bury North have be one of my main priority as an MP . it be also why I have long champion , both in this Parliament and in my previous time in this place , improvement to the appalling state of the special educational need system . a child ' s wellbee , or their vulnerability , do not exist in a vacuum . it be tie to the condition they grow up in . in Bury North we confront a grim reality : 42 % of child in Bury North be live in absolute poverty . poverty must no long simply be glance at by our politic . we must reach into it . it be a concentrated poverty — dense , multiple and compound . will my hon . friend give way ? I will not . it be a poverty that have creep up on we fast and fast in recent year , where one mile ' s difference between postcode can mean as much as a seven - year gap in life expectancy . it show itself in poor , squalid housing , too few teacher in school , a lack of accessible public or social service , an absence in quality public transport , the scourge of antisocial behaviour , victim of unpunished criminality , and even bad street than the well - off ward be rightly animate by . worse still be the poverty of opportunity , with child unaccounte for or not attend school at all . I strongly support the Bill ' s first move to ease the burden face by so many family , by cut the cost of child go to school . common sense on school uniform will save parent more than £ 50 a child on the back - to - school shop . free breakfast club for all primary school child will save hard - press parent up to £ 450 a year per child . critically , that can help work parent to make their hour . the ambition of the Government go well beyond what the Bill start . eye and expectation will turn to the child poverty taskforce and its recommendation , as well as the future work of this Parliament . we need to tackle the root of these experience , not just the symptom . the Government be determined to transform the life of child , with structural , strategic change to life in Bury and Britain . it have be do before : sure Start , the Building Schools for the Future programme , the maintenance allowance , the power of progressive social policy , the importance of the first 1 , 000 day of a child ' s life , foundation learning , and , yes , phonic and choice . we will not let the inheritance from the conservative party stop we . this will be a period of renewal and hope . Bury North ' s poor be fail by live down the road from those do just all right ; another town overlook and underserve by fund formula that have only ever glance at the place and its problem , and by the failure to level up , let alone even out . let we be clear : the Bill be only the beginning — a good start . we must keep go , because every child matter . it be a pleasure to take part in the debate . let I begin with the question of the need for a national inquiry into the rape groom gang . give what have be say so far , I challenge colleague who have oppose the inquiry to name a single proposal from the Jay report that can not be implement if we go ahead with it . it really be a matter of " and " . notwithstanding the political theatre that Labour Members have try to bring to the debate , the fact that both the Prime Minister and the safeguarding Minister have say that they be open - minded suggest that — sensibly , from a policy point of view and politically — the Labour party may move to the correct position . as be point out by my right hon . friend the Member for Stone , Great Wyrley and Penkridge ( Sir Gavin Williamson ) , this be a Bill in two part , which could probably most usefully have be two separate Bills . the first half concern safeguarding , and , for the most part , my party and I support it ; the second concern school , and that we most certainly can not support . rather than accuse our amendment of be a wreck amendment , as the Liberal Democrats have rather disappointingly do , they should recognise that the second half of the Bill — the school element — be the wreck element , because it make the important safeguarding improvement part of a Bill that can not be genuinely support in this House . there be a troubling theme ; a misguided notion that the bureaucrat know well , as colleague have suggest — for instance , the proposal to strip academy of the flexibility to set competitive pay for their staff . if the Government be genuinely interested in the levelling up that have just be refer to by the hon . member for Bury North ( James Frith ) , why not , as Sir Dan Moynihan , perhaps the nation ' s most successful headteacher and trust runner , say at lunch time today , give those academy freedom to maintain school ? why rip away the element that have be use by academy to produce school such as Michaela which be the good in the country ? we have an ideologically drive Labour Government — that certainly apply to those on the Front Bench ; I would not want to daub everyone behind the Front Bench with the same description — who can not even bring themselves to congratulate a school that have be the good in the country for three year in a row . the Government be signal that they do not trust school to attract and retain the good teacher , and trust only the Secretary of State to do so . in advocate for new school to be open and control by local authority , they remove the contestability . notwithstanding some of the contradiction in the Secretary of State ' s speech , she do describe competition as " harmful " . I represent Beverley and Holderness , and for many year I look at school in Hull , where there be a view , express sotto voce , that " it be the people here who be the problem " . generation after generation be fail , and when the academy programme be expand in 2010 , what happen ? we see primary school leave local authority control en masse . we see that it be no long acceptable for a local authority to use its democratic mandate to give a substandard education to the local population . we see a transformation . we see academy group open up , and teacher and community seize that . I can not believe that Labour Members really want to tear this away when the evidence be crystal clear from the OECD PISA table . on any measure , english education have become immensely well . rise — I may not believe that of the Labour party generally , but I would believe it to be possible of the hon . Gentleman . the right hon . Gentleman be make various remark about what he consider to be the failing and deficiency of this excellent Bill . may I invite he to reflect on the fact that in my constituency , East Leeds , family and child have be really struggle over the last decade ? the measure in the Bill to bring down the cost of school uniform and provide free breakfast club in primary school should be warmly welcome and support by all of we who care about child and family in our community . no one can be against the principle of breakfast club and effort to make sure that family do not have excessive charge impose on they by school , although we need to look at the specific . that have nothing to do with what I be say . I ask the hon . Gentleman , and indeed other Labour Members , to reflect on the speech make by the hon . member for Mitcham and Morden ( Dame Siobhain McDonagh ) . I chair the Education Committee from 2010 to 2015 , and she and the hon . member for Scunthorpe ( Sir Nicholas Dakin ) , who be on the Front Bench , be distinguish member of that Committee . and I ! as be my right hon . friend , of course . I do not think that anyone with whom I have be in this House over the last 20 year have a more personal and visceral record of fighting for change in their constituency than the hon . member for Mitcham and Morden . colleague should consider that before they go into Committee and have the opportunity to reflect on the change in this legislation , because she know of what she speak . she have be heroic in champion the improvement in education in her area , and she have deliver it . I welcome this Bill because it be a chance to make progress on reset the child ' s social care system in England , and that be where I will focus my remark . child ' s social care be a special endeavour . it be a collection of kin , professional and volunteer who seek to provide safe , stable and love home for child right across our country . they be the most important foundation for any child grow up — the foundation of family , of a tribe and of a sense of identity . have chair the independent review of child ' s social care commission by the last government , I have have the opportunity to spend time listen to thousand of people with direct experience of the system , and to make a number of recommendation on which I believe the legislation put forward today will deliver . one be about shift away from late - stage crisis intervention , and another be about create a sharp focus on a more expert - lead child protection system . my other recommendation include unlock the potential of family network as an alternative to the care system , and move away from a care system that break , rather than build lifelong , love relationship . as somebody who have lead an independent review for the Government that look at a serious matter , which include engage with and speak to victim of sexual abuse and criminal abuse , I find it extraordinary that people who be send to Parliament to be problem solver be use this debate to be problem exploiter instead . we have stack of evidence . we have have thousand of victim of sexual abuse provide heartbreaking and very painful evidence and testimony over many year , and it be our job to listen and to act , not to exploit at moment when the politic may be in our favour . in my constituency of Camborne , Redruth and Hayle , 32 % of secondary school child be persistently absent from school . some be home - school , but some be lose to the system without support . these be vulnerable child . this Bill be about protect vulnerable child . do my hon . friend agree that vote against this Bill be play politic with the protection of vulnerable child ? I completely agree . I have a huge amount of respect for the hon . member for Ruislip , Northwood and Pinner ( David Simmonds ) , who share his comment a while ago , but if he and other Members be serious about this matter , they would table amendment to deliver on IICSA ' s recommendation not to go through the process again . I will speak briefly about three particular measure in the Bill . first , it be welcome that we have proposal for family group decision make to be make compulsory at pre - proceeding stage , because there be very sound evidence that it work . a randomised control trial undertake a few year ago show that if family group decision making , in the form of a family group conference , be provide at pre - proceeding stage across England , 2 , 000 few child would enter care each year , and it would free up £ 150 million for early support for family . as local authority start to deliver on the new requirement , it be extremely important that we do not just make it a tick - box exercise , and that we ensure that the evidence and practice guidance be there to support local authority to deliver in a way that will be most effective . secondly , the Bill will create multi - agency child protection team . these team will fuse together — at an operational level , rather than just a strategic level — the relevant agency need to share information and then act on it to protect child from significant harm . it be important that , as well as get the structure right , we focus on the professional expertise require to do the task of child protection , which be often so challenging . we too often leave newbie social worker with the most challenging task of assess significant harm by themselves . we do not ask the police to do that — we often send police officer out in pair — and it be important that we support social worker on their route to expertise through the early - career framework , so that the most expert be make these challenge judgment on significant harm . I know Ministers be look at that . a unique child identifier be long overdue . I call for this in my review , as have a number of other reviewer . again , I welcome the leadership that this Government have show in act on this in their first six month . it may sound like a modest technical change , but if it be deliver well , it will blow away the fog of confused and partial information sharing . I encourage Ministers to look at the Think family database in Bristol , which be a great example of what can be do when child - level datum be share by the police , education , child ' s service and health . finally , the introduction of regional co - operative arrangement will allow for bold action to ensure that we have the foster carer we need in this country . last year , 132 , 000 household express an interest in become foster carer , but we have approve only 1 , 800 of they . Calderdale council take the innovative step of give foster carer a council tax break , which have be incredibly effective in recruit foster carer . would this and other such idea be a good way to get more people into the system ? I completely agree that we need to do an awful lot more to support the recruitment and retention of foster carer . minister have show reform zeal with this measure to provide the Secretary of State with power to create regional care co - operative across the country . if the Bill be pass , I urge Ministers to use this new power at pace and with boldness so that we can create the extra foster home we need . if we follow the example of really effective foster agency in the voluntary sector , we could approve 15 , 000 new foster carer each year , rather than the 1 , 800 we approve at the moment . I welcome these transformational change and commend the Government for introduce the Bill so early . I look forward to support its passage . I declare my interest as a former director of the New Schools Network . as such , I have work with many great free school and academy leader . I be enormously proud of the huge improvement in english school over the last 14 year . in primary school , english child be the good reader in the west . the PISA ranking show that we be : 11th in the world for math , up from 27th under Labour ; 13th in science , up from 16th under Labour ; and 13th in read , up from 25th under Labour . in response to various debate and question , the Education Secretary have make it clear that she do not really like these statistic , but the same story be tell by the " progress in international reading literacy " study and the " trend in international mathematic and science " study . it be a shame that Ministers can not bring themselves to celebrate this success story , or even to congratulate the leader of the good school in the country , Katharine Birbalsingh of the Michaela community school . fact be very inconvenient when minister be so ideological about education . the magic formula behind this success be one champion by Tony Blair , David Laws and all of we on the conservative Benches today . the formula be freedom , accountability and evidence of what work . through this Bill and other measure , the Government be unfortunately take a sledgehammer to each of these principle . new free school have be cancel , the trust capacity fund have go , and fund for school that be plan to academise have be take away . and this Bill be about to reverse academy freedom , restore the power of council bureaucrat and replace innovation with ideological uniformity . the clarity of ofsted accountability have be ruin . standard attainment test in primary school be in danger , and with they school accountability and progress datum will go . on the evidence base , this Government be anti - datum , anti - fact and , indeed , anti - evidence , as we have hear during the debate . there have be attack on synthetic phonic , math mastery , a knowledge - rich curriculum , teacher - lead instruction and traditional academic subject . we have hear some member explicitly reject the concept of academy and demand state - run school . there be a denial of the scientific evidence behind what have work . from the neurological knowledge we now have about how child learn , to the work of e . d . Hirsch on cultural literacy , and the confirmation that high - level skill be dependent on the automatic mastery of low - level activity , the Bill be base not on what work , but on what we know do not work . do my hon . friend share my hope that Government Members will follow the example of the hon . member for Mitcham and Morden ( Dame Siobhain McDonagh ) and put the Bill under genuine scrutiny ? I share my right hon . friend ' s admiration for the speech give by the hon . member for Mitcham and Morden ( Dame Siobhain McDonagh ) . it be incredibly powerful and I hope member on the Labour Front Bench listen closely to what she say , even if they be not listen to I right now — they be look at their phone . the Government have make a deliberate decision to dismantle everything that have work . how do the hon . Gentleman respond to the situation under the current system , whereby a third of young people fail to get a good GCSE in English and math , and we have the most unhappy young people in the OECD ? I invite the hon . Lady to look at the study that compare english school with those in other country , internationally and within the United Kingdom . the PISA statistic show that the most disadvantaged student in England have the same outcome as average pupil in Wales , but the Government seem to be base their policy on the Welsh system . I invite she to look at the evidence , even if Ministers will not . my interest be pique by the hon . Gentleman ' s description of Labour Members as be " anti - datum " . he talk about the Welsh education system . have he review the argument make by Professor John Jerrim , who conduct the 2015 review of the England PISA result and find that there be an anomaly with the treatment of Welsh language test that , if correct , would significantly boost Wales ' s place in the PISA ranking ? I share several hour twice weekly with the hon . Gentleman when we serve on the Employment Rights Bill Committee . his creativity in defend the indefensible be admirable in that Committee , as it be today . on top of the thing I have already list , measure in the Bill before we will make thing yet bad , include the compulsion to follow the national curriculum , which be about to be weaken by the review by Becky Francis , and the removal of freedom on pay and condition . the Education Secretary have today fail to explain how she will meet the commitment she make to avoid cut pay for some teacher . in addition , Ministers be grant themselves unspecified power to direct academy in future ; I think we know what that might mean . the Bill , and the other change introduce by this government , be a deliberate act of ideological vandalism . standard will fall as a result , child will suffer , and the legacy of the Education Secretary will be the provision of a case study in what do not work in education . this be an extremely welcome Bill that address some long - stand issue in social care and education . there be much - need measure to ease the capacity pressure on foster service by offer family group decision making and require all council to publish a kinship offer . there be very welcome measure for hard - press family on school uniform and free breakfast club . on behalf of care leaver , I be pleased to see the focus on stay Close , which offer vital support in the transition from be in care to leave care . it be very much a Maslow ' s hierarchy of need issue : unless young people have the basic in place , it be very difficult to focus on move forward . in my limited time , I want to mention three measure that I be particularly pleased with . there be around 112 , 000 child currently be educate at home . parent choose that route for a number of reason , and I be comfortable that in most case the decision to home - educate be take with the child ' s good interest in mind . however , there be those who choose to home - educate when difficult question start to be ask by concerned professional who be in regular contact with the child . as a foster carer of 25 year , I have see the consequence of those family manage to avoid the spotlight for far too long by move house , move school and avoid scrutiny . the Bill be therefore immensely positive for those particularly vulnerable child . it will mean that authority will know where child be and they can be well monitor through the creation of the register . child go through section 47 action can have an application to be educate at home refuse by the local authority . it be worth say , however , that parent who be home - educate child with no issue have nothing to be concern about — I hear the Secretary of State say that just yesterday . the Bill address the exorbitant fee be charge by some of the large child ' s placement provider . I be at the national social care conference in November 2023 , when , at almost every plenary debate and presentation , someone would mention the statistic that the large 20 provider of child ' s placement collectively make £ 310 million in profit in 2021 - 22 . that be all off the back of the taxpayer , all pay through our local authority , and they feel it . the public have feel it as well , because there be simply less money to go around for everything else . derbyshire county council ' s spend on look - after child rise from £ 44 million in 2015 - 16 to £ 110 million in 2023 - 24 . that growth in spending be unsustainable and be divert precious resource away from the child who be most in need of support and into the pocket of shareholder . I therefore welcome the fact that the Bill require large child ' s placement provider to give regular financial information to a newly create financial oversight scheme and give the Government the power , if necessary , to cap the profit of child ' s home provider and independent foster agency . will my hon . friend give way on that point ? I can not because I have to go to a Delegated Legislation Committee in a minute . I apologise . I also welcome the fact that the Bill enable the creation of new local authority school . under the previous Government , new school be require to be academy or free school , and that policy be base on ideology rather than evidence . end that requirement will mean that when new school be build , they can be open by the provider well suit to meet the need of the local community . end the restriction will also ensure that when school fail , a broad range of measure can be take to give school the support they need to succeed . there be a broad range of positive in the Bill . they may not realise it yet , but the future of our most vulnerable child have just become a little bright . as a father of three little girl , I find much to welcome in the Bill . part 1 speak to improve child ' s social care and I particularly support the provision on accommodation for look - after child . the whole country be sadden and shock by the murder of Surrey child Sara Sharif . sadly , there be other story in Surrey that also need to be hear . Jennifer Chalkley , from Bookham in my constituency , start college in September 2021 . she be 17 and have be diagnose with autism and ADHD . one month later , she be dead from suicide . last year , her coroner conclude that her death be avoidable . it have be a multi - agency failure , include a failure by the child , family and lifelong learning department at Surrey county council , accord to the coroner ' s report , " to ensure that Jennifer ' s Education , Health and Care Plan contain sufficient and update information about … her risk of suicide " . Oskar Nash , another Surrey child with autism , be 14 when he walk on to a railway line near Egham in January 2020 . last year , his coroner conclude that his death be avoidable . again , it be a multi - agency failure , include a failure by the child , family and lifelong learning department at Surrey county council , again , accord to the coroner ' s report , " to ensure that Oskar ' s Educational , Health and Care Plan contain sufficient … information " about his suicidal thought . then there be Sara Sharif , who be murder in 2023 by her father and stepmother . the executive director at the child , family and lifelong learning department at Surrey county council dismiss any accountability , say in a statement that " the perpetrator go to extreme length to conceal the truth from everyone . " there be bruise and burn mark , and report of a child be punch all over her body . there be 15 report over 10 year to Sara ' s school and to social service . how be that go to " extreme length " to conceal the truth from anyone ? I thank my hon . friend and all other in the House who have mention my constituent , Sara Sharif , today . do he agree that the provision in the Bill that would not just encourage but force local authority to share that datum could have save Sara from Woking and could save vulnerable child go forward ? I pay tribute to my hon . friend as Sara ' s MP for raise the horror that have take place . of course , I agree that datum sharing between public authority be vital to ensure that such a case do not happen again . but it be not enough , and , alone , it will not prevent the catastrophic and systematic negligence of Surrey county council . this be the same department that have the high number of statutory breach relate to child report to the Local Government and Social Care Ombudsman for over two year . the department cover information up from its own county council and scrutiny committee for more than 14 month , and only disclose it when my five Liberal Democrat Surrey MP colleague and I publicly call it out . Surrey county council objectively contribute to the death of Jennifer Chalkley , Oskar Nash and Sara Sharif by ignore exist legislation . I be grateful to my hon . friend for give way , especially during such a powerful and meaningful speech . one of my constituent , whom I shall refer to as Claire in order to protect her identity , be only 16 year old and have attempt to take her own life 12 time . her desperate mother have have to take Surrey county council to a tribunal 10 time to try to secure the appropriate educational , therapeutic and social care that she need . do my hon . friend agree that , while we welcome the tightening of legislation present in the Bill , it be only as good as the willingness and ability of school and council to implement it ? I fully agree with my hon . friend . Surrey county council fail to abide by exist legislation , so how on earth be we mean to believe that new legislation alone will be enough ? I share his concern about Claire . I know from my constituent that there be child in Surrey who be at risk right now . that be why I be speak today . this morning , Jennifer Chalkley ' s mother , Sharon , texte I to say : " even though you didn ' t get to meet Jen , her story be a powerful one and need share to save other young life . I raise Jen to be the change you want to see in the world and she ' s still do this . " I reply , " she will be " . I ask the House to consider this : be this Bill alone enough to save our child ' s life , or do the child , family and lifelong learning department at Surrey county council also need root and branch reform immediately ? I thank the hon . member for Dorking and Horley ( Chris Coghlan ) for his moving contribution . member on the Opposition Benches should be ashamed to defend the status quo . the current system have see one third of young people be fail . they leave the system feel like failure because they have not achieve the basic qualification of a decent GCSE in English and math to be able to progress with their life . we have the unhappy young people in the OECD , and when we speak to young people , they tell we that their experience in the education system be a significant contributor to that feeling of unhappiness , and the mental health crisis that they face . the legacy of the previous Government be that home education , which have only recently be properly count year on year , have rise in the last 12 month from 92 , 000 to 112 , 000 , but post covid , it have probably double or triple . that reflect the fact that the system be not work for far too many parent , because it be not inclusive and do not meet their need , and the change to the curriculum have limit young people , who have different ability , be able to prove their strength and be value in the classroom . that be not to mention the failure in SEND , and the urgent change that we know that we need to meet the significant support need of some young people . I challenge the defence of the exist system make by my hon . friend the Member for Mitcham and Morden ( Dame Siobhain McDonagh ) . the huge improvement in London be not just base on academisation . we can look at evidence such as the research that be do follow the London Challenge strategy . multiple factor contribute to the great gain that London make , but when we have try to replicate they outside London , in genuinely the most deprived part of this country , we have not see the same gain . I have see academy trust after academy trust take on a fail school , with the most vulnerable child in our country , and fail to make the improvement that it desperately deserve . that be why we need to think differently and bring forward new reform to make a genuine difference in community that do not have the other advantage that somewhere like London do . my experience of tackle educational disadvantage in the most disadvantaged community be that , when we take a place - base approach , the reality of competition incentivise school in some part of an area to off - roll and not be inclusive , because if they want to seek an outstanding rating from Ofsted , the good way to do that be to get rid of the more difficult child . if they just implement the Michaela approach , child with autism and other more complex need do not thrive in the same way within those structure and requirement . parent therefore have to take they out of the school , either because they see their child ' s mental health issue and choose to , or because the school force they to do so . that have to change , which be why I welcome the reform that the Government be bring forward . the evidence show that education be the primary determinant of where child fall on the income distribution relative to their parent . that be why I truly believe that education need to be put back at the heart of our national life , as the Bill provide for , if we be to ensure that barrier to opportunity be break down for all . the Bill take a huge step towards that , and I be proud that child ' s interest be be return to the heart of Government policy . that be why I be proud to support the Bill . ensure the safety and success of child in our school be one of the most important responsibility that we have as policymaker . by extend regulation and inspection to include more school , we be create a safe environment for our child and give they the good chance to thrive . the Bill introduce improve analysis of school facility , particularly for child with special educational need and disability , which be a much - need measure . the change will ensure that every child have access to an environment where they can learn and grow , in safety and in comfort . however , while these measure be welcome , it be equally important that we ensure that the current system , as well as any future one , be both effective and efficient . it be vital that school , teacher and most importantly child be not leave wait for the resource and support that they need . the case of Dorset Studio school , which serve not just my constituent in West Dorset but student across the county , illustrate the urgent need for the system to deliver result quickly . Dorset Studio school provide exceptional support for student , but especially for the 52 % of its pupil with special educational need — three time the national average . the quality of the education that the pupil receive be despite the fact that the school operate in facility that be not fit for purpose . it have no hall , no canteen and no specialist teaching area . the split campus layout and cramped classroom make it impossible to provide the individualised support that child need , particularly those with physical disability . in February 2023 , fund for the school ' s new campus be approve . the project be set to merge its two site into one modern campus . however , since then , progress have stall , with delay in release the fund from the Treasury and the Department for Education . the Bill will extend the check necessary for safeguard our child to more school , but we must be mindful of delay and how they negatively impact those we be try to protect . the Bill rightly emphasise the importance of inspection and approval to ensure that school standard be meet . however , it be equally important that the exist system be streamline to avoid unnecessary delay . our child , especially those with special educational need , deserve learn environment that be safe , supportive and conducive to their success . I urge the Government to ensure that funding for project such as Dorset Studio school be release without delay , even as the Bill seek to improve the system itself . these child deserve well . the Bill be a landmark piece of legislation that promise to transform the life of child across England . it be a testament to the Government ' s unwavere commitment to the safeguarding and welfare of child . I welcome it as an opportunity to ensure that every child , regardless of their background , have access to the support , protection and education they deserve . follow my early police career and before enter this place , I work as an education welfare officer in a large secondary school in the Forest of Dean . I see at first hand the impact of a disrupt education . the covid - 19 pandemic only exacerbate those challenge , and more and more child be miss school for a number of reason . vulnerable student be hit hard , far deepen exist inequality feel within the education system . the disruption to their education be not just academic , though ; it pose pastoral problem . we have a system where parent can choose to home - educate without any check or scrutiny , and that can lead to a crisis of safeguarding as child be often unaccounted for during this time . let I be clear : I be not say that home education and every single school absence be safeguard concern , but have deal with some horrific safeguarding case in my previous career , I be sure the House will agree that even one safeguarding case be one too many and that we should all be do something to ensure the safety of our child . currently , there be no legal requirement for parent to inform local authority if their child be be home - school , and that lack of oversight leave child at risk as their need and safety may be overlook . the Bill aim to address those oversight by introduce a requirement for child educate outside of school to be register with local authority . can the hon . member give a single case of a home - educate child be harm who be not already know to social service ? again and again , it be a failure of social service when notify , not the absence of a burdensome register for parent , who often home - educate their child out of desperation . during my previous career in the police and in education , there be case . I will not say individual name in the House , but I be more than happy to liaise with the right hon . Member and his colleague outside the Chamber about case I have deal with . do the hon . Member agree that the case of Sara Sharif show that her father and stepmother use this home - school loophole to withdraw she from school because sign be be notice , and that this new legislation could have protect she and should protect other ? I wholeheartedly agree , and that be exactly what I have deal with over many year before join this place . the Bill aim to address the oversight by introduce that requirement for child educate outside of school to be register with the local authority . that simple step will ensure well tracking and safeguarding of child , help we guarantee that all child , especially those educate outside of traditional system , be account for and support . from now on , no child will be forget , invisible or leave behind . it be also right that we acknowledge the invaluable role of kinship carer . many child in kinship care face unique challenge , include with their mental health and emotional support need . however , not all child in kinship care arrangement receive the same support as child in formal care . in fact , a 2019 report find that 16 % of local authority either lack a kinship care policy or have outdated one . that be not good enough for kinship carer or child in kinship care . the Bill will ensure that kinship care be legally define , and that local authority publish a comprehensive and up - to - date local offer and provide carer with essential information about financial assistance , and about health , education and wellbeing service . that will go some way towards level the playing field , and will ensure consistency in the support available to kinship carer and child across the country . the Bill be more than just a set of policy . it be a commitment to the protection , education and wellbeing of our child . by prioritise the mental , emotional and educational need of child , we be lay the foundation for a future in which every child can succeed , regardless of their circumstance . I urge all member to support the Bill , and to work together to ensure that every child have the opportunity they deserve to thrive . have be a secondary school teacher before I become an MP , I congratulate the Government on bring forward legislation that once again put child at the heart of what we in this place want to achieve . the every child Matters initiative be introduce nearly two decade ago . my party and I welcome many thing in this Bill , but we believe that it could go even far . it be clear from discussion with the National Association of Head Teachers in Bath and North East Somerset that local authority need further responsibility for admission . I be pleased that local authority will have great power to direct admission to maintain school and academy when child need place . however , if the local authority have responsibility for admission , it should have the power of an admission authority . I welcome the introduction of a register for child not in school . we Liberal Democrats support the policy that all new teacher in state - fund primary and secondary school should have , or be work towards , qualified teacher status . that be a crucial step in uphold the quality of education , and we Liberal Democrats have be call for it for a long time . I be a little more sceptical on the core pay and condition framework . teacher deserve a system that value their dedication equally , no matter where they work . the Bill promise something that we can all support : a single framework for teacher ' pay and condition — one set of rule apply consistently across government - maintain school and academy . that sound fair , and most academy already follow the framework . however , the Department for Education have state : " before require academy to comply with the framework we will ask the School Teachers ' Review Body to consider additional flexibility within the statutory framework to make it most effective for all school . " if academy decide to opt out , teacher work just a few street apart could find themselves on vastly different pay scale , with different benefit and working hour , simply because their school make different choice . there could be a postcode lottery when it come to teacher ' pay . the impact do not stop there . national benefit , such as the teacher ' pension scheme , which rely on widespread participation to remain viable , could be put at risk . if too many academy decide that the framework be too costly and leave it , the system could unravel , jeopardise the financial security of teacher across the country . we must build an education system in which every teacher be treat fairly and equally , regardless of the type of school that they work in — that be a critical issue of fairness — and I urge the Government to ensure that that happen . let I turn to the decline mental health of our child and young people . there be no mention in the Bill of have a dedicated qualified mental health professional in every school — a policy that we Liberal Democrats have be champion for a long time . around 50 % of mental illness begin to manifest before the age of 14 , so support in primary and secondary school be key . a dedicated mental health professional in every school would ensure that all child and parent have someone they could turn to for help . there be many aspect of the Bill that we liberal Democrats support . however , I urge the Government to ensure that there be a single framework for teacher ' pay and condition across Government - maintain school and academy . I also hope that they will join the Liberal Democrats in advocate for a mental health professional in every school — and for the extension of free school meal for child , which we have mention before . I be proud to speak on this Bill . child grow up in our country deserve the good possible start in life . where a person be bear should not determine their future , but after 14 year of conservative government , not all child have the same opportunity to succeed . during those 14 year , the very notion of early intervention , diverse educational pathway and early year priority be erode . I know that , because I be work on the frontline . I see what happen , and the damage that be do . the number of child live in poverty in the UK have rise by over 8 % since 2014 . in my constituency of Sherwood Forest , one in five child live in poverty ; across the east midland , the number be almost one in four . that be simply outrageous . child deserve well . that be why I be pleased to support the Bill ; it put child and their wellbeing and safety back at the heart of the Government ' s decision making , where they belong . I be proud that the Bill seek to improve safeguarding and protection for child throughout the education system . make no mistake : this be the single big piece of child protection legislation in a generation , and to suggest otherwise show a total lack of understanding and no real knowledge of how child ' s protection service work today . another element of the Bill that I be really proud to see be the roll - out of free breakfast club in primary school . a child ' s experience at school massively impact their future , and when child go hungry at school , they be more likely to fall behind their peer . I be a school governor and a mother , and I know from all my friend who be teacher that child turn up to school who have not be feed , or with empty lunchboxe . I have friend who regularly pick up meal deal from the local Tesco to feed child at their school . that be what 14 year of conservative government have do to the poor and most vulnerable child in our country . there be so many benefit to provide free breakfast club in primary school , include improved literacy , numeracy and cognitive functioning . it allow child to fully participate and learn during lesson . it give all child a well start to the day , and a well start in life . despite the talk of education improve under the last government , sadly we hear the same old story : only 8 . 9 % of the most deprived child reach level 3 in both reading and math , compare with 27 % of the least deprived child , and those who receive free school meal be less likely to attain a level 5 in those subject than those who do not . some 33 % of student from non - selective state school have at least five good gcse ; for student attend selective state school , that figure rise drastically to 92 % . it be time we close this gap for good for the most deprived child in our society . I will be relentless in that pursuit for the child live in my constituency of Sherwood Forest . have consistently advocate for victim of the rape gang scandal in my part of West Yorkshire — I have raise the subject more than 40 time in this place since be elect — I want to focus on that issue in the short time I have be allocate to speak today . it be over two decade since the Labour MP Ann Cryer , my predecessor , first bring the issue to the House . unfortunately , we seem to be repeat the mistake of the past today . it be deeply concern to I that right hon . and hon . member on the Government Benches plan to vote against the call in the amendment for a national rape gang inquiry . last night , the safeguarding Minister — the Under - Secretary of State for the Home Department , the hon . member for Birmingham Yardley ( Jess Phillips ) — tell the public that a national inquiry be not need because local inquiry be more effective at bring about change . however , just minute after she make those remark , local leader in Bradford once again reject my long - stand call for a full local inquiry into rape gang across Keighley and the wide Bradford district , argue that it would be too expensive . that same local authority have spend more than £ 40 million of public money on an empty music venue in the heart of Bradford . this be a complete and utter dereliction of duty by local leader . more importantly , it demonstrate what I have be try to say on this issue for year : every time I have bring up this issue at national level , it be refer back down to local government , but every time I have take the prospect of an inquiry down to the local level , the suggestion be block by local leader , and I be tell that this be a national problem . there have be a complete vacuum of accountability in the system over the past two decade . how many of the people involve have be hold accountable , lose their job or have action take against they ? nobody have , and that be exactly why I have be advocate for a local inquiry across the Bradford district — for far too long . a report of 50 page that look at five child who have be sexually exploit in the Bradford district be release in 2020 . it acknowledge that there have be mistake , but nobody be hold to account . the amendment rightly table by the Leader of the opposition be important because it tackle systematic problem and will end this vacuum of accountability once and for all . conviction should follow a national inquiry that focus on rape gang and child sexual exploitation . when local leader refuse their duty and ignore the concern of local victim , it be only right that the Government step in . ultimately , this be not about party politic , but about the difference between right and wrong . for too long , at all level of the british state — in national and local government — all those with safeguard responsibility have fail to do the right thing . there be child and family out there — I know they ; I have meet they in my constituency — who have suffer abuse that be unspeakable . they want the world to know the depth to which this scandal reach . they fear , as I do , that the scale of gang rape and child sexual exploitation across the Bradford district will dwarf that in Rotherham . they want an end to this accountability vacuum . on behalf of my constituent across Keighley and indeed the wide Bradford district , I urge everyone in the House to vote with their conscience , stand up for what be right , do the right thing , and vote for a national rape gang inquiry . I welcome the Bill , and I will talk about the difference that it will make to child live in poverty in my constituency of Stockton North . first , however , I remind the House of the word of Dame Rachel de Souza , the Children ' s Commissioner for England , who say that too many of our service be fail . we hear powerful testimony from the hon . member for Dorking and Horley ( Chris Coghlan ) , who describe the tragic consequence of those failing . we also hear the expert word of my hon . friend the Member for Whitehaven and Workington ( Josh MacAlister ) , whose recommendation on multi - agency team and the unique identifier will make a difference in ensure that no child fall through the crack and that this legislation keep child safe . the Bill will also drive forward equality of opportunity . we hear from my hon . friend the Member for Bury North ( Mr Frith ) the prediction that breakfast club measure will save family £ 450 , but for many family in Stockton North , rather than save £ 450 , the measure will simply ensure that a child go to school with a breakfast . we have hear from many member , include my hon . friend the Members for Washington and Gateshead South ( Mrs Hodgson ) and for Stroud ( Dr Opher ) , and the hon . member for Twickenham ( Munira Wilson ) , about the benefit of automatic enrolment for free school meal . as someone who grow up eligible for free school meal but never access they , I can say that that would definitely make a difference to child in my constituency , and I encourage the Government to look at that . I commend Stockton - on - Tees borough council for conduct a trial in that area . the scale of the challenge of child poverty in my constituency be enormous . figure from the North East Child Poverty Commission indicate that child poverty have increase by 20 % over the last decade , and that one in three child in my area now live in poverty . it be heartbreaking to see sign in local community centre ask for donation of basic essential such as soap or toothpaste for child who attend event there , or security tag on infant milk formula , which be one of the item most steal from local supermarket . when a parent steal infant milk formula it be because they have a hungry baby at home . I admire the optimism of the Father of the House who speak early about the possibility of a future Conservative Government , but baby , child and young people in my constituency do not have time to wait for that . I encourage member to support the Bill , which will benefit child and family such as those in Stockton North , where recently I meet young man , young father , who be strive for the dignity of stable employment and the opportunity to earn a decent wage to support their family . they will have hear today that this Government be on the side of working - class family , and I have make clear my commitment to every child and young person in Stockton North . together we can break the link between background and opportunity , create a well future for all child in Stockton , Billingham and Norton . very little of the Bill apply to Northern Ireland other than clause 56 , so perhaps when she sum up the debate , the Minister will explain what legislation will be subject to regulation in this House if she so decide . have say that , I wish to comment on the Bill because , have the privilege of represent a part of the United Kingdom that consistently register high educational standard , I want the same for the rest of the country to which I belong . I understand , of course , that there will always be people who fall through the bar and do not do as well in the education system , but it be important that a structure be in place that ensure the good for everyone . one concern about the Bill be that a structure that have be in place for two decade , and use under successive government of different hue , will now be dismantle because of some ideological reason that the Government have . I imagine I will not have time in this short speech to go into those issue , but I hope that they will be tease out and properly consider during scrutiny of the Bill . secondly , there have be limited consultation on home schooling , and there be real fear from people who educate their child at home about the impact the Bill might have . much have be make of the fact that , if the Bill do not pass , child will not be safeguard , but the fact of the matter be that there have always be legislation to safeguard child . as the hon . member for Dorking and Horley ( Chris Coghlan ) point out , even with legislation in place there be still failure by the police , local authority , social service and local council to carry out the safeguarding that be available to they in law . my final point be that we can not have a Bill on child ' s wellbee , and at the same time ignore the controversy out there among the public as a result of our renew exposure to the terrible event where pakistani rape gang have torture , intimidate and abuse young girl . yet we have turn a blind eye to it . do the right hon . Member agree that a national inquiry into child sexual exploitation focus on groom gang be not only essential for justice for the innocent victim affect but would play a crucial role in societal healing in the UK , and that fail to initiate such an inquiry will leave a stain on the Government , hinder transparency and obstruct the full truth ? the hon . member be absolutely right . of course , we will be , and have be , accuse of have our own political agenda , want to stir up racism , march to Musk ' s drum and everything else , but the demand at the end of the amendment be one that every decent person should wish to support , because it would restore the trust that people have lose in see how this issue have be handle . I spend seven year manage a team of barrister on a public inquiry , and I have some insight into the benefit and limitation of public inquiry . do the right hon . Member really think that wreck the Bill would lead to a single perpetrator be bring to justice or protect a single child from these despicable crime ? first , support the amendment do not wreck the Bill . [ interruption . ] secondly , there be a misconception that if we do not support the Bill , no action will be take . there be plenty of legislation under which to take the action at present ; it be simply a case of do it and give people the assurance that it be be do . also , the public inquiry would ensure that those who think they can hide , deny and cover up would finally be expose , because the House be willing to take they on and expose what have happen . that be why it be so important . we can not allow the situation to prevail . we know that this issue be far more widespread than be ever think . there have be denial . indeed , I remember the previous Member for Telford raise this issue time and again in the last Parliament and be shout down . at that stage , although she be provide the evidence — this be what we need to expose — the leader of the Telford council be say , " there be no need to tell the Home Office and no need for an inquiry . " now , of course , we know what happen in Telford . restore trust in politician and the system be what a public inquiry would do . it would not have to lead to no action be take in the meantime . I listen to the hon . member for Rotherham ( Sarah Champion ) — I have great admiration for she , because she be prepared to stand up even when it mean abuse from some of her own party member — who argue that to have an inquiry would delay justice be do . as I have say , I do not believe that that be the case . an inquiry would not mean that we would stop take action — of course , we could still take action — but it would lead to the full fact be know , those involve be expose and action take against they to ensure that it do not happen again . I tell the House that the long people think that these thing can be cover up and hide and attention divert , the less they will be prepared to do the job that they be mean to do , and we will have vulnerable people be exploit continually without the protection that they deserve . the very real and transformational merit of the Bill be clear . measure on brand uniform and free breakfast club will help family in Southampton Itchen and put money back in their pocket . register child who be not in school and have a unique number for every child will help multiple agency to safeguard our child and work well together , more importantly . have already deal with the Tory legacy of endless teacher strike , Labour ' s Bill will start value qualified teacher once again who inspire our next generation , and will be pay they consistently . the Bill will also ensure that all child , regardless of school model or structure , can be inspire by a refreshed curriculum that set they up for life . any Member who have work in education or social care will not recognise the fanciful picture of the Tories ' record . if it be so rosy , they may want to reflect on why they be now on the Opposition Benches . let we have a bit of honesty : what they leave be inadequate funding and crumble building . they be against fully qualified teacher ; there be endless strike over pay ; and recruitment and retention be a complete disaster . those be the inconvenient fact that some of they want to avoid , all because of an obsession with buzzword and structure , not with child ' s outcome . they talk about educational vandalism , but they be guilty of it . I want to focus my remain comment on measure that will make a difference to a group whose voice be often not hear enough in this debate : child and young people who have experience be in care . we have have the excellent independent review of child ' s social care , carry out by my hon . friend the Member for Whitehaven and Workington ( Josh MacAlister ) , which , we should remember , be commission by the last Conservative Government and then , inexplicably and unforgivably , put on the shelf and ignore . in that report , my hon . friend warn that without a significant change of course , the number of child in care would exceed 100 , 000 in this country . this Bill can and must be that change of course . ensure that local authority offer family group conferencing be hugely welcome and will give opportunity for the child ' s voice to be hear when plan potentially life - change intervention , to ensure that those be the good possible change . for some , live with a member of extended family will turn their life around , so I welcome the legal recognition of kinship care . that will ensure solid support and a home close to their support network for the 153 , 000 child and young people in that situation . I ask that the Minister perhaps reflect on the extent to which child and young people ' s voice will be hear in design those measure . support for care leaver be crucial , so I welcome the extension of the stay close support . it represent a transition to independence and step to get decent housing and vital service for those young people , but it be not just a theory or a programme — it be already work . when I be cabinet member for child ' s service in Southampton , we introduce it three year ago . it have be an enormous success in term of the quality of support and the outcome for young people . in a rare moment of cross - party agreement , I reflect on the comment of the hon . member for South West Devon ( Rebecca Smith ) . I agree that the support lodging scheme from the home for good and Safe Families charity be worth look at . the result be impressive in term of safety , good relationship , confidence and be more likely to be in education , employment and training . the goal of this important Bill be to ensure opportunity for every child and young person — not just those in the Tories ' preferred model of school , but 100 % of schoolchildren : a safe start for every one of they . the Government who take this seriously be those who act on it . that be this Labour Government — not posture like the Opposition , or ideologically wreck it , but take action so that child can thrive in life . rise — Order . before I call the next member , I be impose a three - minute time limit . let I start by say how much I welcome the Bill , as an important step in strengthen the role of education and multi - agency safeguarding arrangement , so that we can well identify and protect vulnerable child . a headteacher in my constituency reach out to I and say : " child do disclose to teacher , particularly in primary school . we spend so many hour with child — we be often the voice for the child . parent can often tell authority thing that be not true . " the tragic death of Sara Sharif in my county of Surrey serve as a sobering reminder of the current weakness in the system and the consequence of not get such an important piece of legislation right for child at risk of neglect and abuse . as a school governor for eight year , with responsibility for safeguarding , I understand a little of the load that teacher carry that keep they awake at night . one headteacher tell I : " unless you have spend sleepless night worry about a child , knock on a door in the hope that a child be still alive , you don ' t understand . " as a governor during covid , when all our vulnerable child be stick at home initially , I understand that . the Bill be a welcome first step , but there be much more the Government can do to support child and young people . I welcome the creation of a register of child not in school , but I believe the Bill should go far . as it stand , parent will no long have an automatic right to home - educate if their child be subject to a child protection investigation or under a child protection plan . however , I be not clear whether these provision would have protect child such as Sara , who be previously know to social service but be not at the time of her death . I would be grateful if the Minister could clarify whether , in order to protect such child , the Bill will ensure that parent will not have an automatic right to home - educate if their child have also have a history of child protection investigation or a child protection plan , rather than if the investigation or plan be live at the time . I be also pleased with the provision compelling local authority to share information . it take one school locally four year to track down a family who have withdraw their child , and that family then go missing . I support call for the Bill to make provision for a dedicated , qualified mental health professional in every school , ensure that all child and parent have someone they can turn to for help . in Surrey there be almost 7 , 000 child on mental health waiting list , wait for an average of eight month . provide a dedicated mental health practitioner in these school would be highly effective in reach large number of child and young people . finally , I be disappointed that the Bill fall short on tackle the problem of SEND education in England , as these child be at particular risk of be force out of the school system and into potentially much more vulnerable situation . there be 1 , 800 child in Surrey miss school because of a lack of provision — order . I call Sally Jameson . all child deserve the very good start in life , and I will vote in favour of this Bill today on behalf of all the child in Doncaster Central who deserve just that . along with many other measure , I be pleased that the Bill acknowledge the immense challenge face by care leaver and care - experienced child , and that it will set a high bar for council to support young people who have leave care . in Doncaster there be 542 look - after child in 2023 . the Bill ' s success will be measure by their outcome , which have long be ignore . as a former prison officer , I have work with many care leaver in the prison system and hear their experience , some of which be harrowing . the statistic speak for themselves : it be estimate that around 50 % of young offender in custody and around 29 % of the entire prison population be care - experienced . that fact be most sobering when highlight the significant failure in the current system , and it serve as a reminder to we all that change must come . it signify a consistent and endure failure to support young people in the care system , and tell our young people that if they need to be care for by the state , they be less likely to lead a positive and stable adult life . it be the taxpayer , frankly , who be pick up the bill . accord to research from Become , the number of young care leaver age between 18 and 20 approach local authority as homeless have increase by 54 % over the past five year , and they be nine time more likely to face homelessness than other young people . I wholeheartedly welcome the measure in the Bill that strengthen arrangement to support and assist care leaver in their transition to adulthood , and I hope that legislate for local authority to publish a full local care offer for care leaver will offer much - need clarity and direction , which can often be uncertain . I hope the Government will consider the recommendation from Barnardo ' s , which suggest that the Bill should extend corporate parenting principle to a great range of public body , include the Home Office , the police and healthcare provider . finally , I want to refer to something that have be raise by a number of colleague today : the disgusting and excessive profiteering that exist in child ' s social care . People and private provider who have no business in this area have be charge extortionate rate to council and taxpayer while deliver the appalling outcome that I discuss early . change be much need , and I be pleased that the Bill be finally here . it have be a long time come for many vulnerable child across the country , and I look forward to see it progress . as have be highlight on the Opposition Benches , english education have be a success story . we have trust school to get on with the job , and academy and new free school enjoy the freedom to run themselves , pay their teacher more and improve their curriculum . end central Government and local government micromanagement have put power into the hand of people who know good : school leader and teacher . and it have work : english school have soar up the global ranking under the Conservatives . the hon . Gentleman talk about put power into teacher ' hand . be he aware of the number of teacher who have be so radicalise by the Conservatives ' reform that they now surround I on the Labour Benches ? well , the figure speak for themselves . as be highlight by my hon . friend the Member for West Suffolk ( Nick Timothy ) , who have morph into a Whip at the moment , english school have soar up the ranking . if we look at the recent PISA league table , we see that english education be now rank seventh - good for math and ninth for reading and science . that be up from 21st , 19th and 11th respectively in 2009 . meanwhile , education in Scotland and Wales under the SNP and Labour , where school be not grant those freedom , have stagnate and slump in various global ranking , so much so that some of they have withdraw altogether from some of those ranking . I want to focus on one problematic element of the Bill , which be raise by the hon . member for Bath ( Wera Hobhouse ) . the Government ' s proposal would strip academy of the power to pay teacher more , award performance , and attract and retain talented people . I understand that at least two school in my constituency pay teacher more than the national pay scale : oakland primary in Biggin Hill and Pickhurst primary in Hayes . nearby , the Harris primary academy in Shortlands and many more school in Bromley also choose to pay teacher more . the Bill will strip academy of that power , cut teacher ' pay and weakening school . in any other industry , pay reflect performance . when vacancy can not be fill , pay rise to attract talent . that be why school should be able to vary from national pay scale . school leader should be able to pay good teacher more and respond to the local job market . instead , the Government want to wind the clock back and empower whitehall , not school . the Government be so eager to be doom - monger to justify their ideological policy that they risk wreck a decade of progress . who will benefit ? it be not the teacher or the child , so why be they do it ? I be not even sure that those on the Government Front Bench know , but what we do know be that the Bill will destabilise year of progress and damage the future opportunity of young people across Bromley and Biggin Hill , and right across the nation . in a week where much have be say about protect child , it be great to see the Government act on the safety and wellbeing of child . for child to be safe , they need to be visible . a situation where child can fall off the radar of the authority task with protect they be clearly unacceptable , but we know it happen . we know that in a minority of case , child can be take out of school and out of the protection that school provide , and come to harm . that be why introduce a register of child not in school be such an important and common - sense measure : it be right that parent will no long have an automatic right to home - educate if their child be subject to a child protection investigation ; it be right that local authority can identify child not in school , in order to ensure that they be safe ; and it be right to introduce a unique identity number for child that facilitate information sharing by the service charge with protect they . as the Children ' s Commissioner say , write these landmark measure into law will be " of huge significance for any child currently at risk of harm in this country " . I be proud that the Government be so swiftly take forward such measure . my final point on home education be that it be important to recognise that the steep increase in home - schooling be in part the result of parent of child with special educational need feel that those need be not be meet in mainstream education . it be therefore vital that the Bill run parallel to the important work that the Government have already start at the Budget to reform and invest in a SEND system that have be severely neglect for too many year . many other member have talk of the huge importance of every child have a legal right of access to a breakfast club , and of the action we be take to ensure that school uniform be affordable . nothing damage child wellbee more than child poverty . of course there be much more to do , but , alongside the Government ' s child poverty strategy , these be concrete step that will make a real difference to family in my constituency and across the country . take action to make a difference , change thing instead of call for yet another review , serious work instead of parrot nonsense on social medium , and pass legislation instead of scoring point — this be serious work from a Government who understand the importance of ensure that all our child have the good possible start in life . it be a pleasure to stand here today and talk about a Bill that deliver on the Government ' s mission to break down barrier to opportunity . there be two aspect that I particularly welcome . the first be the potential profit cap , which will enable the Secretary of State to cap the profit of non - local authority Ofsted - register provider of child ' s home , foster agency and support accommodation . there be area throughout the country , include mine , where the cost of place child in private sector residential social care be eye - wateringly high . I regularly meet officer from my local authority , Nottinghamshire county council , and the cost that they be incur to meet the need of child ' s welfare have be describe by the council ' s former conservative leader , Ben Bradley , as " rinse " local authority finance . I think it important for we to ensure that private company be not make excessive profit at the expense of other public sector service , and I therefore welcome the numerous measure in the Bill that aim to rebalance the child ' s social care placement market and drive down those excessive profit make by some unscrupulous private provider , together with the demand for full financial transparency from those organisation and the potential for the creation of regional care co - operative . I previously oversee child ' s social care in local government . do my hon . friend agree that the introduction of those co - operative will make a huge difference not only to local government finance , but to our ability to ensure that child grow up safe and happy ? indeed ; I see the positive benefit of both those development . we will be able to rebalance spending across local authority budget and provide a significantly well and measurable standard of care at the same time . the second aspect of the Bill that I particularly welcome be the introduction of free breakfast club in every primary school , which will have a significant and positive impact on family in Mansfield , in particular by help with the cost of live and support parent who be have to juggle work commitment . however , I be especially motivated to support the Bill because of some of the harrowing story that I have hear from constituent . numerous teacher in Mansfield , some of they visibly distressed and upset , have tell I that they have use their own money to buy food for child who have turn up to school with empty stomach — young child who be so hungry that they can not concentrate on their study . it be not that those child be unloved or wilfully neglect ; many come from love family with both parent work all hour to provide for they , which leave precious little time for the preparation of a meal before school . this Bill clearly drive home Labour ' s mission to break down barrier to opportunity , and I will be vote for it proudly on behalf of all the child and family in my area who will benefit from it . this Bill be a landmark piece of legislation that not only demonstrate ambition but take tangible action to keep child safe , improve educational standard and make family well off . like many of we here , I get into politic to improve the life chance of child in my community and to make it a reality that , regardless of someone ' s background or circumstance , the only ceiling on their potential be their talent and your determination , so I be delighted to see the Government bring forward this Bill , which begin the work of break down barrier to opportunity for our child . as anyone who have be involve in our school or who have read any of the academic evidence on the subject will know , that start with a full stomach at the beginning of the day , which breakfast club deliver . they help with attention span and cognitive performance , and they give parent great flexibility to earn during their work hour . strengthen the law to set out a specific number of brand school uniform item be an important step in the right direction , and I hope we will go far in due course . my hon . friend mention free breakfast club and the removal of some brand school uniform item . we talk about uniform cost up to £ 500 , but do he agree that the figure be big than that for parent who have multiple child at the same school ? I absolutely agree . primary school child , who typically wear polo shirt , need five day ' worth , plus PE kit . this measure will make an enormous difference . although it have be great to see organisation such as the Winsford Uniform Exchange in my constituency grow and provide people with low - cost and greener alternative , bring cost down for family be absolutely the right priority . the measure on breakfast club and school uniform may be the two most visible in the Bill , and I hope that they will be part of the Government ' s last legacy of support all child to achieve and thrive . the Bill cover a vast array of measure across the spectrum of child ' s social care and school policy , as we have discuss this afternoon . I will focus my comment predominantly on the school side , although I want to take a moment to say something about the single unique identifier for child . in Lord Laming ' s report on the death of Victoria Climbi é in 2000 , he recommend that the Government explore the safeguard benefit of a national child ' s database — effectively a single unique identifier — to address poor communication and datum sharing between agency . in report after case after report after case , the issue of weak multidisciplinary working continue to arise . the measure propose in this Bill , alongside the clarification of the legal basis for information sharing and the creation of multi - agency child protection team , will undoubtedly help , but they be the start of the story , not the end . the success of this measure will be in ensure that the single unique identifier be consistently capture in reform working practice so that information sharing be part of the culture , and in make it clear that local authority boundary , health authority boundary , police authority boundary and , in my part of the world , national boundary be not a barrier to good safeguarding practice , which have become more important as child travel far to appropriate education or care setting . I want to cover the reform that the Bill make to academy in the minute or so that I have leave . I be not ideological about the academy system . I have see multi - academy trust that provide an outstanding level of support for their school ; equally , I have see mat that have not work and that have provide local leader with few lever to push for improvement on behalf of their community . the reality be that the previous Government leave we with a school system that have become increasingly fragmented and lack coherence at local , regional and national level . the governance model be rarely the key determinant of whether a school will provide good outcome for child ; as someone once say , this be about standard , not structure . on that basis , many of the reform propose in the Bill be entirely sensible , such as the requirement to teach the national curriculum , the requirement to employ qualified teacher , and give the school adjudicator the final say on admission number . all of these measure will get we close to some consistency and common standard across the sector . I will leave it there . I just want to say that this legislation — order . there be a time limit . I be both a former teacher and a former council leader , and I speak on behalf of many of my former colleague when I say that this Bill be welcome and will make a difference to child across St Helens North . it will also make a positive difference to the ability of those who work in education and other service to protect and support child and young people . that be why I will vote for the Bill and can not support the opposition ' s wreck amendment . break down barrier to opportunity be a key Government mission , and one that , in my experience , have be vital to all those who choose to work with child and young people . when I be council leader in St Helens , we make give every child the good possible start in life the council ' s no . 1 priority , and I learn that partnership work be key . together , we be able to take child ' s service from inadequate when I become leader to good and outstanding . I warmly welcome the Bill ' s measure to encourage datum sharing and multi - agency work in all council across the country . member on both side of the House should welcome the Bill ' s measure to improve child protection and safeguarding , to improve support for child in care and care leaver , and to introduce well regulation of the child ' s home sector . on wide issue under the Bill ' s scope , I warmly welcome the concrete measure to put money back in family ' pocket at a time when we know thing be difficult for many . practical measure such as limit the number of brand item of school uniform and introduce free breakfast club in primary school could save family in St Helens North £ 450 a year . perhaps more importantly , these measure will make sure that child can start each day with a full stomach , healthy , happy and ready to learn . I also want to see high standard and more opportunity for every child in every school . I say this not just from my professional background and interest but , more importantly , as a parent . I be pleased to see this run right through the Bill and through everything the Secretary of State and Education Ministers have say since take office . this mean put qualified , expert teacher at the front of every classroom , include in academy , and develop a new national curriculum to ensure that young people be ready for work and ready for life . however , as I mention early , I have no doubt that the most important aspect of this Bill will ensure that child and young people be safe at home and at school . this Bill be the big upgrade in child protection in a generation , and it should be something we can all support . I finish by pay tribute to my hon . friend the Member for Rotherham ( Sarah Champion ) , who speak so passionately and clearly about child protection , as well as the importance of vote for the Bill today and implement the Jay inquiry ' s recommendation as soon as possible . this should be something on which we can all agree . I welcome this wide - range Bill that focus on the important issue of keep child safe , provide more support for child in care , address child poverty , raise educational standard and return local authority to the centre of school place planning . give the cost of living , and with child poverty as high as 32 % in my constituency , I welcome the clause on limit school uniform cost . parent be too often force to prioritise their school choice base on the cost of the school uniform , which be a form of selection . if the Hounslow school my son attend could limit brand kit to an iron - on blazer badge , a tie and a PE shirt , so that the rest could be buy at supermarket , why can not all school do this ? I also welcome the introduction of breakfast club in all school . as a former local councillor and lead member for child , I be pleased that the Government be give power back to local authority on place planning and proposal for new school — a right remove by the Conservative Government after 2010 . the opening , closing , growth , contraction and entry criterion of any school have a direct effect on neighbouring school and local transport service . furthermore , the cynical practice of off - roll by school that be try to up their exam score be another example of why the local authority role be so important . I welcome the relevant clause in this Bill . finally , every school in Hounslow be rate good or outstanding . I be sorry to disagree slightly with my hon . friend the Member for Mitcham and Morden ( Dame Siobhain McDonagh ) , who be no long in the Chamber , but in my experience the single big factor in successfully turn around a fail school be not its governance structure but the inspirational leadership of a great headteacher . to address the recruitment and retention challenge in school leadership , future great school leader need to be identify and support before they burn out and leave the profession mid - career , as I fear many be do . my question to Ministers be whether the workforce and finance challenge inherit from the previous Government will be address to deliver the full potential of this excellent Bill . child grow up in our country , and in my city of Portsmouth , deserve the very good start in life and nothing less . as a teacher for 24 year , I have see the good in education and unfortunately , under the Conservatives , the very bad . the good journey in life be not easy , and it be shameful that under the last government we see the scrapping of sure Start and Building Schools for the Future , the narrowing of the curriculum , a failure to meet target in recruitment and retention , a lack of join - up service in education and health , a lack of child protection , the ignoring of inquiry recommendation and an ofsted system that be not fit for purpose . in short , there be a disregard for our child ' s future . in just six month , this Government have introduce a Bill that seek to reverse that situation . the Bill be innovative , and importantly , in draft the measure the Government have listen to the voice of charity , professional , parent , child and young people . the Bill provide an opportunity to truly transform life . the measure will take action in the wake of appalling and tragic child abuse case ; create a register of child not in school ; save family in Portsmouth potentially £ 500 a year per child through the creation of breakfast club ; cap brand uniform ; introduce national pay and condition for teacher ; and ensure that kinship carer have clear guidance . I could continue with this list because the Bill set out so many more action to benefit the wellbeing of child , but I want to concentrate on home - schooling . the relationship between many family and local authority on home - schooling be adversarial and characterise by mistrust . that relationship must be reset . the register be vital to stop child slip through the crack . it be crucial that home - schooling be a clear choice and , when choose , be not a battle between parent and local authority . parent must not feel they have no choice but to home - school because the previous Government dismantle SEND provision in our school , or because child have be offload by some school . we must ensure that every family who make the decision to home - school be do so freely and with the good interest of their child at the forefront . I believe the child ' s register will help provide datum and understanding . the new duty for mainstream and alternative provision school to co - operate with local authority on place planning will help ensure a plan for adequate school place , which I know will be welcome in my constituency . the Bill be the single big piece of child protection legislation , and it be what the child in my city and our country deserve . I welcome the announcement by the Chancellor that the money raise from vat on private school will fund breakfast club for pupil in my constituency , give they the good start to the day . I want to highlight Mattersey primary school in my constituency , a rural school that be one of the small in the country , with only 38 pupil , 51 % of whom , shockingly , receive pupil premium funding . the school currently run a breakfast club for £ 1 a day and have apply to be an early adopter of the free breakfast club scheme . as the policy be roll out across the country , I urge the Secretary of State to learn from the school how it run its breakfast club , and I invite she to visit the school . for some child , home - schooling have be valuable and enable they to be educate in surrounding where they feel safe and can achieve their very good . however , there be huge danger and , in some case , home - schooling have become a vehicle that have put vulnerable child at great risk . I be concern by see too many child out in the street during school hour , with parent catch up in a generational cycle of benefit dependency and their child miss out on school because they be supposedly be home - school . at an early age , those child be already face a future of live on benefit and in a black economy culture . that concern be amplify where child be be hide , whether they be like Sara Sharif or part of extreme religious group control child ' s life and welfare , in which the victim of abuse be silence . all of we can and should support the Government ' s recommendation for oversight and registration in this sector . the previous MP for Bassetlaw , Lord Mann , give evidence on behalf of more than 30 people to Professor Jay ' s inquiry . he and my hon . friend the Member for Rotherham ( Sarah Champion ) be the only mp who do that . in bassetlaw , I sit and listen to victim of child abuse . this be a crisis in all community . the idea that the Government should give action against one kind of child abuse priority be obscene and dangerous . anyone who do not understand that should read the report by the independent inquiry into child sexual abuse . there be a lot of unfinished business ; this be not just about legislation . my office have be work since the moment I be elect to get my constituent Terry Lodge , who be enslave as a child in a foundry , the compensation that Nottinghamshire county council have accept that it will pay for his loss of childhood , but which be still to be pay out . that be in our country — in white , rural England . child abuse be in every corner of our country . I be not prepared to wait three or four more year for action , and neither should the victim or the survivor be require to wait any long . I want to read out a message from a survivor that I have receive while sit in the Chamber : " I ' m guess victim of abuse want to be believe , to see justice serve and to hold the people who know and didn ' t help accountable , not listen to another multi - million pound inquiry last 7 year , which point out the obvious . " I will end by say that instead of make this issue into a political football , I will listen to my constituent — Order . I call Dave Robertson . I be still quite a new member , but over the last month , we have be privileged to see the good of the House ; its support for the fight in Ukraine and the Terminally Ill adult ( end of Life ) Bill spring to mind . even in this afternoon ' s debate , the speech from the hon . member for Dorking and Horley ( Chris Coghlan ) and the right hon . member for Skipton and Ripon ( Sir Julian Smith ) be excellent contribution that show the House in an exceptional light . unfortunately , this evening , I may yet see the disappointing spectacle of member choose to vote against measure to protect child , solely so that they can make a political statement . that be a significant concern . I reconfirm to any member on the Opposition Benches who be think of support the amendment that if they do , they be vote to block the Bill ; they be decline to give it a second reading . in block the Bill , they be block the single child identifier and the register of child not in school , which be step that the Government be take to protect vulnerable child . we have hear from some member that they want to call for an inquiry in certain place . they can still do that if the Bill pass Second Reading , as I hope it will . there be nothing in the Bill to stop such inquiry , or to prevent people from continue to campaign for they . by vote against the Bill — to support the amendment be to vote against the Bill — they be vote against measure to protect child to make a political point . that be not act in the great tradition of this place . I could talk for over an hour on this matter , but I have a minute left , so I will touch on school uniform . around three year ago , alongside business , school and the community , I set up Lichfield back to School Bank , a uniform recycling scheme . last year , we support more than 120 family , and around 4 % of the city ' s school pupil pick up a uniform from we . we prevent six tonne of carbon emission through that alone . that , however , be not the real reason why I be so proud of that . many parent I speak to talk about the weight lift off their shoulder when they be able to access a school uniform , because the cost be so high and such a concern . a parent come over at the end of the event with a couple of bag of thing to put on their kid , which help they out with cost . they be reduce to tear . they have be feel pressure ; they have be look ahead to the cost and do not know how they would meet it . be able to get that stuff at no cost release that pressure valve . I hope that story stay with I for a very long time . those be the story we need to focus on — story of the real - world impact in our constituency . I want to make the House aware that my partner work for a teacher training provider . the Bill represent a real step towards close the gap through which child be fall . parent and carer in Birmingham Northfield will welcome the measure in the Bill to help keep the cost of school uniform down , to extend free breakfast club to every primary school , and to tackle the profiteering by the pirate of the high need , which my hon . friend the Member for Mansfield ( Steve Yemm ) speak about so convincingly . I agree with member from across the House who have say that beyond the Bill , we need to see progress in this Parliament on our child ' s happiness and on SEND . we can not lose sight of the fact that the new duty to report safeguard concern will protect child and save life . may I say how welcome it be to see in the Bill the name of the safeguarding Minister , the hon . member for Birmingham Yardley ( Jess Phillips ) ? child abuse be the cruell and most cowardly of crime , and few have do as much as she to champion victim . the public hounding that we have see in the past week , which some member of this House have fail to condemn , represent a threat to public safety , a disgrace to public life and an insult to survivor of grooming and abuse . some of my constituent will take an interest in the vote on the conservative amendment as well as on the Bill . I want to be clear : the amendment be a lengthy hodgepodge of objection to the Bill , and I fundamentally disagree with it ; it would have the effect of delay action on safeguarding . I conclude by say to Opposition Front Benchers that if they continue with the opportunistic weaponising of the most sensitive and serious issue , which we have learn over the last day have extend to use this matter as a fundraising opportunity , they will remain in opposition and will deserve to do so . it be a privilege to be call to speak in this debate . I will focus my remark on the impact of this Bill on school and parent in my constituency . however , first I pay tribute to the family of Holly Newton from my constituency , and to Northumberland Domestic Abuse Services , which campaign tirelessly to provide protection for victim and young people in my constituency . this landmark legislation be a return to grown - up , sensible , solution - base politic and policymaking , which for 14 year this country have be deny . unfortunately , all too often , parent in my constituency find the cost of uniform prohibitive . that additional cost place a burden on family who should be focus on send their child to what will be , and in many case be , genuinely world - class school in my constituency . I be privileged to visit Acomb first school , Longhorsley Church of England first school and Hexham middle school before Christmas . I will be off on another school visit on Friday . the Bill be merely the start for this child - focus and child - centric Government . I be incredibly grateful to the Secretary of State for join I on a pre - election visit to the middle school in Corbridge , where we meet child and student , and where soon I will be pound the pavement and knock on door for our excellent council candidate . I be probably the first Member to mention the local election in 2025 , so I guess it be now open season . small school across my constituency have really suffer from a county council that be not focus enough on the need of parent and child . there be a lack of school transport provision , which I have speak about in this place , and a lack of SEND provision , which I hear about at almost every single surgery that I hold . genuine concern have also be raise about Bellingham middle school . parent and resident feel that the Conservative - run administration at Northumberland County Hall have simply abandon the school and be content to let it wither . I be sure that there be some good - intentione conservative councillor at County Hall who would object to that , but that be the view of the community . in the 30 second that I have leave , I would like to pay tribute to those on the Government Front Bench for their relentless focus on address the practical need of my constituent . I thank the Secretary of State and the ministerial team for the time that they have give to I and to other member from the north - east , for their focus on improve the outcome for school , and for the time that they have spend speak about the challenge of small school in my Northumberland constituency . I have finish my speech with five second to spare . childhood be a precious thing . it can shape we or break we . too many childhood have be steal — by poverty , abuser and the inaction of the previous Government . in Britain today , 3 . 5 million child be grow up in absolute poverty . More be be place in unregistered child ' s home , and it be estimate by the Education Policy Institute that 300 , 000 child be miss from the education system . although Opposition Members seem to have wake up to the evil of child abuse and exploitation , they can not deny that their lack of care and urgency on these issue have make our child more vulnerable . their failure to act have create an environment in which it be estimate that almost half a million child experience some sort of sexual abuse in this country every year , and their failure to implement a single recommendation from the Jay report have make it easy for groomer in every corner of our country to continue to rob our child of their childhood , their future and their dignity . that be the cost of the previous Government ' s do - nothing approach to child abuse , and they should be ashamed . the previous Government ' s failure have also see council struggle to cover the spiral cost of placement . in Croydon , where I be privileged to be an MP , the council have have to cough up almost £ 87 million to cover the cost of child service . with 31 % of child there grow up in the shadow of poverty , Croydon ' s young people have be fail by the inaction of the previous Government . it be time to end the previous Government ' s addiction to fail our child , and support the Bill . the Bill cut the cost of send child to school by introduce free breakfast club and tackle the cost of school uniform . it also prevent vulnerable child from fall through the crack by bring in a register of child who be educate from home , and introduce a unique identifier , so that child be visible across the system . the Bill be the single big piece of child protection legislation in a generation . a vote against it be a vote against child ' s safety , their childhood and their future . it be shameful that , even in opposition , Conservative Members continue to drag their foot on child protection , continue to fail our child , and continue to put the interest of their party before the good interest of our country . unlike the opposition , we will not turn our back on our child , we will not accept failure , and we will finally put the wellbeing of our child first . child grow up in Bournemouth deserve the good start in life — nothing less . whoever you be , and wherever you come from , you should be able to go as far as your talent take you , and those talent should be rigorously , systematically and compassionately nourish for everyone . I would not be here but for the teacher of my childhood . I thank Alan Garner and Christine Moore — it feel really weird to name they in full . I thank Mr Garner and Mrs Moore , who do so much to enable I to get here . they stay late in the classroom so that I could have a safe , warm place to do my homework . they inspire I to do well when circumstance tell I that I could not , so thank you to they . the reality be that for many child , opportunity be too often limited , and their background can have a decisive impact on the life that they can build . I welcome the Bill because it will help every child to achieve and thrive at a school with excellent teaching and high standard . it will focus on disadvantaged child and those with special educational need and disability . in Bournemouth , we have a particularly significant SEND crisis . the Bill will get child ready for the school day by provide free breakfast club in primary school . I want to give a shout - out to Pokesdown community primary school . Chef Russ and Ali Bayliss be two fantastic leader provide nutritious breakfast for young child . the Bill will ease the financial burden on parent by limit the number of brand uniform item . I be particularly pleased about that , because only this week , I be contact by a constituent , Richard Merghani , base in Southbourne , who raise concern about the cost of school uniform . I welcome the Government ' s proposal ; estimate show that it could save parent over £ 50 per child on the back - to - school shop . I want to bring the voice of constituent and local educational expert into this debate . I be think of David Nayler , who be the headteacher at Stourfield junior school for 11 year ; Lyn Gaudreau , who have be a senior principal adviser to Dorset local authority education authority ; Simon Adorian , a former headteacher ; Patrick Connolly , a former educational professional ; and Caroline Ellis , a nursery manager . they have inform everything that I would have say , if I have long than four minute , and everything that I will contribute as the Bill develop and pass through the Commons . I thank they for their expertise , and for what they contribute . we should really be listen to they , not Conservative Members , who have disgrace themselves in this debate and in recent day . I thank the Government Front Benchers for bring forward the Bill and prioritise child so early in the life of this Labour Government . it feel like unfinished business . the last Labour Government do so much to improve the lot of child and young people ; we be just pick up where they leave off . I look forward to see the Bill progress , and to the future of all our child be so much bright . there be a few reason why I put my head above the parapet and enter frontline politic and step from the classroom bench as a former deputy headteacher to the green Benches of this House to represent family in Wolverhampton North East , but none be close to my heart than this : under the previous Conservative Government , we lose sight of what be most important — that child be happy , healthy and safe . I have see the good of what education can offer . I have work with brilliant teacher and hard - work , dedicated support staff . I have work in school where 50 % of student be disadvantaged — school that exceed expectation despite the odd . but I have also see the deep and grow divide in our education system — divide that do not stop at the school gate but spill out into wide society , and the Bill will take important step to address they . educational inequality be the define challenge of our time . disadvantaged student have always face hurdle , but , in recent year , those hurdle have become insurmountable for many , inflame by the pandemic and the cost of living crisis . school in Wolverhampton and Willenhall and across the country be battle a worrying rise in school absence . one in five child be now regularly absent , and that figure be rise to one in four . some 158 , 000 child nationally be severely absent , miss over half of their school session . the scale of the crisis be staggering . it be the equivalent of our Wolves ' Molineux stadium be fill five time over with child who have miss half the school year . those child be not just miss lesson ; they be miss the foundation for a well future . the Bill take the important step to reverse that tide . by strengthen safeguarding for every child , it protect the most vulnerable . by ease the financial burden on family , include cut cost of school uniform , and by commit to free breakfast club in every primary school , it tackle a simple yet profound barrier to attendance . by create a truly child - centre social care system and end extortionate profit making in child ' s care , it ensure that the need of the child come first . I have dedicate my life to education , and I wholeheartedly support the Bill . it be not just a step in the right direction ; it be a foundation for the future . for the record , my wife be employ as a special educational need co - ordinator in a local authority school in the London borough of Bexley . I welcome the opportunity to speak in support of the Bill on aspect relate to look - after child and academy . on look - after child , the Bill would make a series of change on accommodation , as colleague have comment , which include increase ofsted oversight of organisation that operate multiple child ' s home or independent foster agency , introduce a financial oversight regime for certain independent agency and child ' s home provider , and allow the Secretary of State to cap the profit of child ' s home provider and independent foster agency . from my year as a local councillor , I know how badly those change be need . my local authority in Bexley , like many other , have struggle to control those area with regulation and struggle with the financial aspect . last year , we see the large child ' s service overspend of any London borough as a result of those issue . I therefore welcome the measure to limit the profit of specified non - local authority , Ofsted - register social provider of child ' s home and foster agency , which have continually raise their cost far above inflation to profit from the taxpayer and from the care cost of our most vulnerable child . I welcome the change in clause 47 to 50 to school admission arrangement , require school and local authority to co - operate to manage admission and give local authority the power to direct academy school to admit pupil . in my local authority , we have school where over 50 % of the child do not live in our borough because of the admission arrangement that our academy school have decide to put in place . in a borough where 79 % of school have be academise , we rely on their good will as to how many pupil they will admit each year from our local authority and how those applicant will be prioritise . that have result in the same conservative councillor who cheer - lead the roll - out of academy openly complain to I and colleague that they no long have control over admission criterion . today , we have the opportunity to give this landmark legislation its Second Reading . it will improve education standard and strengthen protection for the most vulnerable child in Bexleyheath and Crayford and across our country . it will drive high and rise standard in school through common - sense reform , and it will prevent child from fall through the crack by introduce landmark reform to safeguard child ' s social care . the Bill be the single big piece of child protection legislation in a generation . a vote for the amendment be a vote against the Bill and against the safety of our child , their childhood and their future . I urge all member to vote with I and the Government and to give the Bill its second reading . I wish to move away from the distracting , insult and dangerous politic of some conservative Members and return to the key principle of the Bill , which will reduce the pervasive inequality in our society . it will drive high standard throughout our education and care system so that every child can achieve and thrive , no matter where and into what circumstance they be bear . in Aylesbury , 15 % of child live in absolute poverty . that reality be sometimes lose in the perception of Buckinghamshire as a wealthy place , which mask significant inequality . I will highlight three way in which the Bill will make a difference to child and family struggle in my constituency . first , I support the Bill ' s commitment to deliver high and rise standard for every child in school by establish core national standard from which all school can build and innovate . when I visit school , I meet child full of hope and ambition and teacher determine to drive that ambition forward . however , budget be stretch , staff recruitment be tough and standard across the sector be uneven . the Bill contain very welcome measure such as put more qualified teacher in classroom , and update the pay and condition framework for teacher , include in school in area with high level of deprivation . I have hear great idea in my constituency about the curriculum and assessment review , include from some brilliant pupil I speak to at the Grange school . I look forward to see the outcome of that review later this year . secondly , I be pleased that the Bill will support the many parent and carer who be struggle with the cost of living . free breakfast club will save parent and carer £ 450 per child , and limit the number of brand school uniform item will save £ 50 per child in the back - to - school shop . one Broughton resident tell I that seven brand item cost they £ 280 — seven item that their child will grow out of or lose before they know it . they say that the cost be " crippling family , even more so in this current climate , and it be only get bad . " we have hear those concern , and be act on they through the Bill . thirdly , I be so pleased that the Bill will ensure that few child fall through the crack in the education system . I welcome in particular the measure to introduce a register of child out of school , with a unique number for every child . I recently speak to a headteacher in Aylesbury about the scandal she call " ghost child " — child who disappear from school and social service . in Buckinghamshire alone , the number of child miss education have double in the past two year . the measure in the Bill will ensure that the most vulnerable child can not be withdraw from school until it be confirm that it be in their good interest and there be suitable alternative education for they . this be a deeply principle Bill that we can all take pride in . it be a realisation of one of our most important ambitious for this country : that no matter who someone be or the circumstance they be bear into , the Government will support they to make a success of their life . I welcome the measure that the Secretary of State have set out to drive up standard and protect child . it be just a shame that so much cynical politic have be play in relation to the Bill in recent day . one of the good part of be a new MP have be visit local school , from Yew Tree primary to Tividale Hall , and see smile face excited about the future . however , it be a sad reality that child in my constituency and across the country have be let down — not by their hard - work teacher , but by a system in which public service have crumble , rise special educational need and disability have go unmet , and child have slip through the crack . a central mission of this Labour Government be to break down barrier to opportunity . every child deserve the good start in life , but we know that the play field be not level , and we join the Labour party to do something about it . in Sandwell , 37 % of local child be eligible for free school meal , compare with 27 % of child nationally . education should be the springboard that break the link between the circumstance of a person ' s birth and what they can achieve , but something be not work . in Sandwell , we do not recognise the rosy picture paint by the conservative party — that everything be great in school and all teacher love their job . the 18 - year - old who leave sixth form in July 2024 have spend their whole school career under a Conservative Administration , and in that time , GCSE and a - level attainment have completely stagnate in my area of Sandwell . anyone who look at a graph of level 2 and level 3 attainment locally under the previous Labour Government would have see a steady climb . child do well and well in school , but over the period of the last Conservative Government , that progress have grind to a complete halt . we have be stick in a situation where the proportion of child in Sandwell attain two a - level or equivalent be 10 percentage point below the national average . that be not because child in Sandwell be not as smart as child elsewhere ; it be because the system have not be work . this Bill will put more qualified teacher in front of class , create a cutting - edge national curriculum , and give all school the flexibility to recruit and retain the expert teacher our child need . we want our child to go to school in the right headspace — with hungry mind , not hungry belly . that be exactly what this Bill will do , with breakfast club that will improve concentration , behaviour and attendance and help family finance . I also want to touch on something that be at the heart of this Bill : the fact that it be the single big piece of child protection legislation in a generation . while some be play politic , we be take action , introduce a register of child not in school and a unique number for every child and implement multi - agency child protection team . in the past six month , the Labour Government have do more for child than the Conservatives do in 14 year . this Bill protect child — their childhood and their future — and break down barrier to opportunity . that be why I will be proud to vote for it today . I rise to speak to three point : free breakfast club , the clause deal with kinship care , and — have spend the past seven year manage a team of barrister on a public inquiry — the opposition wreck amendment . first , we all know that child who have breakfast perform well at learn , and — a bit like I — can be well behave as well . however , with the cost of living crisis leave to we by the last government , far too many parent struggle to ensure that child get regular morning meal . have be a chair of governor at a nursery school , I be keenly aware that the great impact we can make on a person ' s life chance come in the early year . the Derby Poverty Commission be explore with partner how free breakfast club can be provide in nursery school in Derby , and be look to work with business to fund that . I hope the Government will keep under review whether in future the positive impact of free breakfast club can be extend to nursery school as well as primary school . do my hon . friend agree that it be also important to look at breakfast club for certain secondary school , to make sure that teenager be also get the breakfast that they deserve and need for learn ? the evidence be clear on the real benefit that breakfast can give our child and young people . secondly , the Bill require local authority to consider kinship care before they issue proceeding for a child to go into the care system . avoid take child into care when it be safe to do so lead to far well outcome . in the first decade of my practice as a barrister , I spend significant time in family care proceeding ; I be frustrate by delay then , and the situation now be far bad . delay and limbo be hugely damaging to vulnerable child and their family . finally , I be hugely disappoint by the Opposition wreck amendment . I have spend the past seven year on a public inquiry , and I have some insight into the benefit and limitation of those inquiry . the Opposition ' s newly discover conviction that a further inquiry on child sexual exploitation be need and their attempt to hijack this Bill smack of political point scoring and headline grab , and the suggestion we have hear that a further inquiry could be do in a year be wholly unrealistic . inquiry can make recommendation , but they can not implement they ; that be our job , and wreck this Bill will not achieve that . my hon . friend have highlight the landmark nature of this Bill . many of the most historically significant measure for improve child welfare and wellbeing have enjoy cross - party support , and I be think here of the Children Act 1908 , the — Order . intervention really do have to be brief . a lot of member still wish to get in , and we be on a very tight time limit . the hon . Lady have already earn an additional minute of injury time , and I regret that I will not get all member in if we continue to have long intervention . I just wish to say that , nearly a decade after the national independent inquiry into child sexual abuse be set up , it be high time that the victim who so bravely give evidence see action . I welcome this Bill because , at its heart , it put child first . it do so in a number of way , and I want to start by talk about child who be out of school . parent have the right to decide whether their child be in school , and I support that principle absolutely , but the state have a duty to ensure that every child have a high - quality education . it be a fundamental right , not a privilege , and one that we must protect . this Bill address a fundamental shift that have take place over the last few year . in Hartlepool , the number of child be home - school have increase by 370 % since the pandemic . in the last year alone , the number of parent refuse to engage with the local authority in anything other than writing have nearly double . add to that , the number of child miss from education , which be a completely separate measure , be now 200 in Hartlepool . we have a duty to protect those child and their education . the vast majority of parent do a phenomenal job in those circumstance , but we have to accept the truth that there be time when they do not , and this Bill protect those child . a second issue that I think be really important be exclusion . in Hartlepool we now have about 85 permanent exclusion — the capacity of the local authority to support such child be 28 — and it be expect to double over the next year , without action . this be that action , and give local authority increase power to ensure that exclusion do not happen when they be not necessary will help local authority such as Hartlepool . I want to finish by reflect on the support that the Bill give to family . we have hear about free breakfast in every primary school . I join the Labour party because , as a young teaching assistant , I see child come to school hungry every day . to be able to stand here today , know that I be about to vote to make sure that no primary school child ever face that again be a proud moment for I , indeed . on school uniform , I want to point to the level of need that exist in Hartlepool . Natalie Frankland , an amazing individual who run the charity Hartlepool ReLoved Clothing , have distribute 40 , 000 piece of free school uniform in just two and a half year . that be the level of need that exist , and this Bill help those family . it put money back into their pocket — £ 500 a year minimum , and more if they have more than one child — and it protect child and support family . it be what the Tories be try to wreck tonight , and it be what we be go to support . when I think about why I be go to support this Bill and why it be so important to I , I think about the number of child I have teach over the year . the sad reality be that of all the young people we teach , the vast majority we do not get the opportunity to see again ; we do not see they grow up or what they do . I be proud to say that I have bump into a few of my former student over the year because some of they have go into the teaching profession . one of they be actually in the " death in Paradise " Christmas special the year before last , and one of they be the star striker for Harlow Town football club . there be the other side of that , however , and I once have the horrible experience of look at the front page of the local newspaper and see two of my former student who have tragically die in a car accident , but perhaps I should not have mention that . I realise why I be so passionate about teach and support young people , and that be because I feel so passionate , as many of my colleague do , about ensure that young people have the good possible opportunity to fulfil their potential . I truly believe that every young person have the potential to achieve if we give they the opportunity . I also believe that it be less about the type of school that young people go to , and more about the broad range of subject that they can study , so that every young person have the opportunity to star . as I say early , I have some genuine concern — I do not want to get into the politic of this , but I be concern about the number of young people who have fall through the gap , certainly recently , and I welcome measure in the Bill to introduce a register of student who be not in school . I also welcome news about a single unique identifier . wear my hat as chair of the all - party group for young carer and young adult carer , I mention the importance of ensure that young carer form part of that unique identifier and part of teacher training — just a little ask . I also recognise the importance of improve communication and multi - discipline team — I have a lot less time than I think . I also wish to mention free breakfast club , and the school uniform saving that will benefit parent and young people in my constituency who be struggle because of the cost of living crisis . I genuinely believe that that measure will help they , as it be an issue that definitely come up in my constituency . with time so short , I will focus on the three area that my constituent raise with I most frequently . we have hear about they today . first be the introduction of free breakfast club , which be the late in a long line of manifesto commitment that we have keep over the past six month , despite objection and comment from Conservative Members . that provision will guarantee that no child have to start the day hungry , and it also create an extra 30 minute of childcare , which will allow parent to be flexible with their work arrangement . the second area — my hon . friend the Member for Lichfield ( Dave Robertson ) speak passionately about this — be the limit that the Bill place on the number of brand item that a school can require a parent to purchase for their child . that limit will now be three . this be exactly the right thing to do . school uniform can get expensive as it be , and no child or parent should be deter from choose a school because of the cost of its uniform . the third issue relate to child who be not in school . the Bill will create a register of child who be not in school , so that local authority will be in a position to ensure that all child be be teach in a suitable environment . this be excellent work ; it be a minimum standard , and it be absolutely require . I have be approach by constituent who home - school , and they do an excellent job . they want to share some concern with I , which I promise I would raise with the relevant Minister , so I hope she will excuse I as I take the opportunity to do that now . first , when the register be introduce , what safeguard will be in place to ensure that hacker , and other who try to breach the security of the local authority , can not access they ? of course , the answer might not be forthcoming today ; they might come in Committee . secondly , what will be do to ensure that all local authority take the same approach to the register , so that we do not get hundred of different approach to collect datum ? finally , what clarification can the Minister provide on what intervention from the council will take place when it deem it appropriate to do so ? what will the guidance look like ? finally , my hon . friend the Member for Rotherham ( Sarah Champion ) have already state clearly , in a non - party political way , why we must not vote for the Conservatives ' wreck amendment today . she have already be through the national inquiry that have take place , which have already produce 20 recommendation , none of which have be implement . the time for word be over ; the time for action be now . that be why I be proud to vote for the Bill today . I warmly welcome the Bill and the Secretary of State ' s commitment to tackle the SEND crisis in our school — a crisis that develop over more than a decade of neglect , and which will not be resolve overnight . the Bill ' s proposal to introduce a duty for local authority to keep a register of child who be not in school be cause concern among family with child who have special educational need and disability in my constituency . the concern be base not on the Bill but on the battle that parent find themselves fight in order to ensure that their child ' s need be meet . as a survivor of the SEND jungle , I understand the state of perpetual worry that family live with , and I understand that they be fearful that the introduction of a register may result in increase pressure from the local authority for their child to attend school without the support they need . last year see a 40 % increase in the number of request for education , health and care plan in Scarborough and whitby from the previous year , and almost 30 % of decision on ehcp take six month or long , leave child without the support they need while wait . if a child do receive an EHCP , parent often feel that the provision offer do not correspond to their need as there be a shortage of key professional and funding be often pool rather than use for the one - to - one support that they really need . in my experience , parent do not take the decision to withdraw their child from school lightly . one constituent have face fine for her son ' s non - attendance that she can not afford to pay and problem at work because he be at home . another constituent , Karen , who run the marvellous charity Closer Communities in Scarborough , which support family in this situation , have struggle to get appropriate support for her own son . Karen , who be a senior manager in the NHS , be force to put her own career on hold , which inevitably have financial implication for her family . withdraw a child from school be not easy and can have a major impact on a family . Most would prefer for their child to be educate in a mainstream school , where they get the support they need . I be proud that the Government be work hard to ensure that that happen in the future with more targeted mainstream provision . I hope that the Secretary of State can reassure parent like those I have describe that they have nothing to fear from the legislation . will she consider whether the register could be use to distinguish between parent who home - school by choice and those who do so because they have no choice ? every child deserve the good possible start in life , no matter their background or where they live , and this Bill be a vital step towards ensure that for every child in the country . the Bill address ordinary family ' concern , cut the cost of the basic need for school and ensure that every child have what they need to learn . the Bill be also the most significant piece of child protection legislation in a generation . it will protect the most vulnerable child and family . the introduction of free school breakfast club in all primary school be a significant step in support child ' s learn and wellbee . I be also pleased to see the cap on brand uniform item include in the legislation . too often the cost of uniform be prohibitive . in Morecambe and Lunesdale we have huge uniform hub to try to deal with that problem . additionally , the Bill ' s step to regulate home education be crucial to stop vulnerable child from fall through the crack . the introduction of a register for child not in school will ensure great safeguard , particularly for those who may be at risk of exploitation or neglect . it be vital that every child have access to safe , high - quality education regardless of where that be give . I also welcome measure to crack down on illegal school , where unfortunately we have see many serious case of abuse , include sexual abuse . measure in the Bill will protect child from both poor schooling and the use of illegal school to terrorise child . I put on record my thank to Humanists UK , which have lead a campaign for over a decade to crack down on illegal school and have shine a light on some really horrific practice . I thank the Secretary of State for give I and other mps time to discuss the detail of the Bill , include definition of what " full time " mean in the legislation , and a potential concern I have about open up a gap to avoid the cap on faith selection . with little time leave , I want to put forward a personal view on faith selection in school : it should have no place in state - fund education . it be social selection by proxy and , at the very least , I would like to see a firm commitment to keep the 50 % cap on all school . give child the very good start in life — a safe start where they have every opportunity to achieve their full potential — be vital . this Bill support that . it introduce more robust measure to help keep child safe and it raise standard and opportunity in school , so that child receive a high - quality , holistic education . it cover a huge number of area — more than I could meaningly address in the short time I have available — so I will focus on the national curriculum . introduce in 1988 by Kenneth Baker , the national curriculum be one of a handful of significant and progressive education reform of the 1980 . opposition Members should be more proud of it . it provide the statutory standard for school subject , lesson content and attainment level for state school in England . however , it be not compulsory for academy . that make sense when academy be introduce in the early noughtie , because in community where there be significant level of unmet need and low aspiration , it allow school leader the freedom to devise programme of learning that help to address the acute and embed challenge that young people in those community face , after the decline and lack of investment in school during the ' 80 and early ' 90 . by May 2010 , when the last Labour Government leave office , there be 203 of those academy . now , there be over 10 , 000 , follow a significant expansion of the programme . I support the concept of academy — ah ! I do support the concept of academy ; they be a great legacy of the previous Government . but because those school do not have to follow the national curriculum , some be game the system by not teach a full , holistic programme of subject . there have be a massive decline — over 50 % — in the number of art entry at GCSE since 2010 . some school offer no art subject at all at GCSE level . that matter for our economy and the UK ' s stand around the world , and for who we be as individual , how we understand the world and how we interact with each other . I welcome the Bill ' s measure to provide a more holistic education to child . I also want to speak briefly about breakfast club . they will be very welcome in Derbyshire , because Derbyshire county council increase the cost of school dinner by £ 1 last year — £ 150 a year — on top of what they already cost for parent . that will help with the cost of living crisis . but I ask that the Minister make sure that , as we implement this legislation — provide it go through — we have the right check and balance in place to ensure that local authority such as Derbyshire , where Ofsted find serious issue with SEND , be fulfil their statutory obligation to ensure that child who rely on home - to - school transport can access breakfast club . I call the shadow Minister . over the past 30 year we have have something that be quite unusual in politic : a degree of cross - party consensus about education in England . school in England have be improve by the magic formula of freedom plus accountability . it start in the late ' 80 , be accelerate after 1997 by Labour and be accelerate far under the Lib Dem - Conservative Government in 2010 . and it work : England improve not just compare with the rest of the world , but compare with Scotland and Wales , where the opposite agenda be follow — academy be ban , league table be abandon and a progressive curriculum be instal . between 2009 and 2022 , England go from 21st to 7th in the PISA league table on math , while Wales go from 29th to 27th . on science , England go from 11th to 9th , while Wales slump from 21st to 29th . as the Institute for Fiscal Studies point out in a searing report title " major challenge for education in Wales " , amazingly , disadvantaged child in England be now do well than the average child in Wales . early , the Secretary of State talk about what the Bill would do for the work class . we have see what labour ' s agenda have do for the work class in Wales . it be a similar story in Scotland , which collapse from 15th to 25th in math and from 11th to 26th in science . other comparison tell we the same . the trend in international mathematic and science study find that from 2011 to 2023 , England ' s ranking be all maintain or improve to become among the good in the western world . meanwhile , what happen in Scotland and Wales ? we do not know , because they withdraw from the test after bad result in 2007 . yet despite all that evidence , the Bill in front of we today take we backwards . never mind the thing we do — the Government be undo the good thing that the last Labour Government do . as educator have point out , it be totally unclear what problem minister think they be try to fix , but it be clear that it will cause problem , because it take away academy freedom and start roll back the academy programme . one important freedom that the Bill take away be the freedom to pay more on top of the national salary scale to retain more good teacher . the big school trust in the country , United Learning , use those freedom to pay 5 . 6 % above the figure set out in the Government ' s national term . the leader of that trust , the former DFE official Sir Jon Coles , have warn that what the Government be plan will be damaging and will make it hard to retain good teacher . school employ at least 20 , 000 teacher will be hit by the end of this freedom . even the Government have sort of recognise the problem , say : " we recognise the good practice that academy trust have develop over the year , but good practice shouldn ' t be limit by administrative structure . " this be bizarre . if it be good practice , why be the Government not extend those freedom to all school , rather than take they away from academy ? the DFE be try to say that their new law will not affect teacher ' pay . why then be the Government pass it ? what be the point of it ? if it be so good , why have they tell Schools Week that it will not apply to senior staff ? minister be compound the problem by take away freedom over QTS . about 13 , 600 teacher do not have QTS at the moment , and a lot of those who enter state education without QTS — about 600 a year — go on to get it . however , the fact that teacher can join state school without have it up front reduce the barrier to entry and make it easy to recruit to state school . the Treasury estimate that this policy will cost school up to £ 127 million for the exist stock of teacher and £ 43 million for the flow of new teacher each year , but there will be no compensation for this cost . the bill also end academy ' freedom to vary from the national curriculum . this freedom promote genuine diversity in our school ; not all child learn in the same way , and parent can currently choose what be right for their child . it also protect educator from endless meddling by well - mean politician and interest group . in Scotland , the imposition of the ironically name but disastrous " Curriculum for Excellence " have be one of the main reason why Scotland ' s school have plummet down the international league table . many school will now have to spend a lot of time churn through labour ' s brand - new curriculum to work out whether they comply . it be another move away from a culture of teacher empowerment and towards a tick - box compliance culture , and a backwards move . what problem be minister try to fix here ? they have admit in a write answer that they do not even know how many school will be affect by this policy . it be bizarre . they be leap without even bother to look . as well as cut back all those other freedom , the Bill also give the Secretary of State a terrifying , sweep new power to boss academy about on any subject of her choosing where she think a school be behave unreasonably . as well as take away school freedom and leave we with academy in name only , the Bill also hack back the academy programme ; in do so , it hack back accountability , which have always be the flipside of school freedom . in 1997 , one of Labour ' s first move be to publish a list of fail school and start intervene in they . after try other thing , it become apparent that the good way to intervene be to make the school academy and put they under new management . this Bill , of course , abolish the academy order , under which fail local authority school be turn into academy . the hon . member for Mitcham and Morden ( Dame Siobhain McDonagh ) , in her superb speech , give a great explanation of why abandon this central Blair - era reform be such a mistake . of course , the very good way to turn around a struggle school be to make it part of a strong trust . however , the Government have abolish the academy grant and the trust capacity grant that support this process . they hope instead that a bit of advice from some DFE official will do the trick of turn around fail school — but that centralist approach have be try , and it fail . the Bill take we back to local authority set up new school , which , at well , set up a messy situation . however , I be particularly nervous about it in the context of the other measure in the Bill , which reverse the reform of the late 1980 . those reform , for the first time , enable the good school to grow , unshackle they from local authority , and usher in the era of parental choice , which be itself a powerful motor for school improvement . clause 50 give a local authority the ability to object if good school want to grow , or even if the academy be propose to keep its publish admission number the same . in the context of fall pupil number , it will be tempting for local authority to prop up unpopular school — particularly local authority - run one — by share out the pupil from more successful school . rather than the normal split between a regulator and a provider , local authority will be both . politician in some local authority have never like school freedom , and it will be very tempting for they to push down number in academy to protect the school they run . early , we hear the former labour leader , the right hon . member for Islington North ( Jeremy Corbyn ) , welcome the Bill for exactly that reason — the same reason he welcome it be the reason parent be right to fear it . the Bill be a massive step backwards . there be huge , real issue that need tackle in school , but the Bill do not help with they and , in lot of case , hinder they . our reason amendment today make this clear . will the shadow Minister give way ? I be press for time , so I will see if I can get to the hon . Lady at the end . our amendment be also the first opportunity that mps will have during the Bill ' s proceeding to vote for a proper national inquiry into the grooming gang . as the Bill go through , we will seek to make further amendment to ensure that this much - need inquiry happen . the current discussion start when Oldham ask for a national inquiry into what happen there . it do so because a local inquiry would not have the power need : it can not summon witness , can not take evidence under oath and can not requisition evidence . we have already see the two man who lead the Greater Manchester local investigation resign because they be be block , yet the Government say no to a national inquiry and say that there should instead be local inquiry . but there have be year over which they should have happen , and they have not happen . in many case , the local official be part of the problem and even part of the cover - up , so they can not be the people to fix this . [ interruption . ] member be chuntere from a sedentary position , but take , for example , the case of Keighley , where my hon . friend the Member for Keighley and Ilkley ( Robbie Moore ) have be call for an inquiry for year . [ interruption . ] last night , while Ministers be here say that there should be a local inquiry , in Keighley they be block a local inquiry — even as they speak . so that be not the answer . the Government hide behind the independent inquiry into child sexual abuse . it be an important first step , but what it be not and never intend to be be a report on the grooming gang . it barely touch on they . it look at half a dozen — just half a dozen — place where grooming gang have operate , but there be 40 to 50 place where groom gang operate , and the voice of the victim in those place have never be hear . [ interruption . ] have a proper national inquiry do not stop anyone get on and implement the recommendation of the Jay report . indeed , one of the recommendation of the Jay report , recommendation 4 , be to increase public awareness . without a national inquiry , it be clear that we will not get to the bottom of this issue and that the people who look the other way or cover up will not be hold to account . so far , how many people in authority have be bring to justice or hold to account ? the answer be zero . [ interruption . ] tonight , we have a chance to change that . order . I be go to allow the shadow Minister to finish , but I will hear he . he be perfectly within his right if he choose not to give way . thank you , Madam Deputy Speaker . some people really do not want to hear the voice of the victim . [ interruption . ] even though no one in authority have be hold to account , the Government seem to think that there be nothing further to be learn . I do not think that be right . this afternoon , the Under - Secretary of State for the Home Department , the hon . member for Birmingham Yardley ( Jess Phillips ) , say that there should a national inquiry if victim want one . victim be call for one , so what be we wait for ? there be real challenge that we should be face : recruitment , discipline and attendance . instead , we have a Bill that just take we backwards . as one of the nation ' s lead educator , Sir Daniel Moynihan , say today on " World at one " : " we be worried in the sector about what the problem be that the change be design to fix . we can offer well pay . it ' s not clear why constrain that solve a problem . why academy … should be constrain beat I … we ' re hope that some of this will be amend . it would be a terrible shame if the reform that Labour introduce over 20 year ago … be water down . " likewise , the Confederation of School Trusts be warn that the loss of academy freedom propose in the Bill risk make it " more difficult for trust to do the hard work of improve school in the most challenging circumstance " . I remember what state school be like in the ' 80 and ' 90 . in my school , it be chaotic , with load of fight , discredit progressive teaching method , fail kid and good teacher be grind down . [ interruption . ] you think it be funny , but the life chance of the kid I be at school with be flush away by your disastrous ideology . [ interruption . ] order . the shadow Minister will know that I do not flush away any child ' s life chance . perhaps he be bring his remark to a conclusion . I be . on a happy note , I also get to see the good of state education . I go to an amazing sixth form that benefit from the freedom that the Conservative Government give it . I pay tribute to the inspire principal of that college , Kevin Conway , who help so many kid in Huddersfield in his lifetime . I see what state education could be . I see the good of it . freedom work , Madam Deputy Speaker , and I would not be here today if it do not . I be heartbroken by the Bill . it genuinely trash the cross - party reform that we have have over 30 year . we can see they have work , yet we be trash they . I be beg minister — beg they — to change their mind . contrary to the doom and gloom that we have just hear , there have be a fantastic response to the Bill , and I thank all member on both side of the House for their contribution to what have be a largely well - inform debate . I particularly thank the Chair of the Select Committee , my hon . friend for Dulwich and West Norwood ( Helen Hayes ) , and the spokesperson for the Liberal Democrats , the hon . member for Twickenham ( Munira Wilson ) . both make constructive speech , and , while lay down issue for we to consider during our deliberation , demonstrate a real commitment to work with we on the Bill ' s delivery . the hon . member for Bath ( Wera Hobhouse ) , for Horley ( Chris Coghlan ) , and for Ruislip , Northwood and Pinner ( David Simmonds ) also make excellent speech . today ' s Second Reading mark the next step in the delivery of the commitment make by the Labour party at the general election — the commitment to bring child and education back to the centre of our national conversation , to deliver high and rise standard in our education and care system , so that every child can achieve and thrive , to ensure that every family can count on a good local school , to give child access to qualified expert teacher , and to break down the barrier to opportunity for every child in every community . it be a significant Bill that put child first . this be action , not word . let I deal briefly with the conservative amendment . the child sexual abuse scandal be sicken . it be vital that we learn lesson from past failure , include the issue uncover by the independent inquiry into child sexual abuse , and turn that into action to protect child now . the Conservatives know that if their amendment be pass , the Bill would fall . they also know the Bill will deliver landmark reform to safeguarding and child ' s social care . it be the big piece of child protection legislation in a generation , and we be bring it forward to prioritise child . it will help to set up every child for the good start in life . it will protect child from the risk of abuse , it will stop vulnerable child fall through the crack in our service , and it will deliver a core guarantee of high standard for every child ' s education . I commend the measured yet powerful speech that member have make today about the child sexual abuse scandal . my hon . friend the Members for Rotherham ( Sarah Champion ) , for Nottingham East ( Nadia Whittome ) , for Hitchin ( Alistair Strathern ) , for Doncaster Central ( Sally Jameson ) , for St Helens North ( David Baines ) , for Bassetlaw ( Jo White ) , for Croydon East ( Natasha Irons ) and for Derby North ( Catherine Atkinson ) all know that the Bill will help professional to keep child safe . it will introduce a register of child not in school , provide for a consistent identifier for every child , and require the establishment of multi - agency child protection team in every local authority area . will the Minister give way ? if I do , I will not have much time to give credit to everyone who have speak in the debate . I genuinely want to pay tribute to member for the huge number of contribution make by member from across the House . this government firmly believe that we must act , strengthen the law and take forward the recommendation of the independent inquiry that have already take place , and that be why we will reject today ' s political opportunism . instead of chase headline , we want to focus our effort and our action on vulnerable child . will the Minister give way ? no , I will not . I have say that I will not . I know that we be all united in our desire to ensure that the Bill work for child and young people across the country . I apologise if I be not able to respond to all the point that have be raise ; there be a huge number of they , and we will have an opportunity to debate all those issue in the week ahead . this legislation will provide the safe and secure foundation that all child need , and I be surprise by the tone of the shadow Secretary of State ' s opening remark , in which she decry it as " educational vandalism " . I know what educational vandalism look like : child unhappy in school , standard fall , staff undervalue , school building crumble , and special educational need and disability system fail on every measure . that be the Conservatives ' record on education . it be shameful , and it let down a generation of our child . we be determined to turn the page . central to the Bill be cut the cost of send child to school . in our manifesto , we commit to offer breakfast club in every primary school ; through this Bill , we will deliver those club , which will ensure that all child get the chance to have a soft start to the school day and be ready to learn . the Bill will also address parent ' concern about school uniform by limit the number of brand item , which will put money back into parent ' pocket . many member have speak powerfully about the impact of poverty on child in their constituency , include my hon . friend the Members for Bury North ( Mr Frith ) , for Washington and Gateshead South ( Mrs Hodgson ) , for Nottingham East ( Nadia Whittome ) , for Hitchin ( Alistair Strathern ) , for Sherwood Forest ( Michelle Welsh ) , for Stockton North ( Chris McDonald ) , for Brentford and Isleworth ( Ruth Cadbury ) , for West Bromwich ( Sarah Coombes ) and for Hartlepool ( Mr Brash ) . all of they know that tackle child poverty will improve the life chance of our child , and today we have a chance to make that happen . as member have highlight , our measure will ensure that we look again at admission and place plan to make sure that decision account for the need of local community . that be why we be introduce a duty for state school and local authority to co - operate on place planning and admission , and emphasise the importance of work together to secure the good future for every child . will the Minister give way on that issue ? we have hear a lot from the right hon . Gentleman today . contrary to the comment make by the right hon . member for East Hampshire ( Damian Hinds ) and for Stone , Great Wyrley and Penkridge ( Sir Gavin Williamson ) , we recognise the importance of admission authority be able to set their own publish admission number , and of good school be able to expand where there be local demand . there seem to have be a huge amount of misunderstanding and misinterpretation of the Bill ' s measure on academy . unfortunately , I simply do not have time to refute it all today , but we be determined to drive high and rise standard right across our school system , to ensure that school and child have the support to thrive , and to break the link between background and success . that mean look beyond the sign above the door of a school to the child within , but we can not achieve that without quality teacher . I pay tribute to all our school workforce , who work tirelessly in the service of child and young people . wild claim be make today ; the shadow Secretary of State ask why the Government be tell teacher that their pay be too high . at no point have we say that teacher ' pay be too high ; indeed , we recently implement a 5 . 5 % pay award for teacher . to be clear , this Bill do not seek to reduce teacher ' pay . we recognise the good practice and flexibility that academy have benefit from , and the focus of our measure be provide a core offer to all state school while still leave they the flexibility to innovate . a number of member have rightly highlight the challenge around SEND , include my hon . friend the Members for Hyndburn ( Sarah Smith ) , for Altrincham and Sale West ( Mr Rand ) , and for Scarborough and Whitby ( Alison Hume ) . we know the challenge relate to special educational need and disability . we be absolutely determined to fix the system by improve inclusivity in mainstream school while ensure that there be special school place for child with the most complex need . this Bill will go some way towards support those aim , but it be by no mean the whole picture , and we will continue to make progress on the reform that be so desperately require . our priority be ensure that the most vulnerable child do not fall off the radar of the professional who be work to protect they . member from across the House have rightly focus on that issue . I commend they for their very thoughtful contribution on these challenging issue , include the right hon . member for Skipton and Ripon ( Sir Julian Smith ) , my hon . friend the Members for Rother Valley ( Jake Richards ) and for Whitehaven and Workington ( Josh MacAlister ) , who must be commend for the work that he have undertake in this area , and my hon . friend the Member for Leeds South West and Morley ( Mr Sewards ) . there will be " child not in school " register in every english local authority , and local authority consent will be require to home - educate child who be subject to child protection inquiry or child protection plan , or who be at special school ; that be a proportionate solution that focus on the most vulnerable . the Bill will strengthen multi - agency safeguard arrangement and implement multi - agency child protection team . we recognise that we must improve information sharing across and within agency , and we will . the Bill will support child in the care system so that they achieve and thrive . it will keep family together , and child safe , and crack down on excessive profit - making . these be issue that I know hon . member care very deeply about , and my hon . friend the Members for Lowestoft ( Jess Asato ) , for Derbyshire Dales ( John Whitby ) , for Forest of Dean ( Matt Bishop ) and for Southampton Itchen ( Darren Paffey ) have speak movingly about they today . will the Minister give way ? I will take the right hon . Lady ' s intervention . the Minister be most generous . I would like she to explain how our reason amendment , which would allow a national debate on this horrendous grooming , be a wreck amendment . give the number , it be not a wreck amendment , and what she have say on the Floor of the House be not right . I be not sure whether the right hon . Lady have read the amendment , which decline to give the Bill a second reading . the majority of Members agree that the Bill will be crucial for safeguard child , and I think we have deal with the many question understandably raise about child sexual abuse and the truth and justice that must be secure for victim of these horrendous crime . we have that national inquiry , we have that report , and we have the recommendation , which have be discuss at length today . I again commend my hon . friend the Member for Rotherham for her powerful speech , and I do not think anyone would disagree with want to put into practice the 20 recommendation that we know will make a difference to child . this Government be about action . the time for talk be over . we want to bring about the change that we know will change life , so I be grateful to hon . and right hon . member for their contribution today . will the Minister give way ? no , but the Bill ' s next stage in this House will offer more opportunity for discussion . put simply , this Bill will provide the safe and secure foundation that all child need . it will drive high and rise standard across our school to help every child achieve and thrive . it will contribute towards a bright future for all our child and our country . I commend the Bill to the House . question put , that the amendment be make . Jim Allister Lee Anderson Stuart Anderson Edward Argar Victoria Atkins Gareth Bacon Kemi Badenoch Harriett Baldwin Steve Barclay Peter Bedford Saqib Bhatti Bob Blackman Sarah Bool Aphra Brandreth Alex Burghart James Cartlidge Christopher Chope Geoffrey Clifton - Brown Lewis cock John Cooper Alberto Costa Claire Coutinho Harriet Cross Gareth Davies Mims davy David Davis Caroline Dinenage Oliver Dowden Iain Duncan Smith Alex Easton Luke Evans Nigel Farage Peter Fortune Ashley Fox Mark Francois George Freeman Louie French Roger Gale John Glen Helen Grant Andrew Griffith Rebecca Harris John Hayes Damian Hinds Richard Holden Kevin Hollinrake Paul Holmes Nigel Huddleston Neil Hudson Jeremy Hunt Bernard Jenkin Robert Jenrick Dr Caroline Johnson Lincoln Jopp Alicia Kearns Danny Kruger Katie Lam John Lamont Edward Leigh Julian Lewis Julia Lopez Rupert Lowe Alan Mak Kit Malthouse Jerome Mayhew James McMurdock Esther McVey Andrew Mitchell Gagan Mohindra Robbie Moore Joy Morrissey Wendy Morton Kieran Mullan David Mundell Andrew Murrison Jesse Norman Ben Obese - Jecty Neil o ' Brien Priti Patel Rebecca Paul Chris Philp Mark Pritchard Jack Rankin David Reed Andrew Rosindell Jim Shannon Neil Shastri - Hurst Alec Shelbrooke David Simmonds Greg Smith Julian Smith Rebecca Smith Ben Spencer Patrick Spencer Gregory Stafford Blake Stephenson Mel Stride Graham Stuart Robin Swann Bradley Thomas Richard Tice Nick Timothy Laura Trott Thomas Tugendhat Martin Vickers Matt Vickers Helen Whately John Whittingdale Gavin Williamson Sammy Wilson Mike Wood James Wild Andrew Snowden Jack Abbott Debbie Abrahams Shockat Adam Zubir Ahmed Luke Akehurst Bayo Alaba Dan Aldridge Douglas Alexander Heidi Alexander Sadik Al - Hassan Rushanara Ali Tahir Ali Rosena Allin - Khan Mike Amesbury Callum Anderson Fleur Anderson Tonia Antoniazzi Scott Arthur Jessica Asato James Asser Jas Athwal Catherine Atkinson Lewis Atkinson Calvin Bailey Olivia Bailey David Baines Alex Baker Richard Baker Alex Ballinger Antonia Bance Lee Barron Alex Barros - Curtis Johanna Baxter Danny Beales Lorraine Beavers Apsana Begum Torsten Bell Hilary Benn Si â n Berry Clive Betts Polly Billington Matt Bishop Olivia Blake Rachel Blake Christopher Bloore Elsie Blundell Kevin Bonavia Jade Botterill Sureena Brackenridge Jonathan Brash Phil Brickell Chris Bryant Julia Buckley Richard Burgon Maureen Burke David Burton - Sampson Dawn Butler Ruth Cadbury Nesil Caliskan Alan Campbell Irene Campbell Juliet Campbell Markus Campbell - Savours Sam Carling Sarah Champion Bambos Charalambous Luke Charters Ellie chown Feryal Clark Ben Coleman Jacob Collier Lizzi Collinge Tom Collins Liam Conlon Sarah coombe Andrew Cooper Beccy Cooper Yvette Cooper Jeremy Corbyn Deirdre Costigan Pam Cox Neil Coyle Jennifer Craft Stella Creasy Torcuil Crichton Chris Curtis Janet Daby Nicholas Dakin Ashley Dalton Emily Darlington Jonathan Davies Paul Davies Alex Davies - Jones Marsha de Cordova Josh Dean Tan Dhesi Jim Dickson Anna Dixon Samantha Dixon Anneliese Dodds Helena Dollimore Stephen Doughty Peter Dowd Graeme Downie Rosie Duffield Neil Duncan - Jordan Angela Eagle Maria Eagle Lauren Edwards Sarah Edwards Clive Efford Damien Egan Maya Ellis Chris Elmore Kirith Entwistle Florence Eshalomi Bill Esterson Chris Evans Linsey Farnsworth Josh Fenton - Glynn Mark Ferguson Patricia Ferguson Natalie Fleet Emma Foody Catherine Fookes Vicky Foxcroft Daniel Francis James Frith Gill Furniss Barry Gardiner Allison Gardner Anna Gelderd Gill german Tracy Gilbert Becky Gittins Mary Glindon Ben Goldsborough Jodie Gosling Georgia Gould John Grady Lilian Greenwood Nia Griffith Andrew Gwynne Amanda Hack Paulette Hamilton Emma Hardy Carolyn Harris Helen Hayes Tom Hayes Claire Hazelgrove Mark Hendrick Meg Hillier Chris Hinchliff Sharon Hodgson Rachel Hopkins Claire Hughes Alison Hume Patrick Hurley Imran Hussain Leigh Ingham Natasha Irons Sally Jameson Dan Jarvis Terry Jermy Adam Jogee Diana R . Johnson Darren Jones Gerald Jones Lillian Jones Louise Jones Ruth Jones Sarah Jones Gurinder Josan Sojan Joseph Warinder Juss Chris Kane Mike Kane Satvir Kaur Liz Kendall Afzal Khan Naushabah Khan Stephen Kinnock Jayne Kirkham Gen Kitchen Sonia Kumar Uma Kumaran Peter Kyle Laura Kyrke - Smith Peter Lamb Ian Lavery Noah Law Kim Leadbeater Brian Leishman Emma Lewell - Buck Andrew Lewin Clive Lewis Simon Lightwood Rebecca Long - Bailey Josh MacAlister Alice Macdonald Andy MacNae Justin Madders Shabana Mahmood Seema Malhotra Amanda Martin Rachael Maskell Keir Mather Alex Mayer Douglas McAllister Kerry McCarthy Martin McCluskey Andy McDonald Chris McDonald John Martin McDonnell Blair McDougall Lola McEvoy Pat McFadden Alison McGovern Alex McIntyre Gordon McKee Kevin McKenna Catherine McKinnell Jim McMahon Anna McMorrin Frank McNally Kirsty McNeill Anneliese Midgley Julie Minns Navendu Mishra Abtisam Mohamed Iqbal Mohamed Perran Moon Jessica Morden Stephen Morgan Grahame Morris Joe Morris Luke Murphy Chris Murray Ian Murray James Murray Katrina Murray Luke Myer James Naish Connor Naismith Lisa Nandy Kanishka Narayan Josh Newbury Samantha Niblett Charlotte Nichols Melanie Onn Chi Onwurah Simon Opher Abena Oppong - Asare Kate Osamor Kate Osborne Tristan Osborne Sarah Owen Darren Paffey Andrew Pakes Matthew Patrick Michael Payne Stephanie Peacock Jonathan Pearce Matthew Pennycook Toby Perkins Jess Phillips Bridget Phillipson David Pinto - Duschinsky Lee Pitcher Jo Platt Luke Pollard Joe Powell Lucy Powell Gregor Poynton Peter Prinsley Richard Quigley Steve Race Connor Rand Andrew Ranger Mike Reader Ellie Reeves Joani Reid Emma Reynolds Martin Rhodes Jake Richards Jenny Riddell - Carpenter Dave Robertson Tim Roca Matt Rodda Sam Rushworth Sarah Russell Oliver Ryan Jeevun Sandher Michelle Scrogham Mark Sewards Naseem Shah Tulip Siddiq Josh Simons Andrew Slaughter John Slinger Cat Smith David Smith Jeff Smith Nick Smith Sarah Smith Karin Smyth Gareth Snell Alex Sobel Euan Stainbank Jo Stevens Kenneth Stevenson Elaine Stewart will Stone Alistair Strathern Alan Strickland Kirsteen Sullivan Lauren Sullivan Peter Swallow Mark Tami Mike Tapp David Taylor Rachel Taylor Fred Thomas Gareth Thomas Nick Thomas - Symonds Adam Thompson Emily Thornberry Marie Tidball Stephen Timms Jessica Toale Jon Trickett Henry Tufnell Anna Turley Matt Turmaine Karl Turner Laurence Turner Derek Twigg Liz Twist Harpreet Uppal Valerie Vaz Christopher Vince Christian Wakeford Imogen Walker Chris Ward Melanie Ward Paul Waugh Chris Webb Michelle Welsh Catherine West Andrew Western Matt Western Michael Wheeler John Whitby Jo White Katie White Nadia Whittome David Williams Steve Witherden Rosie Wrighting Yuan Yang Mohammad Yasin Steve Yemm Kate Dearden Taiwo Owatemi the House divide : Ayes 111 , Noes 364 . question accordingly negative . question put , that the Bill be now read a second time . a Division be call . division off . question agree to . child ' s Wellbeing and Schools Bill ( Programme ) Motion make , and question put forthwith ( Standing Order no . 83A ( 7 ) ) , that the follow provision shall apply to the Children ' s Wellbeing and Schools Bill : Committal ( 1 ) the Bill shall be commit to a Public Bill Committee . proceeding in Public Bill Committee ( 2 ) proceeding in the Public Bill Committee shall ( so far as not previously conclude ) be bring to a conclusion on Tuesday 11 February . ( 3 ) the Public Bill Committee shall have leave to sit twice on the first day on which it meet . consideration and Third Reading ( 4 ) proceeding on consideration shall ( so far as not previously conclude ) be bring to a conclusion one hour before the moment of interruption on the day on which those proceeding be commence . ( 5 ) proceeding on Third read shall ( so far as not previously conclude ) be bring to a conclusion at the moment of interruption on that day . ( 6 ) Standing Order no . 83b ( programming committee ) shall not apply to proceeding on consideration and Third Reading . other proceeding ( 7 ) any other proceeding on the Bill may be program . — ( Christian Wakeford . ) question agree to . child ' s Wellbeing and Schools Bill ( Money ) king ' s recommendation signify . motion make , and question put forthwith ( Standing Order no . 52 ( 1 ) ( a ) ) , that , for the purpose of any Act result from the Children ' s Wellbeing and Schools Bill , it be expedient to authorise the payment out of money provide by Parliament of : ( 1 ) any expenditure incur under or by virtue of the Act by the Secretary of State or by a government department , and ( 2 ) any increase attributable to the Act in the sum payable under or by virtue of any other Act out of money so provide . — ( Christian Wakeford . ) question agree to . business without Debate Delegated Legislation Motion make , and question put forthwith ( Standing Order no . 118 ( 6 ) ) , Banks and Banking that the draft Financial Services and Markets Act 2000 ( Ring - fence Bodies , Core Activities , exclude Activities and Prohibitions ) ( amendment ) Order 2024 , which be lay before this House on 11 November 2024 , be approve . — ( Christian Wakeford . ) question agree to . motion make , and question put forthwith ( Standing Order no . 118 ( 6 ) ) , Financial Services and Markets that the draft Financial Services and Markets Act 2000 ( Designated Activities ) ( Supervision and Enforcement ) Regulations 2024 , which be lay before this House on 11 November 2024 , be approve . — ( Christian Wakeford . ) question agree to . motion make , and question put forthwith ( Standing Order no . 118 ( 6 ) ) , Financial Services and Markets that the draft Short Selling Regulations 2024 , which be lay before this House on 11 November 2024 , be approve . — ( Christian Wakeford . ) question agree to . motion make , and question put forthwith ( Standing Order no . 118 ( 6 ) ) , Retained EU Law Reform that the draft Electricity Capacity Mechanism ( Amendment ) Regulations 2024 , which be lay before this House on 18 November 2024 , be approve . — ( Christian Wakeford . ) the Deputy Speaker ' s opinion as to the decision of the Question be challenge , the Division be defer until Wednesday 15 January ( Standing Order No . 41a ) . Motion make , and question put forthwith ( Standing Order no . 118 ( 6 ) ) , Representation of the People that the draft Representation of the People ( Northern Ireland ) ( Amendment ) Regulations 2025 , which be lay before this House on 11 November 2024 , be approve . — ( Christian Wakeford . ) question agree to . on a point of order , Madam Deputy Speaker . early , in the second Reading debate , when I say that child sexual abuse and exploitation be happen in every area of the country , perpetrate by member of every social class , race and religion , the hon . member for Clacton ( Nigel Farage ) shout , " denial ! " there be no denial in my statement at all . it be the very opposite ; it be a statement of fact . research by the National Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to child suggest that around one in 20 child in the UK have be sexually abuse . Jon Brown , the former NSPCC lead for tackle sexual abuse , say : " sexual abuse be happen in every community and affect all level of society , destroy the childhood of child from every background . " it be not I who be in denial ; it be the hon . member who , in disagree with this statement of fact , be deny the reality of child sexual abuse and exploitation in this country and be downplay its extent . I do not want an apology , but I seek your guidance , Madam Deputy Speaker , on how we can ensure that important debate of such a sensitive nature be always lead by fact . we owe it to victim and survivor . I thank the hon . member for give notice of her point of order . I be sure she will have notify the hon . member for Clacton ( Nigel Farage ) that she intend to raise the matter with we . as she will know , the Chair be not responsible for the content of contribution make either in debate or from a sedentary position , but she have put her view on the record , and she will know that that be not a point of order for the Chair . Petition - Ellen Badger Hospital in - patient bed I rise to present a petition sign by over 4 , 000 resident of Shipston - on - Stour and its surround village — some of they be in the Gallery — fight for the return of their in - patient bed at the Ellen Badger hospital . this petition reflect the depth of feeling of a rural community that have see its health service strip to the bone and be fearful for the future of its hospital . rural community deserve the same access to healthcare as our town and city . the Coventry and Warwickshire integrate care board must hear loud and clear that our rural community must not be leave behind . the petition state : " the petitioner therefore request that the House of Commons urge the Government to support the retainment of the in - patient bed for the Ellen Badger Community Hospital in Shipston - on - Stour . and the petitioner remain , etc . " follow be the full text of the petition : [ the petition of resident of Shipston - on - Stour , declare that the Ellen Badger Hospital in the town of Shipston - on - Stour have a strong tradition of care for generation of local resident , and there be huge public upset , and disappointment , at the recommendation to remove the in - patient ward ; far that community hospital with in - patient bed provide important integrate healthcare facility , as well as employment opportunity to the local community ; and far that the provision of a comprehensive healthcare facility with in - patient bed close to home be essential for our rural community . the petitioner therefore request that the House of Commons urge the Government to support the retainment of the in - patient bed for the Ellen Badger Community Hospital in Shipston - on - Stour . and the petitioner remain , etc . ] [ P003029 ] Petition - Grimsby Post Office I rise to present this petition on behalf of the resident of Great Grimsby and Cleethorpes oppose the possible closure of Grimsby post office . we be deeply disappointed to hear that the post office in Grimsby town centre be at risk of closure under the Post Office ' s strategic review . the branch provide numerous service , such as business banking , to resident in the town , particularly old resident , and it be the last Crown post office in north - east Lincolnshire . the petition ask that the Government strongly encourage and work with the Post Office to protect post office service in Grimsby town centre . the resident of Great Grimsby and Cleethorpes " request that the House of Commons urge the Government to take immediate action to ensure that the Grimsby Post Office remain open to continue to provide incredibly important service to resident in the town . and the petitioner remain , etc . " follow be the full text of the petition : [ the petition of resident of the constituency of Great Grimsby and Cleethorpes , declare that , similar to an online petition which acquire 568 signature , the Post Office should rethink their plan to close the Grimsby Post Office and take it off the ' at risk ' register . the petitioner therefore request that the House of Commons urge the Government to take immediate action to ensure that the Grimsby Post Office remain open to continue to provide incredibly important service to resident in the town . and the petitioner remain , etc . ] [ P003029 ] Trial of Lucy Letby before I call the Whip to move the motion for the Adjournment , I remind the House that although there be currently no live proceeding before the court , there be still the potential for further civil or criminal proceeding . member will therefore wish to take care to avoid say anything that could prejudice any case that might come before the court in future . motion make , and question propose , that this House do now adjourn . — ( Christian Wakeford . ) I be not in the habit of issue trigger warning , but I must warn the House that this speech will cover deeply distress event . I will discuss infant death , failure in care and allegation of a grave miscarriage of justice . Lucy Letby be convict of murder seven infant and attempt to murder seven more . she receive multiple concurrent full - life sentence . the case horrify the nation . it seem clear : a nurse have turn into a serial killer . I initially accept the tabloid characterisation of Letby as an evil monster , but then I be approach by many expert , include lead statistician , neonatal specialist , forensic scientist , legal expert , and those who have serve at the Chester hospital and be afraid to come forward . the expert include a past president of the Royal Statistical Society and a past president of the Royal College of Paediatrics and Child Health — people who be more knowledgeable than the purport expert whose evidence convict Lucy Letby . they be all concerned by what they perceive as the false analysis and diagnosis use to persuade a lay jury to convict Letby . sadly , none of we be a stranger to miscarriage of justice ; there have simply be too many . the Birmingham Six , the Guildford Four and the Stockwell Six be the famous one , but the Exeter University miscarriage database list nearly 500 people who have be wrongfully imprison . astonishingly , wrong forensic evidence be responsible for 81 case lead to over 500 year of unjust imprisonment . many of those case involve caregiver convict by medical expert testimony assert deliberate harm where cause of death be in fact natural . those people be all exonerate , but those who doubt their guilt be initially meet with the same fierce public pushback that now face those who question Letby ' s guilt . so what have happen here ? the Countess of Chester hospital neonatal unit suffer a sharp increase in death , from a typical two to four a year to 17 in one 13 - month period . when hospital senior management become aware of the elevated mortality in June 2016 , they be alarmed and commission some investigation . the most notable be carry out in November 2016 by the Royal College of Paediatrics and Child Health , whose report note many failing on the unit , all of which — at least in part , if not in total — could have be the cause of the death . the report highlight inadequate staffing level , delay escalation of concern to tertiary unit and " disconnection between the neonatal leadership and the trust ' s government and risk management process . " in essence , because of a mixture of inadequate resource and poor medical management , the hospital be not capable of keep those very fragile baby alive . that fact be recognise by the hospital when the neonatal unit be downgrade in July 2016 and stop take baby of less than 32 week ' gestation . the report , offer completely different reason for the death , be never show to the jury . some consultant have attempt to blame Letby for the death . a redacted section of the report state : " the consultant explain that their allegation be base on Nurse L be on shift on each occasion an infant die ( although not necessarily care for the infant ) combine with ' gut feeling ' . there be no other evidence or history to link Nurse L to the death , and her colleague have express no concern about her practice . " will the right hon . Gentleman give way ? no , I be afraid I will not — I be short of time . again , that section of the report be never show to the jury . those consultant then persuade management to call the police in April 2017 . there be no hard evidence against Letby . nobody see she do anything untoward . the doctor ' " gut feeling " be base on a coincidence : she be on shift for a number of the death , but — and this be important — far from all of they . the case be build on a poor understanding of probability that be to translate later into an influential but spectacularly flawed piece of evidence . around that time , the hospital be struggle with another problem — and possibly a more sensible explanation for this sudden increase in death . leak report show that the hospital , and specifically the neonatal unit , battle a Pseudomonas aeruginosa infection for month . that antibiotic - resistant bug pose a serious risk to the baby . the child mortality rate for Pseudomonas aeruginosa range from 14 . 5 % to 50 % , and stand at over 55 % for infant of extremely low birth weight , such as those in this case . it be hard to see how we can eliminate that as the cause of death or collapse for at least some of those baby . again , the jury never know about that contamination . from the start of the case , Cheshire police pick up on the doctor ' statistical argument supposedly point to Letby . in April 2018 , an officer on the investigation approach a lead statistician , Professor Jane Hutton , and ask she to put a figure on the likelihood of a nurse be on duty " during all the death / collapse " in the unit . of course , that be a false proposition , as Letby be not on duty for anything like all the death — as we will see later — but that be glossed over at the trial . notwithstanding that , Professor Hutton inform the police that any proper statistical inquiry should not concentrate on one staff member from the outset . instead , it would require full , proper research into all possible explanation for any increase in baby collapse , include their medical condition and prematurity , as well as the broad performance of the unit . one would think that would be common sense . cheshire police then sign a consultancy agreement with Professor Hutton , but in 2021 , after Letby have be charge , the police write an email to Professor Hutton , state : " we have have a further meeting this afternoon where we have inform the prosecutor that we be look at the validity of statistical evidence again in the case … the prosecutor … have instruct we not to pursue this avenue any far at present . " this appear to be in direct contravention of part 3 . 3 of the code for Crown prosecutor , which state : " prosecutor can not direct the police or other investigator . " again , the jury be never inform of Professor Hutton ' s explicit advice to the police that their statistical approach be flawed . this matter enormously , because the most powerfully influential piece of evidence in the case be the prosecution king ' s counsel show a table with Letby list as the only nurse on duty for all of the allege murder and inflict injury . Professor Hutton , who have review the case extensively , believe that deeply flawed statistical evidence be use , and have say that the statistical error be " similar to those … in the Sally Clark case but bad . " Sally Clark be convict and then acquit of the murder of her two son base on flawed statistical evidence . in May 2017 , Dewi Evans , a retired doctor who run a business that provide highly pay medical " expert evidence " in court case , approach the National Crime Agency to volunteer his service . Evans ' s opinion that Letby inject air either into the baby ' vein , cause air embolism , or down the nasogastric tube into the stomach , stop the baby ' breathing , be one of the foundation — indeed , probably the major foundation — of the prosecution case . this suppose evidence be hugely controversial . three month into the murder trial , Letby ' s defence team apply for evidence from Dewi Evans to be exclude due to an adverse judgment from a judge in a previous case , who say that a report by Dr Evans be " worthless " and " make no effort to provide a balanced opinion " . in an extraordinary and — as far as I can see — unprecedented intervention , that very judge , Lord Justice Jackson , actually write to the trial judge with his judgment on Dr Evans attach , clearly indicate how unsuitable Evans be as an expert witness . Evans ' s assertion of murder by air embolism be entirely base on a research paper from 1989 , and its relevance in these case have be robustly challenge by the actual author of that paper . Evans change his opinion on several key issue during the trial , and be now accuse by Letby ' s lawyer of change his opinion again since the end of the appeal process . Evans dispute this , but if member be interested , I suggest that they compare his evidence record in the trial transcript of 1 November 2022 with his sign statement to Channel 5 on 3 August 2024 and decide for themselves . it be also the case that Evans have submit a new report to the police . what be extraordinary , however , be that the Crown Prosecution Service have refuse to provide a copy of that report to Letby ' s current defence counsel . question have also be raise about the second expert witness for the prosecution , Dr Sandie Bohin . eight family be currently file formal complaint against she over their child ' s care , which be be consider by the General Medical Council . that bring we to the actual case and cause of the death . two expert neonatologist — consultant working neonatologist — be work through the case to establish the actual cause of the baby ' deterioration and death . they be do so thoroughly , so this be take time . so far , they have complete two detailed case review for baby o and C . there be five more that will be complete in the near future . in the case of Baby O , the prosecution claim the baby be attack with blunt trauma to the liver and have air inject into the nasogastric tube . the case note tell a different story , show how the doctor use excessive ventilation pressure during resuscitation , which overinflate the baby ' s lung and prevent blood from flow back to the lung . this cause the baby to desaturate his blood oxygen level repeatedly . the medical team respond by increase the pressure even more , initiate a downward spiral in the baby ' s condition . the overinflation of the baby ' s lung force the diaphragm downward , push the liver into the baby ' s abdominal cavity . the consultant in charge take a decision to insert a needle into the abdomen to release what they think be gas pressure in the abdomen . however , this be wrongly insert into the right side of the baby ' s abdomen . as a result of this error , the needle penetrate the liver , cause serious internal bleeding . this be undoubtedly a significant contributory factor in the baby ' s death , if not the outright cause . the report state that the " deterioration be predictable , and his death be avoidable and result from suboptimal care . " the author of that sub - optimal care , the doctor who insert the needle into the liver , be one of the principal accuser of Lucy Letby at the trial . this directly contradict the prosecution ' s portrayal of event . the trauma to the liver be cause by a serious error by one of the consultant who lead the accusation against Letby . the expert also state that there be no air in the gut in excess of what would be expect for a baby in these circumstance . none of this be make clear to the jury . the prosecution ' s evidence be again predicate on Dewi Evans ' s diagnosis , which in this specific case alone change multiple time . in the case of Baby C , the prosecution claim this be a healthy baby kill by air be inject into his stomach . the case note for Baby C demonstrate that this baby be actually profoundly unwell before birth . the baby suffer from severe foetal growth restriction . this mean the baby have to be deliver by caesarean section at an extraordinarily low birth weight , even for that gestation , of 800 gram or about 1 . 75 lb . within an hour of birth , he develop respiratory distress . to treat the respiratory problem , they try to deliver surfactant , a mixture that help baby ' lung to expand well — open up — down an endotracheal tube . the case note , however , show that the doctor push the tube too far in , push it into one lung , mean that the other lung be leave collapse . in the day after the baby ' s birth , he show several sign of abdominal obstruction , include the vomiting of bile , and he never open his bowel since birth , which the doctor in charge do not recognise or diagnose . the report conclude by state that this baby die of natural cause compound by sub - optimal medical care . this again directly contradict the prosecution ' s narrative of deliberate harm . Dewi Evans ' s diagnosis claim the baby have air inject into the stomach , so he could no long breathe . this be predicate on an x - ray show an unusual amount of air on the stomach . it have become clear that Letby be not even at the hospital when the x - ray be take , nor have she be at any point till then since Baby C ' s birth two day early . while the baby die from natural cause , there be evidence of sub - optimal care , include " the administration of surfactant and the lack of recognition and appropriate management of sign of abdominal obstruction " . again , the doctor responsible for these error be another one of those who make accusation against Lucy Letby and , again , none of this be make clear to the jury . there be a great deal of evidence demonstrate that there be much more likely alternative cause of these tragic death than those put up by the prosecute team . the most likely be that the hospital ' s neonatal unit be not up to care for these fragile child , in term of either resource or skill , and this shortcoming might have be compound by other factor such as the Pseudomonas infection . my right hon . friend will be aware that there be a family connection with my constituency of Hereford and South Herefordshire . what he say be deeply troubling and distress on so many different level , and I would like to ask whether his conclusion be that there be some case in justice to consider this an unsafe verdict . there be a case in justice for a retrial in my view , but there be a problem — I would say it be a technical problem . one of the problem we face be that much of the evidence be available at the time . what I have describe be an expert analysis of the case note that be there at the time , but it be simply not present to the jury . that mean that the Court of Appeal can dismiss it , basically say that the defence should have present it at the initial trial . it be in essence say , " if your defence team weren ' t good enough to present this evidence , hard luck , you stay bang up for life . " that may be judicially convenient , but it be not justice . this have be a historic problem in Britain , delay the resolution of a number of miscarriage of justice case . secondly , the so - call expert evidence in this case largely amount to put together theory suit the prosecution case , from the bogus statistical argument through to the wrong diagnosis I have just detail . again , this problem be not new . in 2011 the Law Commission make a number of recommendation precisely on the handling of expert evidence . there be even a section in it entitle , " inferring murder from unexplained infant death . " those recommendation have not make it into law nearly 15 year later , and it be past time that be put right . perhaps most worrying of all in this case be that it be just the late example , more than a decade after the Mid Staffs scandal , of the national health service ' s inability to analyse its own failing . this matter because until we learn these lesson , there will continue to be unnecessary death in hospital up and down the country . my central argument today , which come back to what my right hon . Friend ask I , be about what to do about a trial which , in my view , be a clear miscarriage of justice by a judicial system that could not manage admittedly difficult statistical and medical scientific evidence . the only body available to correct this today be the Criminal Cases Review Commission . in my view , it should look at all the new diagnosis when they come out , and if necessary consult the lead neonatal and statistical authority in the land — the most expert people , who be much more equipped to give proper assessment than the expert who be employ by the police at the time . as a result , in my view it should order a retrial , and it should do it quickly . this be significant because the ccrc have recently be criticise — member may have read about it in the Andrew Malkinson case , where there be effectively a 17 - year delay in release he from prison . dna evidence prove he innocent of the rape he be convict of be know four year after his conviction , yet it take a further 13 year to correct it . that can not happen again . we can not repeat that . if , as I believe it will , a retrial clear Lucy Letby , she should be release in her thirty , not in her fifty . I thank the right hon . member for Goole and Pocklington ( David Davis ) for secure this debate . first , I want to acknowledge the impact on the family that any debate surround this case may have . as Lady Justice Thirlwall state at the outset of her inquiry , much of this debate have come from people who be not present throughout the trial to hear the evidence in full . the parent have be wait a long time for answer , and it be important , whatever may be say here this evening , that we agree that we must work towards deliver closure for those family , who be go through unimaginable and intolerable grief . it be an important principle of the rule of law that the Government do not interfere with judicial decision . in this case , the Court of Appeal have carefully consider the argument before it and deliver its judgment . give that , and the ongoing police investigation , it would be inappropriate for I to comment on Miss Letby ' s case specifically , but I will outline the principle and procedure regard expert witness and appeal . will the Minister give way ? I will not , as unfortunately we be tight on time . my apology . first , in the area of expert evidence , the criminal procedure rule apply the common law principle that govern the admissibility of expert witness and provide a structured framework for expert witness and the court to follow . they cover expert witness and how medical report be commission , and the " Criminal Practice Directions 2023 " provide detailed guidance on expert evidence . all of those be follow for every criminal proceeding where it be relevant . like all criminal procedure rule , they be regularly review by the Criminal Procedure Rule Committee . the committee be make up of legal expert appoint by the Lord Chancellor in consultation with the Lady Chief Justice , and its role be to make the criminal justice system as accessible , fair and efficient as possible . the rule outline that expert evidence be admissible only if " the witness be competent to give that opinion " and " the expert opinion be sufficiently reliable to be admit . " they far state that the expert witness must provide the court with the necessary scientific criterion against which to judge their conclusion and must give notice of anything that might undermine the reliability of the evidence or detract from the impartiality or credibility of their evidence . expert witness be require to sign a declaration of truth to that effect . the right to a fair trial by jury in the most serious case be a fundamental principle of the justice system . it be design to protect the right of the defendant and to ensure thorough examination of the evidence . that include the presentation of evidence by both the prosecution and the defence ; the examination and cross - examination of witness ; and the impartial judgment of the jury . where scientific evidence be present , the judiciary utilise judicial primer write by lead scientist , peer review by scientist and legal practitioner , and approve by the council of the Royal Society and the Royal Society of Edinburgh . while I note the concern raise about the trial process as set out , the jury consider all the evidence put before they and make their determination . secondly , I turn to the appeal process in the criminal justice system . follow Miss Letby ' s first permission to appeal application , the Court of Appeal hear legal argument over several day on a number of ground and issue a detailed 58 - page judgment set out why permission to appeal be refuse . that include the trial judge ' s handling of the argument raise by the defence as to Dr Evans ' s evidence . it be not appropriate for I or the Government to comment on judicial process , nor on the reliability of conviction or evidence . furthermore , the criminal justice system provide a route through the Criminal Cases Review Commission for those who believe that they have be wrongfully convict and the appeal system have be exhaust . the ccrc be an independent body , and it review any application make to it accord to its statutory role and procedure . its role be to investigate case where people believe they have be wrongly convict and to refer case back to the Court of Appeal where it believe that there be a real possibility of a conviction not be uphold . Miss Letby , as with any other convict person who maintain their innocence follow a refusal to appeal , be able to apply to the ccrc . the decision on whether to seek a review from the ccrc be a matter for Miss Letby and her legal team . thirdly , it be relevant to take into account that the Thirlwall inquiry be establish in October 2023 , chair by Lady Justice Thirlwall — one of the country ' s most senior judge — and that that be ongoing . the inquiry be purposefully set up to be independent from Government , and it will play an important role in identify learning follow event at the Countess of Chester hospital , contribute to the future of patient safety . it will cover the experience of the parent of the baby name in the indictment , the conduct of staff management and governance process , and the effectiveness of governance , external scrutiny , and the professional regulation of keep baby in hospital safe , include consideration of the NHS culture . the inquiry will examine not the conviction , but rather the response of individual within the trust base on what they know or should have know at the time of the event when they occur . Lady Justice Thirlwall make that clear in her remark when open the hearing . a statutory inquiry can not apportion civil or criminal liability and will not review the jury ' s finding . it be , of course , open to the expert to contact the inquiry directly and seek to participate through the provision of evidence for the inquiry ' s consideration . it be then for the chair to manage the inquiry as she consider appropriate to deliver the public term of reference , which be agree in consultation with the family and other stakeholder . the chair will consider all relevant available evidence when draw conclusion and when write her report and recommendation in due course . give the importance of the inquiry , I be sure it be appreciate that it must have space to gather evidence from the various stakeholder and to draw its own finding without ministerial involvement . the criminal justice system have well - establish process and procedure for how expert evidence be use , and route to challenge if any individual , include Miss Letby , maintain their innocence . set aside what the right hon . Gentleman have put forward , I have be make aware that some NHS staff question their culpability and their ability to do their job — that be how they feel . some NHS staff have leave the profession simply because of their concern . I ask the Minister gently , what can be do to restore the confidence of NHS staff , particularly the nurse ? the hon . Member make an important intervention . it be important that all individual in public life feel that they can speak openly and with a duty of candour . that be why the Lady Thirlwall ' s inquiry will look at the culture in the NHS . more broadly , this Government be commit to bring forward a Hillsborough law , which will look at a duty of candour to ensure that individual in public life tell the truth . it be not safe for I or the Government to undermine any of the process in the justice system . our attention should rightly remain on the family and parent impact by this case and on continue to work towards provide answer and closure for they . it be to the family that I speak to . the Thirlwall inquiry will play a key role in this . question put and agree to . House adjourn .