business before Questions General Cemetery Bill [ Lords ] Bill read the third time and pass , without amendment . oral Answers to Questions Culture , Media and Sport the Secretary of State be ask — Youth Services : deprive community what step her Department have take to support the delivery of youth service in deprive community . this Government be co - produce a national youth strategy — the first in decade — to bring power back to young people , no matter who they be or where they live . I be really proud that we be directly invest over £ 28 million in youth programme across the country this year . as a young man who owe as much to youth theatre as to my schooling for give I the confidence to speak in this place , I know the importance of youth service . I be really pleased that the Government have the well youth space fund , which organisation in my constituency have be engage with , and I hope that the Government will look favourably at what come from Bishop Auckland . the process have bring to light just how strip bare our youth service be and how few meet the 50 % threshold of youth service provision . would the Secretary of State or one of her adviser meet I to discuss how we can ensure that we have the youth worker in order to actually bid for the fund in the first place ? we have to take the difficult decision to focus the well youth space funding on organisation whose main aim be support young people . my hon . friend be right to point to the absolutely dire state of youth service that we inherit . a billion pound be take out of youth service under the last government , and thousand of youth worker and hundred of youth club be lose up and down the country . our forthcoming national youth strategy will put youth worker and youth club at the heart of those plan , and we will invest . local charity would be well equip to deliver youth service if they could maximise their income from source such as the People ' s Postcode Lottery , but in spring the Government refuse to make the reform that would enable more money to be available for good cause , despite support it in opposition . give that this decision have prove quite controversial , will the Government agree to revisit it ? we have hear concern from across the House on this issue , and the Youth Minister , my hon . friend the Member for Barnsley South ( Stephanie Peacock ) , would be happy to meet with the hon . Lady to discuss it . I call the shadow Secretary of State . we all recognise the value of youth service , but the right hon . Lady will be well aware that many youth service , from mental health support to sport provision , be commission and then provide by charity , which be under quite severe financial pressure , yet incredibly charity be not exempt from Labour ' s national insurance increase . even child ' s hospice be not . why not ? be the Department engage constructively with the Chancellor about the plight of child ' s and youth charity ? there be no point have a youth strategy if the Government be undermine the viability of the provider of the service . first of all , I welcome the shadow Secretary of State to his place and thank he for the very constructive way that he engage with colleague from across the House as Sports Minister , include I . I hope that be a model we can replicate . I really do recognise the centrality of charity to everything we be try to do as a country . the shadow Secretary of State will know that my background at the Centrepoint charity and then the Children ' s Society be what lead I into this place . on his specific issue , we have protect the small charity , which will be well off as a consequence of our reform . we have also ensure that the majority will pay either the same or less . we do recognise the challenge , however , and my hon . friend the Minister for Civil Society have be work through those issue with charity as part of our work with the civil society covenant . creative Copyright what step she be take to help protect creative copyright , in the context of further advance in AI . the Secretary of State for Science , Innovation and Technology and I have be work with representative from the creative industry and major tech company to ensure that we have a copyright regime that be fit for purpose . but our message be clear , to speak directly to the hon . member ' s concern and that of many other member of this House : if it do not work for creative , it will not work for we , and we will not do it . Daisy May Johnson be an exceptionally talented author of child ' s book in York , but her work have be scrape and reproduce by generative artificial intelligence . she have not give permission and have not receive a penny , but she have lose thousand of pound . the same can be say about artist , musician , writer and other creative . when the Data ( Use and Access ) Act 2025 be go through this House , we be give a commitment that the Government would do more , so could the Minister set out what progress have be make and ensure that there be legislation on this in the next session ? I really appreciate the urgency of this issue . the example of Daisy from the hon . member ' s constituency be similar to example from many other member . as a Labour Government , we obviously believe strongly that people must be fairly pay for their work , which be why we have put transparency and remuneration at the heart of the principle that will govern our approach . like I say , we have make progress with the expert working group , and we will be able to announce the detail shortly . we be also establish a parliamentary working group , which I very much hope the hon . Member will participate in , to make sure that we hear the view of people from across the country through their mp . I will be able to deliver a statement to the House by the end of this year on the future of the copyright framework . the Government continue their haphazard approach to artificial intelligence and copyright . I wish they would get that resolve . one thing that have concern and upset the sector be the comment of a newly appoint special adviser to the Secretary of State for Science , Innovation and Technology , who say , " whether or not you philosophically believe the big AI firm should compensate content creator , they in practice will never legally have to " . I be really hope that the Secretary of State distance herself from those comment and that that be not the intention of her Government . I be happy to give the hon . Gentleman that assurance : that be not the Government ' s intention . he say that there have be a " haphazard approach " . actually , no country in the world have yet manage to resolve this matter . we appreciate the urgency and we be determined to address this and become the gold standard . the creative industry be at the centre of our industrial strategy for a reason : because we know that they lead and light up the world . whatever AI model develop in future , human , good - quality content will be at the heart of that . we have to and will protect it and I be happy to give he that assurance . Grassroots Music Venues what step she be take to support grassroots music venue . as someone who use to manage a local band call Squeezebox when at university — available at all bad record store — I understand that grassroots music be the lifeblood of the music industry . the Government have commit to support the live music industry ' s introduction of a voluntary levy on ticket for stadium and arena show and that money will be plough straight into the grassroots music sector . the Government be provide up to £ 30 million for the music growth package , which will provide further Government support to grassroots venue by foster domestic growth , talent development and music export . grassroots music venue across the country , particularly across London , be find it increasingly difficult to survive as customer be spend less when they come to gig because of the cost of living crisis . will the Minister explain the progress on the levy ? will he consider the Lib Dem call to reverse the national insurance rise on small business to give venue such as the Sound Lounge and the CryerArts Centre in Sutton , which be so value by our local community , the good chance to survive and thrive ? the hon . Gentleman lay out the difficulty , of which there be many , for the live music sector and potentially the venue , many of they in his constituency . we want to see 50 % of all ticket sale for stadium and arena show in 2026 enter that music levy ; that be this Government ' s aspiration and we encourage all ticket provider to do so . in the autumn 2024 Budget , as he suggest , the Chancellor set out plan to transform the business rate system over this Parliament . those reform will provide certainty and support to business , include music venue . the Government have be engage with the live music sector on business rate reform and will set out further policy detail in next month ' s Budget . I call the Liberal Democrats spokesperson . I welcome the Minister to his place and I look forward to work with he — I be delighted to hear that he be a keen musician . since Brexit , british musician ' european tour have drop by around 9 % year on year , as a mountain of bureaucracy block those hope to cut their tooth on the european circuit . in Frome and East Somerset , I be lucky to have musician who travel in Europe , but who will not have a team of people to do the paperwork for they . will the Minister update we on what tangible step have be take for tour artist since the so - call reset deal , so that our musician can take centre stage in Europe once more ? let I correct the record . I do not say that I be a musician ; I say that I manage a band . I would not like that to be incorrectly record in Hansard . in any case , I thank the hon . Lady for the encouragement . this matter be a priority for this government to try and resolve . it be mention in the UK - EU reset summit agreement . we be work hard with the Paymaster General , who take forward those negotiation . I be already in touch with the European Commissioner for culture . I can assure the hon . Lady that we will do everything we possibly can to get the agreement and the commitment over the line . Motorsport what step she be take to support the motorsport industry . this Government be proud to play a part in the continue growth and success of the motorsport industry . we have recently publish the advanced manufacturing sector plan , which have automotive at its heart , aim to nearly double the annual business investment in the sector to £ 39 billion by 2035 , with 84 % of advanced manufacturing job base outside London . as well as congratulate McLaren , which be base in my constituency of Woking , for win the Formula 1 constructor ' title for the second season in a row , will the Minister also agree to ask the Chancellor to change the tax on sustainable fuel , so that this country can continue to have a lead place in the motoring industry ? I would of course like to congratulate McLaren on back - to - back Formula 1 constructor ' championship victory , and I be sure the support it receive in Woking be no small part of that . alongside the Secretary of State , I attend the british grand prix in the summer and witness McLaren and Britain ' s own Lando Norris claim victory . my Department will continue to stay in close contact with Formula 1 , and I will reflect his comment to the Chancellor . tourism : Major Energy Infrastructure Projects what discussion she have have with Cabinet colleague on the potential merit of provide additional funding to support tourism in area affect by major energy infrastructure project . the Government be commit to support the visitor economy in rural and coastal community , because we recognise the potential the sector have to contribute to economic growth and to the pride in place of an area . through ongoing dialogue with other Departments and Ministers , we be explore how good to support community and business , include through our forthcoming visitor economy growth plan . Suffolk Coastal be proud to be the tourism capital of Suffolk , but we also wear the badge of host possibly the high number of nationally significant infrastructure project within a small , 10 - mile radius . Suffolk Coastal be home to Aldeburgh , Southwold , Woodbridge and Saxmundham , and every day I speak to business and constituent about the impact of the lack of co - ordination of these NSIPs in a very small geography . invest in energy infrastructure and tourism do not need to be in conflict . be the Minister have conversation with the Department for Energy Security and Net Zero about how we can well co - ordinate ? if she be not , will she ? I recognise how important the tourism and hospitality sector be to Suffolk , and I know that my hon . friend be a strong champion for they and for her area . the Department for Culture , Media and Sport work closely with other Departments , include DESNZ and the Ministry of Housing , Communities and Local Government , to ensure that the need of the visitor economy be consider as part of the planning and delivery of large - scale project . the Government acknowledge concern that numerous project may be consent to in one region , and the cumulative impact of scheme be consider as they move individually through the NSIP regime . I will reflect her comment to MHCLG , but of course such large infrastructure project be important for the country . my constituency have the large number of wind turbine , either construct or consent to . do the Minister share my concern that the Scottish Government continue to override the view of local council and local community in consent to further project that be to the detriment of the landscape and therefore the local tourist industry ? I have hear the right hon . Gentleman ' s point . I be sure that the relevant Secretary of State and indeed the Scottish Government have hear it . I would be happy to meet he to discuss it far . Coal Industry Social Welfare Organisation if she will have discussion with the Coal Industry Social Welfare Organisation on its role in support coalmine community . I know from my own experience , from member across the House and from my constituent , of the deep unhappiness with CISWO . as Charities Minister , I meet representative of the Charity Commission to discuss CISWO ' s support for coal mining community , and I know the commission be in contact with CISWO . I encourage the chief executive officer and trustee to reflect on how they deliver their charitable purpose in the light of the dissatisfaction express by hon . member and local community , and I strongly encourage CISWO to strengthen its engagement with the local coalfield community that it be establish to support . the Coal Industry Social Welfare Organisation date back to the 1920 . its main function then and its main function now be to support the mining community , but sadly many mining mp be witness exactly the opposite . the chief executive officer ' s rigid enforcement of decade - old covenant and dogged intransigence be work against our mining community . in my patch of Blyth and Ashington , the eviction of the Bedlington Terriers from a ground they have play on for more than 50 year be a prime example . the trustee believe themselves to be untouchable and have tret the coalfield mps with the utmost contempt . will the Minister agree to meet I and the chair of the coalfield group to discuss how together we can reverse the current mindset of the CISWO trustee and reflect the real need of the people in our mining community ? I understand my hon . friend ' s grave concern , which be reflect across our coalfield community . I be deeply troubled to hear the example he share with the House . charity must stay true to their charitable purpose and act within the law and the term of their governing document . where they fail to do so , it be right that we have the Charity Commission as the independent regulator to investigate . I be happy to meet my hon . friend to discuss his concern in more detail . that invitation be open to any Member of the House , as it be clear to I that concern regard CISWO be sincerely hold . I once again reiterate my encouragement for the ceo and trustee to reflect on how they deliver their charitable purpose for the coalfield community they be mean to represent . Youth Services : fund what discussion she have have with Cabinet colleague on level of funding for youth service . we will soon be launch our national youth strategy , create with young people and design to tackle the problem affect they . as part of that work , we engage regularly with Cabinet colleague on ensure that the problem impact young people be hear and properly tackle . this financial year , DCMS be invest over £ 145 million in youth funding . I welcome the Government ' s work on the national youth strategy and their investment in youth service so far . how do they expect the move away from a one - size - fit - all approach to benefit young people from different background in my constituency and in general ? I be grateful to my hon . friend for all her work . in our youth strategy , we will set out the next step to invest in the future of our young people . we want to well co - ordinate youth service and move away from a one - size - fit - all approach from central Government . in short , we want to put power back in the hand of young people and their community . youth service deliver huge benefit to our community , both socially and economically , reduce knife crime and antisocial behaviour and , in turn , save the country £ 500 million a year . yet the club that I meet in my constituency , include Wesley Hall youth club and Eyres Monsell club for young people , tell I that there be a real recruitment and retention crisis in the sector . with over 4 , 500 worker leave in the past decade , what measure be the Minister take to address this issue ? the hon . member be absolutely right to outline the importance of youth service , particularly in the prevention of knife crime and other issue . of course , we see a 73 % reduction in real - term spend over the last 14 year under the Conservative Government . we will not be able to reverse that overnight , but that be why we look forward to our youth strategy , which will be publish by the end of the year . list place of Worship Grant Scheme what recent discussion she have have with relevant stakeholder on the potential impact of change to the list place of worship grant scheme on list place of worship . on this issue , the Secretary of State meet my hon . friend the Member for Battersea ( Marsha De Cordova ) in her role as the Second Church Estates Commissioner and my right hon . friend the Member for Islington South and Finsbury ( Emily Thornberry ) . in March 2025 , my noble Friend the Minister for Heritage meet the right reverend Prelate the Bishop of Bristol , my noble Friend Lord Khan of Burnley , my hon . friend the Member for Battersea and church representative , as well as visit Salisbury cathedral and St Michael Le Belfrey in York . I be grateful for the Minister ' s answer , but I be not sure the Government have understand the level of uncertainty and panic that have set in follow their approach to this grant scheme . some of the most cherished building in our constituency be wait on clarity for when the Government will come forward with concrete step to extend this scheme . what will happen after March 2026 ? I would be grateful if the Minister could give we that clarity now . this be an incredibly serious issue , but the Conservatives do not allocate any funding for it at all when they be in government , and therefore we be leave with the current situation . I reiterate to those who may wish to use the list place of worship grant scheme that £ 13 . 7 million be leave in that scheme . grant be cap at £ 25 , 000 , but the analysis from the Department be that 94 % of all application be unaffected by this change because most claim be under £ 5 , 000 . there be plenty of money leave in the pot for this year , and I would encourage they to use it . Grassroots Sports Facilities what step her Department plan to take to help increase access to grassroots sport facility . we believe in the power of grassroots sport , which be why we announce investment of £ 400 million in future grassroots facility . but we be go far than that and insist that girl will have equal access to any facility that we fund , because girl belong on the pitch . I take this moment to pay tribute to the Lionesses and the Red Roses on their incredible victory in the woman ' s Euros and the rugby world cup . it be a particular pleasure to join the hon . member for Twickenham ( Munira Wilson ) to cheer on the Red Roses . we want all girl to grow up not just with dream of be able to match those ambition , but with a real plan . access to sport be vital for not only our public health , but foster a sense of community and reduce antisocial behaviour . yet in St Austell , many of the astroturf facility , such as the great one at Penrice school , can not be use after dark because they lack floodlight . will the Minister look at how small - scale investment of this kind in vital community facility could help unlock all - year - round access to physical activity for people of all age ? I thank my hon . friend for be an outstanding champion for sport in his community . I would encourage Penrice school and other who have similar challenge to approach the Football Foundation , through which we fund floodlight and other small - scale investment . previous funding allocation have be far too prescriptive . we believe community know well what they need and through the Football Foundation , we be determined to deliver it . I call the Chair of the Culture , Media and Sport Committee . early this week , the Committee hear from Henry Hughes and Nathan Young , two brilliant swimmer who be travel to Tokyo next month to represent Britain as part of the Deaflympics . the competition have be run for over 100 year — long than the Paralympics , in fact — but deaf athlete be the only disabled elite sport group who have no access to either Government or UK Sport funding . will the Secretary of State join I in wish all our deaf olympian the very good of luck in Tokyo next month ? will she also agree to meet they on their return with UK Deaf Sport to discuss how this terrible situation can be improve and how they can be support much well in the future ? I thank the hon . member , as always , for raise an issue that have be raise with both I and the Minister for Sport . we be work with UK Sport to try to resolve it . of course we will be cheer our athlete on in Tokyo — I be really look forward to that — but we know that those opportunity be not available to all . I would be happy to meet the hon . member to discuss this far . I call the shadow Minister . this have be an incredible year for woman ' s sport , with both the Lionesses and the Red Roses inspire a generation with their fantastic performance and historic success on the pitch . the previous Conservative Government work in partnership alongside the national lottery , Sport England and various national body to help to support these incredible athlete with investment in grassroots facility , include the £ 30 million Lionesses fund , which directly increase opportunity for woman ' s and girl ' sport . beyond the sentiment that the Secretary of State have already express today , will she confirm whether her Government will support a new Lionesses and Red Roses fund specifically for woman ' s sport ? will she also confirm that fairness and safety will remain the key pillar of guidance for female sport ? it be a real pleasure , with the Prime Minister , to meet the Lionesses before they go off and then on to victory in the Euros . we have be work closely with rugby football and other area of woman ' s sport to advance this issue . the £ 400 million investment that I reference in answer to my hon . friend the Member for St Austell and Newquay ( Noah Law ) will double the number of place across the board , which will mean a significant increase in the number of woman and girl able to access sport . my hon . friend the Minister for Sport be pleased to launch the woman ' s sport taskforce , which will really grip this issue . I be happy to work cross - party on that ; it be something that the whole House should be able to get behind and support . I thank the Secretary of State for her answer ; hopefully she can pick up the point about fairness and safety in woman ' s sport in her next answer , because that be also part of the first question . the Secretary of State will be aware that , alongside investment from Government and national sport body , voluntary donation and corporate sponsorship play a key role in fund our grassroot and professional sport club and league . for example , Flutter ' s cash4club programme have invest £ 7 million in grassroots club since 2008 . do the Minister therefore share my concern that the Chancellor ' s propose race tax will not only see thousand of british job lose across the country , but damage key sponsorship of a number of UK sport , especially british horseracing ? will she confirm that her Department have make it clear to the Treasury that it oppose this tax raid on our british sport ? I absolutely recognise the point about fairness and safety , and I have have representation and conversation with many woman athlete and competitor since take office . of course we want to be as inclusive as possible in the approach that we take , but we recognise that fairness and safety really matter , and we have be support the sporting body in deal with that . it be a matter for they , but we stand ready to support . in relation to the issue that the hon . Member raise about gambling , we believe that the gambling industry be an important part of the UK economy . we know that it bring joy to million of people . of course , future proposal on taxation be matter for the Treasury , but I can reassure he that we regularly engage with the Treasury to ensure not just that the voice of stakeholder be hear , but that we avoid any unintended consequence of tax reform . Youth Services : Local Authority Statutory Duties what step she be take to ensure that local authority fulfil their statutory duty in the delivery of youth service . local authority play a vital role in deliver youth service and have a statutory duty to provide sufficient leisure - time activity and facility , in line with local need . this Government inherit local authority that be on their knee , and in that context some be struggle to meet their duty . that be why , as part of our wide investment in young people , we be invest over £ 8 million this year to support local authority . I know the Minister will join I in welcome the recent £ 600 , 000 investment to improve the offer for young people in Stoke - on - Trent . with the upcoming review of arm ' s length body such as Sport England and the Arts Council , will the Minister ensure that great collaboration will mean that our young people always have somewhere to go and something to do on their weekend , their evening and during their school holiday ? of course , I welcome this investment through the local youth transformation pilot , which will support pathfinder local authority to start to rebuild a high - quality offer for young people . we want to see great co - operation and co - ordination , so I join my hon . friend in welcome that investment . it be really important that young people have something positive to do during their evening and weekend , and I have see that in my own area of Barnsley , where , for example , the Barnsley youth choir support hundred of young people . have attend their concert on Saturday , I wish they well in compete in Spain this week . I thank the Minister for her answer . her enthusiasm be infectious , and we wish she well and thank she for all she do . the local Youth Justice Agency team in my constituency make important rehabilitative intervention for young people . have the Minister have an opportunity to discuss what be happen here with the Department of Justice back home , to ensure that the benefit here come back to we in Northern Ireland as well ? I be incredibly grateful for the hon . Gentleman ' s kind comment . I have visit Northern Ireland twice in my capacity as a DCMS Minister . I speak with my counterpart , and I would be delighted to discuss that far with the hon . Gentleman . Topical Questions if she will make a statement on her departmental responsibility . since we last meet , the Football Governance Act 2025 have become law . the Independent Football Regulator now have a chair , a chief executive and a board , and it be waste no time in put fan back at the heart of the game , where they belong . I know the whole House will welcome the news of the ceasefire in the middle east , which we hope will bring an end to the appalling suffering in Palestine and Israel . I want to take this opportunity to pay tribute to the many fearless palestinian journalist who have report so bravely from Gaza — 248 life have be lose . they say that truth die in the darkness . they will not be forget . I thank the Secretary of State for her comment . despite previous reassurance from Reach plc , owner of the Mirror , Daily Record , Express and many regional paper , it have announce redundancy that put 600 journalist ' job under threat . many member on both side of the House be concerned about the continue erosion of our medium landscape , and particularly the loss of experienced and professional journalist , which risk drive people towards fake news and misinformation on social medium . will the Minister meet the National Union of Journalists and concern mp from the all - party group to discuss this press issue ? I thank my hon . friend for his work in support not just local journalism but local journalist . they be an essential part of our democracy , and it be not lose on I that local newspaper help to counter the misinformation and disinformation that be spread online like wildfire during the disorder last summer . it be why we be develop a local medium strategy , work with many of the organisation that he mention , but I would be delighted to meet he , other Members of Parliament and the NUJ to discuss this far . I call the shadow Secretary of State . I welcome the new Minister of State , the right hon . member for Edinburgh South ( Ian Murray ) , to his role , and I thank the Secretary of State for her welcome comment to I early . she be right : we have have many conversation in the past about many aspect of DCMS not be overtly party political , and that be a good thing . however , there be area of disagreement , include this Government ' s anti - business attitude and policy . increase national insurance and business rate have cause untold damage to swathe of DCMS sector . will the Secretary of State therefore support the conservative policy of 100 % business rate relief on the retail , hospitality and leisure sector ? at the very least , can she assure I that she be beg and plead with the Chancellor not to do any more damage to those sector in the upcoming Budget ? I thank the hon . member for his warm word . however , it take some brass neck to represent a political party in this Chamber that in recent memory crash the economy and leave work people across the country pay the price . the demand for charity soar as a direct result of the Conservatives ’ policy , while the ability of charity to stand up and speak up for the people they represent be attack and undermine at every turn by his Government . I can confirm that we will not be follow conservative policy . we will be proudly fly the flag for Labour policy , which put people and community back at the heart of our country again . community in my constituency have be devastate by the destruction of Shotley Park , a grade II list building , in a recent fire . I understand that an investigation be go on into the circumstance , but can the Minister say in more general term what step we can take to protect our list building and the memory they represent for local people ? there be no specific duty on owner to keep their building in a good state of repair , but local authority have power under legislation to take action where a list building may be at risk , through urgent work notice and repair notice . the Government also support local authority by provide funding for conservation project , and they be consult on reform to make it easy for homeowner to protect their historic property while preserve their unique character . there be also the building at risk register , and I encourage my hon . friend to speak to her local authority to see what can be do to help , as a committed if rather untalented member of the Lords and Commons tennis team , I be aware that the vagary of british weather make participation difficult , particularly in autumn and winter . will the Secretary of State allow any of the £ 400 million for grassroots sport to be use to create more cover tennis facility , so that participation can be encourage and the future of british talent can be nourish ? as a former member of a Select Committee that the right hon . Gentleman chair , I be acutely aware that he be always right . I have be pleased to work with the Lawn Tennis Association and other to consider what we can do to ensure that more of that funding be use for tennis facility . I have receive representation from member across the House about how restrictive that funding be . we believe that community know well which facility they need , and I confirm that we have make change to the funding allocation , so that it be easy for community to access whatever they need , include tennis . grassroot boxing club do fantastic work with young people and provide a pipeline of future talent for our community . Crawley have provide such lead light in the boxing world as Alan Minter . will the Secretary of State meet I and representative of the sector to see what more can be do to support grassroot boxing ? I thank my hon . friend for championing grassroot boxing . our Government believe that too many sport , whether that be box or rugby league , have be overlook by Government for far too long , and we be determined to bring they back into focus . my hon . friend the Under - Secretary of State for Culture , Media and Sport ( Stephanie Peacock ) have be work with the all - party group on boxing , and would be delighted to meet my hon . friend . may I also say how thrilled I be that Natasha Jonas receive an honour this year ? boxing bring joy to million of people , and it ought to be celebrate . the town of Bodmin in my constituency be fast become the museum capital of Cornwall . it have the excellent Discovering42 science museum , Bodmin Town museum , and the Army museum at Bodmin Keep , which be battle for survival and crowdfunde to stay open . what be the Minister do to support those brilliant small museum that have such huge economic , social and educational value , especially give that the share prosperity fund be about to end ? this Government applaud and support the role that museum play in educate and inspire audience , include in Cornwall and across every part of the country in every Member ' s constituency . last week the Government announce that 75 museum group around the country will benefit from an additional £ 20 million of funding as part of the museum renewal fund , deliver by Arts Council England . together with our new £ 25 million investment in regional museum via the aptly name museum estate and development fund , which be to be announce in the new year , that represent a considerable show of support for local museum across the country , on top of the £ 44 million allocate by Arts Council England . you may be interested to know , Mr Speaker , that today be the launch of Peterborough tourist board , and our new Discover Peterborough website . that bring together our great attraction , such as our 900 - year - old cathedral and our great museum , as well as the great outdoors such as Nene park and Flag Fen . will the Minister join I in welcome the formation of Discover Peterborough , and say what more she can do to support the visitor economy and great attraction in place such as mine ? I be delighted to take on the responsibility of be Minister for Tourism . over the past month , it have be a pleasure to make a number of visit and to take part in meeting highlight just how much the sector have to offer . we want the benefit of tourism to be feel across every nation and region , and a key strand of that work will be increase the number of visitor who be aware of the offer outside London . I welcome the work that my hon . friend be do to promote Peterborough and I look forward to a visit with he . in a stunning setting with superb facility , Garsington Opera in Stokenchurch provide incredible training opportunity for young people who want a career in the art . do the Minister agree that this be a vital facility , and what more will she do to ensure that all young people who want a career in the art have those training opportunity ? I can assure the hon . Gentleman that the DCMS ministerial team and the entire Government be fully commit to ensure that there be full access to training and skill in the art . I would be happy to meet he to discuss that project , but if any young person in any part of this land want to get into the art , this Government be for they . I understand from a number of people who work at the National Coal Mining Museum for England in Wakefield that unfortunately there be an intractable dispute there . my constituent have ask I to put two question to the Minister . first , will she say how proud we be as a country that we have a national museum of coalmine to celebrate the history of the mine ? secondly , if necessary , will she seek to secure an agreement between the disagree party at the museum ? as the very proud Member of Parliament for Wigan , which be the great coalmining community on earth — [ interruption . ] I can hear that I have lose the good will of the House . I be happy to pay tribute to the work of the National Coal Mining Museum for England and to the fact that we keep alive our heritage and the history of the contribution that working - class people have make to this country . I be delighted that I will have more to say about that later today . the Under - Secretary of State for Culture , Media and Sport , my hon . friend the Member for Barnsley South ( Stephanie Peacock ) , have visit the museum , and I be keen to work with he to ensure that we get the matter resolve as soon as possible . People across the UK be suffer in silence with gambling addiction . the proliferation of online betting have only add to the issue , as people be able to wager more money than they can afford with just a click on their phone screen . will the Minister speak to her colleague the Chancellor in advance of the upcoming Budget to support the Liberal Democrats ’ call for a double gambling tax , which would not only raise million of pound but disincentivise harmful gambling ? this Government have waste no time in take action to increase the amount of support available to the minority of people for whom gambling become a problem . as I say to the hon . member for Old Bexley and Sidcup ( Mr French ) , gambling bring joy to million of people and it be an incredibly important part of the UK economy , but we be determined to ensure that support be there for that minority of people . that be why we waste no time in introduce a levy that be help to boost such support , particularly for young people . we be happy to continue the conversation with member from across the House to ensure that we tackle this important issue , but on the specific proposal that the hon . Lady make , we have no plan to introduce such a measure . rise — Order . I be sorry but I have to pull stump as we be well over time . dcms question be so popular — many hon . member have not be able to get in — that I believe we really need an hour on the subject , as I be sure the Secretary of State will agree . I know that the Secretary of State want to congratulate Hull KR on its treble in rugby league and on beat Wigan Warriors in the final , and I be sure that she will be support Great Britain when we play Australia a week on Saturday . Church Commissioners the hon . member for Battersea , represent the Church Commissioners , be ask — persecute Christians what step the Church of England be take to help support persecute Christians in other country . the Church of England support effort to defend international religious freedom for Christians or whichever religious group face persecution . the Church have create parliamentary caucus involve religious leader in east and west Africa , and in south - east Asia to support legislation to protect religious freedom . next month mark the International Day of Prayer for the Persecuted Church , when congregation across the world will pray for those persecute for their faith . that include those in Sudan , where many Christians have be abduct and kill and more than 100 church have be target for damage in recent year . I ask the hon . member to use her good office to encourage the Church of England to do all it can to protect the right and security of worshipper across the world . I be sure that across the House we can all agree that the situation in Sudan be desperate . the Church of England diocese have give financial support and practical aid and work through local agency and international charity to support the local clergy in Sudan . the Bishop of Leeds have visit the country many time , most recently within the past year . he be in regular contact with the archbishop of the province and continue to raise the situation in the other place . that say , I will reiterate the hon . Gentleman ' s concern . Sudan will be one of many country that church in the UK hold in their prayer as they mark the International Day of Prayer for the Persecuted Church next month , but there be no question but that more need to be do to uphold the freedom of religion or belief for all . support Freedom of Religion or Belief Abroad what assessment the Church of England have make of the effectiveness of the Government ' s policy on support freedom of religion or belief in other country . the Prime Minister ' s special envoy for freedom of religion or belief launch the Government ' s new strategy on 8 July this year , and the Church welcome that continue commitment . obviously it be too early to assess the effectiveness of the strategy , but the Church remain concerned about the global and local trend . the level across country be currently either high or very high , and government restriction on freedom of religion or belief be at their high level since 2007 . anglican in Newcastle - under - Lyme will very much welcome the appointment of the new Archbishop of Canterbury and will be pray for she — as the first woman in the role , she have make history . the United Kingdom have long work to promote pluralist value across the globe , so I welcome the employment of my hon . friend the Member for North Northumberland ( David Smith ) , but there be more to do . will the Second Church Estates Commissioner update the House on what conversation she and her colleague have have with the Government on their effort to emphasise the importance of support freedom of religion in their conversation with country with which we be pursue trade deal ? the Church be in regular dialogue with the Foreign , Commonwealth and Development Office and welcome the Government ' s continued commitment to implement the finding of the Truro review . as part of its continue conversation , the Church raise the importance of support freedom of religion with other country , include those country that the Government be pursue trade deal with . I be sure my hon . friend will recognise that I do not comment on Government policy as such . I thank the Second Church Estates Commissioner very much for all that she do personally — I know that she be committed to make life well personally and as the Second Church Estates Commissioner . what discussion have she have with organisation such as Open Doors UK in relation to further step that can be take to support Christians who be persecute and have their human right diminish and reduce every day as a result of their religious belief ? I declare an interest as chair of the all - party parliamentary group for international freedom of religion or belief . I always welcome the contribution of the hon . member in Church Commissioners question , and he raise a really important point . as I say , the Church continue to have dialogue with the many different charity and non - governmental organisation work in this area . I be sure that he , like I , will mark the International Day of Prayer for the Persecuted Church next month . as I have say , more can always be do in this area , but I thank he for his continued commitment . small Churches in Rural Constituencies what step the Church Commissioners be take to support small church in rural community . rural church play an important role in the life and wellbeing of their community . funding have be allocate by the National Church Institutions in recognition of that , and it be make a significant difference to mission across the country . fund have be award to the diocese of Hereford to pay for a series of centre to support rural parish with their outreach to child and young people . in the diocese of Carlisle , there be investment to help train new leader , as part of a three - year pilot in rural mission community . back in May , St John the baptist church in Slitting Mill near Rugeley hold its final service . St John ' s be a huge loss to the community — it be such a welcoming and unique church , have be house in a semi - detach house with neighbour still live next door . although the closure be sadly necessary to protect the other four church in Rugeley and Brereton , Slitting Mill now have no church , as well as no bus route . could my hon . Friend tell the House what the Church Commissioners be do to ensure that rural community be not leave without any access at all to place of worship ? I be truly sorry to hear about the closure of St John the baptist church . as I have highlight , in recognition of the importance of support church in rural community , the Church be invest £ 11 million with partner organisation dedicate to share the christian faith . that funding will be available to nearly half the parish across the Church of England , and a range of tradition , activity and organisation will be support through that funding . however , I would be happy to meet or write to my hon . friend . it be really important that church be available and that people have place to worship . under the Local Government Act 1972 , parochial church council may serve notice require parish or district council to assume responsibility for the maintenance of closed churchyard . local government reorganisation and the creation of unitary authority be require parish council to take on more responsibility as district council close . be the Church Commissioners give any thought to the effect of local government reorganisation on how those closed churchyard might be maintain ? the hon . Gentleman raise an important point . that overlaps with what be happen at local government level , but also with what the Church Commissioners be do . I will write to he to set out whether discussion be take place with the Church Commissioners . I hope he will find that sufficient . St John ' s church in Darlington , an iconic church that make up the skyline of our great town , have recently be put up for sale . will the Commissioner meet I to discuss exactly what criteria the community need to meet to ensure that we can repurpose the church as a building of social value ? I would be very happy to meet my hon . friend . can I ask the hon . Lady to encourage the Church Commissioners to share good practice and their experience of sustain small church in rural community with the Church of Scotland ? sadly , in my constituency we have see almost the wholesale closure of every small church in a rural area . again , I be sorry to hear about the right hon . member ' s constituency and the number of church that be no long in operation . I will certainly ensure that whatever good practice the Church Commissioners have can be share with the Church of Scotland . Community Relations : Impact of Church Leaders what assessment the Church of England have make of the potential impact of church leader on community relation . what assessment the Church of England have make of the potential impact of church leader on community relation . the Church of England have a presence in every community in England , and provide support to its clergy and other faith community through its presence and engagement initiative . our church work with inter - faith network to stand in solidarity with other , bring people together , and to deepen understanding , offer both spiritual and practical support to those in need . Bournemouth have be make rich by its diversity and the community that have choose to make it their home , yet tension rise over the summer due to protest about asylum seeker . I pay tribute to our local church , particularly Lansdowne church and Gateway church , for the vital work they do to welcome asylum seeker and build community connection between our many community . how can we do more to support those church and the vital work they do ? I recognise and commend the work of all church that be stand up for minority community , refugee and those seek asylum . our diversity be our strength , and our strength as a Church lie in support every member of our community , include those who face barrier , persecution or prejudice . I also want to recognise my hon . friend ' s leadership in the work she be do to support her local community , as well as her local church . it be so important that our church work across faith with all of our community to enhance community cohesion . over the recess , we witness the horrific antisemitic attack on one of Manchester ' s synagogue and then , just day later , an Islamophobic attack on one of our Sussex mosque . it be in these difficult and worrying time that religious leader can continue to play an important role in bring community together . what support can the Church provide to its leader to continue to work across community and across faith , and to foster the supportive , inclusive and diverse tolerant community that we be all proud to represent in this place ? my thought and prayer be with those community affect by the tragic attack at Heaton Park synagogue , as well as that at the mosque in Sussex . the Church of England respond by offer direct support through its Manchester interfaith adviser , who work closely with the authority and be know and respect in the local community . the Church Urban Fund , include the near neighbours programme , have play a vital role in strengthen community relation , as do the Church ' s presence and engagement initiative . across the House , we all know the important role that all our faith organisation play , show leadership in time of desperate need and suffering . I thank all our faith leader across the country for all they do in foster good relation , but also in bring about peace and reassurance . will the hon . Lady recognise the awesomeness of the Rev . David Harrigan at St Elisabeth ' s church in Eastbourne ? work with the food bank , he have pioneer a partnership that have be feature by the Trussell Trust as an example of good practice for a relationship between a church leader and a food bank . will the hon . Lady meet Rev . David and I to discuss the Church Commissioners ' plan for the land next to St Elisabeth ' s church , to ensure that it be use for community benefit ? I be always happy to meet hon . member about any issue they wish to raise . I pay tribute to the hon . Gentleman ' s church , which be work in partnership with the food bank . there be many such example , include at St Mark ' s church in my constituency . we all know the role that our church play in our community to provide that social action support . I be very happy to meet the hon . Gentleman . House of Commons Commission the hon . member for Blaenau Gwent and Rhymney , represent the House of Commons Commission , be ask — British - make ceramic what step the Commission be take to increase the use of British - make ceramic by the House of Commons . the House Administration source a wide range of crockery from firm in the UK , as well as those base elsewhere . where possible , Parliament endeavour to purchase british good to support domestic supply chain . all purchasing be in line with the relevant legislation for public body , which prioritise value for money . some 85 % of crockery purchase in the past two year have be from british manufacturer . may I thank you , Mr Speaker , for your leadership on this ? the exquisite Speaker ' s House collection that you personally commission be make proudly in Stoke - on - Trent by Duchess China . I be sure that the House will be pleased to know that it be in stock , reasonably price and available in time for Christmas . this place be a great showcase for british talent and skill . although I accept my hon . friend ' s answer , there be more that we can do . through he , I encourage the Commission to ensure that whenever a tender be offer for crockery , giftware or tableware in this place , it look not just at value for money but at the social value of support british manufacturer wherever possible . it please I when I see my hon . friend turn his plate or mug upside down in the Tea Room , to double - check whether the crockery be make in Stoke . it be good when Westminster show off the good of our UK ceramic manufacturing . where possible and appropriate , and in accordance with procurement law , Parliament will endeavour to purchase british good and support our domestic supply chain . Church Commissioners the hon . member for Battersea , represent the Church Commissioners , be ask — Archbishop of Canterbury : Appointment process what step the Church of England be take to help support the appointment process for the next archbishop of Canterbury . on 3 October , after 11 month , Bishop Sarah Mullally be appoint as the 106th Archbishop of Canterbury . this be an historic appointment , as she be the first woman to be appoint to the position . as my hon . friend will know , it have be a really difficult year for the Church , and for Canterbury cathedral in particular , with the death of our beloved Dean Emeritus Robert Willis , the horrible circumstance surround the resignation of Archbishop Justin , and the current controversy about an art exhibition that seem to have offend the vice - president of America , among other people . do she agree that the historic choice of Bishop Sarah Mullally as the first ever woman appoint to the role could and should herald a new start for the Church and a righting of the historical wrong of child abuse , which she speak about a lot ? my hon . friend make some very good point , and I thank she for her word and good wish . she be a true champion of woman ' s right , but also of woman in leadership . I want to place on the record my congratulation to Bishop Sarah on make history . she spend over 35 year in the NHS , become the young ever chief nursing officer for England . she be make a Dame Commander of the British Empire in 2005 for her contribution to nursing and midwifery . I would add that Bishop Sarah serve her curacy at St Saviour ' s , Battersea Fields , in my constituency . may I add my congratulation to the new Archbishop of Canterbury ? I write my thesis on the campaign for woman ' s ordination in the Church of England , so it be brilliant to see a woman go to the high office for the first time , and I place on the record my thank to the woman and man who campaign for woman ' s ordination in the first place . will my hon . friend join I in celebrate the role that woman be play in the Church of England at all level across our country ? my hon . friend make a really important point . across this House , I think we would all congratulate and celebrate all the woman in leadership within our Church . indeed , just last night I be at the installation of the new rector for St Mary ' s , Battersea — a woman . Official Secrets Act case : Witness statement ( Urgent Question ) : to ask the Chancellor of the Duchy of Lancaster if he will make a statement on the three witness statement in relation to the allege breach of the Official Secrets Act on behalf of China . I thank the hon . member for the question and for the opportunity to respond to it today . I appreciate how serious and personal this be for the hon . member , who , like other member of this House , be sanction by China and / or name in the witness statement . follow the Security Minister ' s statement to the House on Monday , the Prime Minister update Parliament yesterday , follow the Crown Prosecution Service ' s clarification that the Government be able to publish the witness statement of the deputy National Security Adviser . as the Prime Minister say in the House , he carefully consider this matter and , follow legal advice , decide to disclose the witness statement unredacted and in full . I reiterate that , as the Prime Minister say yesterday , under this Government no Minister or special adviser play any role in the provision of evidence . the Prime Minister can not say whether that be the case under the previous Government , but I once again invite the conservative party to clarify that . stop play politic ! this be about national security , you petty little man ! have now have the opportunity to read these statement , member will have be able to confirm for themselves what the Prime Minister and other member of the Government — order . may I just say — [ interruption . ] no , you be go to hear it , whether you like it or not . Mr Tugendhat , I expect well from you . you will be want to catch my eye , and this be not the good way to do it . can we please show a little bit more respect , which I normally get from you ? thank you , Mr Speaker . have now have the opportunity to read the statement , member will be able to confirm for themselves what the Prime Minister and other member of the Government have state repeatedly : the dnsa faithfully , and with full integrity , set out the position of the previous UK Government and the various threat pose by the chinese state to the UK , and do so in order to try to support a successful prosecution . the first and most substantive witness statement be from December 2023 , under the last government . the second and third , which be both much short , be from February and August 2025 respectively . it be clear from these statement that the substantive case and evidence submit by the dnsa do not change materially throughout , and that all three document clearly articulate the very serious threat pose by China . the second witness statement , in particular , highlight the specific detail of some of the cyber - threat that we face , and emphasise that China be the " big state - base threat " to the UK ' s national security . the third statement go on to state that the chinese intelligence service be " highly capable and conduct large scale espionage operation against the UK to advance the chinese state ' s interest and harm the … security of the UK . " it be clear from this evidence , which all can now see , that the dnsa take significant stride to articulate the threat from China in support of the prosecution . the decision on whether to proceed , as the Prime Minister make clear yesterday , be take purely by the CPS . it be also clear that the three statement be constrain by the position of the Conservative Government on China at the time of the allege offence . as the Prime Minister say yesterday and the Security Minister say on Monday , this Government ' s first priority will always be national security and keep this country safe . we want this case to proceed . I be sure all member of the House do , and I know you do too , Mr Speaker . we be all profoundly disappointed that it do not . I should declare an interest as I be name in the witness statement . as someone sanction by China , I be shocked to learn that the Prime Minister know that this case be about to collapse several day beforehand , but choose to do nothing . we now know that the CPS be not far short of what it need . the Director of Public Prosecutions tell MPs yesterday that it be something like 5 % short . however , we do not know exactly what the CPS be ask for — what that 5 % be . we do not know why the Government would not go that bit far when they be ask to . that be what we need hear from the Minister today : why do the Government not give the CPS what it be ask for ? nobody be dispute that there be plenty of evidence . the witness statement be shocking . they tell we that China be conduct " large scale espionage operation " . cash be say to have tell Berry in a message , " you ' re in spy territory now " . yesterday , Government source brief the Guardian that the " civil service decide " that decision " should be do independently of minister " . no , no , no , Mr Speaker . the civil service do not get to decide anything ; minister decide . the Prime Minister be not some helpless captive , unable to make sure that the CPS have what it need . he know , and he decide not to help . why ? let we come back to the evidence that be provide . the Prime Minister say yesterday that he be utterly constrain by the position of the previous Government , and every expert have already contradict the pm on this . however , we can now see that the two witness statement from this year do state the position of the current Labour Government — a direct contradiction of what the Prime Minister say yesterday . the evidence include line from Labour ' s manifesto , and they weaken the case . they make it less clear that China be a threat to our national security . that be one of the thing that change . the Sunday Times report on a meeting convene by Jonathan Powell with the permanent secretary of the Foreign Office to discuss this case . until yesterday , the Government say that that be just make up . now they admit that it happen , but they still will not come clean about what happen in that meeting , or any other meeting . in conclusion , this House need to know what be ask for by the CPS and why it be refuse , and we must see all the correspondence and the minute . if the Government will not publish the China file , people will ask : what have this Government get to hide ? I thank the shadow Minister for that and , as I say , I do recognise how personally important this matter be to he and to many member of the House . on transparency , the Security Minister have give two statement to this House . the Prime Minister give what I think we can all agree be a rather lengthy statement yesterday , and he use the pretty unusual process of publish the evidence in full yesterday , so transparency be something the Government be try to provide . the key point the shadow Minister make be about why the Prime Minister or Ministers do not interfere or try to do so . as the Prime Minister make clear yesterday , this be a matter for the CPS independently , and an important principle of this government — [ interruption . ] evidence be provide independently by the deputy National Security Adviser . the Prime Minister make it clear , and this be the bit I find confusing — [ interruption . ] order . Mr Cartlidge , you be very energetic there and even I can hear you from here , so please can we have a little bit less ? this be the bit that I find slightly confusing about the Opposition ' s approach . on Monday and today as well , they have accuse this Government of political interference , include by the National Security Adviser . the Prime Minister have make it absolutely clear that that be completely untrue . on the other hand , they be say there should have be political interference , and that the Prime Minister should have direct or try to help the CPS . the Prime Minister have make it very clear that that be not the case , and that no Prime Minister and no Government would interfere with the CPS on a decision to charge , which be entirely for it to make . in term of the evidence in the three statement put forward yesterday , there be clear consistency across they . they all set out the very , very serious threat that China pose . I do not think anyone can think that that be not the case . [ interruption . ] it be provide independently by the deputy National Security Adviser without interference from anyone else . they be his word . it be his choice what happen , and that be what happen . we have be through this several time — on Monday , yesterday and today . the Prime Minister have provide the evidence . it be there for Ministers and Members to see . ultimately , the decision be take by the CPS not to proceed and we be all disappointed in that . I call the Chair of the Foreign Affairs Committee . it seem to I that the issue be this : give that all the deputy nsa ' s witness statement refer to China as a threat , I can not understand why the CPS take the nuclear option of collapse the case rather than leave it to a jury . twenty year as a criminal barrister have give I absolute faith that the jury would have spend no time on how many angel can dance on the top of a pin , but would simply have look at whether or not China be an enemy . they would have find it very easy to decide that that be exactly what it be and then move on to whether or not these man have be spy on behalf of China . it do seem to I that the decision should have be leave to a jury . do my hon . friend have any idea why on earth the CPS drop the case ? as I say , this be a decision take by the CPS independently , with no interference or involvement from the Government . member may or may not sympathise with that decision . it be a CPS decision . that be why it be important that the evidence be in the public domain now and that everyone can judge from that how thing proceed . I will just make one final point . obviously , the CPS decision be not base purely on the evidence put forward by the dnsa . it be base on much wide evidence collect over a much long period , so the decision on whether to proceed be take by the CPS on a much broad evidential basis . I call the liberal Democrat spokesperson . yesterday , we see finger pointing and " gotcha " moment from both the Government and the Opposition Benches during Prime Minister ' s question , but the release of the witness statement last night provide further question for both side , include what pressure be be apply to the right hon . member for Tonbridge ( Tom Tugendhat ) and the hon . member for Rutland and Stamford ( Alicia Kearns ) from within their own party to dampen down their criticism of China . this whole thing make an absolutely mockery of what be a serious collapse of a case and a threat to our national security — a threat that be not go away but will only increase . do the CPS tell the Government in advance that the case be at risk of collapse ? do it ask the Government to be more explicit in their wording , and if so , why be the Government not more explicit ? will the Minister commit today to a statutory independent inquiry , which would provide radical transparency and ensure that the right lesson be learn so that this do not happen again ? I can promise that I will try to avoid all " gotcha " moment and finger pointing . on the question of when the CPS inform the Government , my understanding , and the Prime Minister make this clear yesterday , be that the Prime Minister be inform very shortly before the case collapse — a matter of day before . that be on the record — it be in the House , if you need to refer to that , from the Prime Minister . in term of future inquiry , I should have say to my right hon . friend the Member for Islington South and Finsbury ( Emily Thornberry ) that this be an issue Select Committees will want to look at as well . there be a normal process for that , but I be unable to go beyond that today . I call the Chair of the Joint Committee on the National Security Strategy . I be pleased that the Government publish the witness statement last night , but clearly there be a lot of question yet to be ask in term of how this come about and what evidence there be that may not have be share , or perhaps be not ask for . the Joint Committee meet this morning to discuss the situation . we will hold a formal inquiry into the issue . just to remind Members , the Committee comprise the chair of the Foreign Affairs Committee , the Home Affairs Committee and the Justice Committee , so we be well covered . we will be hold the inquiry as soon as we possibly can . will the Minister give his commitment that we will have access to Ministers , civil servant and whoever we wish to come before we ? as I say , parliamentary scrutiny and transparency be something that , despite the allegation , we be try to provide with statement and by publish evidence . I be sure , go forward , that that be something that will carry on . I will come back to my hon . friend on the precise mechanism for how we will do that , but I be sure people will be make available to his Committee . I call the Father of the House . obviously , this be too important for party politic ; it be a matter of national security against an existential threat from China . the Prime Minister be clear yesterday when he say that no Minister would ever apply pressure to the CPS , and I completely believe he . but we would like to have clarity that Ministers have no discussion with civil servant and then subsequently civil servant with the CPS . we want to be absolutely clear that there be no ministerial involvement at all . that be absolutely my understanding . paragraph 8 of the 4 August statement say : " it be important for I to emphasise … that the UK Government be commit to pursue a positive relationship with China to strengthen understanding , cooperation and stability . " why do the deputy National Security Adviser think it be a good idea to include that in the statement ? the deputy National Security Adviser be reflect Government policy at the time . that be his choice of word , and it be his decision to include that . but if we look across the statement , we see there be broad consistency and no material difference on the policy relate to China , which have be pretty much share across the House . it be now clear that the Crown Prosecution Service ask the government more than once , over more than a year , for some additional evidence on what the CPS consider to be the crucial question of whether China constitute a national security threat during the relevant period . it seem to I , have read those statement , that at least two important question arise . the first be the one just ask by the hon . member for Widnes and Halewood ( Derek Twigg ) . give that it be clear at the point when the deputy National Security Adviser make his second and third statement that the question he be be ask to comment on be whether that bar of be a national security threat be meet or not , what be the possible relevance of the inclusion of information about China as an economic opportunity ? surely the Minister and the Government can see that that only weaken the substance of the question that that witness be be ask to answer . it would be useful to understand whether the dnsa come to that view on his own or have it suggest to he that that would be a useful thing to include . the second question be this . the Government have be clear — the Minister have be today , and the Prime Minister be yesterday — about how disappointed they be at the outcome of the trial and how much they want the prosecution to proceed . give the length of time and the number of request receive by the CPS , surely it would be logical to assume that the Government would be strain every sinew to find extra evidence to meet the CPS ' s requirement . whether they think the CPS be right to ask for it or not , it be clear that , with that extra evidence , the CPS would have proceed with the case as the Government say they want . what evidence can the Government provide to we that every sinew be strained and that they do everything they could to find that evidence ? if that evidence be in fact available and other could find it , will the Government not have some explain to do ? I thank the right hon . and learn Gentleman for the tone of his question . on the first point — [ interruption . ] I be so sorry ; will he remind I what that be ? the first question be about why the deputy National Security Adviser include reference to economic opportunity in his statement when he know that that be not the question he be be ask , nor the relevant question . I be so sorry ; I thank the right hon . and learn Gentleman . that be do to provide broad context of the Government ' s position on China at the time , but it be an independent decision — take freely , without interference from Ministers or adviser — of the DSNA to do so . [ interruption . ] it be not my position to account for that . that be his decision , and that be the evidence submit under consecutive government . I be afraid that be all I can add on that point . may I take the Minister back to the wording of the Act ? it say that it be an offence to pass information that would be " directly or indirectly useful to an enemy " . it do not say that it be an offence to directly or indirectly pass to an enemy information that would be useful . the difference be that in the first , it be the usefulness of the information that constitute the offence — it might be pass to any unauthorised person . in the second , it be the passing of it to an enemy that constitute the offence . by use the second interpretation , it be therefore possible to argue that unless the person the information be pass to be an enemy , no offence be commit . that , it would seem to I , be how the two man have the case drop . in fact , by pass it to a person not authorise to receive it , friend or foe , they have allow it to circulate outside of the UK Government ' s control , where it could then be obtain and use by an enemy — surely that be what the Act seek to criminalise . if the Minister agree , be he satisfied that the wording of the Act be as it should be , or do he think that the prosecution be drop erroneously ? comment on whether or not it be drop erroneously be not something that any Minister would do from this Dispatch Box . I would like to make a broad point about China ' s activity in the United Kingdom relate to this . the application for the super - embassy be currently on the Government ' s desk . as the Minister say , and have be acknowledge , China be a threat and be actively work to undermine our national security . the Secretary of State for Housing , Communities and Local Government say that the Government " would never compromise national security " . how can the Government give any consideration to approve the chinese super - embassy , which would give extraordinary capability to China to continue to expand its espionage activity and to target hongkonger on british soil with its transnational repression ? as the hon . Gentleman say , the decision on the chinese embassy will be take by the Secretary of State for Housing , Communities and Local Government in due course . it be completely unrelated to this case and anything in it . that be an important point to reiterate . I thank the Minister for his response so far on this important matter . I want to draw his attention to sub - paragraph d ) of paragraph 21 of the deputy National Security Adviser ' s initial witness statement , in which he reference Newport wafer fab , as it be call in 2023 . do the Minister share my concern that the wafer fab sale could have be adversely affect by this leak of private information , thus jeopardise the livelihood of good people in my constituency , and what can he say to reassure I and other that this can not happen again ? I can understand how seriously my hon . friend and her constituent will take this . if she will permit I , I will get back to she with a substantive answer on that from the team as soon as I can . may I apologise for early outburst , Mr Speaker ? [ interruption . ] order . I be not in the position of need any advice or help . I have have enough from the Opposition Benches ; I do not want it start on the Government Benches , too . I think we will take it that there be , in fairness , an apology to those on the Front Bench . may I start by say briefly quite how this feel , Mr Speaker ? my home have be break into , my file have be ransack , somebody be put into my office by a hostile state , and the two party be play politic with it . this be the national security of the United Kingdom . the people of Tonbridge elect I ; they may have choose wrong , but they do . the people of other part of the United Kingdom choose everybody else in this House — it be up to they to choose who represent they . yet here we have two individual seek to extract information from we , and the Government ' s response be not as mine be : do everything you can to make sure the prosecution work . no , no , it be " process , process " . well , who the hell ' s side be you on ? this be not about bureaucracy ; this be about leadership . we be not send here to be civil servant . we be send here to lead the country and to make decision . I feel nothing but fondness for the Minister in his place , and I be very sorry that he have be send out on what be not quite his first outing , but pretty close — [ interruption . ] oh , it be his first outing ! he have be send out on his first outing to defend the indefensible . he now have the position in which he effectively have to say that he be not a politician , but a bureaucrat , that there be nothing he can do , and that frankly he should not even be here in the first place , because that seem to be the Prime Minister ' s line . former Attorneys General have get up and prosecute on the state ' s behalf . this Attorney General and this Prime Minister have say , " not on my watch — not worth the effort . " just to say , I have huge respect for the right hon . member , even if that evidently be not mutual at the moment — let we see if we can get to that place . the Prime Minister answer this question yesterday . I fully appreciate how personally this affect the right hon . member , his constituency and his office . I do understand that , and I be genuinely not try to play politic . I see his eyebrow raise at that , but I be genuinely not . I be try to tell the story of how this situation have progress and to reiterate from the Dispatch Box the point that the Prime Minister make yesterday and the Security Minister make on Monday , which be that the Government ' s position — as it have be under successive government , but particularly under this Prime Minister — be that there will be no interference with the CPS in the process of this , and that every effort be make to try to deliver evidence to support its case when it be ask for . as the right hon . member for Tonbridge ( Tom Tugendhat ) emphasise so emphatically , across the whole House we be appal by the action of the chinese state . I want to go back to the precise law under which the charge be bring . the Act be first introduce in 1911 and the Conservatives set out to review it when they be in Government in 2015 , but they do not successfully replace with a law that be fit for purpose until 2023 , eight year later . have the Conservatives get on with the job and replace the law more quickly , would we be in a different position now ? my hon . friend invite I to play party politic , and I have promise several time that I be not go to do that . factually , it be true that if the espionage Act have be update more quickly and the current Act have be in place at the time , the case would have be able to proceed . that be the case . decision be take not to do that , and I think that be greatly regrettable . I welcome the Minister to his place on his first outing — I have to say , I think the Prime Minister owe he a favour . the Minister will understand the need for absolutely clarity , and I know he say that , but give the serious threat that he have say China pose to we , can he be absolutely clear on two issue : first , that there be no ministerial involvement whatsoever in pull this case , and , secondly , that the Government provide all evidence that they be ask for ? I be afraid that just say " it be my understanding " be not good enough . we need some assurance . the answer be yes to both . give that the deputy National Security Adviser be a civil servant and therefore accountable , who be hold he to account for the job that he be do ? may I just emphasise that I be sure he be do his level and honourable well in the circumstance in which he find himself , but it be really beyond belief that — as become apparent from the third inquiry , where the Director of Public Prosecutions be ask for a clear statement that China be a national security threat — nobody be capable of tell he , " well , actually , you ' d well say that " ? the idea that he be somehow beyond any influence from anybody be laughable . one can only conclude that this conspiracy of omission be something that the Government want because they do not want this trial to go ahead . no , that be really not the case . first , people who have work with the dnsa will know that he be of the high calibre and integrity on this matter . he present evidence under successive government on this , devoid of any influence from adviser or Government on this side — I can not say if that be the case under the previous Government , but I be sure it be . he present that evidence freely and to the good of his ability under successive government . leader should delegate responsibility but not accountability . the argument at Prime Minister ' s question yesterday revolve around whether a Minister or a special adviser have influence the collapse of the case , and it be establish that neither Ministers nor special adviser have involvement in the provision of evidence , but do the Minister think it would have be worth Ministers reflect on the Intelligence and Security Committee ' s 2023 China report and request sight of the witness statement provide by the senior civil servant before they be submit ? in essence , have the Government seek to delegate to a civil servant responsibility and accountability ? no . it be not the position of the Government , or of successive government , to vet witness statement make in such case . the hon . Gentleman will correct I if I be wrong , but I think that be what he be ask . across the three witness statement , the deputy National Security Adviser set out — 15 or 20 time ; I can not remember the exact number — clearly and consistently the very serious threat that China pose . on the basis of that , the decision not to prosecute be take by the CPS . I be slightly baffle by the answer that it be not the job of Ministers to vet witness statement when they be make on behalf of the Government . that be exactly the point ; they be accountable . the Prime Minister say that the evidence that be relevant to the case be the previous Government ' s China policy , but the statement publish last night show that they be change to reflect this Government ' s China policy . that be not the only way in which the Prime Minister ' s story have fall apart , but on that specific point , what he tell the House be not correct , be it ? it be . there be no political interference from the Government in any of the statement make . [ interruption . ] it do not matter how many time hon . member allege it ; it be not the case . among all the noise of this China spy scandal , my constituent in Boston and Skegness — and the whole british people — want some clarity from the Government . do they view China as a national security threat — yes or no ? throughout the evidence , the threat that China pose be set out multiple time . there be complete consistency between the two . obviously there be very serious threat — I have read they out in my statement . the deputy National Security Adviser be clear in his evidence that China be the great state economic threat to the UK . do the Minister agree with that ? be he seriously try to suggest that the deputy National Security Adviser , give what he have say in his evidence , do not clear what he be do with the CPS with his superior , Jonathan Powell or Ministers ? yes , that be exactly what I be say , the Prime Minister say yesterday , and the Security Minister say on Monday . notwithstanding the decision to drop this case , it be clear that China be try to undermine our democracy . will the Government include all chinese official , Hong Kong special administrative region official and chinese Communist party - link organisation on the enhance tier of the foreign influence registration scheme ? I be afraid that I be not across the specific of that in my brief , so I will get back to the hon . Lady . the Minister know the Prime Minister well , have be one of his close adviser as well as his parliamentary private Secretary . why , when he learn that a major trial concern spy on Members be go to collapse , do the Prime Minister do nothing ? why do he not ask if anything could be do to stop the trial collapse ? be that what he want to happen , and if not , why do he not act ? as I have say many time , the Government want the prosecution to proceed and allow every opportunity for evidence to be provide for it and for the CPS to gather that . the Prime Minister have already state when he be inform that the trial be in that process . he also make it clear yesterday , in response to the right hon . member for Tonbridge ( Tom Tugendhat ) , that it be not his position to interfere . the case be then drop by the CPS independently . the CPS have independence from Ministers ; civil servant do not . the whole point of our constitution be that civil servant can never be throw under the bus because minister be responsible . they own everything the civil servant do . there be no carve - out because someone have this high title of be a National Security Adviser . they be a civil servant . it be not once ; it happen repeatedly in an iterative process by which the CPS ask for and say there be a gap . what be it ? will the Minister please stop try to make out that we have a different constitution from the one we have , in which he suggest that somehow minister be not responsible for the behaviour of their civil servant when that be the foundation of accountability within our parliamentary system ? I will refer back to what I have say already : it be not the place of Ministers , under this or previous government , to be vet or interfere in evidence on that matter . the battle with China be not just an economic one ; it be also a battle of idea about how the state should operate , and the fact that this case have collapse be make a complete mockery of our argument about how the state should operate compare with how China do thing . I suggest to the Minister that , along with the Prime Minister , he be in danger of inadvertently mislead the House . he have be ask a number of time about the content of the statement in relation to the conservative party position at the time , and he have insist that the statement make only reflect the position of the Conservative Government at the time . will the Minister explain , then , why the exact wording in the Labour party manifesto in relation to China and its role , end up in that statement ? the wording in that statement be put in there to provide wide context of the situation , but as I have say many time , and I will keep say it , that wording be provide independently by the dnsa without any involvement from Ministers or political adviser . rise — be you in at the beginning ? no . Don ' t bother waste my time then . can the Minister tell we whether the Attorney General share the concern of the CPS that there be not enough evidence to prosecute ? I think every Member of the House share the concern that the case do not proceed , and that there be not enough evidence , but that decision be take by the CPS . early this week , the Security Minister , the hon . member for Barnsley North ( Dan Jarvis ) , come to this House and say that the National Security Adviser do not have any link to the 48 Group , a group that promote economic link between the UK and China . why do the Minister say that when the National Security Adviser be list as a fellow of the 48 Group on its website until very recently ? I can not reply on specific of the 48 Group ; I do not know that . but the National Security Adviser be not involve in any part of this , as the Prime Minister make clear yesterday . the CPS decision not to prosecute leave our nation less secure . what assurance can the Minister give the House that the Government do everything in their power to ensure that the CPS have the necessary evidence to prosecute ? as I have say several time , this Government do everything they could to support the CPS in that process and to allow evidence to be submit , but I gently point out again that one of the reason that this do not proceed be conservative policy at the time — not materially different from this policy — and the reliance on the 1911 Act . Minister , what a baptism of fire . as an MP , I understand the beautiful picture that word can paint , but I also understand the damage of ugly word , and unfortunately , I see here the problem that play with word be lead to . with great respect to the Minister , do he acknowledge that the play on word by the Government and the CPS further erode trust in Government and that the witness statement may be construe to underline the view of my constituent in Strangford and elsewhere that China be a threat to those in this great United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland ? will the Minister meet his Cabinet colleague to find an open and transparent path to justice , not simply for this but to send a message to the chinese Government to ensure they accept the sovereignty of this country and this nation and the protection that should and do exist for all those who live here , my constituent and everybody ' s constituent ? the hon . Gentleman raise a good point , and I thank he for his kind word in welcome I . if I can speak as many time in this place as he do , I will be very grateful — [ interruption . ] I be not sure anyone really want that . he make a very serious point about the threat pose by China and the threat pose to his constituent and all our constituent by that . that be the central message we should be try to get back to : how the Government can work across the party and how , with the CPS and other , we can all work to ensure that this kind of thing can never happen again . on a point of order , Mr Speaker . until the statement be publish last night , some of we have no idea about the detail of this case , but the Government appear to be unwilling to answer three question that have be ask repeatedly in this Chamber , so can you , Mr Speaker , kindly help I to ascertain how we get answer to they ? the first concern proof that , for the 14 month the CPS ask about , the dnsa at no point speak to any Ministers or the National Security Adviser . why , when the Prime Minister be inform that the case would collapse , do he not do everything in his power , and be there any evidence that he take any action at all ? and why , if the Government be so disappointed that the case collapse , have there be to this day no repercussion for the chinese Communist party , despite the Government in power have every tool in the box to make it clear that we will protect this House , this democracy and this country ? I can not prolong the UQ . I know the hon . Lady well , and I know she will not leave it at that point of order . she will go and use all the option that be open to she , and I be sure that she will be come back in not too distant a time . rise — I call Tom Tugendhat , who will not keep this debate go . on a point of order , Mr Speaker . I will not ; I be go to raise a different argument , if I may . give that the Government ' s position be that the bureaucrat run the Government and be in charge of everything , may we dissolve this House and save the taxpayer the money , because clearly this be not a democracy any more ? I be sure the right hon . member would not want to give up his seat quite so quickly . on a point of order , Mr Speaker . you have take a close interest in this issue , Mr Speaker — the fact that it go to the heart of this Parliament on the protection of Members of Parliament and the secret that we sometimes hold . I be sure that you will share my concern that someone on their very first outing have be send out on this issue and that the Prime Minister use yesterday ' s Prime Minister ' s question and have not face proper scrutiny in this House in a statement . may I gently ask whether you would seek to have he make a statement to the House ? it be not even a point of order , and you know that — we be keep the debate go . I do congratulate the Minister and feel sorry that this be his first outing , but I have to say , if you take the pay check , you also take the pain that go with it . Speaker ' s Statement before we move to business question , I would like to pay tribute to BBC Radio 4 ' s " today in Parliament " programme , which last week celebrate its 80th anniversary . bar the occasional power cut , " today in Parliament " have be broadcast every night that Parliament have be sit since it be first air on 9 October 1945 . my predecessor and great friend the late Baroness Betty Boothroyd think the programme be " champion " and once comment that she would even put her book down to listen to it in bed . on behalf of the House , I would like to say congratulation to " today in Parliament " and its many presenter for cover our proceeding in an incredible 13 , 000 episode over 80 wonderful year . business of the House will the Leader of the House give we the forthcoming business ? with permission , I shall give the business for the week commence 20 October , which include : Monday 20 October — Committee of the whole House and remain stage of the Diego Garcia Military Base and British Indian Ocean Territory Bill . Tuesday 21 October — Committee of the whole House of the Sentencing Bill . Wednesday 22 October — consideration of a Lords message to the Renters ' Rights Bill , follow by a debate on a motion relate to financial assistance to industry , follow by a motion to approve the draft National Health Service ( Procurement , Slavery and Human Trafficking ) Regulations 2025 , follow by a general debate on devolution in Scotland . the subject for this debate be determine by the Backbench Business Committee . Thursday 23 October — general debate on Black History Month . Friday 24 October — the House will not be sit . the provisional business for the week commence 27 October include : Monday 27 October — remain stage of the Victims and Courts Bill . I thank the Leader of the House for the forthcoming business . I want to start by pay tribute to Lord Ming Campbell , a former Member of this place and former leader of the Liberal Democrats . he be a hugely respected parliamentarian , and I know he will be much miss . I would also like to express my deep sympathy to those kill , injure and affect in the horrific terrorist attack at the Heaton Park Hebrew Congregation synagogue in Manchester . I be substitute today for the shadow Leader of the House , my right hon . friend the Member for Hereford and South Herefordshire ( Jesse Norman ) , who be in Poland with the Defence Committee . what an interesting conference recess it have be . I be in Manchester for a fantastic Conservative party conference , but also out and about at home in my beautiful constituency in the Scottish Borders . from spend time with the Scouts in Hawick to fight LNER ' s plan to cut the number of train service in the Borders , it have be a busy few week . we have see six party conference during recess . the SNP maintain its age - old obsession with independence rather than sort out Scotland ' s struggle NHS , school and transport system . the right hon . member for Kingston and Surbiton ( Ed Davey ) continue audition to become a circus act , and the Labour party continue its own internal chaos , drama and division . we have a direct challenge to the leadership of the Prime Minister , with the Mayor of Greater Manchester no less , Andy Burnham , parade himself around as the next leader , an act he manage to keep up for just a few day , before he scuttle out the back door of the conference centre . how embarrassing for the — [ interruption . ] order . Mr Snell , I think you be the man who have send I a letter about go on the Chairmen ' s Panel . this be not the way to get a good interview . how embarrassing for the Labour party . I be sure the Leader of the House be relieve to no long be the Government Chief Whip , although perhaps he think he could have do a well job than his successor at attempt to manage the increasingly rowdy mob lurk behind he . the Labour party conference be also deeply disrespectful to this House , with Government policy announcement galore . it be like a King ' s Speech scatter over four day , with major policy announcement , all make to the party member and trade union baron in Liverpool , not to this House , where member have have to wait for over two week to hold Ministers to account . that be simply not acceptable . what will the Leader of the House do to ensure that this Government show mp and this Parliament the respect we deserve ? the most controversial announcement be the plan to introduce digital id . can the Leader of the House confirm when that legislation will come before Parliament , so that mps can finally scrutinise what be be plan ? I visit many local business in the Scottish Borders during recess , and they be quite frankly terrified of what the Chancellor plan to do to they in her Budget ; and yesterday , the Chancellor admit what we all know . she be go to raise taxis in the Budget once again , because this Labour Government have destroy our economy . unemployment be up by over 17 % since Labour come to power , with another rise this week , fuel so sadly by rise joblessness among young people . the International Monetary Fund say we will have the high rate of inflation of any country in the G7 . that be the reality — more people ' s job and livelihood on the line , people ' s household bill get big and big , and a cost of living crisis . the Chancellor should listen to the challenge face household and business across the nation . will the Leader of the House say whether the Government will set out a plan for how they will help household across the UK with the increase cost of living ? in contrast , the Conservative party conference in Manchester could not have be more different from labour ' s — cost , bold plan for a strong economy and strong border ; reduce the cost of buy a home ; cut the cost of people ' s energy bill ; reduce the size of the welfare state ; leave the european convention on human right to take back control of our border ; crack down on crime ; and much , much more . while we have be do the hard , detailed work to decide which taxis we will cut , the Chancellor be decide which one she want to put up . finally , I know that member be deeply concerned at the collapse of the China spy trial . early this week , the Government claim they could not publish the evidence relate to the collapse of the trial because the Crown Prosecution Service would not allow it , a claim that the CPS say be completely incorrect . there be key question for the Government . what additional evidence do the CPS request from the Government ? do the Prime Minister authorise the withholding of that information ? be evidence withhold by the Government to win favour with the chinese Government ? this House deserve to know the truth . we need to see the China file . yesterday , a number of Chairs of House of Commons Committees meet the Director of Public Prosecutions , and there will now be a formal inquiry . will the Leader of the House ensure that all part of the Government fully co - operate with that inquiry ? China remain a real and present threat . unless the Government act , all of our security be at risk . first , I welcome the shadow Deputy Leader of the House to his place for his inaugural address . the hon . member for Carshalton and Wallington ( Bobby Dean ) also make his debut today , so I find myself in the unusual position of be somewhat of a veteran of business question on only my second outing . as ever , due diligence lead I to Wikipedia to find out a bit more about the shadow Deputy Leader of the House . I discover that he be the fast MP to take part in the 2018 London marathon , with what I be tell be a commendable time of three hour , 38 minute and three second . genuinely , that be not only an impressive achievement , but the fact that then and since then he have raise a great deal of money for charity be to his credit . I also note that in 2014 , he become the first UK politician to complete an Ironman triathlon . it seem fitting that in Margaret Thatcher ' s centenary year , I find myself up against the conservative party ' s new iron gentleman . I want to associate myself completely with the hon . Gentleman ' s word about the terrible Manchester attack , which have rightly be condemn on both side of the House , and with his word of tribute to the late Ming Campbell , who be , as he say , hugely respect as a dedicated public servant and a tireless champion for his constituent . as the late Denis Healey would say , he be a politician who have hinterland . yesterday be the fourth anniversary of the murder of Sir David Amess . he dedicate almost four decade to this House and to his constituent . we remember he fondly and with respect , as we do our friend Jo Cox , and we recommit ourselves on these occasion to the value that bring they and we to public service . we also need to remind ourselves of the importance of the language and tone of our debate and deliberation . let I turn to the question pose by the hon . Gentleman . as an athlete of some renown and a marathon runner , his description of the Manchester conference remind I of one of my favourite film , " the Loneliness of the Long Distance Runner " . I stand second to none in respect for Parliament . we will be bring forward digital ID legislation in due course , but we do bring it to the Floor of the House in a statement at the early opportunity , on Monday this week . as for the hon . Gentleman ' s comment on the economy , I genuinely believe that anyone on the conservative Benches who stand up and say anything about the economy should begin with an apology , because theirs be the only government in recent time where living standard be low at the end of the Parliament than they be at the beginning . as for the detail of the Budget and whether there be a plan , of course there be a plan for growth . he know that he will have to wait until 26 November for any detail of that . in term of the evolve situation regard the matter of China , I be the fourth Minister this week to stand at the Dispatch Box to potentially face question about that . the hon . Gentleman rightly point to a key meeting that take place yesterday between the DPP and Committee Chairs . I be a firm believer in strong , independent Select Committees , and I be quite sure they will do a fantastic job , should they put their mind to that — it be not for I to tell they how to do it . of course , I expect that Committees will get the full co - operation for everything they seek from the Government . on Monday , Members speak movingly in the Backbench Business debate mark Baby Loss Awareness Week , highlight the vital , multifaceted role of midwifery in support bereaved family , and yet this week , the chief executive of the Royal College of Midwives announce that it have decide not to contribute to NHS England ' s professional strategy for nursing and midwifery because it have become clear that midwifery be be treat as an " afterthought " . will the Leader of the House allocate time to debate the need for a distinct midwifery strategy — one that reflect its unique contribution and create a positive , proactive plan and funding model for maternity care overall , give midwifery the priority it deserve , with its pivotal role in all our life ? I wholeheartedly agree with my hon . friend that midwive provide vital and diverse service , particularly when they be support bereaved family . the independent national investigation into maternity and neonatal care will report in spring next year , and we be commit to recruit more midwife and make sure we retain those with experience . she raise a really important point . there be avenue for she to raise this matter in debate — either Backbench Business or Adjournment debate , which I be sure would be popular . I will also ensure that the Health Secretary be make aware of her comment . I call the liberal Democrat spokesperson , Bobby Dean . I thank the Leader of the House for his warm welcome — it be a warm welcome than I receive online , where somebody compare I to a fail contestant on " the Apprentice " , which be a good start . I share the right hon . member ' s sympathy express about the synagogue attack in Manchester , as well as his tribute to Ming Campbell , which be greatly appreciate by Liberal Democrat Members . I also thank my hon . friend the Member for Chelmsford ( Marie Goldman ) for her service in this role , and I wish she well in her new job . this past week we have be digest news of the ceasefire in the middle east which , despite reporting , have nothing to do with President Trump ' s candidacy for the Nobel peace prize and be all about the welfare of the people live in that region . there be indescribable relief that the hostage be now head home and the bloodshed can come to an end . the immediate concern be that the ceasefire hold , and the hope be that there will be a just and sustainable peace in the region , include a two - state solution . as we look to the future , it be also important that we do not forget what happen before . a few week ago there be a UN report that a genocide have take place in Gaza , and it be the international community ' s obligation to establish the truth and hold those responsible to account . will the Government , at the appropriate time , make a statement about how Britain will contribute to such an international process , so that justice and accountability for what happen in Gaza can be serve ? I welcome the hon . gentleman to his new role . I genuinely look forward to our exchange , and to work with he on the Committees that we will both be on . he come from a very good constituency pedigree , because Tom Brake , who serve his constituency between 1997 and 2019 , do the same job as he be now do , include as Deputy Leader of the House in government . he will be a hard act to follow , but I genuinely wish the hon . Gentleman well . I also join he in thank his predecessor , the hon . member for Chelmsford ( Marie Goldman ) , for her work , particularly on the Modernisation Committee . I do not get to know she particularly well , although we will continue to work on some Committees together . in answer to the hon . Gentleman ' s question , first I join he in welcome the landmark first step of a ceasefire be achieve , and see the hostage release after so long and aid return to Gaza . the Government be commit to play a lead role in Gaza ' s reconstruction , and the next stage of talk on the implementation of the peace plan . he be right to say that accountability and justice for everyone who have commit atrocity , include those involve on 7 October , be crucial . the Government ' s long - stand position be that it be up to the court to determine whether a genocide have occur , and we will continue to support international law and its essential role in achieve justice in the region as we go forward . will the Leader of the House please grant a debate on tenant pay their landlord a reasonable rent ? in Blaenau Gwent and Rhymney , Vodafone be in dispute with one of my community organisation , aberbargoed rifle and pistol club , over the hosting of a telecom mast . Vodafone ' s rent help to fund the club ' s Christmas dinner , and visit to place of interest such as the Royal Armouries Museum in Leeds , and Bisley . do the Leader of the House agree that it be important for large telecom corporation to work wherever possible hand in hand with our local community organisation ? I agree absolutely , because I think we all have example of where the opposite be the case and telecom corporation do not do that . that be not only painful for community , but ultimately it be also painful for some of those company . I remind my hon . friend that the Renters ' Rights Bill be proceed through the House , and he may wish to raise some of those point in that debate . he may also wish to ask for a debate , and again , because of their experience , I have no doubt that many other member will wish to join in . I call the Chair of the Backbench Business Committee . I thank the Leader of the House for allow protect time on Monday for the debate on baby loss . it be a three - hour debate and a three - minute limit be impose on contribution from Back Benchers so that everyone have the opportunity to speak . I trust that we can look at do that again in future , in particular next Wednesday , when we will have a debate on devolution in Scotland , which have to be push from its original date . I know that there will be important government business before the debate , so will he allow protect time for the Back - Bench business ? I be always keen to offer support to the Leader of the House . if we be grant the date , there will be a debate on property service charge on Thursday 30 October , follow by a debate on age community and end of life care . next week in Westminster Hall , on Tuesday there will be a debate on progress in end homelessness , and on Thursday there will be a debate on the performance of the Building Safety Regulator , follow by a debate on the impact of NHS workforce level on cancer patient . on 28 October in Westminster Hall , there will be a debate on obesity and fatty liver disease , and on Thursday 30 October there will be debate on histological testing of all excise mole , follow by a debate organise by the Liaison Committee about the work of the Education Committee , the subject of which , I believe , will be special educational need and disability . next week , Hindus , Sikhs , Jains and Buddhists will be celebrate Diwali , follow by hindu new year . that will be a happy occasion , and everyone will be celebrate , but unfortunately that will not be the case in Bangladesh . on Tuesday , at the all - party parliamentary group for British Hindus , we receive a report from Insight UK about the persecution of Hindus in Bangladesh . they be be persecute , oppress and kill , their temple be be destroy , and their property be be burn down , with household member in they . I have raise the issue before , but can we have a statement from a Government Minister about what action we be go to take to safeguard minority in Bangladesh who be suffer from severe oppression ? I be grateful to the hon . gentleman for update the House on the work of the Backbench Business Committee , and I thank he for his diligent work as the Chair of that Committee . it be the case that we protect time for the debate on Monday and it be good that hon . member be able to speak for a limited time , but let I go far . I be distressed , to some extent , by the fact that the debate do not start until 9 pm and , as a result , do not finish until midnight . it be true that the protect time mean that the debate go ahead and people be able to have their say , but I know from past experience how difficult it be for colleague to stand up and tell their personal story . I do not think it be the place of this House , if we can manage it , to get to a situation where those story be not tell until 11 pm or 11 . 30 pm . there be a wide point — I be drift somewhat — about how we use Mondays . at the beginning of the day , there be three big statement that take a lot of time — undoubtedly , they be important statement that have to be make — but we need to address not just the timing but the content of the debate that follow , so that we treat those topic with the respect that they deserve . I thank the hon . Gentleman not just for his work on the Backbench Business Committee but as Chair of the all - party parliamentary group for British Hindus . we strongly condemn all instance of hate or violence direct towards minority religious community . we have be and we be actively engage in address the humanitarian situation in Bangladesh and support the interim Government to support a peaceful democratic transition . we be deeply committed to the protection of freedom of religion . if there be a point at which a statement be appropriate , the Government will bring one forward or there will be opportunity for debate , and I be sure colleague will want to take part in that . it have now be over a year since the tragic murder in my constituency of Juliana Falcon and her child Kyle and Giselle , by their brother . our town be understandably still shake by this horrific incident . it come to light that the murderer be able to obtain a gun with a forge shotgun licence . the previous Home Secretary promise the tightening of private arm sale follow this tragedy . can we please have a debate or a statement on this issue , and on the need for a national database of gun licence ? I thank my hon . friend for raise that important issue . it be a truly tragic and shocking case , and the Government be commit to do everything that we can to prevent similar incident . we have introduce tight control on firearm license to keep people safe and help the police to apply the law consistently , and we will consult later this year on measure to strengthen control on shotgun and to improve control on the private sale of firearm . I be sure my hon . friend will be keen to have a debate should it help that process . this be the first time I have see the Leader of the House at the Dispatch Box in his new role , and I welcome he . he mention religious freedom . that freedom must not be allow to conceal the malevolence of Sharia court , which operate in place across our constituency — there be around 85 . indeed , we be describe as the western capital of Sharia law . although they have no legitimate lawful authority , those court be reinforce all kind of horror , include discrimination against woman and non - believer , polygamy and other such thing . it be time that there be a debate on this issue in the House , for we need to shine a light on that malevolence . there can be only one law in this country : the law that apply to each of we and all of we . the Government and I agree absolutely with the point on which the right hon . Gentleman finish his question , because the rule of law be sovereign in this country . no other law take precedence over that , and he be absolutely right in say what should take precedence . again , I be sure that many colleague will at least share some of his concern , and I be sure he will have support should he seek a debate . as a current member of the Panel of Chairs , may I say what a wonderful job you do in this Chamber , Mr Speaker ? [ laughter . ] will the Government set aside some time to debate an issue of concern to I — why National Highways have decline to replace a bridge on virtually the busy road in Merseyside , lead down to the Liverpool port ? the A5036 Park Lane have 40 , 000 vehicle a day go down it , which be considerable at peak time . I be concerned that we need to tease out why National Highways feel it inappropriate to replace a bridge when there be a school , a church , a day centre , a hotel and a shopping centre all nearby . that be a concern , and we need to debate it . I will ensure that Transport Ministers have hear what my hon . Friend say , but I be confident that National Highways will also have hear what he say . should that not produce the action that he demand , there be way to raise that issue in this House , particularly in an Adjournment debate . I recently have the pleasure of meet the Sheffield Young Carers action group and some of the wonderful people who it support . I be a young carer myself and know the deep impact that that can have on a young life . during our meeting , the child tell I about their mental health struggle as a result of their responsibility , but they have limit access to counselling . even when they have be able to get mental health support , they have feel that the service do not understand the specific challenge they face . will the Leader of the House confirm that mental health must be a key component of the 10 - year health plan , and allow time in Parliament to debate the challenge face by young carer ? I take this opportunity to pay tribute to young carer , who do a fantastic and at time very difficult job ; some of we wonder how we would cope in those circumstance . I also pay tribute to my hon . friend , who have work tirelessly on not just this issue but other issue for her constituent . I can confirm that mental health be a key component of our 10 - year health plan . it set out how we will work with school and college , which be really important , to identify and meet the mental health need of all child and young people , include young carer . that would make an excellent topic for a debate , and I encourage my hon . friend to apply for one . the Havant Thicket reservoir , which be just outside my constituency , be the first reservoir to be build in 30 year . it be a welcome investment in the south - east , which be designate as water - stress , but it be also the propose site of an effluent recycling scheme ; it be the first time that that have be use to supplement drinking water in the UK . with confidence in Southern Water at an all - time low , will the Leader of the House make time for a debate on water recycling scheme and reservoir ? it may be the first reservoir in 30 year , but we be committed to make sure that it be not the last . put right the crumble infrastructure that we be leave with be an important part of growth , which be the priority of this Government . I can not comment specifically on what the hon . Lady have say , but I will draw it to the attention of Ministers in the Department for Environment , Food and Rural Affairs . she may seek to raise the issue at question or at a meeting with Ministers , or indeed call for a debate on it . the Leader of the House will be aware that 2027 will mark the 1 , 100th anniversary of the unification of England under King Athelstan , and the Royal Society of St George be propose that we have a bank holiday on 12 July 2027 . will he make time for a debate on such a great , momentous occasion for our country , and will he also join I in celebrate Essex Day on 26 October ? I thank you , Mr Speaker , for ensure that the flag of Essex will be fly from the Palace of Westminster for the first time ever . I hope the Leader of the House will ensure that under the new local government reorganisation , historic and ceremonial county will be put together , so that we can celebrate our true county identity . I be aware of that anniversary , because I think the hon . Gentleman have raise it before . [ interruption . ] rather cruelly , my colleague sit next to I say that I be there for the event , but that simply be not true . I be sure that when the time arise , it will be an appropriate opportunity to have a debate in this House , because we should be very proud of our national identity and celebrate it . when an anniversary such as that come along , we should seize it with both hand . I wish Essex Day all the very good . it be not just about be proud of our nation ; it be about be proud of our region and our town , too . devolution and where we will end up with it be a matter for another day as the devolution Bill progress through this House . at this moment , I be not go to speculate about the future of county , either historic or not as historic . will the Leader of the House join I in welcome this week ' s record investment in flooded community , and ensure that our local community volunteer — such as the Shrewsbury Quarry , Minsterley and Coleham flood action group — be support as per the recommendation in the Environmental Audit Committee ' s flood resilience report , publish this week ? I pay tribute to my hon . friend , who be do a fantastic job on behalf of her constituent , and join she in play tribute to flood action group such as the one in her constituency . we talk — as I will in a moment — about the investment that go into flood scheme and the importance of that investment , but flood action group play a crucial role in our community . I also join my hon . friend in celebrate the investment that the Government be make . we inherit flood asset that be in the poor condition on record , but we be invest a record £ 10 . 5 billion through to 2036 , benefit almost 1 million property . however , we should also celebrate community group , which be very important to the success of any plan . first , I associate myself with the comment about Ming Campbell . Ming be a friend and mentor to I for 42 year , and I want to take part in the tribute , but I be with the Select Committee in Brussels . know his commitment to the european ideal , I be pretty sure that that be where he want I to stay . might we have a statement from the telecommunications Minister , the right hon . member for Edinburgh South ( Ian Murray ) , about the resilience of link to island community ? for the second time this year , hundred of my constituent in Shetland be be leave without service as a consequence of a breach of the Shefa cable . this time , it be go to last for four week . that be a colossal failure of customer service and a failure of regulation . I be now invite all the party to come to shetland for a resilience forum next month ; will the Minister speak to his colleague in the Department for Science , Innovation and Technology to ensure we get Government co - operation to hold everybody ' s foot to the fire on this issue ? it be hard to overestimate the importance of such transport link to community like the right hon . Gentleman ' s . as ever , he be an assiduous supporter of his community . I will draw the matter to the attention of the appropriate Department . I wish he well in bring together the body necessary to make these decision , not just now but in future , and get some certainty . after month of campaigning , public meeting , present a petition , send letter , meet Ministers , hold a day of action outside Ladies Walk and scrutinise Dudley council , I be delighted that the Ladies Walk Centre in Sedgley , a vital community hub provide NHS and library service , will remain open . this be a victory for local resident , who rightly oppose Dudley council ' s near - closure of the site despite its chance to renegotiate the lease five year ago . will the Leader of the House welcome this news and grant a debate on local government transparency ? I be pleased to hear about my hon . friend ' s constituent ' successful campaign for a much - love community asset . I know , and they will recognise , that she be a true champion of their interest and of their local community . reference have already be make today — dare I say it , I anticipate more — to the importance of community and of community asset . I encourage hon . member to join together and look into get a Backbench Business debate so that they can raise pertinent issue . nineteen thousand : that be the number of home that this Labour Government want to impose on the Walsall borough . in Aldridge - Brownhills , not only be we fight to protect our precious green space and our green belt , but we now find ourselves threaten by this term , and new regulation , " grey belt " . may we have a debate in Government time on the urgent need to protect our precious green space , our community , our countryside and our food security ? I be inform that the change that we be propose to the planning framework actually do that , but I point out to the right hon . Lady that it be a matter of balance . I be a firm defender of matter environmental . however , housing be so important , on all sort of level . People need somewhere to live . we have be leave with a situation in which there be just not enough housing , particularly affordable housing . difficult decision have to be make because , quite frankly , some previous government fail to make those decision . furthermore , housing be not just important in provide place to live ; it be crucial to growth in the economy . without growth in the economy , we will not be able to rescue the public service that be leave in a terrible state at the end of the last Conservative Government . I be sure that there will be a great deal of concern , and I genuinely understand why people be concern — a number of house be be build in my constituency almost as I speak . I do understand that , but there need to be a sense of balance . politician have a responsibility not just to join the protest , but to make the case for why we need more house . it be great news that QTS be invest £ 10 billion in a state - of - the - art datum centre in Cambois in my constituency , because artificial intelligence will undoubtedly shape the economy , society and workplace for decade to come . it be also very exciting that the Government have announce that my constituency will be part of an AI growth zone . I will be hold an AI national conference in Northumberland early next year to share our view and unite our voice , hope to shape a fair future for all , and I have invite the Secretary of State to attend . do my right hon . friend agree that it be necessary to bring along business , involve trade union and involve leader of the community and resident themselves ? with that in mind , will he agree to a debate in which we can discuss what AI actually mean for the future of constituency like Blyth and Ashington , and how work people will not be leave behind ? I wish my hon . friend ' s AI national conference well . I hope that minister have listen to his request for attendance and support ; I be sure that they will look to see whether that be possible . he be absolutely right when he say that business be crucial to make this a success , as be organisation across the community . typically , my hon . friend have hit the nail right on the head : AI be the way forward and there be no doubt that it be crucial to the economy that we seek to build , but it have to be a fair economy . it have to work not just for some people , but for everyone . I share his concern , not about the new job come in — that be understandably good news — but about the community that he represent . I know his constituency pretty well , and we need to ensure that those community be beneficiary of AI as well . I be sure that there will be a lot of interest in any Backbench Business debate , whether he want to call one soon or to come back and report on the success of his conference . three week ago today , I meet the Governor of the Bank of England to discuss the important decision around quantitative easing and quantitative tightening , and the Governor agree with I that this be actually a fiscal matter . it be trigger loss of ten of billion of pound for the taxpayer every year , and therefore the Governor would welcome more input from the Houses of Parliament on this important matter . I write to the Chancellor — copying in the Leader of the House — to request a debate before the Budget , because if this House have a debate and vote on a different decision to guide the Governor and the Monetary Policy Committee , it would actually help the Chancellor in her difficult decision around the Budget . I be sure that the hon . Gentleman be try to be helpful , so I will take he at his word . on have a debate on these matter , he raise important point . I suggest that he should be the one call for a debate . if there be to be a discussion about economic policy in the run - up to the Budget , there be various avenue by which he can call for that and make his point . it be not unusual in this situation — we be a number of week away from the Budget — but the Chancellor be work extraordinarily hard to come up with a Budget that not only repair the damage to our economy that we inherit , but put forward a plan for the future . to some extent , the ball be in the hon . Gentleman ' s court , should he seek a debate . do the Leader of the House agree that access to high - quality residential care close to home be essential for the dignity and wellbeing of our elderly constituent ? in Clayton - le - Moors , the reform - lead Lancashire county council be consult on the future of Woodlands care home , cause deep concern to resident , their family and the incredible staff . the council be provide no information about what it might do if it be to close the home . will the Leader of the House join I in urge the council to keep Woodlands care home open ? I absolutely agree with my hon . friend . we know , either from constituency case or , indeed , from our own family circumstance , that the closure of a care home can be extremely distressing for resident and family , who need as much notice as possible should such a situation become a possibility . unfortunately , I be afraid the circumstance that she describe be not untypical when it come to reform in government — the party have over - offer and be generally underachieving . this be a matter for local authority , but she may wish to raise it at Health and Social Care question next Tuesday . on 14 March , my constituent Sue and Dave Evans lose their 18 - year - old son , who be the passenger in a car be drive by a newly qualified driver . yesterday , Sue and Dave be in Parliament with the RoadPeace charity to call for graduated driver licensing , to save other family from the devastation of lose love one in a preventable accident . when can we expect the Government to bring forward a road safety Bill , so that this House can consider proposal to reduce death cause by newly qualified driver ? the hon . Gentleman raise this matter with the tone and respect that have come to be associate with he , and I thank he for that . I pay my respect to the family concern . it be an unbelievable tragedy when this happen . it happen far too often , which be why the Government be focus on this issue . work be under way to deliver an update strategic framework for road safety — it will be the first one in over a decade . quite simply , the aim will be to reduce road death and injury , and I will ensure that the hon . Gentleman receive an update on that work . last Friday , I attend a graduation for STEM — science , technology , engineering and math — student at Forth Valley College . this college be a crucial educational asset and it be vital to plan to re - industrialise our area . however , due to a 20 % cut in funding for the college sector since the SNP begin its fourth term in 2021 , Forth Valley College recently propose close its Alloa campus . do the Leader of the House agree with I that , instead of cause college to consider closure , the Scottish Government should be back all route for young people to train , learn and succeed ? I want to send my congratulation to all those graduate from Forth Valley College , and I thank my hon . friend for raise this matter . he be a great advocate for his constituency . this Government have deliver the big Budget settlement for the Scottish Government in the history of devolution , and he will know that education and skill policy be devolve . however , I hope that Ministers in the Scottish Government have hear his concern , and I hope they give as much attention and priority to the matter of college in their work as the Government here be determined to do . last week , I visit Christ the King school in Thornbury for the great school lunch , which raise awareness of the benefit of healthy and nutritious school meal . there be real concern that the funding for both school lunch and breakfast club be not enough to cover the cost of provide they , put pressure on school budget , particularly in constituency such as mine where school be among the low fund in the country . will the Leader of the House agree to raise this issue with the Chancellor ahead of the autumn Budget , to ensure that underfunded school be not leave behind ? order . before the Leader of the House respond , let I say that many member wish to contribute , so can I ask that question be short and that the Leader of the House be on point as well ? so far , 750 school be offer free breakfast club , which put , on average , £ 450 a year back into parent ' pocket , and we intend to extend free school meal too . I understand that area believe this may not be enough , or that other area be well off . I will draw that to the attention of the Chancellor , but so can the hon . Lady at Treasury question . October be Breast Cancer Awareness Month , and Bawtry in my constituency be once again paint the town pink to help raise awareness . this year , it have launch its own " legally blonde " inspire bend and check campaign to remind everyone to take charge of check their own breast health . to support the cause , will the Leader of the House join I in wish the team at Visit Bawtry the very good of luck in raise money for Breast Cancer now ? I join my hon . friend in wish the Visit Bawtry team success in raise money for such an important cause . we know that early diagnosis be vital , which be why we be upgrade 30 testing centre across the country with the late digital AI to catch cancer early , and I support local initiative such as the one that he mention . I welcome the right hon . Gentleman to his post , and my athletic constituency neighbour , my hon . friend the Member for Berwickshire , Roxburgh and Selkirk ( John Lamont ) , to his . today at 2 pm there will be a protest in Moffat by campaigner who be make a last - ditch attempt to save the local Bank of Scotland branch , and I commend they for their effort . it be one of five branch to be close in my constituency this year . do the Leader of the House agree with I that , if bank can not be persuade not to abandon the high street , they should at the very least ensure that their premise be provide for community use ? therefore , in the case of the Peebles branch , do he also agree that the bank should look favourably on the offer from the Peebles Community Trust for that branch ? I do agree with the right hon . member , because in - person banking be important to our local community . in fact , I have a hub opening in Whitley Bay in my constituency in about 10 day ' time . I understand that be cold comfort for the people of Moffat , but we be see banking hub roll out across the country . I think bank have such a responsibility , and the good bank actually look at their responsibility to continue to have a branch presence . should they not , I think they have an obligation to work with other to ensure that there be access to banking . I would also say that the Scottish Government have their own community right to buy policy , which he may wish to look at as part of any campaign for the purchase of a community hub . next week in Westminster Hall there be a debate on financial inclusion in which he may wish to amplify his point . after two year of bombardment and siege , Gaza ' s healthcare system have be decimate . I be sure the whole House welcome the ceasefire , fragile as it be , the release of hostage , and that aid be begin to increase somewhat . will my right hon . friend consider the case for a debate on the step that Britain could take to support the rebuilding of Gaza ' s hospital , so that the most innocent in this awful conflict — child — can at least begin to get the healthcare support they so desperately need ? my hon . friend raise an important question and make a really important point . as the Foreign Secretary say , the ceasefire do give an opportunity not just to scale up aid , but to look at the future of Gaza ' s recovery . an important part of that be healthcare for child , because they deserve a well future than what they currently have . we be actively support the rebuilding of Gaza ' s healthcare system and we will update the House on the measure we be take . we have bring forward debate and statement on these matter , and we will continue to do so . a couple of week ago , I spend a fabulous day at the race at Bath racecourse . for century , horserace have be part of our national sporting history , and it be part of our dna , yet across the industry people be deeply concerned about the threat that harmonise tax rate will have on the sustainability of the sport . may we have a debate before the Budget on the impact the propose measure would have on british horseracing ? I read story , as the hon . Lady do , about what might or might not happen . as she would expect I to say , she will have to wait until the Budget to see whether those story be accurate . she could secure a debate before the Budget , because I know this be a concern for a number of member across the House . York be a kind and welcome city . follow the recent wave of intimidation , racism and violence perpetrate by a few which have rock our city , I have launch the York Unity campaign with the hashtag , # ourthreeword , to ask people across York to provide three value that define our city . mine be inclusion , community and caring . what support can the Leader of the House bring to our campaign , and may we have a debate on inclusion in our city and community ? my hon . friend be a great advocate for that fine historic city , but also for the cause she speak of today . she be often a voice of calm in these matter , and I thank she for that and for raise the matter today . I know that there be concern across the House , so perhaps she could look to secure an Adjournment debate or a Backbench Business debate to see if there be share view and experience across the House . in Woolavington village in my constituency , three separate planning application , total over 400 home , have be submit , with the prospect of a fourth , even large proposal to follow . the cumulative impact of those development on local service will not be fully assess , because each application be treat separately . to make matter bad , Somerset council ' s temporary emergency planning measure have lead to the cancellation of many plan committee , leave local councillor cut out of decision - make process . may I therefore ask the Leader of the House for a debate on how cumulative housing impact be assess and how we ensure that local democratic oversight be not undermine ? notwithstanding the comment I make to the right hon . member for Aldridge - Brownhills ( Wendy Morton ) about the importance of housing , I understand from a constituency perspective , but also from the experience of colleague across the House , that there be concern , particularly in rural area that be see their community transform — albeit in a necessary way , in many case . I think the hon . Gentleman would be able to make an excellent case for a Backbench Business debate , so that he can expand on the view he have express today . as I have say before , the fact that the railway station at Burntisland , Cowdenbeath and Kinghorn be not fully accessible cause many of my constituent a great deal of trouble . in June , Network Rail tell I that it would have the first stage of a feasibility study into how to make burntisland station accessible complete by the end of the summer . despite repeat request , it still have not give I a date by which that will happen . do the Leader of the House agree that Network Rail need to make this a priority , and will he make time for a debate on accessible transport ? we be committed to improve the accessibility of Britain ' s railway and I know that my hon . friend have raise this issue with the Transport Secretary . we will make announcement in due course , but I agree with she that Network Rail have a responsibility , as well as Government . it be a matter that need to be address and we be go to get on with it . in my constituency , there be a fantastic organisation call the Filo Project , a community interest company that provide innovative and award - win dementia care . when people come to the Filo Project , however , their care be subject to vat of 20 % simply because it be not commission by a local authority , which can claim back vat . will the Leader of the House find time in Government business for a debate on the vat status of community interest company that be provide this level of dementia or other disability - relate daycare , so we do not stay with a system where there be vat on life - alter social care ? community group be the golden thread that run through our community and hold they together , so the hon . Member should be credit with raise these matter , which be important because community group often struggle . she should perhaps — I might not be forgive for say this — draw this issue to the attention of the Chancellor as we approach the Budget . she also have an opportunity to raise it as a matter for debate , because other may share her concern . at my Whitchurch meet and greet , resident raise serious concern about dangerous and disruptive heavy good vehicle traffic on Oving Road . one warn I that soon there will be a nasty accident , yet the route remain unrestricted for HGVs . will the Leader of the House allow time for a debate on the impact of HGV traffic on our village ? do he agree that local authority such as Buckinghamshire council should make full use of their power to restrict or prohibit hgv where that be possible ? hgv can have a negative effect on community — both on safety and through their environmental impact — particularly in village , where road and pavement be often narrow . as my hon . Friend say , local traffic authority have power to restrict or prohibit the use of hgv on any road . if they have the power and there be demand for it in a local area , they should use that power . I think that be a good topic for a Westminster Hall debate . we know that at time it be hard to see a gp , and the Teenage Cancer Trust have highlight that 16 to 24 - year - old have to see a gp more often than any other age group — often three time — before get a referral for cancer diagnosis . will the Leader of the House allow a debate in Government time on increase access to GPs as part of the wide national cancer plan , particularly for young people ? we be acutely aware of the state of access to GPs when we come into government , and we be do something about it . we have deliver over 5 million more NHS appointment since July , and we be continue to push on that ; in fact , we have deliver on our manifesto pledge seven month early . we have set out our 10 - year plan , back by extra investment . it be important not just to ensure that there be extra slot for people to be see , but to think about where they be and where people can get access to information . I know from talk to the Secretary of State for Health and Social Care that he be acutely aware of that . if he have not hear what the hon . Member say , I will draw it to his attention . last Saturday , I attend the 60th anniversary celebration of the Dowlais male voice choir , which be one of at least six choir in my constituency . they do a great job of represent the town locally , nationally and internationally . I take particular pleasure in congratulate Meurig Price , the only original member of the choir leave from the early day — from 1965 . will the Leader of the House join I in congratulate the choir on this milestone anniversary ? may we have a debate in Government time on the benefit of choir and choral society to community life and to individual health and wellbee ? I congratulate the choir . when we think about the Welsh valley , we associate they with male voice choir , which be an important part of the fabric of those community . the Government be acutely aware of that , so I would welcome the opportunity to raise these issue through a debate . where the Government be able to support music and other community activity , they be keen to do so to ensure that support do not go just to certain area and to certain type of music , but that everyone and every area — particularly community thing like male voice choir — get its share . rural family across North Yorkshire , include those in village such as Killinghall and Hampsthwaite in my constituency , have be leave strand by change to home - to - school transport rule , with child live in the same village now set to go to different school and parent face have to give up work to get they there . will the Leader of the House make time for a debate on reform school transport law so that school transport properly serve area like North Yorkshire ? will he perhaps pass that on to colleague in the Department for Education ? I think it be important that the hon . Gentleman seek a debate on that matter so that he can put together the evidence and bring it to the attention of Ministers , who be acutely aware of the cost of public and school transport . I think that an opportunity to share experience of that across the House would inform debate . when a landfill operator fail to follow the rule that have be lay down to protect the environment and the community , it take far too long for the Environment Agency to take enforcement action . in one case in my constituency , the company then declare liquidation in order , presumably , to avoid the cost of clean - up . that be not acceptable . it happen elsewhere in the country , so could we have a debate on this matter in Government time ? my hon . friend could seek a debate to raise this matter , but I will take his concern to the relevant Department , and perhaps he could seek a meeting with Ministers to explain what the problem be . my constituent Mark Houghton MBE serve his country in the British Army for more than 20 year . in February , while work abroad , he be seriously injure in an accident that have leave he unable to walk . Mark be now back in the UK and receive treatment , but he be not currently entitle to any further support because he have be work abroad for two out of the last three year . do the Leader of the House agree that our veteran deserve to be treat with dignity and respect , and will he allow for a debate in Government time on support for disabled veteran ? yes , it be important to recognise the contribution that veteran make . these be somewhat unusual circumstance , but they be harrowing and concern . should the hon . Lady seek an Adjournment debate , she may be able to draw her concern to the attention of the relevant Minister , because we be look at the whole question of how we can treat our veteran well , with the dignity and respect that they deserve , and she may get the answer she seek . the street around Birches Head and Sneyd Green have become an impenetrable labyrinth of road closure , diversion and blockade while Severn Trent Water dig up the road to replace important infrastructure , cause great disruption to local people . the New Roads and Street Works Act 1991 and the Traffic Management Act 2004 should give local authority the ability to co - ordinate some of those work , but in this case it simply be not happen , and those act now seem deficient in do what they be mean to do . could the Leader of the House arrange for either a statement or a debate in Government time on how we can ensure the co - ordination of those work to reduce the impact on local people ? again , this issue be not unique to my hon . friend ' s constituency , and though he be a great advocate for his constituency , I be sure other have similar story . he may seek a Backbench Business debate to raise these matter , because as far as I can remember , we have be discuss these thing for quite a long time and we therefore do need to work out what further thing can be do . apparently , we have a short question from Jim Shannon . once again , I welcome the Leader of the House to his new role , which he be clearly enjoy very much . I wish he well . on Wednesday past , I meet a deputation from Chin state in Burma . I be deeply concerned about increase report of junta military attack on the majority christian community in Chin state , include last week ' s airstrike , which strike a church in Matupi township . will the Leader of the House join I in condemn this appalling attack and urge the Foreign Secretary to outline what action the Government will take in response to the escalate attack against religious community in Chin state in Myanmar ? in term of my demeanour , Madam Deputy Speaker , I will just say gently to the hon . gentleman that appearance can be deceptive . he be , as ever , a fierce champion of freedom of religion or belief , and he raise a very serious matter . the UK be commit to defend freedom of religion or belief for all . I will make sure that the Foreign Secretary hear his concern and that he get a reply , but I also encourage the hon . gentleman to raise his question at Foreign , Commonwealth and Development Office oral question on 28 October . he be no strange to question , I be sure . will the Leader of the House join I in congratulate Teresa Mulholland , who early this week be name cumbrian woman of the year ? Teresa be director of Carlisle United ' s community sport trust and be recognise for her leadership , empathy , courage and determination to help other . in congratulate Teresa , will the Leader of the House take the opportunity to put on the record our thank to all community sport trust across the UK , which do so much for our local community ? I absolutely join my hon . friend not only in congratulate Teresa on her well - deserve award , but in acknowledge the importance of Carlisle United football club and other football club for the work they do across community . those quality of leadership and selflessness be one that I be sure mp across the House will recognise in volunteer in their own constituency . one of the aspect of business question , I be already aware , be to share our appreciation and admiration every week for volunteer and their dedication to their community . the long - await report by the Joint Intelligence Committee on the link between biodiversity , sustainability and national security be still not with we . Lord Dannatt and other senior military figure have increasingly express concern about the threat the collapse of global biodiversity pose to our food security and the security risk arise from climate change . can my right hon . friend assure we that , contrary to recent press story , the JIC report have not be block , and can he tell the House when it will be publish ? my hon . friend raise important matter . I will take that away and find an answer to the question he pose , because they be such important matter . if something be stick in the system , we need to get it out so that he can see what the Government intend to do . I pay tribute to redditch police team , who do a fantastic job of keep our community safe . however , resident be frustrate that our newly redevelop police and fire station have no front counter ; instead , resident must travel 20 mile to speak to an officer face to face , which simply be not good enough . will the Leader of the House grant a debate on how we can ensure that all community have visible and accessible policing support ? decision on local resourcing of police station be make by chief constable and elect police and crime commissioner . however , I have a huge amount of sympathy with what my hon . friend be say , because in my constituency — and , I be sure , in other — the importance of face - to - face contact with the police be crucial , not just for report incident , but so that resident can feel safe and reassured . I urge he to call a debate on this important matter , both to highlight his own constituency concern and to let other do the same . early this year , I have the absolute pleasure of visit the Needles pub in Alvaston , where Mel and Trevor have create a great atmosphere and a welcome space for the local community , whether through pull pint or raise vital fund for local charity . do my right hon . friend agree that we do not want to see pub call last order for good , because it be pub like the Needles that create such great atmosphere ? instead , we want to see they thrive in our community . pub be at the heart of our community and often serve as vital community asset , and we certainly do not want they to close . we be work with the sector , include through the Hospitality Sector Council , to address the clear challenge face . I urge my hon . friend to raise his concern at Business and Trade question on 30 October . order . in order for I to get everybody in , the question will have to be short . I call Warinder Juss to show we how it be do . penn cricket club in my constituency have be under an Environment Agency stop notice since July 2022 , after soil be wrongly import on to its ground , and nothing much have happen since . will the Leader of the House support my attempt to encourage the Environment Agency to complete its investigation so that my constituent can get their cricket club back ? I be sorry to hear of my hon . friend ' s concern . I understand that the Environment Agency area director for the west midland , Mr Ian Jones , would be more than happy to meet my hon . friend and his constituent to take this forward , but I will also ensure that Ministers in the Department for Environment , Food and Rural Affairs be make aware of the situation . Whitburn Community Development Trust be at the heart of the town , provide many vital service for local resident include a community fridge and garden . last Saturday , Charlotte , David and the team host their first charity ball , raise more than £ 7 , 000 for local project . will the Leader of the House make a statement on the benefit of community project and join I in congratulate the Whitburn team and thank Ben Murphy and John Devlin , two found director who recently stand down after many year of service to the town ? I be happy to send my congratulation not just to Ben and John for their many year of service , but to everyone associate with the trust . community development trust be really important for local community ; they be , as I have say before , the thread that hold community together , so I be happy to send my congratulation and wish they well . Nepal have see so much change in recent week . widespread protest over corruption very sadly lead to 72 people lose their life , with many more injured . on a more positive note , a new interim Government have be peacefully form , include the historic appointment of the country ' s first woman Prime Minister , Sushila Karki . as chair of the Nepal all - party parliamentary group , I know the depth of feeling across our nepalese community in the UK and in our sister nation . will the Leader of the House join I in offer condolence to those who have lose love one , welcome the new interim Government , and find time for a debate on how the UK can well support Nepal in deliver on its aspiration for accountability and inclusive government ? I thank my hon . friend for her work on this matter . I certainly condemn the appalling recent loss of life and the violence in Nepal . the Government support fundamental freedom and respect for human right , include the right to protest and peaceful assembly . I be sure the Foreign Office will have hear her remark . will the Leader of the House join I in congratulate the Hindu , Sikh , Jain and buddhist community , Councillors Ish Mistry and Senthil Karadiar , Rugby First , Rugby borough council , Keya Joshi , the marshal , volunteer and participant on stage on their very successful Diwali celebration hold on Saturday and enjoy by all Rugbians ? Diwali symbolise light over darkness and reflect the wide need for understanding in our community . could the Leader of the House consider grant time for a debate on all we can do to boost community cohesion and counter the force that seek to divide we ? I be pleased to hear of the Diwali celebration in Rugby . I be not go to repeat the list of all involve , but I be sure it be a fantastic event , and I wish everyone celebrate a happy Diwali . community cohesion will become even more important as we go forward . I recommend that my hon . friend seek a debate so that we can start to build our way to well social cohesion . the Arthur Terry Learning Partnership be an academy trust with 24 school across the west midland , include five primary school with alternative provision and my old secondary school in Lichfield . last year the trust be bail out by the Department for Education , and last Friday it write to all its staff invite application for voluntary redundancy and suggest that there may be compulsory redundancy to follow . this be a huge worry , not only for the hard - work staff but for parent , pupil and the community . I have reach out to other Members affect — the hon . member for Birmingham Perry Barr ( Ayoub Khan ) and my hon . friend the Members for Tamworth ( Sarah Edwards ) , for Birmingham Erdington ( Paulette Hamilton ) , for North Warwickshire and Bedworth ( Rachel Taylor ) and for Coventry North West ( Taiwo Owatemi ) — as they share my concern . can the Leader of the House arrange for I and those member to meet the relevant Minister to discuss how we can ensure that the trust be support to continue to deliver the good possible education ? these be always distress situation . I will draw this case to the attention of the Department , and hopefully my hon . friend will get the meeting that he seek . my constituency be lucky to have good school library such as the one at King Charles school , run by talented librarian like Emma Seager , who can get anyone read . they also provide calm , supervise space for student . I be delighted to hear the Chancellor ' s commitment at our conference to have a library in every primary school . will the Leader of the House grant a debate on the benefit of school library or a statement to confirm the step in the process that can enable primary school , like mine in Flushing , that want to create a school library to do so ? reading be transformative , and every child should have access to a library space . that be why we have commit to provide £ 10 million to guarantee a library in all primary school by the end of this Parliament . I invite my hon . friend to seek a debate on how that investment can well be use . last week , the Care Quality Commission publish a shocking report on Colchester hospital that find the safety of aspect of medical and emergency care there to be inadequate . will the Leader of the House provide time for a debate on ensure that the record level of investment in our NHS be reach frontline staff and patient ? we be invest record money , but unfortunately story like this do emerge and be extraordinarily distressing . I understand that my hon . friend be meet a number of stakeholder regard this report . I invite she to make this point at Health question next Tuesday , and to perhaps also apply for an Adjournment debate , which I be sure would be well attend . my constituent Rebecca Dowdeswell have a small business call nkd , which have incur over £ 30 , 000 plus vat in legal fee fight L ' or é al in a dispute over a mark she have be use for over 15 year — long than l ' or é al have be use its Naked brand in the UK . this dispute be an example of David versus Goliath situation , where small business absorb huge time , cost and stress to protect their intellectual property . do the Leader of the House agree that it be important that small business be support to protect their intellectual property , and will he ensure time for member to influence the Government ' s small business plan , which be announce over the summer ? it be important that we support small business ; they be so vital to the success of our economy . the Government ' s " back your business " plan commit the Intellectual Property Office to strengthen intellectual property support for small business . I will write to the relevant Department and ensure that my hon . friend get a response . I be sure the whole House would join I in express my deep condolence follow the sad passing of the people ' s champion , Ricky Hatton — a man who inspire million with his courage in the ring and his honesty outside it . my thought be with Ricky ' s family at this time . in his memory , those close to he have launch the Ricky Hatton Foundation , dedicate to support the mental health and wellbeing of current and former sportspeople . will the Leader of the House join I in pay tribute to Ricky ' s remarkable career and contribution to british sport , and in wish the new foundation every success in build a lasting legacy for Ricky ? I do join my hon . friend in pay tribute to Ricky Hatton , who be a remarkable character and sportsman . I wish the foundation every success , and I be sure that my hon . friend will continue to give it the attention it deserve . I recently attend the Pennine Domestic Abuse Partnership ' s 50th anniversary event " Magnificent Menopause " . the event celebrate the resilience of menopausal woman . while mark World Menopause Month , will the Leader of the House congratulate PDAP ' s outstanding work , and can we have a Government statement on what step be be take to advance menopause research ? I do congratulate the partnership ' s fantastic achievement . woman who have experience symptom of menopause have be fail for far too long . the National Institute for Health and Care Research have invest an extra £ 5 million in menopause care . if my hon . friend want to hear a Government response in quick time , there be a Westminster Hall debate later today on World Menopause Day . he may wish to contribute , as well as to hear what the Minister have to say . a constituent of mine — an elderly gentleman in his 90 — recently try to change his energy tariff to one that be cheap . unfortunately , when he apply it transpire that he could only do so if he be online , which be not possible for he . do the Leader of the House agree that this be an unacceptable form of digital exclusion , and can he suggest how we might try to address it ? Digital inclusion be a priority for the Government . it be important that everyone have access so that they can engage in a modern digital society , whatever their circumstance happen to be . we have publish the digital inclusion action plan to tackle digital exclusion and ensure that everyone be able to access the service they need . during the recent Fairtrade Fortnight , many constituent contact I with concern about the need for good business practice . will the Leader of the House schedule a debate in Government time on mandatory due diligence to protect against corporate harm and ensure that UK company be hold accountable for abuse in their global supply chain ? business must conduct proper due diligence . we understand the concern of my hon . friend ' s constituent , because they be widely feel across the country . he may know that we have launch a review on responsible business conduct as part of our trade strategy , and he may wish to seek a Backbench Business or Adjournment debate to highlight these matter . on Saturday morning , I meet resident concern about persistent antisocial behaviour , drug dealing and under - age vaping . I be try to get the solution they need by arrange a community meeting with the police . how can I use the Government ' s new power to limit vape shop and barber in particular area so that the resident of Warwick Place , Wickham Road , Hannington Road and York Place , and the surround street , can finally feel safe ? unfortunately , this be an all too familiar story . we be committed to crack down on antisocial behaviour in our community . as the Minister for Devolution , Faith and Communities set out yesterday , the pride in place programme will give community the power to block unwanted shop , include vape store and fake barber . we be also bring in new law to crack down on dodgy vape shop through the Tobacco and Vapes Bill , which be currently go through the Lords . I recently have the pleasure of meet the SBA Unity racing team from Scarborough University Technical College , which come third at the STEM race world final in Singapore . the scarborough team raise a whopping £ 30 , 000 to compete , while the team from Germany and Australia that beat they have financial support from their government . will the Leader of the House join I in congratulate student Jack , Mandy , Ryan , Billy and Joey on their outstanding achievement , fly the flag not just for Scarborough but for the UK ? I thank Scarborough ' s SBA Unity racing team for its fantastic success and send my congratulation to the whole team . we know about the importance of science , technology , engineering and mathematic , so I will ensure that the Secretary of State for Education learn about the team ' s success and reemphasise why this be a fantastic opportunity for young people . during recess , I become the first interviewee of my constituent Brendan Woodbridge , an inspire disabled 19 - year - old who aspire to be a freelance journalist in order to spotlight accessible place and service so that people like he do not feel trap at home . Brendan and his mom Natalie tell I that when leave the nurture school environment , there be often nothing for young people like he to go on to . will the Leader of the House grant a debate on educational and job opportunity for disabled adult ? I wish the hon . Gentleman ' s constituent all the good in his journalistic ambition . as a government , we be committed to break down barrier and support every young person in their education as they move into adult life . wherever they be and whatever their background , they all deserve that support . I be sure that would be a popular Backbench Business debate should my hon . friend wish to apply for it . thameside theatre in Grays be the only public purpose - build theatre in Thurrock . it be a vital cultural asset and have provide the first experience of the perform art for a number of people , include myself , who trod the board there for five year as a member of Thurrock ' s local scout and guide gang show . my colleague on Thurrock council be desperately search for a way to secure the long - term future of the theatre and the wide complex , recognise that once it be go , it be go . will the Leader allow a debate in Government time to talk about how vital cultural asset such as community theatre be and how we can work together to ensure their sustainability ? local and community theatre be so important to community in all sort of way , not least in give confidence to young people who come forward and take part in event and show . my hon . friend may seek a debate on those matter because I be sure they be share across the House . I will also raise her concern with the relevant Minister . my constituent Chris be a local police officer who have have to take on vast amount of overtime to afford his Child Maintenance Service payment . he be one of many constituent who have raise with I the issue in the CMS , so will the Leader of the House secure some time for we to debate this issue to ensure that parent and their child be properly support ? I be sorry to hear about Chris ' s situation . I understand that my hon . friend may be in correspondence with the Department of Work and Pensions and either await or have just receive a reply . oral question for that Department be next week , but depend on those thing , I suggest that he either follow up by meet Ministers in the Department or by seek a debate on the matter because there will be a share concern across the House . many will have be engross by the programme " the Summer I turn Pretty " . personally , I be team Conrad . he have show a new audience that therapy be accessible to young man in a world that still shame our emotion . will the Leader of the House allocate time for a debate on improve access to therapy and mental health support for man ? my hon . friend be right to raise this matter and to champion mental health for man and young boy , who often find it difficult to open up about their emotion . our forthcoming man ' s health strategy will set out how we can find way to promote healthy behaviour and improve outcome for condition that hit man and boy . should my hon . friend seek a debate , he may hear about our plan from the Minister . eleven - year - old Jake from my constituency , who have special educational need and disability include Down ' s syndrome , have be leave without appropriate schooling provision for this year because of the failing of Nottinghamshire county council . do the Leader of the House agree that child such as Jake should not be leave behind ? will the Government find time to hold a debate on how we can deliver the provision that be need for young people with SEND like my constituent ? my hon . friend be absolutely right to raise this important matter . the Government believe that the SEND system be break ; it do not work for child and their carer . as part of our plan for change , we be commit to create a new system that truly support every child and we will set out our approach in the forthcoming school White Paper . I understand from my own constituency how people at the forefront of this find it hard to know why they have to wait . we have announce £ 1 billion in extra funding to help school with the additional cost they face , include for SEND provision , and I encourage whichever authority have the power to spend that money to do so wisely and quickly . will the Leader of the House join I in congratulate the great town of Paisley in my constituency on be shortlist for the Scotland love local town of the year award ? will he go far and throw his full support behind Paisley ' s nomination as the good local town in Scotland ? there be a certain risk to that , but I will do it . I certainly join my hon . friend in congratulate Paisley , and wish it the good of luck . she raise the important point about pride in community and I be sure that her constituent be proud . I hope that that be recognise , and that she be a proud champion for Paisley . I have recently host a series of meeting on the SEND system with parent and teacher . one moment be most striking : when I ask a roomful of parent how many of they know or suspect that their child have additional need before the age of five , every single hand go up . will the Leader of the House consider give time to a debate dedicate to the importance of early intervention in the SEND system so that we identify problem and support parent and child as early as we possibly can ? early intervention be crucial , which be why the Government be give such attention to improve the SEND system , which I have just say we believe be break and be not work . oral question to the Department for Education be on Monday , so I invite my hon . friend to raise that then . I also invite he to think about a debate on the issue , because it will not go away and the Government be determined to do something about it . throughout the year I have be work with resident in Astley in my constituency . four large warehouse , each measure up to 60 foot high , be be build close to hundred of house and a primary school . although they have plan consent from the local authority , resident be rightly concerned that the consultation process be not adequate . will the Leader of the House consider a debate on the consultation requirement for large development to ensure that the voice of resident , such as my constituent in Astley , be hear ? the Government expect local authority to engage meaningfully with resident on planning . planning law require local planning authority to notify neighbour regard planning application , either by site notice or letter , and to publish information about the application on a website . my hon . friend may wish to seek a debate on those matter , not just to highlight the concern of his constituent , for whom he be a great champion , but to see what the Minister ' s response will be . for the final question , I call Brian Leishman . as an enthusiastic but error - prone goalkeeper , and have be a golf professional for 23 year , many will say that I have still to find a sport that I be any good at and they will be absolutely correct . someone from my constituency who be excellent at sport be Ruby Henderson from Sauchie . will the Leader of the House join I in congratulate Ruby for win a silver and bronze medal at last week ' s taekwondo youth world championship in Croatia ? as my hon . friend can see , I never find a sport I be very good at either . success in sport be fantastic , particularly for young people . it be such an important part of grow confidence and give pride . I be sure that Ruby ' s family and friend and the whole community be extraordinarily proud of that achievement . biodiversity Beyond National Jurisdiction Bill Second read [ relevant document : Second Report of the Environmental Audit Committee , govern the marine environment , HC 551 , and the Government response , HC 1272 ; Fourth Report of the International Development Committee of Session 2023 – 24 , the UK Small Island Developing States Strategy , HC 476 , and the Government response , session 2024 – 25 , HC 567 ; correspondence between the International Development Committee and the Environmental Audit Committee , and the Prime Minister and the Minister for the Indo - Pacific , on the Agreement on the Conservation and sustainable Use of Marine Biological Diversity of Areas beyond National Jurisdiction , report to the House on 19 June and 6 June . ] I beg to move , that the Bill be now read a second time . the Biodiversity Beyond National Jurisdiction Bill be a landmark piece of legislation that will implement obligation in the United Nations BBNJ agreement in UK law and enable we to move towards ratification of this historic agreement . I be sure the Bill will be welcome by member in all part of the House . I recognise the contribution of member , particularly those on the Environment , Food and Rural Affairs Committee , the Environmental Audit Committee and the all - party parliamentary group for the ocean , who have keep ocean high on the parliamentary agenda . in all fairness , I pay tribute to the previous Government , who do a lot of work on the Bill . I be personally proud that we be turn word into action . in April 2024 , I be the shadow Minister on a debate on this topic , and I make the commitment that if Labour be lucky enough to win the election , we would ratify this treaty , so I be very pleased to be able to say that we be go to . People in civil society , academia and industry will be delighted to see the introduction of the Bill . organisation such as the National Oceanography Centre and the Natural History Museum have provide invaluable support to the UK delegation . I also thank the High Seas Alliance and the World Wide Fund for Nature , as well as many other environmental non - governmental organisation , for their unwavering commitment . the BBNJ agreement be the result of year of dialogue and negotiation involve stakeholder from all around the world . in fact , I hear just this morning that negotiation start in 2012 , so it have take quite a while to get to this point . the UK ' s role in these negotiation be inform by the expertise and passion of marine scientist , legal scholar and environmental advocate , and I thank they all for their contribution . the BBNJ agreement have achieve the 60 ratification require for its entry into force , which will happen on 17 January 2026 . we expect the first meeting of the conference of the party to take place later in 2026 , and the UK can attend that meeting as a party only if it have ratify the agreement at least 30 day previously . the Minister be absolutely right to say that there be support across the House for this really important Bill . she be right also to pay tribute to the previous Government for some of the work they have do , but it be true to say that , despite the fact that in the last Parliament there be many time when this Parliament do not have a great deal to debate , we never actually get this on the statute book . just over one year into this Government , when there be a tremendous amount of legislation , we have manage to find the time to get this through . I pay tribute to the Minister . I think it be worth take that bit of credit because we be do something that have not previously be do . I can not disagree with my hon . friend on that , can I ? I thank he for his comment . as I say , it mean a lot to I to be able to stand here today and say that I have fulfil in government the commitment that I make in opposition . we need to pass the Bill and the associated secondary legislation before we can take the next step to ratification , so it be about not just the passage of this Bill but the statutory instrument that will follow it . I know that all side of the House will want to see the UK play a lead role in future discussion at the conference of the party , and that be why we must maintain momentum . the Bill mark a significant step in the UK ' s commitment to protect the two third of the world ' s ocean that lie beyond the jurisdiction of a single nation . from one of the heavy fish , the sunfish , to the delicate sea butterfly , this vast expanse of ocean be home to extraordinary biodiversity and ecosystem that be vital to the health of our planet . it sustain fishery that feed billion , and it underpin weather pattern , coastal protection and the livelihood of people across the globe , but these area of the ocean be vulnerable to exploitation , degradation and irreversible harm . I agree with the Minister that her engagement with various stakeholder — environmental NGOs , academic and university — be crucial . I also acknowledge the part of the Bill that underline the role of devolved Administrations and the important work that have to be do . will her official work closely with the devolved administration on the international impact of the Bill and that that will continue throughout this legislation ? I can offer the hon . Gentleman that reassurance . that be an important point well make . the BBNJ mark an historic breakthrough . it be a multilateral treaty adopt under the United Nations convention on the law of the sea that be design to ensure the conservation and sustainable use of marine biological diversity in area beyond national jurisdiction . the agreement deliver on four critical front . first , it establish new obligation to share the benefit arise from research into and the use of marine genetic resource from these ocean area . secondly , it create a mechanism to establish area - base management tool , include marine protect area , which be an essential step to safeguard fragile ecosystem . it be great that the UK be finally ratify the treaty , and it be also great to hear the Minister talk about the benefit of marine protect area , but if the Bill be to signify a new and invigorated Government focus on protect our precious marine environment , do she not agree that the terrible , destructive fishing practice of bottom trawl obliterate vital habitat on our seabed ? it make a mockery of the entire term " marine protect area " that the UK Government have ignore the Environmental Audit Committee ' s advice to ban bottom trawl from our own marine protect area . of course , domestic marine protect area be not within the remit of the Bill because we be talk about area beyond national jurisdiction . what I can say be that the UK Government have introduce a consultation look at ban bottom trawling in 41 of our marine protect area . that consultation be out now . we be show our commitment to ocean on not only an international scale but a national scale . thirdly , the agreement strengthen the framework for environmental impact assessment by build on the provision of the UN convention on the law of the sea to ensure that new activity in these area be sustainable and responsible . fourthly , it reinforce capacity build for develop state and promote broad technological transfer . the journey to the agreement start with an ad hoc informal working group in 2006 , before it progress to a preparatory commission that work through 2016 and 2017 and culminate in a formal inter - Government conference that negotiate the text between 2018 and 2023 . the UK have already play a lead role in shape the agreement over the course of more than a decade of negotiation . in September 2023 , we be one of the first country to sign the agreement when it open for signature at the UN , and today , through the Bill , the UK take a major step towards ratification . I will now outline the structure of the Bill , which be divide into five part . part 2 , 3 and 4 be design to correspond and give effect to the three core section of the BBNJ agreement relate to marine genetic resource , area - base management tool and environmental impact assessment . I thank the Minister for introduce the Bill and for her deep interest in this subject . we be all very impressed by what the Minister do and we thank she for it . far to intervention of the hon . member for Arbroath and Broughty Ferry ( Stephen Gethins ) — he and I both represent coastal community — I would like to say that marine biodiversity be the lifeblood of the fishing industry and that , as we have often say , fisherman be the great natural caretaker of the sea . do the Minister agree that the input and the generational knowledge of the fishing sector be essential as we move forward ? I pay tribute to all the fisherman throughout the United Kingdom who play such a vital role in help to feed our nation . the Bill also ensure that the UK have the necessary power to implement decision adopt at future meeting of the BBNJ conference of the party , begin with the marine genetic resource provision . part 2 of the Bill set out the requirement relate to the collection and use of marine genetic resource from area beyond national jurisdiction and digital sequence information generate on those marine genetic resource . these measure mean that UK researcher conduct collection activity from UK craft or equipment , such as royal research ship or autonomous system , will need to notify a national focal point within the Foreign , Commonwealth and Development Office before and after the collection of these resource . additionally , any user of marine genetic resource or digital sequence information will need to notify the national focal point once result of utilisation be available and make those result available in publicly accessible repository or database . the result of utilisation , include publication such as journal article and patent grant , should detail the outcome of research and development on these resource . these notification will provide valuable datum on material collect and on the result of research in area beyond national jurisdiction . these notification will be pass on to a clearing - house mechanism — a core part of the future architecture of the BBNJ agreement . the clearing - house mechanism will act as a global online notification hub , where party to the agreement will submit their notification , allow researcher from the UK and elsewhere to see what be be collect from where and how it be be use . that function be key to the benefit - share mechanism under the agreement , enable researcher from develop country to work from the same scientific datum as a researcher in the UK . that will also facilitate the development of cross - national research group crucial to support breakthrough scientific discovery . the measure in the Bill also require repository and institution hold marine genetic resource to provide access to sample under reasonable condition . that will apply to body like the Natural History Museum , the National Oceanography Centre and UK university . similarly , UK database contain digital sequence information from marine genetic resource will need to ensure public access . marine genetic resource may hold the key to future medicine , enzyme and sustainable technology . this be a fast - grow global sector , and our university and biotech firm be world leader . take together , the measure will allow our researcher and company to remain at the cutting edge of marine genetic discovery , benefit from and contribute to global research in this space . part 3 of the Bill provide power to allow the UK to implement internationally agree measure in relation to marine protect area and other area - base management tool establish in area beyond national jurisdiction . any such measure will be agree in meeting of the conference of the party and will aim to manage activity in geographically define area of the ocean to achieve conservation and sustainable use objective . part 3 also ensure that the UK can implement any emergency measure adopt by the conference of the party to respond to any natural or man - make disaster in area beyond national jurisdiction that may require , for example , restriction on navigation of UK ship or discharge from UK craft . part 4 update domestic marine licensing legislation to meet the environmental impact assessment requirement set out in the agreement . these change apply to licensable marine activity that take place in area beyond national jurisdiction . it provide the power need to adapt the UK ' s domestic marine licensing and relate environmental assessment system as new international standard and guideline be agree by the BBNJ conference of the party . for example , that may include apply the late standard for environmental assessment or for the ongoing monitoring of impact . in short , it will future - proof the UK ' s marine licensing legislation , ensure that we can keep pace with emerge technology and activity in area beyond national jurisdiction . in addition to the Bill , secondary legislation be require before the UK can formally ratify the BBNJ agreement . we will need to make change to domestic legislation to implement the BBNJ agreement provision relate to environmental impact assessment and to define digital sequence information . those issue require engagement with stakeholder , and statutory instrument will be lay before Parliament after the Bill receive Royal Assent . once the secondary legislation be in force , a standard six - week process will allow we to finalise the instrument of ratification , which include signature and formal submission to the United Nations . the provision in the Bill may appear to be narrow and technical , but once implement , they will enable the UK to participate fully in global effort to conserve and sustainably use the ocean beyond national jurisdiction . work with our international partner , the BBNJ agreement will allow we to safeguard fragile ecosystem , protect endanger specie and ensure that scientific benefit be share fairly and responsibly . the Bill be root in this Government ' s broad environmental and international goal . we be protect and improve the marine environment at home and internationally to meet the global commitment to protect 30 % of the world ' s ocean by 2030 , and this Bill be a key instrument in deliver that goal . the Bill support our effort to maintain multilateral agreement and international governance as the bedrock of our global community , and to address collectively the big issue of our generation : climate change , food insecurity and harm to marine environment — issue that affect not just the UK , but every nation on Earth . I hope that member will recognise the urgency and importance of this moment . the ocean can not wait , and the consequence of inaction be profound . this Bill be an opportunity to act , to protect marine life , to support sustainable development and to ensure that the benefit of the ocean be share fairly and responsibly . I commend this Bill to the House . I call the shadow Minister . I thank the Minister for her explanation of the Bill . it be an important piece of legislation , and I thank she for acknowledge that it start under the previous Government . I hope there will be a consensus , but there be many question to be answer , and we need to go into this legislation in a lot of detail to ensure that there be not unintended consequence . nobody in this House doubt the importance of protect our ocean . the high sea belong to we all , to every nation on this planet , and the United Kingdom , as a proud seafaring nation and a world leader in natural science with no less than 16 overseas territory span — for now at least — all five of the world ' s major ocean , have always lead the world in safeguard they . the protection of our ocean be one of the define challenge of our age . two third of the world ' s ocean lie beyond the jurisdiction of any single nation , and those water be home to a vast array of life that sustain the planet ' s ecosystem . Britain depend on the sea for our trade . they have be a moat for our national security and be our bridge to the wide world . we therefore have not only a moral duty to protect they but a strategic one . one of the core value of the small c conservatism that I believe in , as the name suggest , be to conserve thing that truly matter . that apply not only to our institution and our way of life here in these island , but to the preservation of our green and pleasant land and , in this case , that of the marine biodiversity , so that we can hand on to our descendant the natural beauty that I know we all cherish . that principle be certainly not in question today by anyone in this House of any party . nowhere be our record clear than in the crown jewel of our leadership on the environment that be the blue belt programme . through it , the United Kingdom and our overseas territory have create over 4 . 4 million sq km of marine protect area from the South Atlantic and the Pacific to the indian ocean . these water safeguard king penguin on the Falkland Islands , green turtle on Ascension Island , grey reef shark on the Pitcairn Islands and countless other specie across the globe . I have have the privilege to visit the Falkland Islands and Ascension Island and see the amazing biodiversity that we be responsible for , and the ocean around those territory be vital to protect . the blue belt be one of the large network of protect ocean on Earth , and it exist because of british leadership alongside the government of the british overseas territory . we grant those creature and their habitat protection from exploitation by other , from industrial fishing fleet and from country that would plunder our resource without a second thought . that be something this nation should be immensely proud of . I be listen carefully to what the hon . Member be say , and he be absolutely right on the blue belt . do he therefore regret that in all the debate we have have about the Chagos Islands , the Conservatives have not raise the importance of the conservation of the fish stock and the biodiversity around those island ? the chairman of the Foreign Affairs Committee be , I be afraid , incorrect . we have raise those issue on many occasion , and I have personally raise they on countless occasion over the year . before too long , the right hon . Member will hear a bit more about the Chagos Islands and the importance of protect marine stock and biodiversity in that part of the world . despite what have be say today , I fear that at this stage the Government be ride roughshod over that record and undermine those very principle through their abject surrender of a marine protect area . the British Indian Ocean Territory might look like a scattering of remote atoll in a far - flung region of the planet , but they be home to 640 , 000 sq km of ocean — one of the most pristine marine ecosystem on the earth , an area of ocean the size of France . within it live more than 1 , 000 specie of fish and over 200 specie of coral . I have the opportunity to see it for myself in 2019 when I visit the Chagos island , in particular the atoll of Peros Banhos , where I be greet by the wonderful Chagossian coconut crab , as I jump out of the dinghy and walk on to the beach and into the uninhabited island — where we shamefully force the people to leave their home all those year ago and refuse to allow they to return . its water shelter seabird , turtle and dolphin . it be an environmental treasure that the world envy and that Britain have rightly protect over so many year . be the hon . Gentleman aware that Mauritius be one of the early signatory to the UN global ocean treaty ? if so , I be not sure what his point be . the hon . Member should examine how Mauritius behave in reality , which I will come to later . if we want a nation that will actually take these issue seriously , it be the United Kingdom . it be easy to sign a treaty , it be not so easy to follow it through in practice . in what I believe to be an act of historic folly , this Government be to hand that amazing territory over to Mauritius . that nation do not have the record , the capability or the will to protect such a fragile environment . its own water have suffer from overfishe and poor enforcement . its close alignment with China , and indeed India , should concern anyone who care about the indian ocean ' s future . indeed , the evidence speak for itself . in the 2024 Environmental Performance Index , Mauritius rank 109th for marine key biodiversity area protection , with a score of just 0 . 8 out of 100 ; 83rd for marine habitat protection ; and 131st for marine protection stringency , down nearly 78 % . be these the credential of a nation ready to steward one of the world ' s most delicate ecosystem ? the Government appear to think so . I disagree . I be just wonder whether the hon . member find himself in the wrong debate ? order . I be oversee the debate . if the hon . Member have be in the wrong debate , I would have point it out . thank you , Madam Deputy Speaker . some of we do care about our british overseas territory and the marine environment . some of we have make these argument for many , many year , as have many on the Government Benches . if we be to take this issue seriously , we need to take our responsibility seriously . otherwise , future generation , not just in this country but across the world , will look back at this debate and what we be do today , and think , " what on earth be they do , give away such a vital part of the planet that we be responsible for ? " either the Government truly believe that Mauritius will reverse course and persuade China to respect this marine protect area , or , as I be afraid the Chagos surrender treaty imply , we shall end up do the heavy lifting while pay for the privilege . forgive I for not be entirely convince , but I do not believe that the statistic I have cite be those of a nation ready to take on responsibility for one of the world ' s most delicate marine ecosystem . scientific assessment show that live coral cover in Mauritian water fall by up to 70 % in the late 1990 , while coastal erosion and reef degradation continue unchecked . a United Nations review in 2022 find that , while on paper Mauritius have environmental law , enforcement be inconsistent , community involvement be limited and response to emerge threat such as ocean acidification remain inadequate . unbelievably , seagrass bed , which be vital for carbon storage and marine biodiversity , be still clear to make way for tourism development . be this really the environmental guardian that minister be entrust with 640 , 000 sq km of some of the most pristine ocean on earth ? it beggar belief . we need to look around the world to see what happen when chinese fishing interest move in . in Ecuador , thousand of octopus and shark have be leave dead on the shore because of illegal fishing by chinese vessel . we need to guard against that in future . off the coast of Ghana , fisherman ' s catch have fall by 40 % due to chinese bottom trawler decimate local fish stock . around the korean peninsula , squid population have collapse by 70 % . I hope that this legislation and this agreement will help to protect the ocean around the world and country where there be no protection at the moment . if the Chagos island be hand over , the same fleet will soon appear in some of those water , and Chagos will be at the mercy of exploitation . that be the context in which the House be consider the Biodiversity Beyond National Jurisdiction Bill . it run to 26 clause , as the Minister have say . it be impossible to run through they all today , but no doubt we will look at they in great detail in Committee . there be , however , several point that must be address in today ' s debate . when will ratification happen ? clause 25 provide for the commencement of regulation , but without any statutory deadline or parliamentary trigger , leave ratification entirely at the discretion of the Secretary of State . to add to that , clause 9 and 11 grant far - reach power to the Secretary of State to make regulation to amend exist act of Parliament by secondary legislation . where be Parliament ' s role in that ? how will the House scrutinise decision take by the conference of the party under the agreement ? will we be consult before international rule be impose on british institution and industry ? will british water or those of our overseas territory ever fall under the jurisdiction of a foreign or supranational regulator ? we surely can not allow global bureaucracy to override british parliamentary sovereignty . beyond the question of control lie the spectre of bureaucracy . clause 2 and 3 impose heavy reporting duty on marine research and genetic sampling . clause 16 allow still more procedure by regulation . have the Department assess what that will cost in time and money for our scientist and shipping operator and for legitimate researcher ? how will small british enterprise compete if they face mountain of paperwork , while less scrupulous nation exploit the same water freely ? we all support high standard , but in the world we currently live in , we can not afford to lose innovation or competitiveness . then there be the matter of expense . the impact assessment admit that compliance , licensing and enforcement will not be cheap , yet provide little detail on who pay . at a time of fiscal restraint , when every Department must justify every pound spend , can the Minister explain whether this legislation will truly be the good use of taxpayer ' money ? how much will it cost to implement the BBNJ regime in full ? will the task of monitor fall to the Royal Navy or the Marine Management Organisation , and what extra resource will they receive to do the job ? what be the cost - benefit ratio , and have the Government assess whether there could be indirect impact on the taxpayer ? what of the impact on british industry , fisherman , offshore energy and biotechnology ? can the Minister assure we that british fisherman will not face restriction , that our energy sector will not be burden by impractical licensing demand , and that our biotech pioneer will not find their discovery trap in international bureaucracy ? I wonder if I could offer some helpful clarity . this debate be on BBNJ — biodiversity beyond national jurisdiction , with the word " beyond " give a clue to the fact that it do not relate to british water . the point the hon . Gentleman be raise , about what impact the high sea will have on offshore wind development here , might therefore not be entirely valid , and his point about the impact on british fisherman fish in UK water might not be cover by the global ocean treaty . I wonder if it might be helpful for he to read the explanatory note alongside the Bill . the Minister will have plenty of time to explain all these matter in detail in Committee . this be Second Reading , when we raise issue of concern . I look forward to Committee , and to all my question be answer at that stage , if not today . I thank she for her intervention . what safeguard will protect british intellectual property in marine genetic research ? will the benefit - share provision prevent our scientist from develop the fruit of their own work ? will other nation shoulder equal obligation , or will Britain be leave carry the cost because we be do the right thing and other be not ? our research institution be some of the most prestigious global leader in the marine sector , whether it be the Natural History Museum , the National Oceanography Centre or our magnificent university . first and foremost , there must be a guarantee from the Government that this Bill will not drown they in red tape . clause 20 rightly extend the Bill ' s provision to the british overseas territory , which be central to our environmental success story . from the Pitcairn island , with their 35 resident , to Tristan da Cunha , home to barely 240 resident , these far - fling Britons have show what small community can achieve for global conservation when they have british support . but how can they have confidence in the Government ' s assurance when they witness what be happen in Chagos ? if minister be willing to trade away one british territory without consultation or consent , what message do that send to the rest ? I remind the House that conservation with the loss of sovereignty and without credible mean of enforcement be a hollow virtue . the United Kingdom have a record to be proud of , from Captain Cook to David Attenborough . we must build on that record and not undermine it with rush ratification . if Ministers will answer the question that I have lay out , and if they will commit in statute to parliamentary oversight , a fully cost implementation plan , explicit safeguard for british science and intellectual property , and legally enforceable protection for the overseas territory , many on the Conservative Benches will consider how to support measure that genuinely conserve our sea . if they will not , I and other — order . Mr Rosindell , can I check that you be near your conclusion ? I be . marvellous . I be literally about to get there , Madam Deputy Speaker . if Ministers will not do so , I and other will oppose any step that weaken Britain ' s hand . I end where I begin . as conservative , our principle be that we want to conserve , to keep safe , to steward and to defend what we be responsible for . we must be true to that principle . we must continue to act as custodian of the sea in a way that respect our sovereignty , honour our obligation to our descendant and protect the livelihood and ecosystem that depend on the United Kingdom . I be really proud to be stand here today , because it be an historic day for ocean conservation . let we make no mistake : the world ' s ocean be under significant threat . the Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change estimate that if global warming reach 1 . 5 ° , 70 % of coral reef will die . if temperature rise by 2 ° , as now sadly look likely , 99 % of the Earth ' s coral reef will die . coral reef be not just a pretty thing that we go diving on ; they be incredibly complex and important ecosystem . they be fish nursery , but they also provide significant protection for islander from both adverse weather and sea level rise . other threat include illegal , unreported and unregulated fishing , which be decimate fish population across the globe , and deep - sea mining , which threaten to cause damage from which ecosystem will take decade to recover . currently , two third of the ocean lie outside the jurisdiction of national state , and that be what the Bill focus on . for the health of ocean and the planet as a whole , it be crucial that the international community develop way of ensure that these area be not subject to lawless exploitation , as be currently happen . in January this year , as Chair of the International Development Committee , my hon . Friend write to the Government to push they to ratify the global oceans treaty . as a member of her Committee , I thank she for her effort on this front . if I recall correctly , our Committee ' s work highlight that the UK have to work globally because there be 3 billion people who depend on the ocean for work , especially in poor , small develop nation . do she agree that this be a vital step forward for the future , especially of small island develop state , and that the Government must push other who have sign up to this treaty to ratify it ? I thank my hon . friend and colleague . he be absolutely right , and that be why today be so historic : this be the UK take that leadership role and hopefully corral some of the other country that be more reticent to do the right thing . the International Development Committee and the all - party parliamentary group for the ocean , both of which I chair , have long be call on both the previous Government and this government to put in place the necessary legislation to ratify this agreement . to have finally reach this point be a credit to the Ministers — particularly the Minister for Water and Flooding , my hon . friend the Member for Kingston upon Hull West and Haltemprice ( Emma Hardy ) , but also the Minister responsible for the Indo - Pacific , my hon . friend the Member for Feltham and Heston ( Seema Malhotra ) , and the Minister of State for International Development and Africa , my noble Friend Baroness Chapman . in an era of international fragmentation , I be relieved that 145 state have come together to forge this agreement and safeguard a global public good . as my hon . friend the Member for Rushcliffe ( James Naish ) allude to , 75 country have already take the next step of ratification . I be very proud that the Minister for Water and Flooding be champion this in opposition and have deliver on her word , lead this ratification in government . I thank she for that . as a seafaring nation and a centre of expertise in maritime law , the UK be perfectly place to lead the charge to protect the world ' s ocean . sadly , we be lag behind many country , include the Seychelles , St Lucia and Barbados , which ratify the agreement last year . it be not surprising that the small island develop state , or sid — or large ocean state , as they prefer to be call — be quick to ratify , because they recognise the existential threat that ocean ecosystem degradation pose to human society and their economy . as the International Development Committee argue in our report last year , sid need reliable partner . the UK talk a good game when it come to responsible global leadership , but activist and policymaker from sid tell the Committee they be concern about the consistency of Britain ' s commitment . I hope we will see that change at this moment , under this government , and that we will stand up for small island develop state , particularly our overseas territory , which the hon . member for Romford ( Andrew Rosindell ) mention . the health of the world ' s ocean be not an issue confine to low - income country ; it be an existential issue for all of we . as the Government ' s impact assessment acknowledge , the impact of reduce fish stock and decrease capacity will be bear by all of we , include future generation . the UK must seize this moment to match its international conservation ambition with tangible action to protect our domestic water . bottom trawl fishing , a highly destructive practice , be still permit across almost all of the UK ' s sea , include in more than 90 % of our marine protect area . I welcome the Government ' s consultation on that , and hope that they will take the necessary step to ban that practice wherever they can . the Government must consider introduce additional legislation to ensure that the UK ' s marine protect area be actually protect , because sadly , even though they have the title , many of they be not . the Bill also offer plentiful opportunity for the UK ' s blue economy as a world leader in marine science and technology . to support quick progress , the UK need a definition of the use of " marine genetic resource " , and " digital sequence information " , by the time the agreement be ratify . that be to support all those who will implement it . the UK ' s next step be vital to ensure that we fulfil our leadership role in ocean protection . the 120 - day countdown have start . the first conference of the party , Ocean COP1 , will be hold within just 12 month . with the clock ticking , will the Minister set out a timetable for the passage of the Bill through both Houses ? we need it to pass quickly to allow the UK to play its full part in the first conference . will the Minister also confirm whether the Bill legally extend the UK ' s exist domestic duty to have regard to the precautionary and polluter pay principle to the high sea ? if not , will she say whether something to that effect should or could be insert into the Bill ? will the Minister consider produce an ocean strategy ? ocean issue currently fall between a number of different Departments , which unfortunately mean they be under the ownership of none . the Bill be to be commend and must attain Royal Assent without delay . I strongly urge all member to support it . I call the liberal Democrat spokesperson . it be a privilege to speak in support of this Bill . this be a hugely important step that , as the Minister lay out , will finally allow the United Kingdom to ratify the high seas treaty and play its full part in protect our share global ocean . that be something that I hope Members across the Chamber will support . I share in congratulation to the Minister on keep her word that she give as shadow Minister . that be really good to see . the Bill come at a crucial time . after more than a decade of negotiation , this treaty be one of the great biodiversity conservation victory in history . it be a landmark moment for global ocean governance , set out for the first time a clear legal framework for establish ocean sanctuary and area - base management tool on the high sea , two - third of which lie beyond national border and be therefore currently lawless . we refer to our rainforest as our planet ' s lung , but our ocean be just as important for biodiversity , regulate our climate , absorb almost a third of human - make carbon dioxide , and sustain billion of people around the world . as we have hear , they be also under extraordinary pressure from overfishe , plastic pollution and the grow threat of deep - sea mining . the treaty be currently the only viable pathway to meet the global 30 by 30 biodiversity goal of protect at least 30 % of the world ' s ocean before 2030 . currently , less than 1 % of the high sea be fully protect , so time be run out to meet that goal by the end of the decade . I welcome the Bill , which provide the legal framework for the UK to deliver on the high seas treaty ' s three central pillar : first , the fair sharing of benefit from marine genetic resource , the dna and datum of ocean life ; secondly , the creation of marine protect area and area - base management tool on the high sea ; and thirdly , strong environmental impact assessment to prevent harmful activity before they happen . this have to be fair for develop nation , and capacity building and technology transfer be central to that . this be personal to I . before enter Parliament , I spend over a decade work professionally on the creation of marine protect area in east Africa and South America . I help to create the first ever multiple - use marine reserve , together with fisherman and Government in Zanzibar on misali island . I then spend several year mediate conflict and reach consensus between fisherman , tour operator , the Galapagos national park , and the Government , to help create the Galapagos marine reserve , which at that time be one of the large mpa create . since then I have be involve in work towards international marine governance beyond national jurisdiction , the high seas treaty , as well as the UK ' s Blue Belt programme , and I work with community and official on all those overseas territory . I have see at first hand what be at stake , from work with fisherman to prevent the destruction of coral reef by dynamite fishing , to the terrifying news that we have reach the first climate tipping point , with our precious and beautiful warm - water coral reef now in irreversible decline , put at threat the livelihood of hundred of million of people . I have also mediate negotiation with the fishing sector on deep - water fishing to find sustainable fishing quota and standard for tuna fishing , while protect vital marine corridor for our endanger marine mammal and bird . I have dive along those , tag whale shark to understand the route that they take across the high sea , beyond national jurisdiction . that be often the wild west , where we be face the " tragedy of the common " , and there be no agree rule or governance to stop everyone in the race from take as much as possible before someone else do . that be why it be so important to highlight that the global ocean treaty could provide a legal mechanism to address the " blue hole " in the south Atlantic — a region require agreement about what be sustainable fishing practice , and way effectively to deter terribly unsustainable activity . that be why the Liberal Democrats be call for a coherent ocean policy , and an ocean strategy that link the global commitment we make through the Bill to strong domestic action on marine protection , sustainable fishing and pollution at home . the UK be instrumental in secure an ambitious treaty text at the UN , and we should take pride in that . however , as other member have say , we must be honest : the UK be not among the first 60 nation to ratify that treaty , and that matter because where Britain lead , other follow . the commitment be make today must be match with commitment to sustainable fishery management and marine conservation back in our own water . our credibility and moral authority on the world stage be under threat when Ministers seem to say that we might not implement an outright ban on bottom trawling , despite pledge early this year to extend the ban on bottom - tow fishing gear to offshore protect area . I be a member of the Environmental Audit Committee ' s inquiry into marine governance , which recommend the ban on bottom trawl ahead of the UN ocean conference , and we commend the Government on their announcement at that time . I fully support the Committee Chair ' s response , which repeat the Committee ' s call to completely ban bottom trawling within offshore mpa , and plead with the Minister and the Government to take the right decision on the back of the consultation that be happen now , and not to undermine the integrity of our protect water . in conclusion , the Liberal Democrats be clear : we support the Bill , and we urge the Government to bring forward ratification swiftly — I hope Members across the Chamber will support that — so that the UK have a seat at the table when Ocean COP1 take place , and go forward . like other , I very much welcome the Bill , and I hope it swiftly pass into law so that we can play a full role at Ocean COP1 next year . if we look back beyond recent year , we have people such as John Kerry , and David Miliband as co - chair of the Global Ocean Commission , spearhead effort on this front , but it then feel as if the issue drop off the agenda . next year will be important for ensure that it become a priority again . I will start by say why the ocean matter , why they be under threat and why protect they be so important . as we have hear , ocean be a massive carbon sink . they absorb over 90 % of excess heat trap by greenhouse gas , as well as around 25 % to 30 % of global carbon dioxide emission . they host around 80 % of all life form , many of which be still wait to be discover . they be under threat from plastic pollution , ocean acidification and the bleaching of coral reef , and from overfishe on an unsustainable industrial scale . the large factory trawler have net mouth of up to 1 , 200 metre wide and 200 to 300 metre deep that sweep up hundred of tonne of fish and seafood in one trip , much of which be bycatch , not for human consumption , that be then discard . Oceana have call this " marine deforestation — akin to clear fell an entire rainforest when you ' re only look to harvest one type of tree " . the Environmental Justice Foundation have do some brilliant report in the past into slavery and labour exploitation as part of this industrial - scale fishing , particularly in the Thai seafood sector . the fish stock in territorial water be deplete , but the far afield those ship go , the high the risk to the worker that be keep at sea for year at a time . accord to the United Nations Food and Agriculture Organisation , between 35 % and 37 % of assess fish stock be be fish beyond biologically sustainable level . that figure be much high in the high sea and in straddle fish stock , with two third classify as over - exploit or deplete . that include iconic specie , such as shark , that be a crucial part of the ocean ecosystem . it be estimate that there have be a 71 % decline in the ocean population of shark and ray since 1970 . some 77 % of oceanic shark and ray specie be threaten with extinction . roughly 100 million shark a year be kill by human through target fishing , shark finning and bycatch . many of we will have see " the Blue Planet " series that do such a brilliant job at highlight , among other thing , the threat of plastic pollution and at spur call to action . I want to give a shout out to BBC Bristol ' s natural history unit , which have be hugely influential , as well as give great enjoyment to all the people who have see its programme . it be a great shame that agreement still have not be reach on a global plastic treaty , and we must keep up the effort on that front . I hope that Sir David Attenborough ' s late production , " Ocean " , will have a similar impact when it come to bottom trawling . as Sir David say : " what we have do to the deep ocean floor be just unspeakably awful . " he say that the trawler tear the seabed with such force that " the trail of destruction can be see from space " . it be report that some of the material film for the programme be deem too shocking to be show . due to climate change , more than half the world ' s straddle fish stock will shift across maritime border between economic exclusion zone and the high sea by 2050 . in the high sea , fishery management be much more challenging and stock be much more likely to be over - exploit , as I say early . that make the need for marine protect area in the high sea even more important . as we have hear , as well as be an island nation ourselves , because of our overseas territory the UK be the custodian of a fifth of the world ' s territorial water . that mean that we be the neighbour , which be the next good thing as a custodian , of much of the high sea , include the Sargasso sea . Greenpeace be call on the UK to take a lead in work with our overseas territory , Bermuda , on develop an ocean sanctuary proposal for the Sargasso sea , ready to present it at the first Ocean COP next year . the Sargasso sea be a uniquely biodiverse and important ecosystem . the float sargassum mat be know as the " golden float rainforest " , and they be a haven for juvenile fish and turtle , a spawn ground for a rich range of specie and an important migratory pathway for humpback whale . as a generator of massive carbon sequestration and oxygen production , the Sargasso sea be vital in tackle climate change and planetary health , but it be at risk of overfishe , pollution and shipping traffic . there be much support in Bermuda for the proposal , and I hope that we will be able to take that forward next year . give our strength as a global financial centre , the UK be uniquely well place to play a role in develop innovative financial instrument that will help finance marine protection , build on what country like Seychelles and Belize have do with their blue bond and their debt restructuring . at COP29 last year , we launch our six principle for high integrity carbon and nature market , and they have be out for consultation this year . in a world where public sector resource and donation be dwindle , the world be look to make progress on leverage private sector finance in a meaningful and sustainable way . that could be of huge benefit to climate - vulnerable coastal country and small island state , but could also be applicable to fund marine protect area in the high sea , make it economically viable to protect our sea rather than to plunder they . I have hear that the Treasury may be less enthused about the nature side of these voluntary market than the carbon side , but I hope that be not the case . I will certainly keep up the pressure on the Treasury to take this forward . I want to speak briefly about deep - sea mining , to which I be totally opposed . Deep - sea mining could cause irreversible damage to deep ecosystem and a loss of undiscovered biodiversity . I understand that the current UK position , as confirm by an fcdo ministerial answer last month , be that we back the suspension of deep - sea mining and support a moratorium on the granting of deep - sea mining contract by the International Seabed Authority . the Minister say that we will not grant licence for exploitation unless " there be sufficient scientific evidence about the potential impact on deep sea ecosystem , and strong enforceable environmental Regulations , Standards and Guidelines " . however , it be not clear what power we will have through this international collaboration to stop other country issue such licence , so I hope that the Minister will clarify that in she sum up . I be a little concerned that the measure in the Bill about marine genetic resource will open the door to deep - sea mining . I accept that there be a case for explore the potential of such resource , if carry out under strong safeguard , but I would resist any attempt to allow deep - sea mining to occur . finally , while I welcome international initiative and , as have be make clear , the Bill address area beyond national jurisdiction , we need to lead by example with strong protection for our own territorial water . as have be say , there have be some progress , notably around our overseas territory , but perhaps it be easy to act when those area be thousand of mile away and do not have the same economic interest . there have be great work around Ascension , Pitcairn and South Georgia , but there be more of a mixed picture around the UK coast . Dogger Bank in the North sea be one of the large marine protect area . since it be establish in 2022 , it have benefit from a 98 % reduction in bottom trawling , support the recovery of marine specie like halibut , cod , angel shark and eel . as it say in the UK ' s national biodiversity strategy and action plan , all marine protect area must be well manage , enforce and effective , not paper park . we could start by move fast to end all bottom trawl in our marine protect area . the recent excellent report " Blue Carbon " , publish by the World Wide Fund for Nature , the Wildlife Trusts and the Royal Society for the Protection of Birds , set out a blue carbon mapping project carry out with the help of the Scottish Association for Marine Science . we be the first country to undertake such mapping . we know about the importance of kelp forest , seagrass meadow and mangrove , but it be the less glamorous sediment on our seabed that be the true hero in carbon sequestration . the report find that 224 million tonne of organic carbon be store in just the top 10 cm of seabed sediment and vegetate habitat , and 98 % of that be in the sediment , such as the mud . in my role as Minister for climate , it frustrate I that we talk so much about the role of tree and forest in carbon sequestration , but we do not talk about the ocean at all . I be tell that that be because it be difficult to quantify , so this project be a great example . if this be the amount of carbon work that be be do by the seabed around the UK coast , just think about the amount that the seabed of our high sea be do . we must have action on that at Ocean COP . I hope that the Bill will be enact very soon , and I look forward to next year ' s discussion . Less than 1 % of the high sea be fully protect ; there could not be a more important time for this treaty . it be the world ' s only viable pathway to meet the global biodiversity goal of protect at least 30 % of the world ' s ocean before 2030 . along with my liberal Democrat colleague , I welcome the fact that the Government be finally bring forward this legislation . it be disappointing that the UK be not among the first 60 country to reach the threshold to get the treaty ratify , especially give the long cross - party support for the subject in this House , but I hope ratification will be swift to allow the UK a seat at the table at Ocean COP . we Liberal Democrats have long be push for the strong possible marine environmental target , both internationally and domestically , include through the ratification of the global oceans treaty . the Bill be welcome , but we must not be complacent . global plastic production and waste have double in the last 20 year , and more than 12 million tonne of plastic be dump into the ocean every single year , put countless specie at risk of extinction . in 2023 , the BBC report that there be more than 170 trillion piece of plastic float in the world ' s ocean . that be simply shocking and totally unacceptable . biodiversity rely on healthy ocean , but plastic pollution , climate change and unsustainable fishing practice be destroy our marine biodiversity . with 10 % of marine specie at risk , we must act now . community across the world rely on the ocean for their livelihood , job and food security — indeed , we all rely on the ocean for our livelihood — but we be take more from the ocean than can be replenish , with 90 % of big fish population deplete and 50 % of coral reef already destroy . the first Ocean COP be on the horizon for next year , which will give the UK an important seat at the table if we ratify the treaty in time . while there , the UK should champion further measure to protect our ocean , include a ban on bottom trawling in marine protect area . bottom trawling be a most terrifying practice that damage the seabed , kill animal and plant indiscriminately , and release carbon from the sea floor in very large proportion , which drive climate change . if member have not watch the documentary " Ocean with David Attenborough " , please do — it be terrify . once I watch it , I make a pledge that I would not eat fish until we have at least sign the ocean treaty , so there be a personal reason why I push the Government for early ratification . I love fish , and this should not be a call not to eat fish ; this be about protect the ocean . if member watch the David Attenborough film , they will see that a good and positive thing be that the ocean can recover very quickly if we give they the option to recover . that be why today be such an important day . the british public be with we ; some 81 % of british adult say that they would like to see bottom trawling ban in MPAs , accord to polling from Oceana . the Environmental Audit Committee back the call to ban bottom trawling . in September , the Department for Environment , Food and Rural Affairs tell the Environmental Audit Committee that it would not roll out an outright ban . I implore the Government to reconsider . we must manage our territorial water effectively , and we could start by implement the Fisheries Act 2020 in full . through that , we could reform the fishing quota distribution to phase out the fix quota allocation system , which largely reward those with the deep pocket . it could be replace with a system that reward and incentivise low impact from fish that deliver environmental , social and economic benefit to community around our coast . we must also look more closely at illegal and unregulated fishing . hide overfishing — when illegal discard be unaccounted for in fishing quota — be drive stock into severe decline . marine group be urge the Government to introduce a strategy to tackle overfishe by the end of 2026 , include catch limit and a fair deal for fisher adjust to low catch limit . the transparency around enforcement and monitoring of fishing activity in UK sea be not adequate . the Marine Management Organisation be not even require to publish datum on the enforcement of fishing regulation . we be tell that post Brexit , the UK would establish good - in - class fishery management as an independent coastal state , but we have not take advantage of that freedom to strengthen our regulation . I welcome the Bill as an important starting point , but if we be serious about protect the blue heart of our planet , this must be just the beginning of real action to restore the health of ocean across the world and here at home . I repeat the Liberal Democrats ’ call for a coherent ocean policy . I be delighted to rise to support the Biodiversity Beyond National Jurisdiction Bill . the introduction of this legislation mark the beginning of a process for the UK to ratify and implement the global ocean treaty . this vital agreement enable the protection of international marine life . no protection currently exist for wildlife such as fish , turtle and dolphin that inhabit the high sea , over which no one country have jurisdiction . the ocean , which cover more than 70 % of the surface of our planet , be a vital share resource . it provide we with sustenance , oxygen and genetic resource for food , medicine and research . it be also our great ally in the fight against climate change , as the large carbon sink on the planet . however , it be an ecosystem under perilous threat . increase ocean temperature be symptomatic of the warming climate , and endanger we on land through a decrease capacity to absorb carbon dioxide in the atmosphere , rise sea level and the loss of vital marine life and resource . the introduction of this legislation reaffirm this Government ' s dedication to protect global marine life as well as mitigate climate change and improve our natural environment . in the current moment , when the environmental consensus be at risk and there be those who would retreat from the world , pretend that we can draw up a metaphorical drawbridge and keep safe behind the safety of political castle wall , this Bill be a significant marker of this Government ' s commitment to multilateral process , which be in fact the only way to address some of the great challenge of our time . this debate be one of many on the environment and nature that I have attend in recent week and month to which not a single Conservative Backbench MP have bother to turn up . I do not say that to thumb my nose at they ; I say it because it be profoundly depressing . I oppose the Tory party with every fibre of my being , but it be one of the great political party of western Europe over the last 100 , 200 and more year , and it have just give up . his Majesty ' s official opposition be just not interested . that be not just today ; it be in debate after debate that I attend . some hard - work Opposition Front Bencher turn up , but not a single person sit behind they . I say to they , in the most earnest sincerity , that election defeat be disappointing , but the Tory party have to man up . it must turn up and start take this seriously , because these be matter of the most supreme importance , and we can not have the official opposition just refuse to engage . I have to say that the comment from the hon . member for Romford ( Andrew Rosindell ) be pretty lukewarm . I understand that the previous Government look at this issue for quite some time , but they never get as far as legislate . in listen to what he say , I be leave uncertain of how supportive the opposition actually be of the propose measure ; we will find out more in Committee . I hope that , have commit to this issue in government but never actually legislate on it , they will get behind this important legislation . as we have hear , this Bill fulfil the commitment make by the Labour Government at the UN ocean conference and in opposition . the ocean need UK leadership and action . the evidence that the EAC receive during our recent inquiry , " govern the marine environment " , paint a worrying picture of the state of the marine environment . it be under threat globally from global warming , pollution and overexploitation , lead to a 49 % decline in population of marine mammal , bird , reptile and fish specie accord to the Living Planet Index . UK sea be also in poor condition , fail on most of the indicator of good environmental status in the most recent assessment by the Government . however , there be some good news : marine conservation effort be effective . when we do they , they work . while only 9 % of the ocean be currently protect in a marine protect area , remarkably half of all catalogue marine specie have be report in those area . some 72 % of specie face extinction have find refuge in marine protect area . the Government be take important action to well protect the 38 % of UK sea already designate as marine protect area . I repeat what have be say by other colleague : we want to see the Government go far . damaging activity can still take place in those area , but the consultation refer to by my hon . friend the Member for Kingston upon Hull West and Haltemprice ( Emma Hardy ) be vital . nearly two third of the ocean be consider high sea or international water , which pose a governance and logistical challenge : how be it possible to protect area that be beyond the jurisdiction of any one nation ? that be why the global oceans treaty of 2023 be so significant — a landmark moment in provide the legal foundation for establish mpa in area beyond national jurisdiction . the creation of protect area in the high sea be essential to make 30 by 30 a reality . this Bill , which establish the legal framework necessary for the UK to meet its obligation , be vital . its Royal Assent will lay the groundwork for the UK to ratify that agreement . as we have hear , 60 country have already ratify the treaty , so it will come into force next January , and the first UN ocean conference will be hold within the year . as such , it be vital that the UK get on with ratify that treaty so that it can be party to discussion and can shape agreement . set out a timeline for the UK ' s ratification of the global oceans treaty be one of the key recommendation of the Environmental Audit Committee , so we welcome the Prime Minister and my hon . friend the Member for Kingston upon Hull West and Haltemprice have keep their word on that . this be a narrow Bill that allow the UK to fulfil our global commitment . I caution well - mean ally against extend the process or undermine the commitment that the Government have make by attempt to attach to the Bill other commitment that be not relevant to it and create division — in this incredibly important area , what we need be unity . however , the ratification of this treaty be just the start . we have much more to do to protect 30 % of the ocean by 2030 and establish marine sanctuary where marine life can thrive . to conclude , I strongly support the Bill . I look forward to its passage through Parliament , and I thank the Government for prioritise this issue despite a heavy legislative workload . it be a welcome development that provide the power and regulation need for the UK to ratify the treaty , work with other nation . the ocean have long struggle to get the attention they deserve — there be no voter out there on the ocean . thank be owe to Sir David Attenborough and the many filmmaker and photographer who , over the year , have bring the ocean into our live room and help we to get to know they and care about they . Most of we only get to experience ocean from a beach , or from 30 , 000 foot — look down from an aeroplane window at a vast , endless blue expanse — but I have spend month and month alone on the ocean , a long way beyond national jurisdiction , row across ocean to raise awareness of the environmental crisis face our world , particularly the part of it that be blue . I be try to bring a human face to the plight of our ocean . out there in the middle of an ocean , when you have not see dry land for several month , thousand of mile separate you from the close land mass and the near human being be on the International Space Station , it feel like you be well beyond jurisdiction , and often beyond justice . it be out there in that lawless place that I come to understand both the power and the fragility of the ocean — you see its beauty and its bounty , but also its vulnerability to what we human choose to do . the ocean have no voice in this place , so today , we be be its voice . the ocean may seem boundless , but it be not indestructible . we have pollute it , overfishe it , and warm it . the deep sea be home to some of the most extraordinary form of life on Earth — I be particularly pleased to hear the Minister refer to sunfish , which be surely the weird creature I have ever see — but it be increasingly target for exploitation . we know the surface of the moon well than we know the bottom of the ocean . there be a real danger that we could destroy specie before we even know they exist . More than 60 % of the world ' s surface and nearly three quarter of its ocean volume lie out there in the place beyond any country ' s control . for century , the high sea have be treat as no one ' s responsibility — beyond the environment , a lawless expanse — and still today , only 1 % be properly protect . meanwhile , overfishing , pollution and deep - sea mining be degrade ecosystem that we barely understand . the ocean be become more acidic , threaten the existence of plankton — the base of the entire marine food chain — and weaken its capacity to absorb carbon and regulate our climate . that be what be at stake . the health of the ocean be the health of our planet . that be why the biodiversity beyond national jurisdiction treaty matter so profoundly . it be the first global treaty to bring order , fairness and protection to the high sea . it offer a framework for manage those share water responsibly and ensure that the benefit of ocean science be share globally , not hoard by the few . early this year , when I bring the Climate and Nature Bill before this House , I far press the Government to commit to ratify the BBNJ , and I be pleased and thankful that they be now deliver on that promise . I particularly thank the Minister , the hon . member for Kingston upon Hull West and Haltemprice ( Emma Hardy ) , for her long - term persistence and commitment to this cause . it show that when we work together across the House , we can turn ambition into action . however , ratification be only the beginning ; turn this treaty into a practical reality will demand co - ordination , funding and focus . as such , I would like to ask the Minister a few practical question about implementation from the fcdo perspective , question that I have send to her office . first , on institutional co - ordination , how will Departments such as the fcdo , DEFRA and the Department for Transport work together to manage marine genetic resource , environmental assessment and new conservation tool under a single , coherent system ? secondly , on enforcement , what mechanism will ensure compliance by UK vessel and research institution operate beyond national jurisdiction , give the real challenge — of which I be keenly aware — of surveillance and jurisdiction at sea ? thirdly , turn to resource and capacity , have the Government assess the staffing , budget and technical resource need to set up the new repository , database and administrative system require by the BBNJ ? fourthly , on transparency and fairness , what plan be in place to ensure that the datum hold by repository such as the Natural History Museum and the National Oceanography Centre be accessible and interoperable — especially for develop country , include small island state — in line with the BBNJ ' s principle of equitable benefit sharing ? finally , on international engagement , with the first ocean COP expect in 2026 , how will the UK prepare to shape the operational detail of the agreement at the international level , and who will represent we at that table ? these question matter because they will determine whether the Bill deliver real protection , rather than just good intention . our scientist be ready to lead . the National Oceanography Centre , with its cutting - edge research and fleet of autonomous submersible vessel — include one know as Boaty McBoatface — be already map deep sea current and gather the knowledge we need to understand and protect the ocean . under the BBNJ , that vital work will become part of a global effort to heal the sea . the ocean be the blue heart of our planet . it give we half the oxygen we breathe , shape our weather , and sustain life on a scale that defy our humble human imagination . if that heart falter , everything we depend on will be at risk . we often think of ocean as divide nation , but actually , they connect and unite we ; we be , so to speak , all in the same boat . as the great american oceanographer Dr Sylvia Earle say , " we need to respect the ocean and take care of they as if our life depend on it . because they do . " by ratify and implement the BBNJ , we can help turn the tide — sorry , I just can not help it . let this be the Parliament that give the ocean a voice and a future . it have be almost 19 year since I first meet Professor Alex Rogers at a two - day conference at Somerville College , Oxford , convene by the Global Legislators Organisation for a Balanced Environment . the subject be international law on the high sea . the young postdoctoral fellow inspire we about the amazing biodiversity of our global ocean — I use the singular deliberately — but he also frustrate we by explain that the international community lack any legal framework to protect it . the ocean account for 99 % of our planet by volume and nearly two third by surface area . every second breath we take be supply to we by the ocean . some 90 % of the excess heat in the climate system have be absorb by the ocean . the ocean be our great nature - base solution to climate change , and it be only by restore the health of our marine ecosystem that we can deliver on our promise to meet the 30 by 30 target in the Kunming - Montreal global biodiversity framework . the BBNJ treaty be the missing part of the jigsaw . that be why today ' s debate be so important , and why the Bill be so important . the Biodiversity Beyond National Jurisdiction Bill be welcome and necessary , but we must recognise what the treaty be and what it be not . we must do so not in order to understate what the Bill do , but to understand clearly what action we must take follow its passage . we will need secondary legislation to implement the treaty , and — dare I say this before the Budget statement ? — it will require adequate funding . the treaty create a framework for the establishment of protect area on the high sea , but it do not , in and of itself , create those protect area . it be therefore important that the Government start to develop proposal for high sea MPAs , especially in region of the world where the UK be a party to the relevant regional fishery management organisation . I commend defra for the work that it have already do in its stocktake of area - base management tool in area beyond national jurisdiction . this be a really important baseline . I ask the Minister to set out in her response to the debate what further work be plan to identify , support and deliver specific mpa . I be particularly keen to hear how she might develop the supplementary report that have already be prepare on the Sargasso sea . will she confirm that this internationally significant ecosystem be a priority for the development of an MPA ? it have now be 13 year since the Sargasso sea be recognise as an ecologically or biologically significant area , have meet all seven ebsa criterion . our country ' s history have leave a legacy . that legacy be our exclusive economic zone , which be the fifth large in the world , largely due to our remain overseas territory , but that legacy bring responsibility with it . I pay tribute to the work of the previous Conservative Administration , who expand the blue belt programme to nominally protect more than 4 million sq km of ocean , from Anguilla in the Caribbean to Pitcairn in the Pacific ocean . in the last year , the programme take satellite imagery of more than 100 million sq km of UK overseas territory water , provide crucial monitoring and surveillance to crack down on illegal , unreported and unregulated fishing activity . it be this very tangible knowledge and expertise that the UK should be at the forefront of deliver through the first BBNJ COP , which will take place within a year of the treaty take force , from 17 January 2026 . I welcome the announcement , follow the spending review , that the blue belt programme will receive increase funding for 2025 - 26 . however , give that £ 2 million of this £ 8 . 6 million come from official development assistance , which itself be be cut , I hope it will not seem churlish if I ask that the programme be ringfence for the future . for much of human history , we do not need the BBNJ treaty . the high sea be protect from the bad impact of human activity by the simple reality that they be so far from land and too difficult to access . the dawn of the industrial age and motorise ocean - go vessel change all that . even specie that live their whole life hundred or thousand of mile from land be no long safe from human exploitation . nothing epitomise that sad reality more than the slaughter of the great whale . industrialised whaling cause the death of nearly 3 million whale . even the blue whale , the large animal that have ever live , have its number reduce by more than 90 % . whale ' size and the fact of spend most of their life in inhospitable and hard - to - reach part of the open ocean have keep they safe for millennia , but the introduction of new and more powerful technology mean that even they become the victim of massive over - exploitation . today , there be few than 400 North Atlantic right whale leave in our ocean . and why be it call the right whale ? ironically , it acquire its name because it be rich in blubber and baleen , it move slowly and it float after be kill , so it be easily tow in to be butcher — so it be deem the " right " whale to hunt . the history of these great mammal show just why we now need the BBNJ . biodiversity be no long protect by its remoteness from land . human greed will destroy it wherever it be find on our planet , unless we act decisively to regulate our most destructive activity . today , although the international whaling ban be still ignore by a few country , whale be no long threaten by hunter , on the whole , but they be kill by ship strike and they be entangle in fishing gear . I emphasise the importance of the international ban not just because I believe that it be one of the most important conservation achievement of the 20th century , but because it be a great achievement of multilateralism — something that be not much in vogue at the moment . it show how , by act in concert with other nation , we can mobilise popular support around environmental objective with both a clear ecological and a clear moral purpose , and we can achieve result . I regard it as an inspiration and a template for what we be now do in the BBNJ . the huge factory ship that once slaughter whale have largely go , but in their place , equally large factory ship now plunder the ocean as if it be a bottomless pit of profit . there be longliner set fishing line ten of kilometre long , each with up to 15 , 000 hook , and huge purse seiner use net that be 2 km long and 200 metre deep . imagine a net that be twice as deep as Big Ben — the Elizabeth Tower — be tall , and which stretch out so far from this House of Commons that it take in the whole of Buckingham Palace and most of its garden . these fishing enterprise devastate the very population that they be target . that be why we need this Bill . early this year , the Centre for Environment , Fisheries and Aquaculture Science — the Government ' s own marine expert — find that more than half of the UK ' s key fishing quota be set above the level recommend by scientist . overfishing have lead to a 98 % collapse in celtic sea cod population since 2012 , with an 84 % collapse in haddock , an 85 % collapse in whiting and an 80 % collapse in herring . just two week ago , the scientific assessment of mackerel show that the specie have decline by 78 % in the past 10 year . despite continue advice from scientist to reduce catch quota , that reduction have not happen . while the UK have be a world leader with the blue belt programme , at home we continue to practise the opposite of what we preach , most notably through disastrous sustainable catch limit and quota . worse , we have drive out small fishing fleet , leave our sea vulnerable to the monstrous mega - ship whose bottom - trawl scrape away the existence of all life in their path . the inequitable quota allocation that be formalise in 1999 have result in more than 90 % of the quota for mackerel , herring and blue whiting be hold by just 20 company , most of they not even british . half of the english quota be hold by dutch , icelandic and spanish interest , more than half of Northern Ireland ' s quota be hold by just one trawl company , and 85 % of Wales ' s quota be hold by spanish company . the system have be rig against the UK ' s inshore fleet and its independent fisher . all of this be do by UK company sell their quota abroad , but it be the awful consequence of the privatisation of a public good — our fishery — and the UK taxpayer have receive not a penny in benefit as a result . if the UK be truly to be a leader in the implementation of the BBNJ and to demand of other nation that they curb their rapacious plundering of the high sea , we must at the very least begin to stop the over - exploitation of our stock at home . our ability to make our voice hear internationally will sound hollow if we continue to ignore the science and set politically lead quota allocation at home . high sea fishery often have unimaginably high level of bycatch . this be particularly true of tuna fishery , because tuna often school with other pelagic specie , such as dolphin , manta ray and billfish . indeed , many tuna specie inhabit the same surface mixed layer of the ocean that be inhabit by vulnerable specie such as silky shark or turtle . it be estimate that 100 million shark be catch every year — most as bycatch in high sea fishery — so it be no wonder that the number of large open ocean shark have decline by at least 70 % in the past 50 year , almost entirely due to high sea fish , where they be either target or catch as bycatch beyond the reach of national jurisdiction . the leatherback turtle , the large turtle in the world , be threaten with extinction because it be so often catch as bycatch by purse seine fleet of fishing vessel on the high sea . in the International Union for Conservation of Nature ' s red list of endanger specie , publish just last week , only one of the 22 specie of albatross be not threaten with extinction through be catch as bycatch on hook on longline fishing fleet in the open ocean . distance from land once provide protection for many specie in the pre - industrial era , and the same can be say of the deep sea . until recently , the deep ocean be out of reach for human activity . unfortunately , this be no long the case . industrialised fishing fleet be now able to fish deeply and deep , but many deep sea specie be slow - grow . an orange roughy reach sexual maturity only between the age of 20 and 30 — much old than shallow water fish . these factor make deep sea specie uniquely vulnerable to overfishing , and as many of the deep water be on the high sea , we need to ensure that the BBNJ agreement protect they and their habitat well . Deep sea fishing , especially on seamount , pose an existential risk to many deep - sea ecosystem , and bottom trawling , which be devastating in coastal and shallow sea , be arguably even more so on the high sea . bottom trawler tend to focus on seamount , as these underwater mountain act as biodiversity hotspot in the open ocean . I seek the Minister ' s assurance that , in consider the next step after ratification , establish protection around seamount on the high sea will be one of the Government ' s priority . I ask for the same assurance in relation to the issue of deep seabed mining — I trust that the Government will continue to oppose any development of this on the high sea . the Bill before we be excellent . it will delight the now Professor Alex Rogers , who I suspect be not at his desk either in Oxford or at the National Oceanography Centre , where he be now the science director . Most probably , he be out somewhere in the Antarctic ocean in a submersible explore the deep ocean , as he have be do for more than 30 year . if he be to take a break from his mission to discover 100 , 000 new marine specie in the deep ocean in this decade and send we a message , I suspect that it would emphasise the importance of get this Bill enact quickly . if we do not ratify the treaty at least 40 day before the first COP , the UK will not have a seat at the table ; we will merely be a spectator as other set the ambition , or the lack of it , as they roll out the implementation of the treaty . I congratulate the Minister on bring the Bill to the House for its Second reading , and trust that we be able to see the whole ratification process complete in time for the UK to make strong proposal at COP1 next year . the Venerable Bede first write of the " Isle of Eels " back in the 8th century . he explain that the Isle of Ely be know as such because it be surround by water , with an abundance of eel , but these eel do not spend their whole life in Ely or , indeed , in the UK . the biological story behind eel be a quite remarkable one . they breed in the Sargasso sea , which , as we have hear , be so important to many other specie as well , and they drift across the ocean for two or three year as tiny and fragile eel . they adapt to freshwater and mature in river — sometimes grow up to 1 metre in length — before swim all the way back to the Sargasso sea to reproduce once more before die . these eel face many danger in their life cycle , include the impact of climate change on ocean current , pollution and poaching . european eel be consider a critically endanger specie , so it be imperative that we take action to protect they now . at a local level , the creation of eel pass — not , as it might sound , a passport , but ladder or passage — have be welcome action to allow they to get from the sea into freshwater habitat and back again . however , much more need to be do to protect they and other endanger specie on a global scale , so it be really good that the Government have propose this Bill . Ely hold an annual eel festival , which not only recognise our history but celebrate biodiversity and nature . the festival celebrate our heritage and be always tinge with concern about the decline in the eel population , but also with a determination to see eel return to our river in abundance . they be not anywhere near as common in the River Great Ouse as they once be , owe to all the factor I mention , but the good news be that in 2022 , over 74 , 000 eel be record as make the 3 , 000 - mile journey from the Sargasso sea to Cambridgeshire . measure like ban bottom trawling in marine protect area would be a good way to protect endangered specie like eel and other , as would the provision of great resource for international environmental co - operation . I hope the Government will take on board call for a ban on bottom trawling in marine protect area . we can not possibly have the moral authority to call for such a ban on the global stage when we have not do it in our own water . like our eel , all wildlife depend on our ocean , as indeed do we as the human race . the speech from the shadow Minister , the hon . member for Romford ( Andrew Rosindell ) be shocking and depressing . for a party that once hug a husky to now be question its support for our ocean be shameful . twenty - five century ago , Aristotle question where eel come from , but if we do not take urgent action to protect they and other marine wildlife , we will not be ask where they come from ; we will be ask where they have all go . I therefore welcome this Bill and the international co - operation of which it be a part . let we get it through the House as quickly as possible , so that we can sign the treaty and make sure that it deliver what we all hope it will deliver . I be grateful to my hon . friend the Minister for her remark and for the attention that the fcdo have pay to the importance of marine conservation . the biodiversity beyond national jurisdiction treaty represent a transformation in the way that we protect nature in the high sea . I commend the Government for be an early proponent of the agreement , and I be so pleased — in fact , I be thrilled — to see that we be finally go to ratify it . I feel that I have be witness the Chamber at its good this afternoon . to hear such passion and such well - inform expertise on both side have be a real honour . it remind one what an honour we all have in be member of this place and sit in a room to listen to such speech , which have be wonderful . let I confess that I be one of those people — I remember that when I come back from see sperm whale I be still weep , and I apologise to the organiser of the trip that I seem to just not be able to stop weep , but she say , " Don ' t worry , dear . we see lot of people like you on these trip . " I feel as though I have find my people , give the passion that have be express today for the high sea and for biodiversity . today , I want my speech to have a particular focus — please forgive I for this — because I believe that our commitment to this treaty can be test by how we treat our current responsibility . I join the Opposition spokesperson , the hon . member for Romford ( Andrew Rosindell ) , in use the Chagos island as a test . I apologise for not recognise that the opposition have be talk about the biodiversity of the Chagos island . perhaps I be only focus on the considerable amount of time they have spend on the sovereignty of the Chagos island . I have since spend the time available look up their reference to biodiversity , and there have be three of they , so I apologise for say that there have not be any . I have have a number of exchange in this House with the Minister of State , Foreign , Commonwealth and Development Office , my hon . friend the Member for Cardiff South and Penarth ( Stephen Doughty ) , who have responsibility for Europe , North America and the overseas territory , about the vital importance of safeguard marine protect area around the Chagos island . I be grateful for the assurance he have give I that the Government be commit to the continue protection of the unique and unparalleled environment of the Chagos archipelago . however , the fcdo ' s assurance , although welcome , really do not go far enough , but before I say why , I want to explain why these water matter so much — not least because of their role in replenish the high sea — and the extraordinary obligation that the UK owe the world to ensure that they remain protect . as have be say , these 640 , 000 sq km of near pristine ocean be among the most pristine in the world . they be home to the large live coral atoll and to 58 island . they be the breeding site for more than a quarter of a million pair of seabird , as well as the vital and unexplored deep - sea ecosystem that my hon . friend the Member for Brent West ( Barry Gardiner ) talk about with such passion . the vast no - take zone that the UK establish in 2010 provide a vital sanctuary for numerous endanger specie . if this marine environment be damage , it would do huge damage to the sea generally and to specie already on the brink of extinction , such as the endangered hawksbill turtle , which forage in the water of the Chagos island and nest on their beach , or the unique population of reef manta ray , which use the protect water as a refuge and which would soon disappear if those water become unprotected . this be exactly the kind of marine life that the BBNJ agreement seek to protect through the establishment , among other measure , of marine protect area in the high sea . the vast marine protect area around the Chagos island provide a safe corridor and forage ground for vital migratory specie and apex predator such as tuna , shark and whale , and without it we would see their number crash much more widely across the world . in a warm world in which coral be die at a terrifying rate , the coral in the Chagos archipelago be relatively healthy and act as a reseeding bank for other reef in the indian ocean through larval dispersal . the reef and marine life of the Chagos archipelago help to replenish degraded reef and deplete fish stock from east Africa to Indonesia . the coral in the Chagos archipelago have show an extraordinary degree of resilience and an ability to recover even from bleach event , and it be not know why . this resilience and the undisturbed nature of the Chagos ocean make it a really important site for scientific study . it could give we an important insight into what we can do next to save our coral reef , and a proper insight into how healthy marine ecosystem function and the impact of climate change . for the last 15 year , the UK have protect those water and take seriously its duty as the steward of those ecosystem , just as the BBNJ agreement invite the entire international community to do as steward of the high sea . as the UK now hand they over to Mauritius , we have an equally serious duty to ensure that they remain protect . that bring I to the term of the Chagos deal and the Minister of State ' s evidence to my Foreign Affairs Committee , for which I be grateful to he . the Minister note that the UK and Mauritian government be commit to promote the conservation of the environment of the archipelago . I obviously welcome that , and I pay tribute to the Government of Mauritius for their clear determination to protect nature . nothing I be about to say be intend to cast any doubt on that commitment . the problem , however , be that Mauritius be a democracy — a vibrant democracy — in which government have historically have different attitude to protect the ocean . it be therefore not good enough for the Minister just to point to the commitment of the current Mauritian Government to marine protection ; we need a basis for last confidence and mechanism to ensure that these ecosystem remain protect for future generation . my principal concern be that there be no funding mechanism in place to ensure that Mauritius will properly resource marine protection in the Chagos archipelago and to incentivise it to do so . that stand in contrast to the treaty we be discuss . I thank the right hon . member for give I an opportunity to say sorry to the shadow Minister for misunderstanding , when I intervene early , why he think it be so important to mention the Chagos island . I hope he will accept my apology . I must say that we be all behave so well this afternoon . I be say that there be no incentive or funding mechanism in the Chagos archipelago deal , yet the treaty we be talk about — the subject of the Bill we be give a second reading today — do have that very funding mechanism . why do it ? because we know that that be need for it to work . without a dedicated funding mechanism for Chagos marine protection , in which a transfer of fund be contingent on the continue protection of the marine environment , there be nothing to ensure that this protection will continue . the Mauritian Government want to allocate resource for do so , but they operate in a resource - constrain environment . it be therefore deeply regrettable that both party do not reach an agreement on future arrangement for environmental protection across the Chagos archipelago before sign the treaty . they should have allocate dedicated fund to it , or agree a funding mechanism that would have be a proper basis for confidence . in short , the Chagos agreement should have follow the lead of the BBNJ agreement . I remain concerned that there be a lack of concrete action on the future conservation of the Chagos archipelago ' s unique marine environment and biodiversity . I appreciate the commitment that the Minister have give to the House and my Committee , but now action need to be take , draw on the example present by the BBNJ agreement . the ratification of the high seas treaty be testament to Britain ' s renew global leadership on climate and nature . that reputation risk be undermine by a failure to invest in the protection of the unique and extraordinary marine environment that be the Chagos island . I welcome the Government and the Minister ' s leadership on this issue in bring the Bill to the House to enact the UN high seas treaty . I , too , be a member of the APPG for the ocean . I know that people in Exeter care very deeply about our natural environment , particularly the sea and ocean , and rightly so . the world ' s ocean be vital to the health of our planet and to our people . they produce over half of the world ' s oxygen and absorb a quarter of all carbon dioxide emission , help to regulate our climate . they support an immense diversity of life , provide food for billion of people and support enormous ecosystem , which contain knowledge that we have only just begin to tap . after decade of industrial damage , this landmark legislation and the treaty will go some way to protect two third of the world ' s ocean , and it represent a massive step forward by nation across the world to protect marine life and ecosystem beyond our national border . by provide the legal framework necessary to implement the BBNJ agreement domestically , the Bill include provision for marine protect area , environmental impact assessment and the sharing of benefit from the collection and use of marine genetic resource , and will help we to meet the target to effectively conserve and manage at least 30 % of the ocean by 2030 . I also welcome the Bill as a core part of re - establish the UK ' s role in provide global leadership on climate and nature , both at home and around the world . just as the UK be a leader in marine and climate science , so be Exeter . I be delighted this week to host in Parliament the Met Office , which be base in Exeter , to showcase the range and depth of its expertise . the Met Office be not just a specialist in our weather . it be also a specialist in space weather , our ocean , and the connection between climate change and forecasting . its work on ocean biogeochemistry — study how carbon and other gas be absorb , transport and exchange by the ocean , the mechanism involve and the impact change have — be pioneer . it research the risk of rapid loss of sea ice , and be study the rise of sea level and the impact on community , the environment and the economy . the Met Office also provide a vital service in generate risk assessment of rapid change to the meridional overturning circulation , which I be tell — I be literature graduate , Madam Deputy Speaker , not a science graduate — play an important role in regional climate . it be also part of the National Partnership for Ocean Prediction , bring together world - class expertise and research , as well as develop beneficial marine product and service . in addition , the University of Exeter have a wide - range research community work on project relate to our ocean . these come together under the Exeter Marine research network , and their ocean research run from pollution and conservation to governance and human health . in June this year , Exeter University ' s Professor Callum Roberts be the lead author of a report in Nature support the UN high seas treaty . his paper highlight that the high sea be the Earth ' s large and most secure carbon sink . protect they be critical to preserve the biological and nutrient cycle that draw down and keep atmospheric co2 in check . they welcome the UN high seas treaty , say it offer a pathway to great protection , but they be concerned about the length of time for implementation . the report ' s author also argue that a full and permanent ban on extractive use of the ocean be both feasible and necessary , model on the successful precedent set for Antarctica in the 1950 . will the Minister comment on what more can be do , beyond the treaty as we bring it in , to protect our ocean above and beyond this legislation ? finally , I want to pay tribute to my constituent Mary Attewell , Debbie Thomas , Sue Down and Lizzie Waler of Exeter ' s Greenpeace group , who have be doggedly campaign for the UK ' s ratification of the treaty . I thank they for all their work and for keep this issue at the top of the political agenda . I hope they will be celebrate this evening , if the Bill pass its Second Reading . they have ask to question how the treaty will be enforce . I would welcome comment from the Minister on that , too . I agree with my hon . friend the Member for Chesterfield ( Mr Perkins ) that we want there to be cross - party and cross - House agreement on this issue . while it be disappointing that the Conservatives be not here , it be also disappoint that Green party mp , other than one small intervention at the beginning , be not here to participate substantially in the debate . I commend the Bill . I be extraordinarily thrilled and pleased to support it . I know that the ratification of the agreement as soon as possible support the UK ' s broad climate and nature agenda , and will mean that we can take our seat at the top table at the first cop . that will ensure we remain at the forefront of global effort to tackle biodiversity loss and climate change through multilateral co - operation . this will strengthen the role of international law — so important in these time — and multilateral institution as the foundation for ocean governance . I welcome the Bill for what it seek to put into law , but also for what it signal about the approach of the Government , and hopefully this House , to national and international obligation and interest . it be a testament to the continued survival and delivery of multilateralism in global affair . in an age of continued and heighten global strife , conflict and antagonism , the Bill be proof that there still remain hope for global co - operation and that joint endeavour with share purpose can deliver common good . institution such as the United Nations can still be practical and effective forum to facilitate state come together to work out collective solution to collective problem . there be those who seek to withdraw from international agreement , see multilateral institution and process as threat . we must eschew such an approach , because it ultimately do not serve our national or global interest . such an approach of withdrawal and isolation will not further our interest effectively . in this case , the United Nations biodiversity beyond national jurisdiction agreement , which the Bill will bring into the framework of UK law , will be one of the most important stride forward for biodiversity and the marine environment . for the first time , the United Kingdom will have a legal framework to help we to protect large expanse of the sea that be beyond our national water . the establishment of such protection will help to ensure that region of the high sea be safeguard from harmful extractive and destructive practice . the protection will help to restore biodiversity to these region and help maintain the ocean ' s capacity to absorb co2 produce by human activity , thus help to mitigate the impact of global warming . as have be mention , the ocean absorb about 30 % of man - make co2 , and this treaty will help to ensure that they be fit to continue do so . the ratification of the treaty must not be the be all and end all for protect the biodiversity of the world ' s ocean . it must be a means through which the UK and ally globally can continue to advocate for great protection of our share marine environment . one mean of do that through the treaty will be the first conference of the party — or Ocean COP1 . this will be the first forum for the treaty ' s signatory to discuss and action its implementation , such as agree proposal for the first generation of high sea sanctuary . the treaty be welcome and the Bill be welcome , but implementation be necessary to deliver what we need . as the Minister say in her opening comment , the COP will take place within a year of 17 January 2026 , which be when the treaty come into force . as have be say , if the UK have fail to ratify at least 40 day before that date , we will not have a seat at the first cop . that be why I urge the House to pass this legislation at pace . already , there be report that the first Ocean COP could be as soon as August next year . the Government have rightly speak at length about the importance of the UK bring its soft power to bear . with this be the first cop of its kind , it be essential that we bring UK expertise and influence to the event while the treaty be in its infancy . we have see the importance of conference of the party as a means of promote collective action on climate change and nature . we can not miss this chance to be a part of the first Ocean COP to do the same for our world ' s ocean . multilateral agreement implement by collective action be the way forward on this issue . I be therefore more than content to support the Bill enthusiastically today . two third of our planet be ocean . our ocean , which sustain life on Earth , can not be leave unguarde any long . after year of international negotiation , the world finally agree to the high seas treaty . with the Bill , we will turn that treaty into action and show that Britain be serious about deliver on its promise . there be no response to the climate crisis that do not also respond to the nature crisis . that be why it be important to protect biodiversity in this country , beyond our border and beyond the sea . two third of the world ' s ocean lie beyond national border , and until now they have have almost no real protection . the Bill give we the power to protect international water by establish marine protect area , by demand proper environmental assessment before deep - sea mining or destructive fishing can go ahead , and by make sure that the benefit of marine science be share fairly . the Bill underpin the global goal of protect 30 % of the ocean by 2030 — a goal that Labour put in its manifesto and one that we should be proud to be deliver on . the high sea absorb carbon , regulate weather and produce half the oxygen that we breathe . if we do not get biodiversity right , we will not get climate change right either . we have all hear the tedious line often repeat by member on the conservative Benches — where no one be currently sit — that we can not act because other country be not act , but to lead in address climate change we have to do precisely that : take action , do something meaningful and lead other country in make a difference . hon . member may wonder why I , from the most landlocked constituency of Calder Valley , be speak on the Bill , but in Calder Valley we know the cost of climate change as flood devastate our town . we also know that protect nature be our first line of defence , and whether that be restore our moorland at home , insist on biodiversity net gain in development or safeguard ocean abroad , the principle be the same . I commend the Government for introduce the Bill , which be a vital step in turn the international commitment into real action . the next challenge be to ensure that the Bill not only pass but be properly enforce and resource , as many colleague have say . I look forward to hear more detail on that from the Minister . let we see this as the first day of Britain ' s leadership on our sea . on land and at sea , our natural environment have suffer a soul - crush collapse over many decade , put the future of iconic specie and entire ecosystem at risk , as be so eloquently describe by my hon . friend the Member for Brent West ( Barry Gardiner ) in a tour de force of a speech . the Government be elect on a clear promise to end that catastrophic decline , the long - term consequence of which , if we do not reverse that trend , will be profound . our food security depend on healthy ecosystem , the bedrock of our economy be our natural capital , and the public — our voter — cherish our sea , river , coastline , ancient woodland and national park . they will not be forgiving of a political system that fail to protect and restore our share natural inheritance . the Bill be a particularly vital step towards the renew protection of our natural environment . it recognise that biodiversity do not obey national border or jurisdiction , so neither can our duty to safeguard it . as obvious as that truth may seem to the public , let alone conservationist , successive government have fail to give the high sea the attention they need . the Bill begin to put that right by at last create a legal framework for the UK to ratify the UN BBNJ agreement and meet our international obligation in full . as have be note , just 1 % of the high sea have full protection , and there be still much research to be do on deep sea ecosystem , but they be increasingly recognise as a key global reservoir of biodiversity , so the crucial task be to move the legislation forward quickly and end the crisis engulf our ocean . industrial fishing practice such as bottom trawling — the underseas equivalent of plough a bulldozer through a wild flower meadow — be tear apart fragile seabed habitat while trawl net indiscriminately catch and discard countless non - target , endanger specie . once those specie be go , they will be go forever , and their entire intricate web of connection will go with they , unravel irreplaceable ecosystem with profound knock - on effect that we can neither predict nor prevent . as have be mention , if we fail to pass the Bill urgently , the UK will not have a seat at the table for the treaty ' s first COP . that would not only represent a dereliction of our international obligation — we have as great a responsibility as any nation to protect global biodiversity — but silence our voice in safeguard our own national interest , such as the protection of the UK ' s 8 million seabird , over half of which be already in decline . specie such as the albatross and the petrel spend more than 80 % of their life forage on the high sea . we can not protect they with action on our own coastline alone , yet Britain strip of her seabird would hardly be Britain at all . other country will have their own priority and national interest to pursue , so our Government must be at the table play its part in secure the long - term future of the many specie that play such an important part in our culture and identity . I welcome the Bill and the opportunity it create to discuss nature and biodiversity in this place : a topic of serious debate right now for the public and for the Government . I close by say again that decision drive by an ideology that prioritise profit over people and the environment do not just undermine our economy ; they wreck our natural world and our social cohesion . national renewal must mean economic revival , but also once more cherish those thing that make life beautiful , and that mean protect nature . I thank Ministers today for do just that . Cannock Chase may be one of the most landlocked constituency in the country , but that have not stop my constituent from write to I in support of the Bill , and rightly so . if anyone do come across a marine genetic resource in Staffordshire , I would be impressed and also slightly concerned , but the point be this : what happen in the world ' s ocean matter just as much to the people of my constituency as it do to those live on the coast . as the wise Franklin D . Roosevelt once say , " the nation that destroy its soil destroy itself . " I would like to extend that to say that the world that destroy its ocean destroy itself . the UK have long position itself as a global leader on marine protection , and with the BBNJ agreement about to enter force — on 17 January — we must not give up our status on marine conservation . that be why I speak in support of the Bill : legislation that give the Government the ability to ratify that vital United Nations agreement and take part in the world ' s first ocean COP next year . as the new chair of the all - party parliamentary group on UK food security , I want to emphasise how vital the Bill be in protect the long - term health of our global food system . the high sea — those vast area of ocean beyond any single country ' s jurisdiction — be essential to our food security . they be home to rich marine ecosystem , and globally over 3 billion people rely on fish for at least 20 % of their animal protein intake — for many coastal and island nation , that figure be much high — yet the vast majority of these water have long be unregulate and be vulnerable to a multitude of threat include overfishe , unrestricted oil drilling , pollution and deep sea mining , which directly threaten not just ocean health but global food security . I echo the comment make by my hon . friend the Member for Brent West ( Barry Gardiner ) that , to ensure the agreement have real impact , the Government must rapidly push for new marine protect area in international water . the Bill will enable the UK to play an active role in address all those threat . it will extend marine licensing requirement to british activity beyond our water and mandate environmental outcome report for potentially harmful activity . it will also ensure great transparency in the collection and use of marine genetic resource , the biological material from marine organism that hold immense promise for medicine , biotechnology and food innovation . it be often say that the world ' s rainforest hold countless discovery to come that could cure many illness and enable advancement that will enrich our human existence — as well as , I certainly hope , our stewardship of the natural world . however , although they be often overlook , the same be very much true of our ocean . these scientific and ecological discovery must benefit all nation and not simply be the preserve of the already wealthy . I therefore very much welcome the emphasis on open access repository and database that be so prominent in the BBNJ agreement . the agreement also embed vital safeguard like the " polluter pay " principle and the precautionary principle . I hope it will pave the way for international action that will finally turn the tide — pun absolutely intend — on the reckless destructive practice that nation across the world have perpetrate . I could not let the opportunity to speak on the high sea go by without mention the global plastic treaty , on which I hope we can find international agreement soon . I pay strong tribute to the Minister and the british delegation to the Geneva talk . we know from her recent appearance at the Environment , Food and Rural Affairs Committee that she deeply regret the collapse of those talk without an agreement , and I know that she be already redouble effort to find a way forward so that we can start to halt and reverse environmental catastrophe such as the great Pacific garbage patch . I urge the Government to do whatever they can alongside fellow member of the High Ambition Coalition to end plastic pollution and advance international action on this urgent issue . as we have hear , the Government have commit to protect 30 % of the ocean by 2030 . the Bill make good on that commitment on an international level , not just as an environmental ambition , but as a foundation for international co - operation , sustainable development and global food resilience . I commend the Government for their leadership in bring this legislation forward , particularly , as my hon . friend the Member for Chesterfield ( Mr Perkins ) say , in a pack legislative programme as we seek to get our country back on its foot . it demonstrate this Government ' s commitment to and prioritise of the health and sustainability of our ocean beyond national jurisdiction , and I urge colleague across the House to support it . whether we live by the sea or in Cannock Chase in the heart of England , a healthy ocean be essential to a secure and sustainable future for we all . the ocean can not wait , and nor should the United Kingdom . our ocean be teem with complex life , but today they be also in a state of crisis . climate change , pollution , overfishing , habitat destruction and plastic be all place our ocean under strain like never before . our ocean be pay the price , with more than a third of UK fish stock currently overfishe and more than a third of marine mammal at risk of extinction . the high seas treaty , which the Bill will ratify into UK law , represent a significant and much - need step forward . for the first time , the treaty create a legal mechanism to establish marine protect area in international water — a crucial tool to ensure that by 2030 , and in accordance with the global biodiversity framework , 30 % of the world ' s land and sea will be protect . however , the success of the treaty will depend on whether it be enforce , so I urge the Government to ensure that adequate funding be provide to help to protect these newly create marine protect area . we must also do our bit at home to protect marine life here in the UK . some 38 % of UK water be now designate as marine protect area . however , during our inquiry into the marine environment , the Environmental Audit Committee hear that these site lack sufficient protection to contribute towards our target of protect 30 % of land and sea . while Government proposal to nearly triple the amount of seabed protection from bottom trawling be welcome , I therefore urge the Government to enact the recommendation from the Environmental Audit Committee and ban bottom trawling in all marine protect area ; without a ban , it be hard to see how we can claim that these area be protect at all . bottom trawling be a highly destructive practice that tear up the seabed , destroy habitat and release carbon store in the ocean floor . as David Attenborough say in his film " Ocean " , the idea of bulldoze a rainforest cause outrage , but we do the same underwater every day . we also can not protect our ocean without address the climate crisis . the ocean have absorb 90 % of all excess heat cause by climate change , and this excess heat be result in widespread marine heatwave that be kill marine ecosystem and cause our ocean to acidify . the Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change have be clear that if we allow warming to reach 1 . 5 ° C , the vast majority of coral reef will be lose forever . the willingness of some of our opponent to abandon climate commitment mean that it be on we to go far and fast and to do all that we can to protect nature and stop the climate crisis . this Bill represent a welcome move in that direction . " it seem to I that the natural world be the great source of excitement , the great source of visual beauty , the great source of intellectual interest . it be the great source of so much in life that make life worth live " — wise word by David Attenborough . they be word that everyone can relate to , whether that be a university professor in Oxford , a 12 - year - old watching " Blue Planet " on the BBC or , indeed , the specialist in ocean conservation I meet yesterday as part of my role as vice - chair of the all - party parliamentary group for the ocean . everyone in this room , in this country and on this planet have an interest in ensure that our ocean be protect . when we stare down from space at our blue jewel of a world , it be simply unfathomable that 230 million square kilometre of it be at present effectively unmanaged . it be a free - for - all . it have be allow to become so because of history , but we now have the obligation to create a system of management , both in this room and across multilateral agreement with other country . it be the wonder of our democracy in this country and other country around the world that we can finally introduce a piece of legislation where we can manage many of these location . I stand as a proud MP for Medway , in particular Chatham , which have an historic dockyard that serve much of our maritime trade and provide support to the Royal Navy . many in my community have a proud history and legacy of serve on the ocean , from work on fleet supply freight to participate in our royal naval tradition . our country have a proud history of conservation through the National Trust and other terrestrial organisation . we also have a number of third - party sector organisation that be commit to deliver on ocean conservation , not just through this treaty but through the many there have be in the past . such organisation include Oceana and the Marine Conservation Society . there be also excellent work be do by Plymouth University and Southampton ' s National Oceanography Centre , which my hon . friend the Member for Brent West ( Barry Gardiner ) and I have the pleasure of visit early this year . our Natural History Museum , with its work in London and across the country , the World Wildlife Fund and Greenpeace have all advocate for this in many way and continue to do so . in many case their work be not high profile ; they do their work quietly and behind the scene , such as by engage with DEFRA — I be sure the civil servant can attest to this — and ensure that they be safeguard our fishery and world . this Bill be extremely welcome and timely . the high seas treaty reach its require 60 ratification on 19 September , and the 60th ratification trigger a 120 - day countdown , after which the treaty come into force . if we want to be at that multilateral table to deliver for our resident in our community and our country , we need to deliver this legislation . I welcome the Bill be place before the House , and I welcome the debate with member across this Chamber — from those who be fascinate by the sperm whale or the right whale to those who have row across ocean and sea . the content of the Bill be critical . genetic heritage have not be mention much today , but it be a critical element as it can lead to cure for cancer and heart disease . genetic heritage be a marker for our future on this planet . if there be cure that come as a result of this legislation , it be today that we give security and licence to it . the designation of marine protection area have be much debate across this Chamber with regard to UK control , and I agree with many of my colleague that we need to do more domestically to protect our mpa , make they fit for purpose and allow they live up to their designation . this legislation create the licence for marine protection area in international water , which will support our heritage and legacy for future generation . it be a pathway to the goal of protect 30 % of the world ' s ocean by 2030 . the Bill also give scientific protection around licensing . we know that there be significant challenge for both our biotic and abiotic resource . much time have be spend this afternoon discuss the damage cause by international industrial fishery , with new technology and industrial - sized trawler come from many nation of the world . the damage cause by these monster , as I refer to they , be decimate not only our biological resource directly in that location but sea bird , specie and any food chain associate with it . there be also a debate about mining and drilling to be have in the next 10 to 20 year as we begin to get access to our deep - sea resource . whether it be hydrate or base metal that we need , we need to have that conversation , so I implore the Government to look very closely at any moratorium . then there be climate change , which be not to be deny by many across the world . it be happen . specie be under threat , and the destruction of habitat as a result of the warming and acidification of the ocean be impact both coral reef and seaweed bed . to conclude , I still have a number of question around the use of the Marine Management Organisation in this country and regional fishery management organisation . how much extra resource will they need , because I certainly have question at present around the MMO and its oversight ? how do we know that this be go to be enforce ? the UN have calculate that to make this effective we might need to look at figure of around $ 170 billion annually . where be that money go to come from ? there be serious question about who will enforce overfishe protection and marine protection area when we have fishing piracy go on around the world . what be the measure for dispute resolution ? we know that there be United Nations convention on the law of the sea dispute around the South China sea with China , and dispute be also ongoing over the Arctic , so what measure and mediation will this treaty introduce ? this treaty tell everyone watch about our value , whether they be a 12 - year - old " Blue Planet " watcher or a professor in a submersible in the Arctic . it set the tone for the next hundred year . it be necessary that we do this and I implore colleague to support it . that bring we to the Front - Bench contribution . I call the liberal Democrat spokesperson . with the leave of the House , it only remain to say that we have hear , across the Chamber , impassioned and professional expertise . we have also hear about the importance of work together , not only in term of multilateralism — [ interruption . ] I hope that member on the Conservative Front Bench be listen . we have also hear about the importance of work across the Chamber , on something that be so vital to all our constituent , our ally across the world and those in our overseas territory to finally fill the gap of the lawless part of the ocean through a global ocean governance that we can all agree on collectively . that will be hard . as hon . member have hear , I have work with artisanal and industrial fisherman and with researcher , scientist and conservationist . it be not , and it will not be , easy to come to an agreement about area - base management plan and the ocean sanctuary and mpa that we be look to create , but we can do it if we all work together . I implore hon . member , across all party and Benches , that we get to ratification in a timely fashion so that we can be part of the new global ocean movement , sit at the table at the first global ocean COP and take a lead position go forward . we owe it to ourselves , to the child of everyone we know and to the future of the planet . this have be a wide - range and important debate on a vital Bill . there have be many valuable and informed contribution , not least from the hon . member for Glasgow North ( Martin Rhodes ) , for Calder Valley ( Josh Fenton - Glynn ) , for North East Hertfordshire ( Chris Hinchliff ) , for Cannock Chase ( Josh Newbury ) , for Derbyshire Dales ( John Whitby ) and for Chatham and Aylesford ( Tristan Osborne ) . the hon . member for Exeter ( Steve Race ) be rightly proud of the great academic institution in his constituency , highlight the important role that UK research play in the world . it be a pleasure to see the hon . member for Rotherham ( Sarah Champion ) make one of the first Back - Bench contribution . she reinforce the point that my hon . friend the Member for Romford ( Andrew Rosindell ) make about the destruction of the marine environment . I know that she speak from a position not just of expertise but of passion , and she have show that over so many year , with a commitment to our ocean and with the work that she have lead on . may I say to the Liberal Democrat spokesman , the hon . member for South Cambridgeshire ( Pippa Heylings ) , that she show why it be so important that we have people in this House with such wide - range experience , who have have life outside this place ? she have bring expertise to the debate and I be sure that many of we envy she in what she have be able to do , the intellect that she have apply to the argument and the fact that we can all listen carefully to what she have say . the hon . member for Bristol East ( Kerry McCarthy ) say something important when she talk about marine deforestation and some of the mainstream medium show that have footage that she have hear have be too shocking to show . that represent a real problem in this debate . be we wrap this up in cotton wool for some people , to not show exactly what we be try to deal with ? she make the important point that we should not hide from what be go on in the world . I agree with the right hon . gentleman to an extent . it be report in the Guardian that some of the footage be deem too shocking to be show . I do not know whether he have see it , but what remain in the film be incredibly powerful . I have read about bottom trawling in the newspaper for a long time , so I know about it from a factual perspective , but it be only when I see those image that it be bring home to I how terrible it be . I be grateful to the hon . Lady for that important intervention . the hon . member for Bath ( Wera Hobhouse ) raise the importance of mainstream medium . we be grateful for her apology to my hon . friend the Member for Romford for misinterpret his drive about the importance of the Chagos island . it be disappointing that the hon . member for Chesterfield ( Mr Perkins ) , who be no long in his place , feel that not enough of my colleague be in attendance , but those of we who be here have stay here — Mr Speaker have comment on many an occasion that I can often be more than enough . the hon . member for South Cotswolds ( Dr Savage ) point out how little we know about the ocean . that be an important point . it have often be say that space exploration get lot of coverage and we talk about it very much — indeed , we be talk about man the moon again , and maybe use it as a launch pad to go to Mars — yet so much of our own planet be completely unknown and unexplored . that bring I to the hon . member for Brent West ( Barry Gardiner ) , who have a genuine interest and expertise . he give a wide ranging and important speech and make an important point about the ocean be one of the big solution to climate change . he be indeed right that the european economic zone be a legacy from the day when we own half the world . one of the great achievement of the last Conservative Government be the work we do on the blue belt and on ensure that we protect important marine environment . I do not know whether he will expand on this in later debate , but I notice that he do not appear to be fully supportive of give up on the fishery from the EU with the EU reset . I wonder whether he may have thing to add to that debate at another time , but perhaps now be not the time and place . however , he do make an important point that we can only do what we have to do as a country if we have the ability to do it in those water . the way that the hon . member for Ely and East Cambridgeshire ( Charlotte Cane ) approach the subject of the conservative party ' s record in this area be a real pity . I be proud of some of the work we do on the blue belt , include work on this Bill , and as we have see during the debate , there be wide support for it across the House . the right hon . member for Islington South and Finsbury ( Emily Thornberry ) point out her genuine delight in the fact that this House have so many expert to speak on such an important issue . she echo the concern of my hon . friend the Member for Romford on what will happen with the Chagos Bill . I do not want to go into great detail on that , because we be go to be here a long time on Monday evening debating that Bill , but I think she be drive at the fact that the assurance in the Chagos Bill do not go far enough in protect the blue belt . I welcome her clarification that my party have raise the issue of the blue belt . she come with expertise and deserve to be listen to when she be raise these important point . the Minister open the debate by talk about the urgency and importance of this moment . that be true . when my hon . friend the Member for Romford speak , he make some very serious point , not least about how we can ensure that the responsibility that the United Kingdom have always take towards marine fishery do not get overridden if we can not control our work entirely . he make the point that , in the scheme of thing , we must ensure that we do not hand over the ability to other country to stop we do that work . the reality be that — again , I will touch briefly on this because it be not part of the debate — the UN Security Council , set up for a reason , find it hard to react to what be happen in Ukraine because Russia can override anything with its veto . we must ensure that we have the ability , as a Government and a country , to employ the law and protection that we need to put in place . we will raise these area in Committee , even if that be through probe amendment , because we want to ensure that the Bill can do exactly what it intend to do . the reality of the Bill also come into some of these situation that we see on the horizon . we know about the opening up of the Arctic , the melting of the sea ice and the opening of the north - east passage , which for many month — certainly week — of the year be fully navigable ; the ice have go away by that much . at the same time , we know that President Putin and the Russians have say that there be hydrocarbon resource in that ocean that they want to mine . that would be devastating for the fragile ecosystem that exist in that unique area of the world , which be almost completely untouched . I have the pleasure back in May of be part of the NATO Parliamentary Assembly visit to Svalbard . the University Centre in Svalbard have dozen of country , university , academic institution and hundred of nationality study that region , climate change and the effect it have on the Arctic , and the effect on ecosystem . it be absolutely vital , as we see the geopolitical tension form in area where they have not be before , that we have those strong protection in place . will the right hon . member give way ? I be about to finish , but I will give way to the hon . Gentleman . the right hon . member be absolutely right to talk about the opening up of the Arctic and the geo - strategic threat that we face there . in that respect , would he support my early call that the Government should release the Joint Intelligence Committee ' s report on the link between biodiversity , sustainability and national security ? I will not be draw quite into that trap about release Joint Intelligence report . however , the hon . Gentleman make an important point , because there be no doubt that we be talk about sovereign security if we do not get this right , and that apply to all country around the world . if we allow climate change and not the protection of valuable ecosystem , as have be describe by many hon . and right hon . member across the House , it be all of we who will suffer . we have our concern about some area of the Bill . we will be table some amendment in Committee and probe those area , but on the whole we hope that we can support the Bill , and it be important to carry on the work that our Government start . I thank the shadow Ministers and hon . and right hon . member across the House for their thoughtful and constructive contribution to the debate . it have be encouraging to hear the broad support for this important piece of legislation , and to hear the expertise , both from member ' life experience prior to come to this House and from the extensive work of our Committees over a long period of time . I want to recognise the work of a number of the key stakeholder involve in inform the debate , some of whom I be able to speak to in the course of prepare for today , include the Marine Conservation Society , Greenpeace , Oceana , the Pew Charitable Trusts and the Blue Marine Foundation . I want to make a cheeky remark towards the right hon . member for Wetherby and Easingwold ( Sir Alec Shelbrooke ) , for whom I have a lot of respect , in that he suggest he could make up for the fact that there be no conservative Back Benchers here during the debate , but indeed he make a useful contribution . that be important , because this should be a whole - of - House debate . it be important to recognise that we be continue work that be start under the previous Government and that we support all the way through . it be important that member from all party be present as the Bill start its passage through the House , because as I will set out , it be important to inform the implementation and the ongoing debate . I will draw on and respond to the contribution that have be make during my remark . in particular , I know that the hon . member for South Cambridgeshire ( Pippa Heylings ) — whose comment , base on her extensive experience , be very much respect by the House — will make a great contribution during the passage of the legislation . she also talk about the importance of multilateralism and how we play our part with other around the world . my hon . friend the Member for Rotherham ( Sarah Champion ) have experience of chair a number of appg and have make a long - stand contribution . I will come back to some of the point she raise , but it be helpful to hear from she early in the debate . we also hear from my right hon . friend the Member for Islington South and Finsbury ( Emily Thornberry ) — I will come back to some of the point she raise — my hon . friend the Members for Bristol East ( Kerry McCarthy ) , for Chesterfield ( Mr Perkins ) , who chair the Environmental Audit Committee , for Brent West ( Barry Gardiner ) , for Exeter ( Steve Race ) , for Glasgow North ( Martin Rhodes ) , for Calder Valley ( Josh Fenton - Glynn ) , for Cannock Chase ( Josh Newbury ) , for Derbyshire Dales ( John Whitby ) and for Chatham and Aylesford ( Tristan Osborne ) , and the hon . member for Bath ( Wera Hobhouse ) , for South Cotswolds ( Dr Savage ) , for Ely and East Cambridgeshire ( Charlotte Cane ) and for North East Hertfordshire ( Chris Hinchliff ) . that go to show that we have have a whole - of - nation debate . before I turn to my more detailed remark , I want to make a point about young people and the next generation . the important point be make that the ocean do not have voter , but when I think about the issue that be most important to young people , include in primary school in my constituency , the health of our ocean and how we protect our environment be very high on the agenda . the ocean have their supporter across all generation , and that be important . let I start by remind the House why this Bill and the BBNJ agreement matter . the BBNJ agreement be a huge step towards protect our share ocean . it will enable great conservation of the two - third of the ocean that lie beyond national jurisdiction and will support the delivery of the Kunming - Montreal global biodiversity framework , which include the target to effectively conserve and manage at least 30 % of the ocean by 2030 . environmental degradation could lead to huge economic cost globally , make ocean conservation a long - term economic imperative , too . the agreement support the UK ' s wide climate and nature agenda , ensure that we remain at the forefront of global effort to tackle biodiversity loss and climate change through multilateral co - operation . it also strengthen the role of international law and multilateral institution , and reinforce the UN convention on the law of the sea as the foundation for global governance . there be also clear opportunity for the UK , which have one of the world ' s lead marine scientific research community . world - renowne institution in the UK , such as the National Oceanography Centre , the Marine Biological Association and our lead university marine science department , be at the forefront of ocean research and will greatly benefit from provision in the agreement that promote transparency and datum share around marine genetic resource . the Bill , along with the secondary legislation that will follow , will deliver on our commitment to ratify this historic agreement . let I turn to some of the point raise in the debate , and I will aim to answer as many question as possible . in relation to the Chagos island , this deal will help to protect the unique environment of the Chagos archipelago . both the UK and Mauritius have commit to protect what be one of the world ' s most important marine environment , and that commitment will be support by an enhance partnership between both country , under which the UK will support Mauritius ' s ambition to establish a marine protect area that protect the globally significant ecosystem in the Chagos archipelago . the UK ' s support for this will be agree in a separate write instrument as part of the implementation of the agreement , and Government official have already begin discuss with their Mauritian counterpart what it will involve . this have be welcome by lead conservation NGOs , include the Zoological Society of London , and both the UK and Mauritius attach great importance to the need to protect marine biodiversity , include the fight against illegal fishing . it be worth mention that under the treaty , the UK will continue to manage environmental protection on Diego Garcia and the surround 12 nautical mile . that shall be undertake in accordance with applicable international law and with due regard to applicable mauritian environmental law . the Minister for Europe , North America and the overseas territory , my hon . friend the Member for Cardiff South and Penarth ( Stephen Doughty ) , be at the heart of these discussion and have be lead on maritime protection in the overseas territory through expansion and confirmation of funding for the blue belt programme and our work in the polar region . he have meet scientist in the Cayman Islands and Bermuda last month and on board the royal research ship Sir David Attenborough to discuss their crucial work in the Antarctic and Arctic . we be do crucial work on the convention for the conservation of antarctic marine living resource , which I be sure will be the subject of further debate in the House . I thank the Minister for speak about the point make about the British Indian Ocean Territory by myself and other , include the Chair of the Foreign Affairs Committee , the right hon . member for Islington South and Finsbury ( Emily Thornberry ) . the marine protect area be establish by the Government of Gordon Brown at the tail end of the last Labour Government . it be a vital area that we need to protect . what guarantee can she honestly say we be get that , if we be to hand over the sovereignty of the Chagos archipelago to Mauritius , Mauritius will protect it in the same way we have do under both Labour and conservative government ? I reiterate what I say : both the UK and Mauritius attach great importance to the need to protect marine biodiversity . indeed , the UK will still have responsibility for manage environmental protection on Diego Garcia and the surround 12 nautical mile , and discussion be ongoing in relation to the establishment of the marine protect area , which will be the subject of a separate write agreement . I can not speak far on that , because I want to go through other point , but I be sure the Minister of State , Foreign , Commonwealth and Development Office , my hon . friend the Member for Cardiff South and Penarth will be happy to discuss this matter far in the House . the hon . member for Romford ( Andrew Rosindell ) raise the issue of protect intellectual property right . the Secretary of State will not transmit information to the clearing - house mechanism that would be protect under intellectual property or trade secret law . I be sure the hon . Member will be aware of that from his reading of the Bill . a number of member speak about the process and implementation . this be a very significant step , as we move to ratify the agreement at the United Nations , which will happen follow the passage of the Bill and associate secondary legislation . indeed , it be a huge step towards protect our share ocean . it will provide the legal framework necessary to implement the BBNJ agreement domestically , ensure the UK be able to comply fully with its international obligation under the agreement . the Bill and subsequent statutory instrument will ensure that we can implement and enforce future decision of the conference of the party . at international level , a preparatory commission have be establish to prepare for the convening of the first conference of the party . the UK have be fully engage in the work of the preparatory commission , include co - chair a work group on the design of the clearing - house mechanism with Barbados . that will lay the groundwork for a successful first conference of the party , which will enable party and stakeholder to progress work on the ambitious implementation of the agreement . in her opening remark , my the Under - Secretary of State for Environment , Food and Rural Affairs , my hon . friend the Member for Kingston upon Hull West and Haltemprice ( Emma Hardy ) , refer to the consultation that we have have on bottom trawling , as well as to the work we be do on proposal to restrict bottom trawling in more vulnerable marine habitat . the Government have outline plan to restrict damage fishing activity in marine protect area , where that be need to protect designate specie and habitat . a number of member mention plastic pollution , and the Government participate in the UN Intergovernmental Negotiating Committee on Plastic Pollution to develop an international legally bind instrument . it be disappointing that an agreement be not reach at the resume fifth session in Geneva in August , but we continue to work on it . indeed , we be a found member of the High Ambition Coalition to end Plastic Pollution . the hon . member for South Cotswolds raise the matter of institutional co - ordination , and I confirm that the FCDO ocean policy unit will be the national focal point , work closely with DEFRA and the Department for Transport . my hon . friend the Member for Bristol East ask about deep - sea mining . the UK support a moratorium on the granting of exploration contract for deep - sea mining project by the International Seabed Authority . that mean that we will not sponsor or support the issuing of such contract until sufficient scientific guidance be available . on the polluter pay and the precautionary principle , party to the BBNJ agreement be guide by such principle and approach . it be therefore our view that there be no specific need to include those principle in the Bill . will the Minister give way ? I be run out of time , but I will be happy to pick this up with the hon . member afterwards . minister will have to abide by the principle that I mention , and the Environment Act 2021 place a duty on Ministers to have due regard to the environmental principle policy statement when make policy ; we need always to abide by those principle . I thank member from across the House for their thoughtful and constructive contribution . I have seek to address as many of the point raise as possible , but I be happy to speak to colleague about those that I do not reach . I be encourage by the strong cross - party support for this important Bill . this landmark piece of legislation ensure that the UK can play its full part in the international movement to ratify the treaty . the measure it contain will not only strengthen and safe - guard our marine ecosystem , but will strengthen our environmental security and deliver real benefit for the UK ' s research and innovation community . the Bill represent the UK take decisive action , protect the ocean that sustain we all , while empower scientist , innovator and institution in shape its future . I commend it to the House . question put and agree to . Bill accordingly read a second time . biodiversity Beyond National Jurisdiction Bill ( Programme ) Motion make , and question put forthwith ( Standing Order no . 83A ( 7 ) ) , that the follow provision shall apply to the Biodiversity Beyond National Jurisdiction Bill : Committal ( 1 ) the Bill shall be commit to a Committee of the whole House . proceeding in Committee , on consideration and on Third Reading ( 2 ) proceeding in Committee shall ( so far as not previously conclude ) be bring to a conclusion three hour after their commencement . ( 3 ) any proceeding on consideration and proceeding on Third read shall ( so far as not previously conclude ) be bring to a conclusion four hour after the commencement of proceeding in Committee of the whole House . ( 4 ) Standing Order no . 83b ( programming committee ) shall not apply to proceeding in Committee of the whole House , to any proceeding on consideration or to proceeding on Third Reading . other proceeding ( 5 ) any other proceeding on the Bill may be program . — ( Stephen Morgan . ) question agree to . biodiversity Beyond National Jurisdiction Bill ( Ways and Means ) Motion make , and question put forthwith ( Standing Order no . 52 ( 1 ) ( a ) ) , that , for the purpose of any Act result from the Biodiversity Beyond National Jurisdiction Bill , it be expedient to authorise the imposition of charge or fee under or by virtue of the Act . — ( Stephen Morgan . ) question agree to . child ' s Hospices : South - east England Motion make , and question propose , that this House do now adjourn — ( Stephen Morgan . ) I wholeheartedly welcome the Government ' s announcement this morning , in anticipation of this afternoon ' s debate , of £ 80 million of support for child ' s hospice over three year . I thank the Minister for listen to the call of the child ' s hospice sector and the Liberal Democrats . the three - year settlement will enable hospice to plan and deliver service over a long period . above all , it will ensure that seriously ill child and their family can continue to access hospice care . however , provider tell I that this level of funding do not solve the child ' s hospice funding crisis , nor do it put child ' s hospice on a genuinely long - term , sustainable financial footing . bluntly , this funding will only slow the rate at which child ' s hospice service be be cut . across the south - east — indeed , across the whole of England — child ' s hospice support thousand of seriously ill baby , child and young people , and the family who love and care for they . one such organisation be Shooting Star Children ' s Hospices . a parent recent say : " without the support of the team at Shooting Star I believe our family would be under enormous strain and feel unable to know where to turn . " they be place of compassion , expert medical care and human dignity . they provide everything from end - of - life care to vital symptom management and psychological support , but our child ' s hospice be in crisis . unless urgent action be take , many may disappear . since 2019 , the number of child and young people need end - of - life care have double . the demand for symptom management have surge by 108 % . hospice be have to provide more care and support than ever before , yet they be struggle to keep their door open . at the same time , inflation and rise cost , particularly in recruit and retain highly skilled staff , have drive hospice expenditure up by an average of 15 % in the past year alone . the Government ' s disastrous national insurance hike have only exacerbate the exist pressure . for example , Southern Hospice Group be a local charity make up of three Sussex hospice : Chestnut Tree House child ' s hospice near Arundel , Martlets in Hove and St Barnabas House in Worthing . the national insurance rise have collectively cost they £ 500 , 000 . yes , the Government have increase funding in cash term , but it be simply not enough . local NHS funding from integrated care board remain 18 % low than it be three year ago , even as hospice stretch to meet rise demand . child ' s hospice be now dip into their reserve to stay open . in 2024 - 25 , 59 % of they end the year in deficit . in 2025 - 26 , that figure be expect to rise to a staggering 91 % . this be clearly not sustainable . meanwhile , a postcode lottery in funding continue . recent freedom of information request conduct by the charity together for short life show that some integrate care board in London spend over £ 400 per child need palliative care , while other spend less than £ 25 . we see that too in the south - east : one ICB spend over £ 260 per child , while another spend just over £ 100 . only 32 % of icb could even say how many child access hospice care in their region . this gap in datum must be fill . the announcement this morning suggest that funding be distribute via icb would tackle the postcode lottery issue , but the result of these FOI request suggest that there be an awfully long way to go . how will the Minister ensure that ICBs commission child ' s hospice service equitably ? what guidance will they be give to ensure that these vast variation in support be eliminate ? if I can emphasise one thing , it be that people be the beat heart of the hospice movement . highly qualified specialist , passionate volunteer and generous donor all make the seemingly impossible happen , but the work - force be in crisis . incredibly , there be only 24 full - time equivalent paediatric palliative medicine specialist serve the entire UK , when we know the need be for at least 40 to 60 . if we follow the guideline of the Royal College of Nursing , we would have nearly 5 , 000 community child ' s nurse ; right now , we have under 1 , 000 . the professional who care for our sick child be be stretch to breaking point . I urge the Minister and the Government to build on today ' s announcement by first fix the broken commission system . we must instruct NHS England and the Department to model what each local NHS body should be spend on palliative care and to hold they accountable . we must commission service at regional and national level , where appropriate , to create economy of scale , and we must use the new pan - ICB commission office to ensure consistent and equitable access to care across England . secondly , we must tackle workforce shortage and invest an additional £ 2 . 4 million per year in grid and spin training for paediatric palliative medicine . we must fund and implement safe staffing ratio for nurse and aim to employ the 4 , 960 community nurse that England truly need . I congratulate my hon . friend on secure this debate . an amazing child ' s hospice that serve constituent in my patch be Demelza , which have an amazing array of staff , volunteer and the rest , include queen ' s nurse such as Donna Mole . will my hon . friend congratulate Donna on be a recipient of that award ? will she also congratulate the fabulous fia , one of the child serve by the hospice , on a book that she have write , and will she encourage the Minister to order a copy ? I thank my hon . friend for celebrate the work of queen ' s nurse and fabulous Fia for what she have do in write a book — I be not sure that I could do that . it be truly impressive , and I be happy to encourage the Minister to buy the book ; it sound like I have well buy it too . this be about real child like fabulous fia . it be about real family and real suffering that could be ease . child ' s hospice provide £ 3 . 32 of care for every £ 1 invest by the state , which be extraordinary value , so they deserve more support . these child deserve dignity , comfort and skilled care , and their family deserve the support that only child ' s hospice can offer . my hon . friend have bring forward a critical debate on child ' s hospice . while we be look at child ' s hospice , let I say that this issue be also critical for adult hospice . in South Cambridgeshire , we have the fabulous Arthur Rank hospice , which at the moment be look toward the cutting of its adult hospice bed . the outcry from constituent and member be huge . do my hon . friend agree that the icb could look at strategic commissioning of that care across both adult and child ' s hospice bed ? I thank my hon . friend for the campaigning she be do with her colleague on Arthur Rank hospice in Cambridgeshire , and she be right . when I go to visit Chestnut Tree House in Sussex last week , I see that it be talk to adult hospice in the area about where that more strategic view can happen . these child deserve dignity , comfort and skilled care , and their family deserve the support that only child ' s hospice can offer . will this Government truly support the vision lay out in the NHS 10 - year plan in which neighbourhood health centre , hospital and hospice work together to deliver high - quality end - of - life care in the community , or will we continue to let these vital service be ignore , underfunded and unconnected ? there be an opportunity for more action than that in this morning ' s announcement and for a long - term commitment . I urge the Minister to do what be necessary and right and ensure that no child be leave without the care and dignity that they deserve . I thank the hon . member for Mid Sussex ( Alison Bennett ) for secure this vital debate . I also thank all those who work or volunteer in the palliative care and end - of - life care sector for their care and support — the compassion that they provide to patient , family and love one when they need it most . this Government want a society in which every child receive high - quality , compassionate care from diagnosis through to the end of life , irrespective of condition or geographical location . in England , integrate care board be responsible for the commissioning of palliative care and end - of - life care service to meet the need of their local population . to support icb in that duty , NHS England have publish statutory guidance and service specification . it have also develop a palliative care and end - of - life care dashboard , which bring together all relevant local datum in one place . that dashboard help commissioner to understand the palliative care and end - of - life care need of their local population . while the majority of palliative care and end - of - life care be provide by NHS staff and service , we recognise the vital part that voluntary sector organisation , include hospice , also play in provide support to people at the end of life and their loved one . in recognition of this , we be support the hospice sector with a £ 100 million capital funding boost for eligible adult and child and young people ' s hospice in England , to ensure they have the good physical environment for care . I be pleased that the first £ 25 million tranche of that funding , which Hospice UK kindly allocate and distribute to hospice throughout England , be fully spend by hospice on capital project . an additional £ 75 million have be transfer to Hospice UK for onward allocation to individual hospice for use in the 2025 - 26 financial year , and I know that many hospice be already spend that funding this year . hospice in London and the south - east be receive over £ 28 million of that £ 100 million capital funding . that include over £ 4 million for child and young people ' s hospice in London and the south - east . we be also provide £ 26 million in revenue funding to support child and young people ' s hospice for 2025 - 26 . this be a continuation of the funding that , until recently , be know as the child and young people ' s hospice grant . child and young people ' s hospice in London and the south - east be receive almost £ 8 . 5 million of that £ 26 million of revenue funding . as confirm in my write ministerial statement lay early today , I be delighted and proud to be in a position to announce that we will continue that centrally administer funding for the next three year of this spending review period . that include the 2026 - 27 to 2028 - 29 financial year , as well as 2025 - 26 . each year , child and young people ' s hospice in England will receive at least £ 26 million — adjust for inflation — from NHS England via their local icb . this amount to at least £ 78 million over the next three year to support hospice care for child and young people , mirror current and previous year ' transaction arrangement . by do this , we be promote a more consistent national approach and support commissioner to prioritise the palliative care and end - of - life care need of their local population . further detail on the delivery of this funding will follow in due course . this government ' s commitment to provide that much - need funding until the end of the spending review period recognise that the ability to plan for the long term be vital to our child and young people ' s hospice . I be proud that this Government have remove the cliff edge of annual funding cycle , so that our child and young people ' s hospice will now be able to operate on the basis of far great certainty and stability . I agree that increase the time period cover by this grant to child ' s hospice to three year will really help . can the Minister comment on whether there be plan to do the same for the adult hospice sector ? the hon . Lady will know that child ' s hospice be in a different situation from adult hospice : there have always be a centralised grant for child ' s hospice , whereas the funding for adult hospice go through icb and be part of the broad budgeting and commission process . clearly , we will need to set an overall financial framework for adult hospice . we be currently go through the final stage of negotiation , both with the Treasury and within the Department of Health and Social Care , to finalise the financial envelope and allocation for each part of my portfolio and the portfolio of my ministerial colleague . although the investment be important , there be big opportunity around reform . a lot more need to be do around the early identification of people in need of palliative care and people reach the end of life . the interface between hospital , hospice and primary care be nowhere near where it need to be . a big part of our neighbourhood health strategy will therefore be about how we ensure that hospice have a strong voice at the table in the holistic integrated planning that be such an important part of the journey . the hon . Lady make some powerful point about that in her speech , and we be look at the issue as we speak . I be meet official to determine how to reform the system . it be not just about the money , but about how the system work . we think that there be huge room for improvement . I be truly inspire to visit Noah ' s Ark child ' s hospice in Barnet yesterday to understand the key issue that it be face and see how our three - year funding commitment will support it to continue deliver essential palliative care and end - of - life care service to child and young people in its community . when I chat to the chief executive yesterday , it be very clear how pleased she be to have some stability and certainty in plan the staffing and the service provide at Noah ' s Ark . it be a wonderful place ; I pay tribute to everybody who work there , and to the family . we recognise the challenge face the palliative care and end - of - life care sector , particularly hospice . the Department and NHS England be look at how to improve the access , quality and sustainability of all - age palliative care and end - of - life care , in line with our 10 - year health plan . the Government and the NHS will closely monitor the shift towards strategic commissioning of palliative care and end - of - life care service to ensure that service reduce variation in access and quality , although some variation may be appropriate to reflect both innovation and the need of local population . official will present further proposal to I over the come month , outline the driver and incentive that be require in palliative care and end - of - life care to enable the shift from hospital to community , include as part of neighbourhood health team . furthermore , through the National Institute for Health and Care Research , the Department be invest £ 3 million in a policy research unit in palliative and end - of - life care . the unit launch in January 2024 and be build the evidence base on palliative care and end - of - life care , with a specific focus on inequality and on iron out the regional variation to which the hon . Lady rightly point . I hope that those measure and our plan reassure hon . member of this Government ' s rock - solid commitment to build a sustainable palliative care and end - of - life care sector for the long term . alongside key partner , NHS England and other will continue to engage proactively with our stakeholder , include the voluntary sector and independent hospice , to understand the issue that they face . we will continue work with NHS England in support icb to effectively commission the palliative care and end - of - life care need by their local population . I reiterate my thank to the hon . member for Mid Sussex for bring this vital issue to the House , as well as to all hon . member who have intervene in the debate and be passionately committed to it on behalf of their constituent . question put and agree to . House adjourn .