Oral Answers to Questions Housing , Communities and Local Government the Secretary of State be ask — Social and Affordable Housing what step he be take to build more social and affordable home . what progress he have make on meet social housing target . what step he be take to build more social and affordable home . it be a privilege to be appoint as Secretary of State for Housing , Communities and Local Government . may I start by pay tribute to my predecessor and former Deputy Prime Minister , my right hon . friend the Member for Ashton - under - Lyne ( Angela Rayner ) , for all she have do since the general election last year on worker ’ right , local government and building council home ? she make a real and lasting difference . in July , the Labour Government publish a five - step plan to deliver the big increase in social and affordable housing in a generation , and to transform the safety and quality of social home . the affordable home programme will deliver 110 , 000 to 130 , 000 affordable home . under the new £ 39 billion social and affordable home programme , we have set an ambition of 300 , 000 new home over 10 year . we will set target after the initial bid . I be lucky enough to grow up in a council house in Rochdale in a stable and secure home with an affordable rent , but sadly that be an opportunity and a childhood deny to far too many child in my constituency today . why ? because under the last 10 year of the Conservative Government , the number of family on the housing list treble . do the Secretary of State agree that reduce the number of child in temporary accommodation should be not just the mission of this Government , but the moral mission of this Government ? I thank my hon . friend for highlight this incredibly important issue and for always champion his constituent in Rochdale . he be quite right to highlight the appalling record of the conservative party on temporary accommodation for family and child , and on homelessness and rough sleeping . our drive to build more social and affordable home will tackle its failure head - on . we will reduce homelessness level and the need for temporary accommodation by provide more secure and affordable home up and down the country , with a particular focus on social rent , include record number of new council home . I welcome the Secretary of State to his position and declare an interest as a volunteer member of the Cornwall Community Land Trust . the Secretary of State will be well aware that a perfect storm have hit the construction industry as far as the delivery of social housing be concern : tender forecast be not encouraging , Homes England ' s scoring matrix be prove to be inflexible , and the cost - value ratio use by registered provider be not help and be provide a disincentive to deliver in the most deprived community . there be thousand of home that community - lead clt and other could be deliver now . will the Secretary of State meet I and fellow member of the community - lead housing sector ? otherwise , we will be wait another five year to get shovel - ready affordable home off the ground . I be always happy to meet the hon . Gentleman and other on issue as important as this . I have the pleasure of visit Newlyn in his constituency not so long ago and some of those issue be make apparent to I by people live in the area . we announce top - up to the affordable home programme in the autumn and the spring , and in March we announce £ 2 billion as a downpayment for the new social and affordable home programme , which be now open for bid . Homes England can and do vary grant rate on the basis of bid from social housing provider . importantly , the available £ 39 billion cover a range of tenure , include community - lead housing . I would expect and hope to see increase in the way that he have describe . the only way to solve the housing crisis be , as my right hon . friend so articulately put it , to " build , baby , build " . in my constituency of East Worthing and Shoreham , the median wage be £ 37 , 000 , but the median house price have soar to more than 10 time that . what will the Government do to ensure that social and affordable home be build for my constituent who desperately need they ? I thank my hon . friend for his work on this issue , and I be sorry he be not wear the red cap I see he wear in Liverpool recently highlight this very important issue . the Government have commit £ 39 billion to a new 10 - year affordable home programme that will deliver around 300 , 000 home , with at least 60 % for social rent — the most affordable tenure . we have commit to the big boost to social and affordable housing in a generation , and we be back council and housing association to build at scale , so that community such as his in East Worthing and Shoreham get the home they need at cost that people can afford to pay . there be over 560 family on Gosport borough council ' s waiting list for social housing , yet despite take power a few year ago , the Liberal Democrat council have not build a single extra council house . meanwhile , the complaint I get in my mailbag about the substandard quality of council accommodation grow more and more every single week . what be the Secretary of State do to encourage such inadequate council to build a great quantity and well quality of council accommodation ? the hon . Lady will be aware that the Government have reintroduce home building target that be scrap by the previous Government . it be important that we have those target and that they be achievable , and council will be hold to account to achieve they . I be work on an acceleration package to encourage more building in which local authority will be key partner , and we will make announcement on that in due course . of course , the hon . Lady will be aware of the change we be make to drive up standard in council and other social housing , which we will insist be enforce and carry through . I call the shadow Minister . it fall to I to open the bowling for the Opposition Front Bench , so I congratulate the right hon . gentleman on his appointment and welcome he to his place today . the previous Government award the Mayor of London almost £ 9 billion of funding to build a total of 151 , 000 affordable home in London . the second tranche of that money amount to £ 4 billion , which be to build 35 , 000 home between 2021 and 2026 . to date , only 997 have be complete , with 443 of those home be acquisition rather than newly build . what plan do the Secretary of State have to hold the Mayor of London to account for this lamentable failure ? I thank the hon . gentleman for his kind word , but I think it be disingenuous to blame the Mayor of London for failing that be the fault of the previous Conservative Government and , I be afraid , current conservative borough in London such as Bromley , which be a shocking 95 % behind its house building target . we can not tolerate that . the previous Government choke off house building everywhere by scrap house building target and crash the economy , send mortgage through the roof so that people could not afford to buy new home — of course , the shadow Secretary of State , the right hon . member for Braintree ( Sir James Cleverly ) , be a major cheerleader for the Prime Minister who carry that through . in the last four year of the previous Government , housing consent collapse by one fifth . it be this Government who will take the step to remediate that situation , this Government who will get 1 . 5 million new home build and this Government who will work with local government partner across the whole country , include here in London , to ensure that the home this country need be build . the whole House will have hear that the Secretary of State have no plan to intervene on the Mayor of London . under section 340 of the Greater London Authority Act 1999 , the Secretary of State have the power to direct the Mayor of London to review and revise specific policy of the London plan if they be see to be hinder housing delivery . there be a plethora of policy — include an obsession with dual facing and twin staircasing and a bizarre aversion to corridor — that developer be unite in say be massively hinder development in the country ' s large city , which have the high demand for affordable housing . the Secretary of State be hold all the card and the purse string . why will he not intervene ? first , I do recognise the challenge the hon . Gentleman have outline . they should concern we all , and I thank he for raise they . he will be aware that we be make legislative change right now , with the Planning and Infrastructure Bill that be go through Parliament , to speed up the planning system that be hold back so many home from be build . we will be table further amendment to the Bill to tackle some of the challenge the hon . Gentleman be talk about . I be work with the Greater London Authority and the Mayor of London on an acceleration package that target London in particular . we will make announcement on that within week , and the hon . Gentleman will then see the action that we intend to take here in the capital city to ensure that home building continue apace . we will also be look nationally , because every region of the country need new home build to meet people ' s dream of have somewhere affordable to rent or buy . I call the liberal Democrat spokesperson . in 2007 , Ming Campbell launch the Liberal Democrats ’ campaign for not just affordable but decent home for our military . I congratulate the Secretary of State on his position . will he join I in congratulate the force family who back my amendment to provide they with a decent home standard , and will he agree that they deserve nothing less ? I thank the hon . gentleman for his kind word . I agree that the change that have be make — we have manage to come to a consensus on this — be very important and will make a big difference to force family and veteran , which we all want to see . I congratulate and commend the hon . Gentleman on working cross party to ensure an outcome that will be satisfactory to everybody who be concerned about this issue , as he be . private Rented sector : People grant Asylum what information his Department hold on the proportion of people grant asylum status live in the private rent sector . my Department do not hold datum on the proportion of people who have be grant asylum status live in the private rent sector in England . it be extraordinary that the Minister do not have that answer . too many asylum seeker be arrive in our community far too quickly because the Government have fail on their promise to smash their gang . People have have enough , and this Labour Government do not seem to have any answer . what action will the Minister take to support local community and public service to deal with the grow number of asylum seeker in our community ? I be afraid I will take no lecture from the hon . Gentleman , as it be the previous Conservative Government — in which he serve as a Minister — who lose control of our border and preside over the complete breakdown of the asylum system . this government be restore order to that system , speed up decision make and reform the appeal process to cut the asylum backlog and remove those with no right to be here at a much fast rate than the previous Government . our country have a proud history of provide sanctuary to those flee persecution . genuine asylum seeker who have be grant refugee or humanitarian protection status should be welcome . the hon . Gentleman would have say the same some year ago , and it be a sign of just how far his party have fall that he can not now bring himself to do so . I call the shadow Minister . despite that answer , it be clear that thing be get bad . our council be battle with the cost of this Government ' s border failure . the 22 % rise in small boat arrival , combine now with Chagossians arrive in rise number , throw themselves at the mercy of our local authority as they escape starmer ' s sell - out , be stretch council housing budget to breaking point . the Government have refuse to answer my write question about what financial support they provide to council housing asylum seeker and refugee who be grant asylum in their area . can the Minister tell the House how much of the propose rise in council tax be for the cost of the Government ' s asylum failure , and will he publish the full cost and support in the interest of transparency ? the hon . Gentleman be conflate two separate issue . genuine asylum seeker who have be grant refugee status and who can stand on their own two foot and work will rent , in some case in the private rent sector and in other case in market housing . some dispersal accommodation for those seek asylum will , of course , be in the private rented sector , and that can add pressure to local rental market . that be why decision must be make in co - ordination with local authority and take into account local housing pressure . more importantly , that be why the reduction in hotel use need to be proceed with in an ordered and manage way , not the chaotic way that the Conservatives have be call for . New Housing Developments : infrastructure what step he plan to take to ensure that new housing development have adequate access to infrastructure . the national planning policy framework set out that : " the purpose of the planning system be to contribute to the achievement of sustainable development , include the provision of … support infrastructure in a sustainable manner . " we make change to the framework in December last year that will support the increase provision and modernisation of various type of public infrastructure . local development plan should address need and opportunity in relation to infrastructure , and identify what infrastructure be require and how it can be fund and bring forward . in my constituency , we have see promise of new school and clinic repeatedly break , but in every case it be not the developer or local council that let people down but national body such as the Department for Education and integrated care board . they do it to save money by cram more kid into exist school and more patient into pack clinic . in the light of the 21 , 000 extra house that have just be announce by the Chancellor for Horsham district , will the Minister meet I to discuss how we can legally ensure that key local infrastructure promise be meet ? the hon . Gentleman know that I be always happy to sit down and talk to he about these and other issue . it must be say that when prepare a local plan , plan practice guidance recommend that local planning authority use available evidence of infrastructure requirement to prepare an infrastructure funding statement . local authority be not do that in all case , which be why the chief planner write to all local planning authority recently to remind they of their statutory duty to do so . we can discuss that and other issue when I meet he . new housing development agree under the previous Government have be build on the green belt around village in the Shipley constituency , such as Burley in Wharfedale , Wilsden , Denholme and Cullingworth , often without the vital investment in infrastructure such as GP practice , school and other council service . will the Minister reassure my constituent that as we build the much - need affordable and social home , we will prioritise brownfield and ensure adequate investment in the community ? I can give my hon . friend that assurance ; ours be a brownfield - first policy . she highlight an important point . the previous Government release vast swathe of the green belt in a haphazard and chaotic manner . we be take a strategic approach to green - belt release , prioritise the release of the low - quality grey belt , and we be ensure that where that happen , subject to our golden rule , we see high level of affordable housing and infrastructure . it be a much smart approach . the previous Government do not adopt it , and they should stop carp about it now . Housing Development Statutory Consultees : water company what assessment his Department have make of the potential merit of require water company to be statutory consultee for new housing development . water company be not statutory consultee on individual planning application , but they be consult as part of the preparation of local development plan . on 26 January , the Government declare a moratorium on any new statutory consultee and announce a review of the exist statutory consultee arrangement . a consultation on proposal design to limit the scope of statcon to where advice be strictly necessary and to remove entirely a limited number of they will be publish in the near future . outdated sewer system mix clean rainwater with sewage , pollute river and place strain on outdated infrastructure . if the Government be intent on not make water company statutory consultees , a national rainwater management strategy mandate rainwater harvesting on new home and major renovation would ease the pressure on infrastructure and reduce the likelihood of sewage overflow . what recent conversation have the Minister have with the Secretary of State for Environment , Food and Rural Affairs about introduce a national rainwater management strategy ? will he consider make rainwater harvesting a mandatory requirement on new housing development ? the hon . Gentleman raise an apt point . I regularly meet colleague from the Department for Environment , Food and Rural Affairs to discuss a range of issue , include water efficiency and management . I draw his attention to the consultation we launch just last month to review the water efficiency standard in the Building Regulations 2010 . as part of that , we be investigate how we can bring technology such as rainwater harvesting into new development safely . devolution : impact on Economic Growth what assessment he have make of the potential impact of devolution on economic growth . devolution to strong local leader who understand the economic opportunity and challenge in their patch have clear economic benefit : it can drive high productivity , boost local economy and put more money in people ' s pocket . for example , Greater Manchester , which be far along in its devolution journey , have one of the UK ' s fast grow local economy . I be pleased to see that the Government be press ahead with their commitment to implement new strategic authority . may I press the Minister to consider how those new strategic authority can grow their local economy by provide support for thing like community business and social enterprise in town centre , help to regenerate and renovate the neglect high street we see across the country ? my hon . friend be completely right to highlight that . there be a huge opportunity for strategic authority to support community business , co - operative and social enterprise to help regenerate and revitalise our town centre and build community wealth . we be already see that across the country : we see it in Liverpool city region , where significant investment be go into community business . we be keen to build on this opportunity and to unlock it across the country . devolution be start off well in North Yorkshire , but North Yorkshire council be really concerned about the upcoming local government settlement , which will obviously be challenge for all council . may I urge the Secretary of State in his new role to look carefully at the most rural county in England and the particular challenge that it have in deliver service ? we be look closely at every area . we know that local government be go through the process of reorganisation at the same time as we be do devolution . we be do that at pace , but we be do it in strong collaboration , work closely with individual area . we welcome devolution in London , but the ability of local council like mine in Wandsworth to tackle growth could be undermine by the change propose in the fair funding review . in Wandsworth , 26 % of resident and 33 % of child live in poverty after housing cost . will the Minister consider make adjustment to the propose funding formula to properly account for housing and child ' s service and ensure that no council be bad off as a result of the review ? we have consult on the fair funding review . my colleague the Minister for Local Government and Homelessness be look at proposal at the moment , and we will report back in due course . devolution can have huge benefit for local people . use £ 20 million of funding from the last government , Stockton - on - Tees borough council have bring forward proposal to change Yarm High Street , but the council have completely fail to properly consult and work with local resident and business in develop the proposal , so what could be an opportunity have become a nightmare . do the Minister agree that such change should be do with local resident and business , and not force upon they ? one hundred per cent . devolution offer the opportunity to put community in the drive seat and give they genuine power . for example , this Government ' s Pride in Place programme put community right at the centre , because we think that be how to ensure that community come together to drive the change that they want to see in their area . we encourage all council to work closely with their local community to make that change happen . New Social Housing : rural town and Villages what step he be take to support the building of social housing in rural town and village . the £ 39 billion social and affordable home programme will support a wide range of social and affordable housing , include council housing , support housing , community - lead housing and , of course , rural housing . the Government will also consider how planning policy can well promote rural affordable housing through our work on national policy , which will be bring forward for decision making later in the year . I thank the Secretary of State for that response . Cornwall have be give an ambitious annual target of 4 , 400 home , and I sincerely hope that a large proportion of those will be for the 25 , 000 cornish family on the housing waiting list . I meet so many constituent in social and private housing who have be leave high and dry by dodgy developer who go into liquidation before they can deliver vital infrastructure , such as road and sewerage work . will the Secretary of State please meet I to discuss the enforcement tool that local authority need to properly hold those developer to account ? I certainly recognise the problem that the hon . member describe ; it be an issue in North Cornwall and right across the country . on the developer contribution , we be look at how we can strengthen enforcement , so that where commitment be make , they be deliver on , and local community be not strand and leave high and dry because the vital infrastructure to support the home never appear . long - term Empty Homes what step he be take to bring long - term empty home back into occupation . welcome , Minister . thank you very much , Mr Speaker . the Government want more empty home bring back into use across the country , include through the step we outline in the english devolution White Paper to strengthen local authority ’ ability to take over the management of vacant residential premise . I welcome the Minister to her new role . will the Government consider introduce a policy whereby long - term empty property bring back into use as home will count towards a district ' s housing target ? local authority have a number of power to deal with empty home . the hon . member raise an interesting point , which I will take away and consider with official . there be 46 long - term empty property in the community of Park end in my constituency . Park end desperately need regeneration , so I be delighted that the Government have award it £ 20 million of Pride in Place funding , for the community to use for regeneration over the long term . will the Government commit to work with I to make sure that the local community get the good from that funding ? absolutely . I be really encourage by the way that local community be seize the opportunity of Pride in Place funding , and take it forward to deal with an issue that affect every council across the country . community - lead Housing whether he plan to include community - lead housing within the long - term housing strategy . the Government recognise that community - lead housing deliver a wide range of benefit . we strengthen support for it in the revise national planning policy framework publish last year , and in March we announce a 10 - year social finance investment to provide capital funding for community - lead housing . as part of the development of our long - term housing strategy , we be consider how the Government might far support the growth of the sector . Redwood Housing Co - operative span five floor of social housing in the iconic OXO Tower on the south bank of the River Thames . give that Redwood be run by its tenant , charge some of the low rent in central London and offer some of the good view , should not every community have a Redwood ? my hon . friend have long champion co - operative , and I recognise his commitment to expand co - op in London and across the country . with that example , he draw our attention to the benefit that they can provide . we be consider opportunity to legislate to establish a legal framework for a co - operative housing tenure , which would help formalise the right and responsibility of both co - operative and their tenant , and make co - operative housing a more attractive option . as my hon . friend will know , I be more than happy to discuss the matter with he far at a suitable opportunity in the near future . in my Chichester constituency , a lack of available land drive high - density scheme in rural village that lack the necessary infrastructure , and the scheme quickly become unpopular locally . community land trust such as the Westbourne Land Trust gain local support and deliver affordable home , and that give community a real stake in that development . do the Minister agree that community buy - in be essential if the Government be to reach their target for build home ? what step be be take to help community land trust go from the planning phase to build home ? the hon . Lady outline another benefit of community land trust : get local buy - in . the availability of land be an issue for clt . I have already set out some of the way that we be support they through new investment . as the Secretary of State say early , the new social and affordable housing programme will be design with the flexibility necessary to support a great diversity of social and affordable housing supply , include community - lead housing . coalfield Regeneration Trust : Capital Funding Request what assessment he have make of the potential merit of the capital funding request from the Coalfields Regeneration Trust . we recognise the excellent work be do by the Coalfields Regeneration Trust and remain committed to work with it . as my hon . friend will know , the current fiscal position remain challenging . it be in that context that we be consider funding request . the Coalfields Regeneration Trust be ask for £ 50 million to support local initiative that deliver training course and community cohesion at ward level . I have speak to the trust about support constituent of mine in ex - coalfield community in Swadlincote by improve the confidence of people on long - term benefit , so that they can build towards get pay work , and about provide activity that support community cohesion . I recently visit Bloomin ' Gardens & Landscapes in Church Gresley . People there tell I that they be concern about the lack of interest in career in gardening and horticulture . what can the Minister do to help I help my constituent , by ensure that they have opportunity in gardening and horticulture , and can improve their community ? the Government remain committed to support ex - coalfield community , such as those in my hon . friend ' s constituency , and to tackle the decline and neglect we see under the conservative party . it be our party that establish the Coalfields Regeneration Trust in 1999 , and we be commit to work with it to support our coalfield community . that come alongside our wide effort to invest in community that be hold back under the conservative party through our trailblaze Pride in Place programme . rise — I be intrigue to hear how coalfield regeneration relate to the hon . Gentleman ' s part of Northern Ireland . I call Jim Shannon . thank you , Mr Speaker . I thank the Minister for that answer . the fact be that there be coalfield in Northern Ireland . there have be an opportunity — order . so the hon . Gentleman be say that he have coalfield in his constituency ? [ interruption . ] okay . I be go to allow the question , but I ask that we think about whether issue be relevant to our constituency . the question of who benefit from coalfield in the past be always relevant to people in Northern Ireland . other part of the United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland have experience coalfield regeneration , and people have come back from those area on the mainland to Northern Ireland . can we ensure that everyone have an equal opportunity to benefit from this ? these benefit have be bring forward in England ; bring they forward in Northern Ireland as well . I be not sure that that be relevant . we recognise that we need to support community across the country who have be hold back . we be work with the Northern Ireland Office to make sure that support be available for community to renew and regenerate , so that they have the power to drive the change that they want to see . Homelessness what step he be take to reduce youth homelessness . what recent progress the inter - ministerial group on homelessness and rough sleeping have make on the development of a cross - government strategy to end homelessness . the Government inherit a homelessness crisis ; there be record number of people in temporary accommodation , and rough sleeping have double . that be why my predecessor get together the inter - ministerial group on homelessness very quickly . it have meet four time , and have establish the principle of the strategy , have seek full input from across Government . that strategy be on its way , but just last week , the Government announce a furth £ 84 million in this financial year to support people who be sleep rough or who be homeless . the Minister ' s announcement be welcome , but last year , in England and Wales , 18 % of the people who be find to be at risk of homelessness or be experience homelessness be age just 16 to 24 . that number be far too high . will the Minister agree to meet the YMCA and the Youth Homeless chapter Collective to discuss the action need to support young people and reduce homelessness for good ? I congratulate my hon . friend on share those figure with the House , because even though it be quite hard to hear they , it be important that we do not look away from this crisis . I will of course meet she and the charity she mention . as the Minister may know , Milton Keynes use to be call " tent city " . we reduce the number of rough sleeper down to 16 when I be deputy leader at the council . we be able to do that because we understand that rough sleeping be more than just a housing issue ; it be a whole - person issue . be she willing to meet I and the other officer of the all - party parliamentary group on rough sleeping , as well as Back - Bench Members who have experience in this area , while shape and deliver the rough sleeping strategy ? I be aware of my hon . friend ' s work , and the work of Milton Keynes council and other in the city , to bring down the number of rough sleeper . we will take that whole - person approach in the homelessness strategy . I never knowingly avoid a meeting with an APPG , so I be sure that we will get that arrange shortly . reduce youth homelessness rely on have an effective , work housing market . of course , my right hon . friend the Member for North West Essex ( Mrs Badenoch ) understand that , and that be why she have pledge that a future Conservative Government will abolish stamp duty on primary residence . she have also say that she be happy for the idea to be steal and adopt by other party . it would reduce the cost of house buying in Beverley and Holderness by around £ 3 , 800 — a real boost for young family try to get on the housing ladder . will the Minister say to the Secretary of State , and indeed the Chancellor , " adopt this policy , and do it now " ? the party of Liz Truss just doesn ' t learn , do it ? the Conservatives be happy to make tax policy that be absolute fantasy . People need real home to live in , not this kind of thing , and the Conservatives simply will not get a hearing until they look at their record and learn to say sorry . I call the Chair of the Select Committee . I welcome the Secretary of State and his Ministers to their position . I very much look forward to welcome they to meeting of the Select Committee ; we be a fair and robust Committee . the Minister highlight the inter - ministerial group , which the former Secretary of State chair and see as be very important . the issue cut across all departmental group . it be important , because within two month , as we go into the next year , and in the next financial year , we will see over 170 , 000 young child in temporary accommodation — in homelessness . that should worry all of we . the inter - ministerial group have meet four time . can the Minister confirm that the group will continue to be convene — and if it will , who will chair it ? the Chair of the Select Committee make the case extremely well . if anybody in this Chamber be not worried about temporary accommodation , they be not pay attention ; that be how serious this be . it be terrible for our kid , and for the taxpayer , because it be so expensive . I will follow up with she . a lot of work have already be do on the homelessness strategy . we want to get it confirm as soon as possible . I will engage fully with the Select Committee on the strategy to ensure that we get it right , and we will come back to she shortly with the detail of how we will do that together . every night , over 1 , 000 child be homeless in my city ; they be either in temporary accommodation , or even bad off . do the Minister agree that this be totally unacceptable for a modern society , and that the Government must bring forward its cross - departmental plan to tackle youth homelessness ? I refer the hon . gentleman to what I just say to the Chair of the Select Committee , but let I confirm again that any child in temporary accommodation , particularly b & b accommodation , who have not get enough space to do their homework pay the price — not just through what they be go through today , but in the future . we can not accept that . we can not stand for it , and we should work together across this House to bring this to an end . thank to the action of the previous Government and council up and down the country , 90 % of rough sleeper be get off the street at the beginning of the pandemic , five and half year ago . tragically , since then , most of those people — young and old — have return to rough sleeping . in constituency like mine , street homelessness be not so obvious — people be live and sleep in wood , ruin and so on — yet the tragedy be still there . what lesson can the Minister and the Government learn from that rapid removal of homeless people from the street in 2020 , so that they can implement it again ? I thank the hon . gentleman for his point . Homelessness can be about rough sleeping , but there be also hide homelessness . our forthcoming strategy need to consider all that in the round . he ask I what lesson I take from what happen a few year ago — and , I would argue , from how we reduce rough sleeping in the past . I would say that politics be about choice . we take the choice last week to invest , in - year , an extra £ 84 million in prevent and address homelessness . that be the right thing to ensure that everybody in this country be safe and have a roof over their head . I call the shadow Minister . I welcome the Minister to her place . Youth and overall homelessness have increase since the Government take office , and charity have be harm by policy such as the national insurance rise impose by the Chancellor . we welcome the additional money that the Government have allocate for tackle homelessness this winter , but it be an admission that they have fail in their pledge to reduce homelessness . the former Minister have a novel touch , and send the figure the wrong way . I will ask this Minister the same question that I ask in the previous Session : do she accept that homelessness have rise under this government , and will she commit to eliminate it by the end of this Parliament ? I thank the hon . gentleman for his word of welcome . I refer he to the comment that I make to colleague . the homelessness strategy be on its way . I be afraid that we could not overturn 14 year of wrong choice in the time that we have have in office — that be not realistic — but our strategy on its way . if there be cross - party support for go much far to reduce the use of temporary accommodation and ensure that everyone have a roof over their head , I will happily work with he to do that together . New Social Housing : Buckingham and Bletchley what step his Department be take to support local authority to build social housing in Buckingham and Bletchley constituency . the Government have take decisive action to improve the capacity of all local authority , include those in Buckingham and Bletchley , to build more social housing , include through our new £ 39 billion social and affordable home programme , the new 10 - year social housing rent settlement , and right - to - buy reform , so that we can reverse the decline see under the previous Government . the on - time , on - budget delivery of 183 new council home for local family on the Lakes estate in Bletchley be a good demonstration of what Labour can achieve in local government . be my right hon . friend willing to visit Bletchley over the come week and month to discuss how further investment from the social and affordable home programme could help ambitious , pro - housebuilde council like Milton Keynes to go even far for local people ? I be sure that it will come as no surprise to my hon . friend that I wholeheartedly welcome the delivery of 183 new council home in his constituency . I fully agree that the Lakes estate demonstrate the ambition of Milton Keynes city council to build the home that its community want and need . I also value such council ' support in help the Government to meet our ambitious housebuilding target , which include target for the big boost to social and affordable housing in this country in a generation . New Housing Developments in Cheadle : Infrastructure what step he plan to take to ensure that new housing development in Cheadle constituency have adequate access to infrastructure . as per my answer to question 4 , the change that we make to national planning policy last year be intend to support the increase provision and modernisation of various type of public infrastructure . when it come to ensure that necessary infrastructure be fund and bring forward in Cheadle or any other part of the country , we look to local development plan and infrastructure funding statement to address need and opportunity . resident in Cheadle have contact I about the huge number of speculative development application come through , particularly in Cheadle Hulme and Woodford . we be now be tell that a 10 , 000 - home new town will potentially be situate on the constituency border . GPs be completely oversubscribed in Woodford , we have not have a Sunday rail service in over a year , and the bus service be completely inadequate . this have be raise time and again by my constituent . will the Minister meet I and the leader of Stockport council to talk about this issue , and how the Government can get developer to start invest in infrastructure before they develop home ? the hon . Gentleman have raise a number of issue . the good way in which local planning authority can protect themselves from speculative development be to have an up - to - date local development plan in place . he touch on developer contribution ; we remain committed to strengthen the exist system to ensure that new development provide the necessary affordable home and infrastructure . we will set out further detail in due course . when it come to the prospective new town that the hon . Gentleman mention , I gently point out that it be not the Government but the independent , expert new town taskforce that recommend to the Government that Adlington and 11 other location in England should be the site for the next generation of new town . on 28 September , we commence a strategic environmental assessment to understand the environmental implication of new town , and that will support final decision . but no final decision have yet be take . order . I should say that that be the Adlington in Cheshire , not Lancashire . Leasehold System what step he plan to take to reform the leasehold system . what step his Department be take to increase leaseholder protection . the Government continue to implement those reform to the leasehold system that be already in statute and to progress the wide set of reform necessary to end the feudal leasehold system for good . we have bring into force a number of provision in the Leasehold and Freehold Reform Act 2024 , with more in the pipeline , and we remain on course to publish an ambitious draft leasehold and commonhold reform Bill later this year . leaseholder in my constituency face unfair practice such as management fee triple in as many year , stretch family beyond their mean . yet there be also a great number of responsible agent , include L & A Lettings , base in Ashmore Park . can the Minister set out how the Government ' s leasehold reform will strike the right balance , protect leaseholder from poor practice without overburden responsible agent , who already provide a transparent and fair service ? we know that there be good manage agent who work hard to ensure that the resident they be responsible for be safe and secure and that home be properly look after , but we also know that far too many leaseholder suffer from poor service at the hand of unscrupulous manage agent . in our recent consultation on strengthen leaseholder protection over charge and service , we consult on power to appoint a manager or replace a manage agent as well as on mandatory professional qualification for manage agent in England . we think that those proposal strike the right balance , but we be analyse all the feedback we receive to that consultation . I thank the Minister for his answer to the previous question . in my constituency of Bury St Edmunds and Stowmarket , leaseholder be face soar service charge and fall standard . some have tell I that they be consider withhold payment . do my hon . friend agree that much great regulation of property manager be urgently need to ensure accountability and standard ? my hon . friend highlight that , as many of we know , the reality of home ownership for so many leaseholder fall far short of the dream . we absolutely agree that we need to strengthen the regulation of manage agent , to drive up the standard of their service . we be look again at Lord Best ' s 2019 report on regulate the property agent sector , particularly in the light of the recommendation in the final Grenfell inquiry report . we have set out a number of specific proposal in the consultation that I refer to in my previous answer . our preferred approach in implement mandatory professional qualification be for agent to belong to a designated body , but all final decision will be take in due course . as the Minister will be aware , some freeholder find themselves trap in a leasehold - like situation : the wide estate that they live on be manage by a management company and not adopt by the local authority . they be fleece in exactly the same way by exorbitant management charge , and there be often unadopted road and poor sewerage . will the Minister meet I to discuss how we can provide protection for freeholder who find themselves in that leasehold situation ? we remain committed to protect residential freeholder on private and mixed - tenure housing estate from unfair charge of the type that the hon . Lady describe . we will consult this year on implement the 2024 Act ' s new consumer protection provision for the 1 . 75 million home that be subject to those charge . we be committed to bring those measure into force as quickly as possible . thousand of my constituent in Stratford - on - Avon now live in so - call fleecehold development , often with a lack of transparency in how service charge be set and a lack of maintenance of public open space , include drainage infrastructure . will the Minister reassure my constituent that any leasehold reform will include tackle fleecehold and that the reform will be apply retrospectively ? I can assure the hon . Lady that we will tackle the injustice of fleecehold as part of the ambitious change that we intend to make to the leasehold system , with a view to bring it to an end in this Parliament . the consumer protection provision in the 2024 Act , which I have already mention , will ensure that homeowner who pay an estate management charge will have well access to the information that they need to challenge the reasonableness of charge at the first - tier tribunal . there be other power as part of those protection and , as I have say , we will consult on they shortly and bring they into force as quickly as possible thereafter . topical Questions if he will make a statement on his departmental responsibility . my no . 1 priority be to get Britain build again : we will build , baby , build . that mean put Britain on a path to end the moral stain of homelessness and rough sleeping that double under the previous Conservative Government ; grow our economy with good , secure job and rise income in every region of Britain ; and put the key to home ownership in the hand of more people across our country . under the Conservatives , the british dream of home ownership become a nightmare and out of reach , but with this Labour Government , it will become a reality once more . my constituent in Oldham East and Saddleworth be delighted to learn that Oldham have receive a £ 20 million award from the Pride in Place programme . will the Secretary of State expand on the transformational change that the award will mean to place like Oldham , where government support be decimate under the Conservatives ? in particular , what difference will be make by local people have a say in how the money will be spend ? I thank my hon . friend , the Chair of the Work and Pensions Committee , for her work in support disadvantaged neighbourhood in Oldham and her strong support for the Pride in Place programme , which offer a significant amount of long - term flexible funding and support to area like Oldham . good of all , it be local people who will take the decision about what the investment need to look like to make a real difference to their high street , public service and public transport , so that they can take back pride in the place they belong . I call the shadow Secretary of State . nobody but nobody believe that 1 . 5 million home will be build under this government . although the Minister for Local Government and Homelessness , the hon . member for Birkenhead ( Alison McGovern ) , spend a lot of time at the Dispatch Box , she do not answer the question about whether the Treasury will be ask to scrap stamp duty . we know that 2 . 8 million people say that they would consider downsize if stamp duty be abolish , free up family home of all size . she would not answer , so I ask the Secretary of State directly : will he ask the Treasury to scrap stamp duty — yes or no ? I know that the right hon . Gentleman be a strong supporter of Liz Truss when she stand for leadership of the Conservative party , but surely he can not have forget what she do : she make multibillion pound unfunded spending commitment that crash the economy , and send wage down and price , mortgage and rent skyrocket . the last thing this country need be ten of billion of pound of more unfunded commitment , crash the economy again and destroy people ' s dream of home ownership — order . there be lot of Back Benchers who wish to speak and this be topical question . I call the shadow Secretary of State . I ask for a simple yes or no , but the right hon . Gentleman struggle to give that . the truth be that we have outline exactly where the money could come from and we have make it clear that if those on the Labour Front Bench have the gut to take on their Back Benchers , they will have the support of Conservative Members in make the expenditure cut that be need . the London School of Economics have estimate that £ 16 , 000 of economic activity come with every house purchase , so if he will not agree to cut stamp duty , will he at least agree to not put up property taxis ? I have to say again that the right hon . Gentleman ' s devotion to Trussonomics be admirable , particularly give that we have already see it fail once . we hear from the shadow Chancellor that the Conservatives would put up income tax if they win the general election . they put it up to the high level since the second world war ; we be not go there . tory cut to local authority cruelly cause lasting damage to many community . what a contrast to the Government ' s Pride in Place programme award to Park End and Thorntree in Middlesbrough , which will change life for the well . do the Secretary of State agree that 100 % council tax equalisation and a new child ' s formula be essential element to fully deliver for those community that be totally overlook by the Conservatives ? it be important that we get that right , and we will have further discussion about it shortly . I might disagree with my hon . friend on the importance of Pride in Place , which will turn around some of the decline create by the Conservative party . I call the liberal Democrat spokesperson . in June , the Department make the welcome announcement of legislation to allow proxy voting and remote attendance , which will help to drive up the diversity of councillor across the country , but the Government have not yet set out a timeline . will the Minister advise the House on when a timeline will be share , and whether the Government have consider include the change in the English Devolution and Community Empowerment Bill ? the Government be commit to an election Bill , which will be come in due course — very shortly , I imagine — and I be sure the hon . Member will be able to explore those issue far at that time . in 2022 , tory - run Dudley council enter an agreement with a social housing developer but later pull the plug and sell off the land , so we may not get those much - need home . what step be the Secretary of State take to ensure that council maximise opportunity to build affordable and social home on land own by council ? I be sorry to learn about the loss of social rent home in that instance . I can assure my hon . friend that the Government be commit to reinvigorate council house building , and I direct her attention to the five - point plan that we publish in July to deliver a decade of renewal for social and affordable housing . whether Essex end up with three , four or five authority under the local government reform , my constituent will certainly come under an authority that be no long local . as part of the reform , will more power be devolve to town and parish council that be able to understand and properly reflect their local resident ? local government reorganisation will create opportunity to improve public service , efficiency and clarity . the final proposal from council in Essex be submit by 26 September , and we anticipate launch a statutory consultation in November . I be sure we will discuss the right hon . Gentleman ' s point in detail over the week and month to come . across the Sheffield city council area , include my Penistone and Stocksbridge constituency , 26 , 400 people be wait for council home . that be a legacy of the Conservative Government in coalition make it more difficult for empty home to be bring back into residential use . will the Minister work with Sheffield city council and I to ensure that it have increase resource and power to expedite bring empty home back into use , so that my constituent and those across the authority can stay near but go far ? as I iterate early , we want to see more empty home bring back into use in Sheffield and across the country . as we outline in the english devolution White Paper , we intend to strengthen the ability of local authority such as Sheffield city council to take over the management of vacant residential premise . we in Leicestershire have three , if not four , plan for our reorganisation , with no agreement . we also have a county council run by Reform , which have already have not one but two reshuffle , lose its cabinet lead for social service and finance . while 70 % of its budget be spend on social service and special educational need and disability , what assurance can the Government give I that my constituent will get those service , and that those service will be protect , when there already seem to be chaos in the council ? as I mention some moment ago , reorganisation create an opportunity for simple and clear local service . I look forward to work with member across the House to get it right , particularly in tackle some of the issue that the hon . gentleman mention . another vape shop open on one of my high street in bassetlaw last week , and yet another open in a vacate bank less than a month ago . People tell I , and I tend to agree with they , that nobody know how those shop will sustain an income to keep they go . what be the Government do to take on rogue trader ? my hon . friend be completely right to raise this issue . that be why we be give local community great power to control the proliferation of gambling and vape shop . it be also why , through our Pride in Place programme , we be give community the funding and tool they need to shape their local high street , so that those community can have the shop they want in their place . my constituent Steve dally be charge £ 70 , 000 by Liberal Democrat - control Waverley borough council for the apparent crime of build a home extension . I meet the Housing Minister early this year to talk about abuse of the community infrastructure levy . could he update the House on his plan to stop it ? as the right hon . Gentleman know , I agree that we have see unintended consequence of the 2010 CIL regulation — they have unfairly penalise some homeowner . I can only reiterate the commitment I give he during that meeting . in principle , we be commit to find a solution to this issue , and I be more than happy to meet he again and update he on the step we have take in the interim . up and down the country , people be be price out of their community by sky - high rent and extortionate housing cost . in Wandsworth , the rent for a one - bed flat will cost the average Londoner almost half of their monthly take - home pay . do the Minister agree that we must put an end to this situation and make housing affordable again ? we absolutely need to make housing affordable . one of the primary way in which we can do that be to build more home of all tenure , which be precisely what we be commit to do . we can also boost the supply of social and affordable housing , which our social and affordable housing programme — worth £ 39 billion over 10 year — will do . winter be come , and nearly 3 million household be live in fuel poverty , which be an absolute scandal . the long - await warm home plan can not come soon enough , but give that previous piecemeal programme prioritise private profit and leave we without the change that our constituent so desperately need , will the Secretary of State commit to fund a public body to co - ordinate , monitor and evaluate a nationwide programme of home insulation to hold cowboy builder — cowboy contractor — to account and deliver energy saving for all ? I will refer the hon . Lady ' s comment about the warm home plan to the Secretary of State for Energy Security and Net Zero . if she wish to write to I with detail of any particular cowboy builder , I would be more than happy to read what she have to say . it be great that we be transform leasehold property , but many leaseholder be now stick in a gap with their freeholder when it come to betterment . if they want to green their home through new roof , new insulation and electric vehicle charging , they have to pay a huge extra cost . will the Minister and , if necessary , minister from the Department for Energy Security and Net Zero meet I and my constituent to discuss this issue ? there be a real gap when it come to achieve green improvement . I would be more than happy to do so . in April , the Government describe their decision to approve a major scheme to unlock over 8 , 500 home next to Cambridge North station after six year in planning as " nationally significant " . just four month later , the Government scrap the whole thing . how be that consistent with the Secretary of State ' s announcement that he will back get Britain build ? I be afraid that I be unclear about which particular site the right hon . Gentleman be refer to . again , if he wish to write to I , I would be more than happy to engage with he on the particular of that case . Cornwall ' s economic potential be vast . cornish renewable energy and critical mineral can power the UK ' s transition away from a fossil fuel - base economy , but economic development funding through the share prosperity fund have come to an end . can the Secretary of State reassure the people of Cornwall that our economic growth will not be limit by the fact that Cornwall can not and will not join a mayoral combine authority ? we recognise the uniqueness of Cornwall . we be commit to work with the local authority to ensure that we unlock the economic opportunity in the area and build on its exist devolution deal . the Secretary of State and the other Ministers on the Front Bench have to great fanfare today talk about responsible governance , but Basildon council and its Labour leader have repeatedly fail to meet basic housing standard . bad than that , its leader have go live on social medium to admit to count postal vote and use that information to influence a recent by - election . when he be hold to account , will minister agree to throw he out of their party ? I be unclear about the exact detail of what the hon . Member be raise , but if he would like to write to I or the Secretary of State provide detail , we will make sure that he receive a swift response . South Shore in my constituency be one of the most deprived area in the country . it have just be name by the Independent Commission on Neighbourhoods , which outline 34 mission - critical neighbourhood , as no . 1 for hyper - local need . will the Secretary of State meet I to discuss how we can improve South Shore in Blackpool ? I would be happy to meet my hon . friend to discuss his concern . what commitment can the Minister give to my constituent in Thurmaston , Syston , Queniborough and nearby village who wish to remain in the county of Leicestershire and have service provide in Leicestershire that they will not against their wish be absorb into the city of Leicester , as advocate by Labour ' s city mayor in the context of local government reorganisation ? I respond to the right hon . member ' s colleague from Leicestershire , the hon . member for Hinckley and Bosworth ( Dr Evans ) , just a moment ago , and I refer he to that answer . we have a process under way , and I will be engage with colleague right across the House on it . if the right hon . member would like to get in touch with I directly , I would be happy to receive his representation . I be pleased that Everton East in my constituency will receive £ 20 million in Pride in Place funding . do my hon . friend agree that the Pride in Place programme not only talk about devolution , but deliver it ? my hon . friend be completely right . we have a decade and a half of decline and neglect under the last government . this government be get to grip with it . I thank my hon . friend for her enthusiasm and for work together to make this impact and to drive the change we want to see across our community . the Government have now delay their decision on local government reorganisation in Surrey . can the Minister assure I that the Government be use this delay to protect my constituent in Esher and Walton from the Tory debt of neighbouring council with which they might be group ? will the plan election in May go ahead ? as I have say a number of time on different aspect of this policy , the process be under way . if the hon . member would like to write to I directly , I will make sure that she receive a response . I know that minister do not comment on ongoing planning application , but may I draw the Minister ' s attention to an inconsistency ? currently , the Department for Environment , Food and Rural Affairs be change its guidance on heather burn on deep peat because of climate change concern , but there have not be a concurrent change to plan guidance on building on peat . will the Minister agree to look at that , so that my constituent can be sure that any development be safe and take account of climate implication ? I thank my hon . friend for bring that matter to my attention . he be right that I can not comment on individual planning application , but I will certainly look into the matter . I wonder whether he would write to I with further detail in that regard . do the Government accept that it be possible to bring in elect mayor and new strategic authority without forcibly merge county and district council in unwanted , cumbersome and remote unitary authority ? there be two process go ahead : the devolution process , drive by economic imperative to unlock the growth prospect across the country ; and the reorganisation process , which be be do to ensure that we have more streamlined and effective public service . we be do those in tandem , because the last Government fail to get a grip of local government structure and the funding pressure across the piece . we be get on with it and we be drive it forward . both process be be drive with huge collaboration from local authority across the country . I thank the Secretary of State for take the decision to invest £ 20 million through the Pride in Place scheme in my constituency . for 14 year , two community — Woodrow and Greenlands — have be forget , while inequality in health , job and skill have rise . do the Minister agree that the right people to decide where that £ 20 million will go be those who know their community well ? I thank my hon . friend for his enthusiasm . he be absolutely right : we be put right the neglect and decline that we see after 14 year , where community have be hold back because the last Government fail to invest . we be put community at the very heart , and I look forward to work with colleague across the House to unlock the potential to change our place . resident of Rutland overwhelmingly want to join Stamford , but the council be press ahead with an unwanted Leicestershire merger ; resident of South Kesteven do not want to join a mega Lincolnshire council , but be be push towards it ; and in Leicestershire my constituent do not want a Leicester city takeover . what reassurance will the Government give that democracy will not die under these reform , and that local people ' s voice will be hear ? I can certainly confirm that democracy will not die . I know that official in the Department will have hear what the hon . Lady have say , and I will accept her question as representation on the issue of local government . in my kind and inclusive city of York , those who be put up flag and express support for they have be embolden to perpetrate racism and intimidate community . they have beat people up and hang a death threat on our city wall . what further support can the Government give my local authority to enable it to get those flag down , give that even contractor be be intimidate ? the flag be something that we must reclaim , and reclaim proudly . we know that in some community flag be be use to intimidate and divide , and we be work with local authority throughout the country to ensure that they have the support that they need to make those judgment call , but I return to the fact that the flag be ours , we need to reclaim it , and we need to stand up against those who want to divide our community across the country . the Proceeds of Crime Act 2002 be never intend to be use by local authority as an addendum to planning enforcement . the Secretary of State may well have see recent medium report about this issue . will he undertake to look into it and to issue guidance to local authority , explain that while they have many tool at their disposal , the proceed of Crime Act be not one of they ? the hon . Gentleman have raise an important point , and I be happy to arrange a meeting with the appropriate Minister so that he can share his concern and we can come to a resolution . Manchester Terrorism Attack with permission , Mr Speaker , I will make a statement about the terrorist attack on 2 October and the action that the Government be take in response . let I start by call this attack what it be : an evil act of antisemitic terrorism that target innocent worshipper on Yom Kippur , the holy day in the jewish calendar , which be carry out by a terrorist pledge his allegiance to the warped ideology of Islamism . I pay tribute to the two man who be kill on that day , Melvin Cravitz and Adrian Daulby . their bravery save countless life . on behalf of the whole House , I offer my deep sympathy to their family and their friend . may their memory be a blessing . a further three man be seriously injure in the attack . I know that all our thought be with they , and with all those who be catch up in these terrible event . I also wish to thank those whose bravery save life : worshipper , staff and volunteer from the Community Security Trust , and the emergency service , who act with speed and the utmost professionalism . this be a moment of profound national sorrow . an attack on our jewish community be an attack on this entire nation , and it call on we to assert , once more , our determination to tackle extremism , antisemitism and hatred wherever they appear . although the event of that day be painful to recount , it be important that we do so . on the morning of Thursday 2 October , a terrorist drive a car at worshipper outside the Heaton Park Hebrew Congregation synagogue in Crumpsall , Manchester . the driver then leave his vehicle , arm with a knife , and resume his attack . he be wear what be later determined to be a fake explosive device , although it should be remember that all present have every reason to believe that that bomb be real . when the first call to the emergency service come in , Greater Manchester police declare a major incident and firearm officer be deploy . within seven minute of that call , the attacker have be intercept and shoot dead . Melvin Cravitz be kill by the attacker . tragically , initial finding now indicate that Adrian Daulby sustain a gunshot wound during the armed police response . as be standard in such case , an investigation be be carry out by the Independent Office of Police Conduct , but there be two thing that I can say . first , it be important to note that the IOPC have confirm that the officer involve in the response be be treat as witness . secondly , it must be remember that the police act in a situation in which they believe a terrorist be likely to detonate an explosive device . the necessary process must now take their course , and I expect the IOPC to complete they as quickly as possible . there be no ambiguity around who be responsible for the death and injury that take place on that day . member will be aware that the attack be carry out by Jihad al - Shamie , a 35 - year - old british citizen of syrian descent . we know that he come to this country as a child and be register as a british citizen while still a minor . he be never refer to the Prevent programme , nor be he know to counter - terrorism policing or the security service . he have , however , recently be arrest on rape charge , for which he be on bail at the time of the attack . investigator believe the attacker be influence by extreme islamist ideology , evident in a 999 call that he make during the incident in which he pledge allegiance to Islamic State . six people be arrest follow the attack and be release without charge ; one be subsequently re - arrest and have be bail . I know that there be many question that the public rightly demand answer to , as do Members of this House . those answer will come , but for now the investigation be ongoing , and we must allow that work to take its course . we know that voice in the jewish community have long be warn that this day would come , and that Jews who have long feel safe in this country — in their country — now no long do . now that this awful day have come to pass , we must learn from it so that we do everything within our power to ensure that it do not happen again . our immediate priority be to enhance security . visible officer patrol have be step up at synagogue and other site in Manchester and across the country . additional support have be make available to more than 500 location , and although there have be long - stand security arrangement in place , with £ 18 million of funding each year for the Community Security Trust , it be clear that more must be do . we will provide our jewish community with the protection they deserve , because no one should be force to live a small jewish life in their country because of the event of 2 October . our posture at religious site be one of maximum vigilance . that apply to the jewish community , and it also apply to british Muslims . I know that member from across the House will have be disturb by a suspect arson attack that take place at a mosque in Peacehaven , East Sussex , last week . the Policing Minister visit the mosque and meet those who be force to flee for their life in terrifying circumstance , and we have discuss this with my hon . friend the Member for Brighton Kemptown and Peacehaven ( Chris Ward ) , who I know also visit the mosque on Friday . let I be clear : violence direct at any community — be they jewish or Muslim , and of all faith or none — be an attack on our entire country . I know this country be unite in our condemnation of those who seek to divide we , because one of the great achievement of this country have be our tolerance , our ability to accept and embrace difference , and our generosity towards those who may not look the same but be encompass comfortably within a single national identity . it be for that reason that I be so affront by the protest that take place in the day after the attack . these be a clear source of fear to the jewish community , who be grieve just day after an unspeakable tragedy . the same be true on the anniversary of the 7 October attack . I describe those protest as " un - British " and I stand by that , because those protester show none of the generosity of spirit that I love about this country , and they most certainly do their cause no good whatsoever . the right to protest be a fundamental freedom , but it must be balance against the right the public have to their safety and security . in my conversation with community leader and the police in recent day , it be clear that balance have not be strike . for that reason , I can confirm to the House today that we will amend section 12 and 14 of the Public Order Act 1986 . the police will be able to take account of the cumulative impact of frequent protest when consider whether to impose condition . this will mean that protest that follow the same route time and again can be force to change their route or the time of a protest . I be also review all exist legislation to ensure our public order power be fit for purpose and be be consistently apply . the right to protest must and will be protect , but of all the freedom we enjoy none be more precious than the right to live in safety . the Government ' s first responsibility be to keep the public safe . since 2017 , the Security Service and the police have disrupt more than 40 plot , and this work have save countless life . through our counter - terrorism strategy Contest , we continue to tackle threat to this country , include those pose by islamist terrorism , which remain our primary domestic threat . through programme such as Prevent , we seek to stop the slide into extremism that be draw in far too many young people today . once the investigation into this attack be complete , we will know much more about how it take place , but the reality be we now face a domestic terrorist threat in this country that be more complex , less predictable and hard to detect than ever before . that threat will never be defeat unless we address the hate that fuel it . that mean act on the rise tide of antisemitism in this country . I be horrified when I hear our jewish community talk about their fear in a country that once offer a rare island of sanctuary in an all - too - often hostile world . we have , in the day since the attack , step up our effort to tackle antisemitism wherever it be find — challenging misinformation and hatred in school , call on vice - chancellor to do more to protect jewish student at university and call on local authority to use their power to protect the community , as well as review the clearly inadequate regulation that protect jewish staff and patient in the national health service . while these be important step , more must be do . antisemitism be the old hatred , and we must now redouble our effort to fight it once more . terrorist seek one thing : to divide we . they hate a society like ours where different community live together in harmony , unite by a common identity that transcend the colour of our skin or the nature of our faith . this attack have raise question that must be answer about the security that we provide to our jewish community , about how we address a rise tide of antisemitism and about how we bring community together , rather than allow some individual to separate off into dark corner , include how we tackle the continue threat of islamist extremism and those who be pull towards its warped ideology . however , at the same time we must not let this attack defeat we , nor forget who we really be , because the real face of this country be not that of the vile monster who conduct this attack . it be those who stand up to he and save their fellow worshipper , and the emergency service who sprint towards danger to bring the attack to an end . the real face of this country be not those who take to the street and protest the very next day , but rather those who be horrify by the attack , stand with their jewish neighbour and choose the path of solidarity over division . the antisemitic terrorist attack of 2 October be a horrifying act . in response to it , I hope the whole House can be unite in a simple message : those who seek to divide we by pit one against another will fail . no act of terror will ever defeat we . I commend this statement to the House . I call the shadow Home Secretary . I thank the Home Secretary for advance sight of her statement . at 9 . 31 be on the morning of Yom Kippur , the holy day in the jewish calendar , we see the sicken terrorist attack on worshipper at Heaton Park synagogue in Manchester by an islamist extremist . the brutal attack leave two man dead , Melvin Cravitz and Adrian Daulby , and three more injured . our thought and prayer remain with the victim and their family whose life be so wickedly tear apart on that holy morning . I want to thank Greater Manchester police and other in the security and emergency service for respond so quickly , and the brave worshipper inside the synagogue who stop the attacker from enter . I join the Home Secretary in say that I hope the IOPC complete its work quickly and that its conclusion reflect the fact that the police officer act with courage in what be a very dangerous , unpredictable and fast - move situation . sadly , we know that antisemitism be at record high in the UK . the Community Security Trust record over 1 , 500 antisemitic incident across the UK in the first half of this year , the second - high level ever , and jewish people in our country , tragically , face far high rate of hate crime than any other community . we must stand with this country ' s jewish community and fight with all our resolve and energy the ancient evil of antisemitism wherever it be find . it have no place on these shore — not ever . to be clear , attack base on race or religion be totally unacceptable . the recent attack on a mosque in Peacehaven be appal , and I know that we all unreservedly condemn it . everyone in this country in all community , include the muslim community , must have the courage to stand up to extremism wherever we see it . stand by and say nothing when encounter extremism be complicity . that be why the antisemitism that be rife on university campus must also be fight . the Home Secretary mention that in her statement , but will she work with her colleague in Government to withdraw funding from university that do not do enough to fight antisemitism ? we must do more than just call out extremism . anyone espouse extremist view or who express support for terrorism , or racial or religious hatred of any kind , include antisemitism , who be not a british citizen should be remove from this country . will the Home Secretary commit today to use her power under the Immigration Act 1971 to remove from this country any foreign national who express extremist view or sympathy for political violence , terrorism , antisemitism or any other form of religious hatred , whether or not the criminal threshold be meet ? she could make that commitment now . will she show that she be serious about fight extremism by do so ? I agree with the Home Secretary that the protest on 7 October this year , the anniversary of the terrorist murder by Hamas and just day after the Manchester attack , be appal — " un - British " , in her word , which I agree with . the protest have continue even after the recent peace agreement relate to Gaza be sign , and , of course , they start before Israel ' s military action in Gaza . in principle , I support her propose introduction of a new cumulative impact test to section 12 and 14 of the Public Order Act , but will she also consider expand that test to also account for intimidation feel by other community as a result of protest ? do the Home Secretary also agree that anyone express support for a proscribe terrorist organisation or who incite violence , for example by call for jihad or intifada , should be arrest and prosecute ? since the attack , the police confirm the attacker pledge allegiance to Islamic State and be influence by extreme islamist ideology , as the Home Secretary acknowledge . islamist extremism be sadly a threat we know all too well in the United Kingdom . in July , we remember the 52 people murder by islamist terrorist in the 7 / 7 bombing , which take place 20 year ago — the deadly terrorist attack commit on british soil . we also remember Sir David Amess , also murder by an islamist extremist , and the 22 victim of the Manchester Arena attack , also murder by an islamist extremist . we should not be afraid to call out this extremist ideology wherever we see it . it have no place in this country . will the Home Secretary pledge to drop any definition of Islamophobia that would make call out islamist extremism any hard ? the fact be that 75 % of MI5 ' s terrorism - relate caseload be relate to islamist extremism , and the vast majority of terrorist murder in the past 25 year be perpetrate by Islamists , yet only 13 % of the Prevent caseload be islamist related . what do the Home Secretary propose to do about that ? Britain give perpetrator Jihad al - Shamie a home when he arrive here from Syria . he then carry out a brutal attack on a synagogue , deliberately target at jewish people , on the holy day of the jewish calendar . we need to reflect very deeply on the implication of that . today , we must all stand together and fight the hatred of extremism and terror . attack like this one be an attack on our whole nation . we will never change our way of life , and we will never allow our fellow citizen to be threaten or attack simply because of their background . I know that the whole House will want to send out that message today . I thank the shadow Home Secretary for his response and for the way in which he make it . I look forward to work with he and with all member across the House as we deal with what I hope will always be a shared issue and a shared problem . where there be agreement and consensus in this House on the measure that we should take , I hope we will be able to progress those matter quickly . the shadow Home Secretary ask specifically about university . he will , I hope , have see the comment make by my colleague and right hon . friend the Secretary of State for Education , who have make clear to university what their responsibility be . it be important that she do that engagement before consider what measure to take if university fail to take all step to protect jewish student on campus . this Government be very clear that university already have responsibility and they need to demonstrate that they be reflect those responsibility and take appropriate action . the shadow Home Secretary ask a range of question on other crime that be be commit . he will , I hope , recognise that this Government have work very closely with policing , despite lot of disquiet in some quarter , to ensure that we have absolutely no tail - off in our response to those who support a proscribe terror organisation . he will have see that there have be many hundred of arrest . as long as people continue to show support for a proscribe organisation , they will face the full force of the law every time they do so . on immigration power , I be consider all immigration issue . the shadow Home Secretary will know that this Government have quite significantly increase the deportation of foreign offender who have be find guilty of commit a crime in this country , compare to the situation we inherit . I note his point on the wide power of the Immigration Act 1971 , which I be review . I will say more to the House on that in due course . the right hon . Gentleman also make a number of point on our propose amendment to section 12 and 14 of the Public Order Act 1986 . I hope that when we bring those measure forward , they will receive support in this House . I be happy to write to he on any further detail about the Public Order Act . I be go to review the wide landscape of public order legislation , particularly in relation to the cumulative impact of repeat protest ; we be already go to take step on impose further condition and make explicit that cumulative impact be something that the police should take into account , but I be also go to look at the wide framework . again , I will return to the House in due course with further update on that legislation . the shadow Home Secretary rightly note that the protest have continue both before and after the peace agreement in the middle east . I think we can conclude that not all those protest truly wish to see peace in the middle east , but it be for they to answer on what their motivation really be . we be very clear that although the right to protest be a fundamental freedom in our country enjoy by people of all background , it be often the cause of grave offence to other people who live in this country , and it must be balance against the right of all people to be able to live in safety . the shadow Home Secretary mention islamist extremism in particular . let I be clear to he and to the House that this Government , and I as Home Secretary , have a clear - eyed view of where the threat that face this country be come from . it be true that within our domestic extremism landscape the large cohort of work that keep our security service and counter - terror police busy be relate to islamist extremism . we will not shy away from confront those issue and deal with they in the appropriate way . what happen in Manchester on 2 October ask a big question of all of we . this threat be something that we have be live with for some time , and we have not yet defeat it . I commit myself and the Government to do everything in our power to stand up to this particular threat without fear or favour , and to destroy it for good . I also note that the first people that islamist often suppress , hurt and damage be their fellow Muslims . it be in everyone ' s interest to fight islamist extremism wherever it be find . as the shadow Home Secretary note , there be a wide and more complex domestic extremism picture in relation to extreme right - wing terrorism , and the emerge threat of those who do not have a fixed ideology but who be fixate on violence . it be important that all of our response be measure and follow where the risk be come from and that we be always ask ourselves what action will ultimately be effective in deal with the threat . we will redouble our effort to interrogate the assumption that have be make in the past and to assess whether they need to be change and what new effective action must be pursue . I hope that in that task we will have support from member across the House . I thank the Home Secretary for her statement , and I be sure that the people of Crumpsall , where this atrocity take place , will welcome it . the only point I would add be that while these act of antisemitism and violence be un - British , they be also inhuman — I think that be a well way to describe they , rather than " un - British . " I thank the Home Secretary and the Prime Minister for come to Manchester on the day of the attack , which be much appreciated . the Home Secretary have a chance to meet the hero , because while there be violence and tragedy , there be certainly hero , not least the member of the congregation — two of whom lose their life — who protect other member of the congregation from what would undoubtedly have be more death . the Home Secretary also meet the Community Security Trust , the police and the fire brigade , who all play an excellent role in get to the site of the violence as quickly as they could . I have live in this community , within a stone ' s throw of the synagogue , for most of my adult life , and I have no doubt that the community will remain resilient . it have always be resilient . the film crew who throng about the area after the violence be amazed that Muslims , Jews , Sikhs , Christians and people of no religion be all console each other . there be no hostility at all on the street . the final point I want to make be not as heartwarming . there be hurt and anger within the local jewish community . they have know for some time that an attack like this be come . obviously they do not know when or where , but it have arrive . they feel that there have develop a hierarchy of racism — that somehow Jew hatred be not as important as other kind of racism . they feel that not enough have be do to protect they . the extra security that the Prime Minister and the Home Secretary have announce be welcome , but what the community be look for be extra action to deal with religious extremist who be involve in illegal activity , to get to the heart of the violent activity against the jewish community . the final point I will make be that , in one sense , take action against illegal activity be the easy part . but partly because of what have happen in Gaza , many people now think it be okay in casual dinner party conversation — we have probably all hear it and witness it — to make antisemitic comment . it be not okay . it be also not okay , although it be not against the law , for artist — if I can use that word — like Bob Vylan to be operate and spread their hate on campus like Manchester University . will the Home Secretary look forward with I to a future not only free of antisemitism but where I do not have to walk or drive past jewish school with security guard outside they ? I pay tribute to my hon . friend , who be an assiduous constituency Member of Parliament . I see for myself at first hand his deep link in the community that he represent in the House and how he have be a source of real strength in bring people together in that part of Manchester . as a member of an ethnic and faith minority myself , one of the thing that I most hate about our political discourse and national conversation be the hierarchy of racism . I hate how minority community feel like we be pit against one another in a fight for attention and recognition of the difficulty that we might face as individual group . racism in all its form be abhorrent , and I will be as assiduous in fight the scourge of antisemitism in this country as people might expect I , as a Muslim , to be in fight Islamophobia in this country . we be all safe when we be all safe , and I will not stand by and watch our community be force to compete with one another and force to explain again and again why they be suffer and why they do not feel safe . to I , that be unacceptable in 21st - century Britain . I will not stand for it , and it will not be the policy position of this Government . the person who bear responsibility for what happen on 2 October be the terrorist attacker himself — I will not name he again today — but there be no doubt that event in the middle east have cause tension here at home , and some have seek to exploit those tension . it be incredibly important that we be clear - eyed in hold the line between what could be a legitimate critique of the israeli Government ' s action in the war in the middle east and antisemitism : you can be a critic of policy in the middle east without become antisemitic , hate Jews and hold Jews in this country to account for thing happen in a country elsewhere that be nothing to do with they . it be incumbent on all of we to hold that line and to be clear where that line be , so that we speak with one voice and give confidence to our minority community here at home . one of the most devastating thing that I hear when I be in Manchester on the day and in the aftermath of the attack be our jewish community express how they now feel unsafe in their own country and that they might never see a time when their child do not have to have security when they go to school . although it be important that in the immediate aftermath of the attack we consider security matter , enhance the police presence and deepen our work with the Community Security Trust , I will not stop until people in this country can go to a synagogue or jewish school without first have to go through a security cordon . I call the liberal Democrat spokesperson . I thank the Home Secretary for advance sight of her statement . this be my first duty as my party ' s home affair spokesperson ; I only wish that it be not in response to such a tragedy . my party ' s thought be with the family of Adrian Daulby and Melvin Cravitz , who be tragically kill . our thought be also with those who be injure , the congregation , and the wide jewish community , which be the target of a vicious attack on its holy day , Yom Kippur . we must all be clear that the attack do not happen in a vacuum . antisemitism be widespread on Britain ' s street , and british Jews have be live in fear , particularly since Hamas ' s horrific terror attack of 7 October 2023 . the Liberal Democrats be commit to ensure that our jewish friend and neighbour feel safe walk the street and worship in their synagogue . those who spread antisemitic hatred or incite violence against Jews , whether online , at marche or elsewhere , must be stop . that be never acceptable . I thank the Community Security Trust , as the shadow Home Secretary do , for the incredible job that it do , work with the police , to protect the jewish community across our country . I praise its collaboration with organisation such as Tell MAMA , with which it share good practice so that both the jewish community and the muslim community can be well protect . I look forward to visit the CST ' s headquarters in the near future as one of my first duty in this role . we can not ignore the issue of protest . the right to peaceful protest be a cornerstone of our democracy , and it be a right that the liberal Democrats will always protect , but we be also acutely aware of the fear feel by the jewish community and the harassment that they have feel at some marche . too often we have see marche hijack by people spread antisemitism and incite violence against Jews ; we see it even on the night of this appalling attack . my party be unequivocal in its view that those who incite antisemitism and carry it out must be meet with the full force of the law . I say this advisedly , Mr Speaker : unfortunately , the Government ' s recent decision have lead to police arrest pensioner for hold up cardboard sign when they should be protect all community , include the jewish community , from those who would cause harm . this undermine the right to protest and , crucially , mean that the police be use their time and resource on other thing when they should be protect people . the british jewish community should not have to suffer violence or live in fear simply because of their identity . we need less " thought and prayer " and more action . will the Home Secretary confirm what additional physical security the Home Office have provide for the jewish community since the attack ? we must also tackle the underlying root of modern - day antisemitism in this country . if the conversation we have make we feel squeamish and lead we to ask question that prompt discomforting answer — as question that I have ask recently have do — that be all the more reason to have they , and to have they more often . will the Home Secretary , with the Prime Minister , convene a summit of interfaith leader , communal body , education head and the security service to really get a grip of the ever - grow crisis of antisemitism ? antisemitism , terrorism and hatred can be defeat , but only if we stand united against they and stand for the value that we as british people hold so dear . I thank the Liberal Democrat spokesman for his response . where we agree , I hope we will be able to work closely , in particular on issue relate to protest and rebuild interfaith work in this country . I think everybody who have be involve in interfaith work in the last two year , myself include , will acknowledge that there have be real challenge and difficulty there . we have to think more creatively and redouble our effort to rebuild relationship that have be deeply strained . however , I can not accept and leave unchallenged what the hon . Member have to say about the protest , lead primarily by the group Defend our Juries , in relation to the proscription of the group Palestine Action . I think the Liberal Democrats have to ask themselves some serious question . be they go to stand up for the rule of law in this country ? in this House and outside it , anyone be free to challenge our terror law — to say that they should be change and to suggest that the threshold be in the wrong place and need update . that be fair and legitimate comment . we may disagree , but it be perfectly legitimate to debate that in this House and outside it . what be not acceptable , and what be a crime under the law of our land , be to support a proscribe organisation . member of this House should not feel that they can do anything other than support the law of our land . it do not matter whether someone think proscription be the wrong thing to do : support a proscribe organisation be an offence under our terror law , and it will always be meet with the full force of the law . I do say to the Liberal Democrats that they really have to decide whether they be go to stand up for the rule of law in this country . if they have thing to say — suggestion or amendment — about our terror law , they should raise they in the normal and legitimate way in the House , but do not break the rule of law in our country . [ interruption . ] I think the hon . member for Perth and Kinross - shire ( Pete Wishart ) , who be speak from a sedentary position , be suggest that he think that police the protest where support for a proscribe organisation be show be somehow a waste of time ; I call it stand up for the rule of law in this country . I be sure the whole House will share my joy at the release of the hostage in the middle east today , but as the shocking attack in Manchester last week show , and as the Home Secretary and my hon . friend the Member for Blackley and Middleton South ( Graham Stringer ) make absolutely clear , antisemitism be rife and increase on our own doorstep . I therefore ask the Home Secretary to increase funding for police and security not only at synagogue but at jewish school like Brodetsky primary and Leeds jewish free school , as well as at the Zone youth club in my Leeds North East constituency . will she also consider fund essential and crucial community organisation , such as the Leeds jewish Representative Council , that be fundamental to community cohesion in Leeds and other city ? I be sure that the whole House share the relief at the release of the hostage after such a long period in captivity , have see their family go through so much . I be sure that we all hope and pray that the peace process in the middle east properly get under way and that we will see a long - term resolution as quickly as possible . we have already increase the police presence at synagogue and other site of interest and community institution for the jewish community all across the country . we be in discussion with the Community Security Trust and other community organisation about what the future look like in term of security and other issue . we will report to the House in due course . I call the Chair of the Home Affairs Committee . I thank the Home Secretary for her statement and for advance sight of it . while I be very supportive of the work that be be do to increase security at jewish synagogue and other venue , the answer can not be constantly more security for the jewish community . the jewish community need to be able to live their life fully , as the Home Secretary say , so what step be she take to address the extremist ideology of the perpetrator ? it be present online , in school and in mosque ; it be addle brain and make people do utterly horrendous thing , such as those we see last week . the Chair of the Select Committee be absolutely right : the answer can not just be more funding for more security . as I say in response to an early question , I do not want it to be forever the case that in order for jewish child to go to their local jewish school , they have to walk through a security cordon . I think it be right that in our initial response to the attack , we be focus on security , because it be important that we give confidence to the community , who have see such a horrific terror attack take place , but the future have to look different from the present and the past . that be why the Government be go to step up our action on tackle antisemitism , work closely with the independent adviser , Lord Mann . we have set up an antisemitism working group , which will make wide societal recommendation in due course . it be why the Secretary of State for Education have write to university in particular to remind they of their responsibility to student . action be already take place base on our current arrangement , but there be a question for we to ask about the wide picture and how we really deal with the scourge of antisemitism . it have go on for far too long , it be rise , and as a society we need to think more carefully and more deeply about how we tackle that hatred and how we bring all our community together . the perpetrator of the hideous antisemitic terror attack on the jewish community at the Heaton Park shul be on police bail for rape at the time of the attack , join a long line of terrorist and violent extremist with a document history of violence against woman and girl . I welcome the measure that the Home Secretary have outline today to provide great protection for our jewish community in the wake of the attack . alongside that , will the Home Secretary outline whether any work be take place into misogyny as a risk factor for , or nexus into , other form of extremism within our anti - terrorism framework , and what plan the Government have to publish an extremism strategy and hate crime action plan ? my hon . friend be right — the attacker be , at the time of the attack , on police bail for two different charge of rape . all previous contact he have with the police be subject to an IOPC investigation . there be two plank to the IOPC investigation . the first be the shooting itself , but then there be the attacker ' s previous contact with the police . once we have that part of the IOPC ' s work complete , I will be able to give much more detail about the exact nature of those allege offence , why he be deal with in the way that he be , and if there be any wide lesson to be draw from that . I assure she that the nexus of misogyny with extremism be something that this Government take very seriously . I be join on the Front Bench by the Minister for Victims , my hon . friend the Member for Pontypridd ( Alex Davies - Jones ) , from the Ministry of Justice , with whom we work closely on these matter . I assure my hon . friend the Member for Warrington North ( Charlotte Nichols ) that our next publication will focus , if possible — if the investigation have take place — on the lesson that have be learn from this case . I call the Father of the House . of course , we all agree with the Home Secretary , but can we dig a little deep ? there be a reason why the jewish community be by far our most successful immigrant community , date from the end of the 19th century . they be determined , and be determined , to integrate into our society in every single way . but let we be realistic : there be some part of some community who do not integrate . will the Government say unequivocally that if someone want to come and live here , they must think of themselves primarily as british ? it do not matter what their colour or faith be — they be british . however strongly they feel about Gaza or anything else , they must approach all issue with our traditional sense of good humour and tolerance . I think everyone across the House can agree and unite around the idea that it be important that everybody who come to this country , make it their home and choose to raise their family here commit themselves to be the good of British . that be certainly my own experience as somebody whose parent come to this country in the late ' 60 and then in the ' 70 . actually , the vast majority of our minority community be very proud of be british . every survey I have ever see of minority community that ask they to describe their Britishness find a huge pride in Britishness and also in our Union Jack — our flag and symbol of our nation . there be obviously , though , some issue that we have to confront . there be a question to be ask here about this attacker who have all of the benefit . he come here as a small child and become a naturalised british citizen . he be still a minor when he become british , and he commit these attack in his mid - 30 . there be a question to ask about what go wrong in that period of his life , in those formative year , that make he do such an act . I will ensure that those wide lesson be learn , and I will never shy away from honest conversation about either integration or community cohesion in our country . but I also do not want it to be the case that we allow the action of a minority to make we believe that our majority be not proud of be british , because my own experience and all the datum show that the exact opposite be true . I thank the Home Secretary for her statement and her visit to Manchester immediately follow the attack . in the jewish community in my constituency in south Manchester , there be a real sense of anxiety and fear , and she be right to identify that . the message that need to go out today , and that have go out across Manchester , be that the people of Manchester be shock and appal by this attack and stand with our jewish neighbour against antisemitism and extremism . a number of my constituent in Manchester Withington have ask I to press the Home Secretary to ensure that the Community Security Trust and other community organisation get the full support they need — not just security , which be obviously important , but trauma service and mental health support . could she say a little more about that and give they that reassurance ? the volunteer of the Community Security Trust be absolute hero and do vital work every single day . they be there at the site of the attack , and the action of those volunteer and worshipper at the synagogue in Manchester on 2 October save many , many life . so many people be cower behind the door to the synagogue , keep it shut and prevent the attacker from enter . I can not imagine what must they have go through while they do so , but they do so to keep other safe . they be all hero . I have be very strike by the conversation that I have have with those volunteer . I assure my hon . friend that I and the Prime Minister have have constant contact with the Community Security Trust and other jewish community organisation . we will say more in the come day and week about how we intend to move forward on matter of security , and about the wide picture of give reassurance to this country ' s jewish community , so that they can go about their business safely . first , on behalf of the Scottish National party , I join the Home Secretary in express our solidarity with the jewish community after the horror of the appalling event at the Heaton Park synagogue . such antisemitic hate must never be allow to prevail or divide we . in Scotland , the police have increase security in our centre of faith , and have ask the public to remain vigilant follow the attack . however , do the Home Secretary not see that by crack down on our legitimate right to protest , she be simply give succour to the hater , allow they to dictate our approach to protest , and to alter basic freedom that we have always enjoy ? surely that can not be the Government ' s intention . the Government ' s intention be to ensure that the right balance be strike between our fundamental right to protest and ensure that our community can go about their business without live in fear of weekly protest on their doorstep . through amendment to section 12 and 14 of the Public Order Act , we be suggest make it explicit that the police can take cumulative impact into account when impose condition . that be not a removal of the right to protest ; it be just say that there be condition . the protest can carry on , but not in a way that prevent other community from be able to go about their business in safety and security . I be surprised — well , I be not surprised , because the hon . Gentleman be from the Scottish National party , but I hope that member across the House understand that get the balance right be delicate and difficult , and that this measure will put we back toward something that look and feel much more like a balanced situation . protest can go ahead , but with some condition . I would be surprised if that do not get backing from across the House . I hope that it do . during my time in and around public life , Manchester have face a number of terrorist atrocity : the ' 92 and ' 96 IRA bomb , the death of Detective Constable Stephen Oake in 2003 at the hand of an islamic extremist , the 2017 Manchester Arena terror attack , and now this vile attack on Manchester ' s jewish community . be the Home Secretary confident that we have fully implement the recommendation on tackle the failing identify after the arena attack , and that there be an equitable distribution of counter - terrorism resource in the United Kingdom ? when I visit soon after the attack , I be very clear that the main finding from the arena attack relate to the ability of the emergency service to respond in a timely way and therefore save life . I can tell my hon . friend that between they , the emergency service — the fire service , the police , the ambulance service and everybody else — take on board the direct learning from what happen in the arena attack . only seven minute pass between moment the first call come in and the moment the attacker be shoot dead , so I pay direct tribute to all those emergency service . a role be play not just by armed police , but by the ambulance service and the fire service — fire service happen to be go to a different fire , but they re - route to deal with the aftermath of the attack . I pay tribute to they . those be direct learning from the arena attack . on the wide picture , we will know more about the preparation and planning of the attack once all the fact be in . I will inform my hon . friend and other in the House if I think there be wide lesson to be draw , but it be a little early in the investigation to say whether there be . as in the case of the attack on Parliament in 2017 , this attack be a combination of the use of a vehicle as a deadly weapon and an attempt to break into premise to kill people indiscriminately . on both occasion , brave man have to sacrifice their life to prevent access . would it not be a sensible first step for all vulnerable premise to have door that can be easily lock , so that people do not have to put themselves at risk physically hold they close ? I congratulate the Home Secretary on an excellent statement . I thank the right hon . gentleman for his question and comment . he be right : there be wide learning here . that be why the Government be implement Martyn ' s law , which be about make premise safe from attack and draw on lesson from the Manchester arena attack . that be due to be implement . I know there be some concern in the House and elsewhere — in the jewish and other community — about the length of time for implementation , which be up to 24 month . I will make sure that we interrogate whether that implementation can occur more quickly ; if it can , I will ensure that it do . as a Greater Manchester Member of Parliament proudly represent a significant jewish community , I know how much fear and anguish there already be in the community , even before the horrific attack in Crumpsall , as Manchester colleague have say . as the Home Secretary have outline , we need action , not word , to tackle the scourge of rise antisemitism . can the Government update the House on the development of our counter - extremism strategy ? have we respond to previous finding in this regard — for instance , the review conduct by Dame Sara Khan ? my hon . friend be right . he will have note my early comment about immediate action that the Government be take , as well as the wide message to partner across the public sector — at university , in the NHS and so on : that we all need to do more to tackle the scourge of antisemitism in our country . on counter - terror policy more broadly , I be myself review all the previous finding make by expert follow early attack , under the previous Government and our own , to make sure that we have implement all relevant recommendation and that our response be alive to the scale of the challenge . I be very clear that this attack have ask a big question of all of we — of the country , and the Government specifically — about the response to antisemitism , and integration and community cohesion . those issue will be subject to further lively debate in this House in the week and month to come . may I take this rare opportunity to praise the Home Secretary for what she have do with Palestine Action , and for take step to preserve the ability of some to protest , while stop hate speech and other action from other protester ? do she agree that there be a correlation between the rise of antisemitism and these protest ? the jewish community in London — but also , I be sure , across Manchester and the rest of the UK — be afraid to be comfortable in their religion . they feel afraid even to wear a yarmulke or to identify as jewish . that be a national disgrace , and I hope that the Home Secretary will move forward to tackle it , with not just word but action . I have be clear that I do not want people in our country — our own citizen — to feel that they have to live a small life and hide away who they really be because they be afraid of attack , be it verbal or physical , or scare that their child will be abuse . that be not the future that I want for anyone in our country — not in our jewish community or any other community . that be why I have take step on protest , and be review the wide legislation on protest and the threshold for hate crime . I have be hear clearly in the last few day that there be particular phrase that may not be liable for prosecution under our legislation , but that create huge amount of fear . I want to review all that properly in the round , to make sure that we have the most robust legal framework — a framework that allow people in our country their effective precious freedom , and accept that people sometimes say offensive thing , but provide a clear line between what be offensive and what be criminal . once I have complete that review , I will report to the House . I thank the Home Secretary for her excellent statement . I pay tribute to the man who be kill and I send my condolence to their family and friend , and the wide jewish community . as the Home Secretary have say , there be no place whatsoever in the UK for hate crime of any sort , direct at any group or any individual , and those who propagate hate must be hold to account . the Home Secretary propose change to the regulation in the Public Order Act 2023 ; in addition , will she undertake a review of the Online Safety Act 2023 ? Use of the online space be a key way in which message of hate be propagate , and not enough be be do to stop that . my hon . friend be right to point out that hatred against minority community run riot in the online space . we do not need to look that deeply at many of the group that proliferate online to see that whatever other hatred they say they profess , underneath there be usually a cesspit of antisemitism . that be a huge problem for we . the Online Safety Act have measure that be design to begin to address some of those problem , but I be sure that there will be more work for we to do in the future . we must first ensure that our legal framework be robust enough to tackle the threat that we see daily in our real - world space , and then review to ensure that there be action much early in the online space . I will talk to colleague across Government to ensure that we do everything that we can . I thank the Home Secretary for her statement , and I join she in express solidarity with the jewish community follow the horrific attack . do the Home Secretary agree that we must urgently address online space where hatred be radicalise and amplify ? will she work with the Secretary of State for Science , Innovation and Technology to review Ofcom ' s guidance , and the categorisation set out in the Online Safety Act , to ensure that small , high - harm platform be properly regulate to prevent the radicalisation that lead to such devastating attack ? the hon . Lady will understand that I will not make new policy at the Dispatch Box , but I confirm that I will be talk about those matter to the Secretary of State for Science , Innovation and Technology . I recognise that the online space pose a specific challenge when it come to all form of hatred , particularly antisemitism , which proliferate across the political spectrum — on the left , on the right and everywhere in between — and I will talk to colleague in Government about that . tonight , Jews around the world begin the festival of Simchat Torah . on Simchat Torah two year ago , we witness the bad attack on Jews since world war two . today , we express joy at the hostage release , but also great sorrow at the massive loss of life during this terrible war . as we have hear , antisemitism be widespread . there be often only one jewish child at a rural school in , say , Norfolk or Suffolk — indeed , my brother and I be the only jewish child at our school . what can be do to support our teacher , so that they have the skill , knowledge and curriculum to educate all our child on the terrible scourge of antisemitism ? the Department for Education and the Secretary of State for Education have already make funding available to school to tackle antisemitism in the classroom , and to educate teacher about the good way to handle conversation on the subject . I be sure that she will say more about that when she be next before the House for oral question . my hon . friend should rest assure that we recognise that antisemitism be a society - wide problem . colleague in the Department of Health be take action , particularly around the regulation of doctor , to ensure that our national health service be a safe space for patient of every background , include jewish patient . there have be work not just in the Department for Education , but in other Departments ; there need to be a whole - government response , because this be a whole - society problem . in the wake of the terrorist attack in Heaton Park , I be very proud to say that Belmont shul , in my constituency , host a Shabbat service follow a meeting of the Harrow Interfaith council at which representative of all religion stand together with the jewish community to say that hatred will not be allow to win . on the previous Friday , however , I be horrify to receive frantic phone call , just before Shabbat start , say that none of the synagogue have have contact from the police about what would happen the follow day . after some frantic phone call , the police say , " we can do drive - bys and various other thing , but we can ' t have a permanent presence at the shul on Shabbat . " the reason be the Palestine Action demonstration in central London , at which the police know they would have to arrest perpetrator support proscribe organisation . my constituent , and those across London , be feed up with pay for these hate marche and hate demonstration to take place . in addition to change the route , the meeting place and the time that these demonstration can take place , how about another suggestion ? if people want to organise these hate demonstration , let they have the bill for the policing . I assure the hon . Gentleman that I be consider all the recommendation make by adviser to both our Administration and the previous Conservative Administration . I understand the call for protester to pay . one of the difficulty be with implementation , rather than a disagreement on the substance of that issue . it be one of the thing I will be look at in the wide review I be do . it be important that whatever action we take do not create more work for policing , which be why I have already have discussion with senior police officer across the country about what we should do go forward . I can assure the hon . Gentleman that I will review those measure very carefully , bear in mind all the previous report that have be write . I will ensure that the framework we be leave with be robust and capable of be police properly , and have the confidence of both the police and community . it be important that , whatever we do , we have the resource to meet that . if the hon . Gentleman write to I on the specific of what happen with synagogue in his constituency , I will ensure that he get a proper response . I pass on my sincere condolence to the family and friend of Melvin Cravitz and Adrian Daulby , some of whom be in the Gallery early . as my hon . friend the Member for Blackley and Middleton South ( Graham Stringer ) say , it be important to mention how Jews , Muslims and Christians come together , unite in their revulsion and mourning in the wake of the attack . a few day before the attack , the punk band Bob Vylan tell a concert in Holland : " F * * * the Zionists , get out there and fight … get out there and meet they in the street . " I and other member from Greater Manchester have urge Manchester Academy to cancel the Bob Vylan concert that be due next month because the band be a direct threat to the jewish community of Manchester . do the Home Secretary agree that the concert should be cancel ? my hon . friend will understand that decision on whether specific concert or other cultural event go ahead be make independently by safety advisory group in those particular location , inform by evidence on the operational requirement . it would be quite wrong for I , as the Home Secretary , either to pre - empt those decision or to call into question their legal basis by comment on they from the Dispatch Box . it be important that safety advisory group , wherever they be , take into account all the factor around these cultural event and ensure that they take the measure require to keep our community safe . that be the job they be suppose to do , and it be the job that I hope they will do . while the Prime Minister be swanne around Egypt , shamelessly try to claim credit for the Gaza - Israel peace deal , we have the Mayor of London state that the chant " from the river to the sea " be not antisemitic . I think it be antisemitic . do the Home Secretary agree with I or with the Mayor of London ? I really do not think the hon . Member should lower the tone in that way . these be very serious matter , and we should all be unite in this House in support the peace process in the middle east , which have undoubtedly make progress in the last few day because of the action of the american President and other partner in the region . one reason I be review the wide legislation in this area , include the threshold for what constitute a hate crime , be precisely that we have many contest phrase that , base on context , currently fall foul of be prosecute . I want to ensure that we have the most robust legal mechanism so that hate speech and hate crime be always prosecute in our country , and that those who propagate they face the full force of the law . I begin by praise Melvin Cravitz and Adrian Daulby , who lose their life defend the life of other . in my constituency , we have five university with 1 , 500 jewish student — more than any other constituency in the country . we also have a Hillel house , which be attack in 2024 after a social media post by a senior politician . what will the Home Secretary do to protect Hillel house on campus up and down the country , and will she write to all Hillel house to reassure they of their safety on campus ? I be of course happy to provide support and to write in the way that my hon . friend suggest . in do so , I will be back the work of the Secretary of State for Education , who have direct responsibility for university . as some member will have see , the university regulator say on Friday that the Office for Students have power to fine university and , ultimately , cut off public funding if those university fail to uphold their responsibility to keep student safe , include our jewish student on campus . it be important that there be a whole - society response . the university sector need to step up , and I will work closely with the Secretary of State for Education to ensure that be the case . clearly , how antisemitism be tackle by the police in our community be key , so I would be interested to hear from the Home Secretary what specialist train our police force and the Crown Prosecution Service — I appreciate that this be a bit off - piste ; maybe she might put on her Justice hat for a moment — be receive to help they understand the complexity of investigate , charge and prosecute those exhibit antisemitic view early on . there be a belief among member of the jewish community who live near my constituency that far too many case be drop due to be label as have mitigate issue around concern for Israel . have discuss these matter with senior police officer across the country , I know that they often take independent legal advice , both on the decision that the police have to make and in testing with the Crown Prosecution Service whether a prosecution be likely to result in a conviction . these be contest area of public and political debate , which be why I want to review for myself the legislation that be in place . I will report to the House in due course . I join colleague in express my condolence to the family of those who lose a love one in last week ' s attack . I also put on record — I think this whole House will agree — our support for the Community Security Trust , not just for the tireless work it do every week at shul , but for its cross - community work . so many in our country right now want to divide people by find point that pit people against each other . that cross - community work be critical to keep everybody in our community safe . on that thread , one common theme that be come out — I allude to the comment of my hon . friend the Member for Warrington North ( Charlotte Nichols ) — be a concern about misogyny , and about the record of violence against woman that many of those involve in violent offence have . I know that the Home Secretary ' s predecessor be pull together a counter - terrorism strategy that be go to include that theme in look at antisemitism , Islamophobia and radical Islam . can she update we on where that review have get to , so that we can be confident that we will get all these people off our street and improve our understanding ? I can reassure my hon . friend that the nexus between misogyny and other serious offence , include offence relate to extremism and terrorism , be something we take very seriously . if she will forgive I , have be in the job for only a few week , I have not yet review all of the counter - terrorism strategy . our strategy will now need to take account of the thing that have happen in Manchester , but I can reassure my hon . friend that it will be publish in the usual way , and we will of course consider the wide lesson about misogyny and violence against woman and girl that can be draw . first , I congratulate the Secretary of State on the forthrightness and clarity of the message she have send from this House today . People in Northern Ireland appreciate the deep hurt experience by those who go to worship and find that they be victim of terrorism . we have have people machine - gun while pray , people shoot dead as they come out of church , and people ' s church bomb over 30 year of IRA violence , and we understand that . will she join I in express disgust at those in Northern Ireland who , in the very same week that this attack occur , block road and hold protest celebrate Hamas terrorist who have carry out the atrocity two year previously ? that kind of anti - jewish hate drive the action we see in Manchester . do she agree that we can not allow , under the cloud of free speech , people to use the language that drive sectarianism , which be cause hatred , division and the loss of safety in the United Kingdom ? the right hon . Gentleman be right that this country have have to learn painful lesson on sectarianism in the past , and it seem we have to learn they again in a slightly different context today . that can not be our reality in the future , and I hope that all of we across this House can unite around that work . let I also be clear for anybody celebrate and support Hamas that it be a proscribe terror organisation in this country . to support that organisation be to break the law of our land , and whenever anybody do so , they should face the full force of the law . after the vile attack in Manchester , many of we in this House will have spend time with jewish friend last week celebrate the festival of Sukkot . it be particularly emotional for I to do that with friend and to realise that for the sukkah — that temporary shelter where we eat that meal — you have to have sight of the sky , because the jewish community need to be ready always to leave . that sense of insecurity be pervade the jewish community now , and the Home Secretary must most importantly address that . Jews ' Free School in my constituency , the large jewish school in Europe , have a huge police presence outside it in the Friday afternoon after that attack , but as many have say , that reassurance should not be necessary . we have to address the fundamental insecurity that the community be face . let I assure my hon . friend that while in the initial aftermath of the attack it be important that we focus on reassurance measure and security measure , we be clear that in the medium to long term , the only way to make sure that all our jewish community be safe and that jewish life in Britain can thrive — as it have every right to do — be to ensure that we tackle the scourge of antisemitism across our country and deal with those wide question of integration and community cohesion . I congratulate the Home Secretary on an excellent statement , in which she say early on that the police officer involve be be treat as witness . that be absolutely right , but do she understand that many member of the security force involve in this kind of work fear that they will be hang out to dry ? many of they will not have their fear assuage by the write ministerial statement today on the legacy of the trouble , on which more anon . will she reassure I that everything be be do by the Greater Manchester police to put an arm around those officer who be directly involve in this incident , and that they will be give every support necessary ? I can assure the right hon . Gentleman that those officer be be support . that be why I want to make it clear to the House that they be be treat as witness . it be why I have ask the Independent Office for Police Conduct to ensure that it conclude that part of its investigation as quickly as possible . there be wide issue about firearm officer in our country have the confidence to do their job . we will soon publish our police accountability review , which be design to ensure that we meet the scale of the challenge in give our officer the confidence they need to put themselves in danger for the rest of we . there be sometimes question that have to be answer , and I think we can all accept that to be the case , but we should do that in a framework that command public support as well as the support of the professional , with thing do in a timely way , so that we can get answer as quickly as possible and not have a debilitate impact on police confidence in the long term . I commend my right hon . friend for her statement and also for her prompt response , which I know be appreciate by people in Manchester on the very day . I believe that people should be able to pursue all religion , or none , without intimidation or fear of be attack . I also believe in freedom of speech and the freedom to protest , but do my right hon . friend agree that people can not use that right to promote hate and promote violence against those with any other religion or belief ? do she agree that we need to keep that under review to ensure that we do not allow such people to continue to promote these message of hate ? my hon . friend be right : protest be a fundamental and precious freedom and should be protect , but it must be balance against the need for all our community to be able to live in safety and security . that be why I be carry out a review of the wide legislation , particularly in relation to hate crime and associate issue . I be do that to ensure that we know exactly where the line be , and to ensure that that line and the careful balance that must be strike be police properly and prosecution follow when the line be cross . I recently visit a synagogue in my constituency to celebrate Sukkot , but this year our celebration be drown in sadness as we pay our respect follow the terrorist attack on two very brave man . we all condemn those attack because , as the Home Secretary say , an attack on our jewish community be an attack against we all and we be indeed strong together . however , do she agree that act of terrorism should not be use to pit community against each other , and that by conflate the right to peaceful protest with the action of a craze terrorist we be in danger of do just that ? what step be she take to ensure that there be great community cohesion which will build bridge and not war ? I have to say that I disagree with the hon . Gentleman . I be very clear that the protest that take place immediately after this terror attack , especially in Manchester itself , be fundamentally un - British . I hope the hon . Gentleman would agree that sometimes imagine that it be ourselves who have suffer , and extend the hand of friendship , love and solidarity to a community that be suffer , be the kind thing to do , the right thing to do and the british thing to do . I would have like to have see the organiser of those protest in Manchester in the immediate aftermath of the attack , and across the country , show some of that very british solidarity . that do not mean that people be not allow to protest — they be , they have be and I be sure they will continue to do so — but sometimes a little bit of solidarity and kindness can go an awfully long way . I wish to extend my condolence to the friend and family of Adrian Daulby and Melvin Cravitz , and to the people of Manchester and the wide jewish community across the United Kingdom , follow the appalling terrorist attack at the synagogue in Heaton Park . many in the jewish community feel that this attack be a matter of not if , but when . accord to the Community Security Trust , 76 of the 1 , 521 antisemitic incident that occur in the first six month of the year be violent assault that be so severe as to be record as extreme violence , which mean that they involve gross bodily harm or a threat to life . will my right hon . friend say a little more about what she be do personally to tackle the scourge of antisemitism in our nation ? let I first say , as I say throughout my statement , that antisemitism be at unacceptable level . it be rise and have be rise for some time , and it demand a different and new answer from all of we in government and across society if we be to tackle it effectively . that mean , in the immediate aftermath of the terror attack in Manchester , that we provide reassurance to the community for their safety and security , but in the long term it mean that we must work across Government to tackle antisemitism wherever we find it , whether in the national health service , on our university campus or in protest and marche . we must hold the line between action that might be offensive but be lawful , and that which be a hate crime and must be prosecute under the law . section 12 of the Public Order Act already allow a senior police officer to place condition on a protest march , for instance by reroute it if the march will be noisy , disruptive or intimidating , so can the Home Secretary clarify her comment about section 12 ? when she talk about address the cumulative impact of the marche , be she still talk about allow the roll anti - Israel march to go ahead , just use different route , or do she want to give herself the power to stop they altogether ? the measure that I have announce will be about place condition on marche under both section 12 and section 14 of the Public Order Act . what become very clear to I in the immediate aftermath of the terror attack in Manchester be that there be inconsistency of practice across police force in the country as to whether cumulative impact could be take into account when they make decision about whether to place condition on a march or a protest . the legislation I propose will make it explicit that cumulative impact be , in and of itself , a feature that policing can take into account in order to put condition on a march . it will not need to meet any other threshold before condition can be place on a march or a protest . on the wide question , I be review the broad legislative framework . I will have more to say about potential ban , although the hon . Gentleman will know from his time at the Home Office that the policing and banning of protest have consequence , as do allow they to go ahead with condition . again , it be one of those area where a careful balance need to be strike . I hope there might be cross - party agreement on how we get that careful balance , and on how we hold it and ensure that the police be able to police effectively , whatever we may decide in the future . I thank the Home Secretary for her statement and agree with she that anyone seek to divide we will only unite we . I join hon . member in pay tribute to both Melvin and Adrian ' s family . I refer the Home Secretary to the comment from my hon . friend the Member for Wythenshawe and Sale East ( Mike Kane ) about look at the issue in police across the country . sadly , the Home Secretary will be aware of the recent expo é on the Met police , who be responsible for some of the major counter - terrorism operation across the country . those seek to protect people who report hate crime should not be the perpetrator of hate crime , and we see some disgraceful behaviour in that expos é . this week be National Hate Crime Awareness Week . every community should feel confident about report crime to the police , but we know that for every hate crime report , many more go unreported , because people do not feel safe or have confidence in the police . will the Home Secretary look at some of the issue across our police force ? my hon . friend refer to the BBC " Panorama " expos é into the Met police , and this be the first time I have be able to place on the record my view on that matter . like everybody else , I be horrified , particularly at the situation at Charing Cross police station , which have be the focus of previous expos é s and promise of change . I have discuss these matter with both the Mayor of London and the chief of the Met police , and I be reassure that they be absolutely clear - eyed about the need to tackle the issue that be expose in that programme . we be all united in our desire to root out from our police force all individual who hold horrible attitude and we can not trust to police our community safely . they have no place in our police service and I be confident that , through the work of the Met police go forward and through the Mayor of London and other partner work together , we will get to a place where we can be confident in our police force . I hope to work closely with member from across the House on that issue as well . I join the Home Secretary in pay tribute to CST and Greater Manchester emergency service for their response on the day , and particularly to those brave member of the congregation who protect their fellow member . I thank the Home Secretary for her quick response in come to Greater Manchester . as a Greater Manchester MP myself , I know it mean a great deal to our community . I be proud to have the Yeshurun Hebrew congregation in my constituency , as well as North Cheshire jewish primary school . I meet the rabbi on the Monday before this horrendous attack and we talk about the genuine fear in our community about the rise in antisemitism , which be a horrendous foreshadowing of what would happen at Heaton Park . I completely agree with the Home Secretary that more security should not be the answer , but we be in a situation in which more security be currently need . will she assure the House and the jewish community that great resource will be give to CST , the police and local authority to ensure great visible protection around our synagogue and our local jewish school — not just in the immediate term but for as long as necessary , to reassure the community that they be safe ? let I assure the hon . Gentleman and the whole House that we be discuss these matter closely with the Community Security Trust and other representative of the jewish community . the Prime Minister and I will have more to say in the come day about the medium - term picture on security and funding for place of worship in our country . let I assure the hon . Gentleman that we take this very seriously . I know he will agree that , in the long term , we need not only simply to provide protective security but to know with confidence that all our community can go about their business without have to go through a security cordon before they do so . eighty - nine year ago this month , the British Union of Fascists , lead by Oswald Mosley , try to march through the largely jewish east end of London . they be march off by people of jewish , irish and working - class background in what become know as the battle of Cable Street , unite in protest against antisemitism . follow this month ' s horrific antisemitic attack , and amid a surge in the far right ' s target of minority and the attack at Peacehaven mosque , do the Home Secretary agree with I that we must tirelessly oppose fascism , antisemitism , Islamophobia and racism , and also protect the hard - worn democratic right to protest , which be crucial to defeat fascist in Cable Street in my area in a historic act of solidarity and unity in british history ? my hon . friend be right that act of solidarity among community to protect each other reflect the absolute good of our country . as I have say , there be a careful balance to be strike in relation to the fundamental freedom and right to protest — sometimes for cause we can all believe in and sometimes for cause that be much more politically contested . it be a fundamental freedom and one of the thing that make this country such a strong and free place to be , but there must be a balance between that and the right for all of our community to go about their business with safety and security , which be why I have make the announcement about the Public Order Act . I think the balance strike at the moment be in the wrong place , and we need to take some step to correct that . I thank the Home Secretary for the statement , and I thank she and her team for deal very promptly with an issue I have raise over the last couple of week . my thought and prayer go out to the jewish community , and I thank those from the jewish community who have reach out to I to speak about their concern . I visit a jewish school with the CST , and it be awful to see child — young british child — in 21st - century Britain have to do drill on protect themselves from a lone wolf attack . we be clearly not in the right place on this . in the sentiment of deal with the root cause , do the Home Secretary agree with I that inter - faith work have fall off a cliff , and that that need to be deal with ? I be also concerned about the raising of palestinian flag in the centre Birmingham — close to home — and Preston council ' s host of a know palestinian terrorist . all of these thing contribute to the feeling I be get from the jewish community , which be that they do not feel safe in this country . this attack have shine a light on the burden that british Jews bear every single day just to live an ordinary jewish life . there be nothing bad than imagine little child in our country have to go through drill every day at school to keep themselves safe . I would hope that everyone across this House could commit ourselves collectively to do everything we can to root out the evil of antisemitism , because no child should have to do what have become ordinary and normal for british jewish child in our country . that be a disgrace for we all , it shame we all and we absolutely need to work together to fix it . on inter - faith work , the hon . member be right . in the last two year , people who have do inter - faith work for 20 or 30 year have tell I many time that it have fall off a cliff . there be no easy answer for how we get it up and run again . I think it will take careful , delicate work to bring people together again and rebuild some trust between community — between our Muslim and our jewish community . let I be frank about that . with enough good will and british generosity of spirit , it be possible for we to get that work up and run . I see it as crucial in tackle the scourge of antisemitism and other form of hatred , and in make sure that our country be a safe place for people of all different community . I hope the whole House will support that . I share with member the joy at the hostage be release today , and the sorrow at the loss of Melvin Cravitz and Adrian Daulby , and I send my condolence to their family . I join the Home Secretary in condemn this attack and condemn antisemitism and racism . I meet our local rabbi last week to share my solidarity , and I be so pleased that the congregation have receive so many message of support from across the community and other faith group — the mosque , church and other group — and that there be real support from the local police , for which they be very grateful . do the Home Secretary agree that it be vital that we continue to send a united message that we support the jewish community and their right to live and worship in safety , and that we all have a role — here in this place , and in workplace , school and street across this country — in take action against this ? it be natural after a terror attack that we might focus on the action of those who still wish to cause pain and do damage to our community , but my hon . friend be right . since the attack , million of Brits have come together in the spirit of solidarity towards one another , whether in our church , synagogue , mosque and other place of worship , or in place that be community institution open to all faith and none . it be those act of solidarity that will ensure we can be a strong country go forward . when we allow islamist hate preacher such as Sheikh Alafasy to do speaking tour , it be no wonder british Jews in the UK no long feel safe . in January , he have a platform at the Bridgewater Hall in Manchester , despite the jewish Representative Council raise its concern . they be ignore . in the follow - up meeting , describe as an appalling " tick - box exercise " , the chief executive could not have care less . it now turn out that this Sheikh be one of only 10 people that the terrorist perpetrator of this attack follow on Twitter . there be a chance that he be at the event in January . can the Home Secretary advise what her Department be do to hold the chief executive Andrew Bolt and the trustee of Bridgewater Hall to account for completely fail to take the concern of Manchester ' s jewish community into consideration ? it be not just the hate marche . I thank the hon . gentleman for his question . forgive I , I do not know the specific of that particular case . if he write to I , I will discuss it with the Security Minister and ensure he get an appropriate response . first , I welcome the move to consider cumulative impact when it come to police the issue discuss today . it be a hugely positive move , and I hope it can be apply to static protest as well as marche . in the aftermath of the horrific attack on the synagogue early this month , the Centre for counter Digital Hate undertake research that show the shocking , but these day sadly not surprising , number of call for further violence against Jews on the x social media platform . do the Home Secretary agree that those advocate online for the death of Jews and for synagogue to be burn down be exactly the sort of content that the Online Safety Act 2023 be suppose to address ? do she also agree that it be utterly reprehensible for anyone to give positive publicity to those on social medium call for people to be kill and for building to be burn down ? on the measure on cumulative impact , yes , they do apply to both static protest and marche . that be why they be measure aim at both section 12 and 14 of the Public Order Act . as I say early in my statement , I be very clear that the online space be not go to be a free space for antisemitism , which present itself both on the left and the right and everything in between of the political spectrum . I will discuss these matter with the Secretary of State for Science , Innovation and Technology . I echo comment across the House and extend Plaid Cymru ' s sympathy to the family of everyone affect . we as mps and other commentator in the public sphere need to be vigilant and alert to the potential consequence of inflammatory language as we recall what happen on 2 October . I thank the Antisemitism Policy Trust for its work show how utterly unacceptable it be that antisemitic trope place jewish people in peril . do the Home Secretary agree that with free speech , which we rightly treasure , come responsibility ? yes , I do . that be why I describe the protest in the immediate aftermath of the attack as un - British . we have our right and we can choose when to use they . we can choose whether we wish to cause pain to people or not . I wish that those individual who be involve in the protest in the immediate aftermath have choose to show a sense of british generosity of spirit , rather than go on those marche that day . I share the Home Secretary ' s condemnation of this terrorist attack . I be pleased to join my jewish constituent in solidarity at an event to mark Sukkot this weekend . it be particularly touch that we be join by people of all faith , include Hindus and Muslims . they be there in solidarity , but also with anxiety of their own . one Hindu community representative say to I , " this incident make we nervous that this could happen to we as well . " do the Home Secretary agree that the Government ' s protection must extend to people of all faith ? can she say more about what she will do to ensure that people of all faith can meet , celebrate and worship without fear ? I agree with my hon . friend . the Government ' s place of worship protective security scheme be open not just to synagogue but to mosque and other place of worship , and already make significant sum available for the protection of mosque and other temple . we be work closely with representative from the community on what we might need to do go forward . I associate myself with the tribute pay to those who be kill in Manchester and to the invaluable work of the Community Security Trust , whose headquarters I have visit . I pay tribute to my constituent , who have send a wall of love and support in message to our local synagogue , show how they absolutely reject antisemitism . the Manchester attacker be wield a knife . my local police force have stress to I the ease with which someone — even with a pattern of criminal behaviour — can obtain a lethal knife . we do not know what kind of knife be use or how the attacker obtain it , but we do know that the Southport attacker purchase a 16 - inch machete from Knife Warehouse , a retailer which , in the word of the inquiry chair , show " no curiosity " at all about whom it be sell to . it be clear that those who intend to commit violence can arm themselves with alarming ease by exploit online loophole that treat lethal weapon as ordinary product . do the Secretary of State agree that we now need a far strong and clear approach to tackle the online sale and circulation of these knife and to close the gap that allow seller to profit from they ? the hon . Lady will know that we be already take action in the Crime and Policing Bill to ban the sale of those knife . it be a little too early to draw wide lesson about exactly what happen in this case , but I be sure we will return to these matter in due course once more of the fact be in . I commend the Home Secretary for her statement and join she in both condemn this despicable attack and send condolence to the family of Melvin Cravitz and Adrian Daulby . they be hero — may their memory be a blessing . Hendon have one of the large jewish community in the country . many of my constituent be scared ; I must tell the House in all candour that more than a few be ask whether there be a future for they and their family in this country . one of the source of concern be the fear of bias towards jewish patient in the NHS . can the Home Secretary expand on the action the Government be take to ensure that all may be treat in the NHS without fear and stamp out antisemitism in our health system ? it be an absolute outrage that any patient in our country might be afraid of seek treatment in our national health service because of the express view of the person who be treat they . we be determined to ensure that that be not something that anyone in our country , include in our jewish community , have to go through . that be why the Health Secretary have already announce that he will be overhaul the regulatory system for medical practitioner , and I be sure he will come to the House in due course to give more detail . the Green party stand shoulder to shoulder in cross - party solidarity with the victim and survivor of the horrific attack on the Heaton Park synagogue . I pay particular tribute to those who put their life at risk to bring the attack to a swift stop . the Home Secretary have today speak passionately and personally about the fight against the scourge of antisemitism be the same as the fight against any form of prejudice , and I very much welcome that . I be sure she will agree that it be essential to say loudly , clearly and unequivocally that prejudice , hatred or violence against jewish people be totally unacceptable in our country , and will not be tolerate . the Home Secretary have use this opportunity — this moment — to announce further restriction on protest , which , I confess , do concern I . important point have be raise in the Chamber today regard radicalisation within online space . will the Home Secretary ensure that every policy measure she take be focus on build solidarity between community and counter division in our country ? I agree with everything the hon . Lady say until she get to restriction on protest . let I be clear : there be a balance to be strike between these freedom . I think it be in the wrong place , so I be take measure to bring it back into balance . I repeat the point I have make about the online environment , which be something I will discuss with colleague across Government . my condolence and solidarity and those of my constituent be with the jewish community in Manchester in the wake of this terrible terrorist attack . the Home Secretary mention regulator . regulator such as Ofcom have a hugely important role in tackle antisemitism , not least online harm and hatred , as raise by the Antisemitism Policy Trust . can she give an assurance that the Government have a plan to ensure that regulator be play their full role in address the poison of antisemitism ? yes , I can . my colleague in the Cabinet have write to the different regulator that report directly to they , and they will all come before this House to set out further measure and how we will hold people accountable for their power . do the Home Secretary agree that the murderous attack on the jewish community in Manchester be the product of the rampant islamic radicalisation that we have see across our country — something which chime with the antisemitism that have be evidence in the bitter hate marche in our capital city ? in that context , be enough be do to deal with the radicaliser ? do we not need to strike the axe at the root of this problem ? much of that root be those who be radicalise young people to carry out awful act such as this . I repeat to the hon . and learn Gentleman my early comment on deal with the domestic threat we face , the large of which be islamist extremism . we will know more about the specific journey that this attacker take before he carry out his attack when more of the fact be in , but I assure the hon . and learn Gentleman that whatever wide lesson be to be draw from this attack , I will make sure that they be understand and learn from and that we have the measure in place to be effective in deal with radicalisation wherever it take place , include with islamist extremism . I pay tribute to the Leeds jewish Representative Council and the jewish Leadership Council for organise move tribute in memory of the victim of the Manchester attack . I also thank CST for its tireless work to keep the community safe . I be sorry to say that a few week ago a speaker on the street of Leeds during one of the protest call for all synagogue and all jewish school to be hold to account for the crime of , as they say , harbour Zionists . this be the thin of veil drape over an excuse to legitimise target the jewish community . do the Home Secretary agree that there be absolutely no place for such call on the street of Leeds or anywhere in the UK ? will she do everything in her power to enable the police to ensure that it do not happen again to keep the jewish community safe ? I agree with my hon . friend ; those comment be despicable and utterly unacceptable . it be why I be review the wide legislative framework in relation to protest and hate crime . I give my condolence to those who lose their life as a result of the Manchester synagogue attack and to those who suffer the trauma of the loss of a family member . I thank the Home Secretary for her strong and emphatic statement . she speak for everyone in this great United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland with her word of strong condemnation . I be sicken and shock to hear of the attack in Manchester on Yom Kippur and the loss of life that ensue . it be an establish fact that antisemitism in the UK be once again on the rise , to such an extent that there be security detail at all religious event . I can well remember after the Darkley hall massacre that many , probably all , church across Northern Ireland have extra security detail on their door . those dark day be behind we in Northern Ireland , but they be not behind our jewish friend , and we have witness that in recent time . they require action , not word , and above all honesty about the threat level against they . just how will the Home Secretary provide assurance to the jewish community that be not just medium soundbite but promise of safety that can be trust ? I assure the hon . Member and the House that the Government will take action — we have already take action , and there will be more to come . I know that will be debate in the House over the come week and month , but this be not a moment for warm word ; it be a moment for strong action , and that be what the Government will deliver . I agree with the Home Secretary that violence direct at any community , be they jewish , Muslim , of all faith or none be attack on our entire country and we be unite in condemnation of those who seek to divide we . in Luton , we have strong cohesion because we have work for many year to build it , yet recent event , combine with increasingly open far - right and racist rhetoric , have leave many feeling scared and vulnerable . Bedfordshire Police have step up patrol around different place of worship , but its resource be limited . I welcome the Home Secretary ' s comment on look at that . what cross - government work be be do on the community cohesion building of our voluntary and community sector , and what support will there be for that ? community cohesion will be vital and be an important element of the work we have to take forward in the light of the attack . I be happy to discuss that with my hon . friend and ensure that she get a meeting with the relevant Minister to feed in the experience of those in Luton . I join the Home Secretary and all member across the House in my unequivocal condemnation of the heinous terrorist and antisemitic attack against jewish worshipper in Manchester , and I express my heartfelt condolence to the family and friend of Mr Daulby and Mr Cravitz . as a proud british Muslim , I remind the House and those listen that the action of these so - call islamist terrorist be vile and unacceptable . they have nothing to do with the religion of Islam and be actually in total contradiction to the teaching of Islam and the obligation of all Muslims . in my constituency and across the country , Muslims have join the jewish community in be sadden and anger by the terrorist attack in Manchester , and by any and all hatred and violence express against any community . we stand in full solidarity with they . the Home Secretary say that the terrorist be not know to the police or to the Prevent programme , so will she advise the House what step be be take to address any gap identify in our preventive measure so that such act of terrorism can not happen again ? the attacker be not know to counter - terror policing and have not be refer to the Prevent programme . once all the fact be in , we will be able to draw wide lesson . as we do not know he , the question will be : should he have be on our radar ? that be a question that I and other in our security service will take seriously . he be , of course , know to the police in the context of those two charge for rape , and the IOPC will now investigate all his history with the police in a non - terror context so that we can draw those wide lesson . I thank the Home Secretary for her statement and pay tribute to everyone who help defeat the attack last week . I also pay tribute to the Home Secretary for the leadership she have show so early in post , which have be fantastic . in an early reply , she lament the decline in interfaith work across the UK . in Edinburgh , it have never be go strong . the Edinburgh Interfaith Association do fantastic work to ensure that Edinburgh be an inclusive city . I formally invite she to meet it to learn about its work . none the less , the jewish community in Edinburgh be concerned about the rise in antisemitism . I meet they last weekend , and I speak to a young man who be proud to be jewish but say he could not live his life openly — the phrase he use be that he be " jewish in the closet " , and I feel ashamed . I welcome the Home Secretary look at the threshold for hate crime , but will she reassure we that she will be speak to the devolved administration to ensure that we get this right across the UK ? I will be speak to all our colleague in the devolved administration . I be happy to discuss with my hon . friend the wide lesson on interfaith work to be draw from his own experience . the horrific terrorist attack at Heaton Park follow a decade during which antisemitism have increase nearly every year , and the CST have confirm that antisemitism be increase on university campus . in York we have two fantastic university where antisemitism have no place . will my right hon . friend commit to work with the Secretary of State for Education to ensure that university across the country have all they need to root out antisemitism for good ? yes , absolutely . on an inspiring visit this weekend to Bromley Reform synagogue , which serve my constituent in Dartford alongside those of my hon . friend the Member for Beckenham and Penge ( Liam Conlon ) and the hon . member for Bromley and Biggin Hill ( Peter Fortune ) , I be move by the strong view of the congregation reject hatred across all religion and community in our country . follow the Home Secretary ' s excellent statement , do she agree that it be vital that we send a message to the jewish community and every other community in this country that they will be safe and that the Government stand with they ? I agree with my hon . friend and I hope that that message have be hear today . there be obviously much work for we to do , but the Government will not shy away from do it . I thank the Home Secretary for her powerful statement and send my condolence to those grieve for their love one follow the horrific terrorist attack , which realise the fear of those in our jewish community across the country . a Stevenage constituent write to I straight after the attack to say how scared she be for her husband , who have go to do security at Yom Kippur that evening . she also tell I that classmate of her son ' s have wish he have die in the Holocaust , and that other classmate have talk about antisemitic comment during lesson on the second world war . she also tell I about not disclose the fact that a party for her daughter be for her bat mitzvah because she be scared of the response . these be the fear that our jewish community be face . while I welcome all that the Government be do in their deed , in law and with resource , the hard thing be how we call out these so - call small act of antisemitism . they start that way , but where do they end ? how can we encourage everyone — all of we — to call they out ? no act of antisemitism , big or small , be acceptable , and we must all call it out and challenge it wherever we see it . the Government will act . we be already take measure , and we will take more , to strengthen the response to rise antisemitism in our country . let I assure my hon . friend that the testimony from his constituent be devastating for all of we . it be a source of national shame that our fellow citizen feel that they have to hide who they be in this way . we must all commit ourselves to do everything in our collective power to ensure that our jewish community can live a full jewish life here in Britain in the 21st century . I welcome the Home Secretary ' s statement . do she agree that slogan such as " glory to our martyr " , " globalise the intifada " and " zionist off our street " be unacceptable and likely to encourage unstable individual to carry out horrific action and attack on the jewish people such as the one we see so recently ? let I reassure my hon . friend that I be carry out a review of the wide legislation on protest and threshold for hate crime legislation , to ensure that our whole legal framework be as robust as it need to be , so that we can strike the careful balance between our freedom of protest and freedom of speech , and keep all our community safe . Speaker ' s Statement before we come to the ministerial statement on the China case , I wish to make a brief statement . member will know that I have already put on record my disappointment that the charge against two individual relate to espionage for the chinese authority have be drop . I be not only disappointed , but very angry . it be of the utmost importance to I that all those who work in this Parliament be able to undertake their activity securely and without interference . I continue to seek advice from official on what further step might be take to pursue the issue in other way . I will be issue update security guidance to member later today . I think there be something the Government ought to be aware of : it be this Parliament and mp here who have be spy on ; and it be mp ' office that have be infiltrate . as it stand , we have see payment for spy on what I believe we should be protect . at this moment , I feel we have not have the protection . I certainly do not blame the Minister — I know that he will be answer a lot in his statement and take many question — but I want to put it on record that I be angry and disappointed . my job be to protect Parliament . I feel that we be not get that protection . Security update : Official Secrets Act Case with your permission , Mr Speaker , I want to update the House on the fact surround the collapse of the trial of Christopher Berry and Christopher Cash . however , follow the Home Secretary ' s statement , I also want to take the opportunity to express my deep sympathy for the victim and family of those affect by the abhorrent terror attack that occur at Heaton Park Hebrew Congregation synagogue in Manchester on Yom Kippur . tragically , two member of the UK ' s jewish community lose their life . they remain in the thought of the whole House at this very difficult time . I also express my gratitude for the rapid reaction of emergency responder , the security service and member of that local community . two day later , a mosque in Peacehaven , East Sussex , be target in an arson attack . fortunately , no one be injure . my thought , and I be sure the thought of the whole House , will be with member of that local community as well . we remain united in stand against hate in all its form . as I tell the House in September , the Government remain extremely disappointed by the outcome of the Christopher Cash and Christopher Berry case . I understand the strength of feeling across the House and share the deep frustration at the fact that these individual will not face trial . while the decision not to proceed be an independent one make by the Crown Prosecution Service , the Government remain gravely concerned about the security of our democratic institution and be crystal clear that our Parliament must and will be protect from espionage . that be why I be today announce that MI5 ' s National Protective Security Authority will be take further step to protect our democratic institution from foreign interference . I will set out more detail on that in a moment . since I address the House on 15 September , there have be correspondence between hon . member , the Government and the Crown Prosecution Service . there have also be widespread — and , at time , wholly inaccurate — report in the medium . I will address the detail set out by the Crown Prosecution Service and the basis on which the Government provide evidence to support the case , but first let I underline a fundamental point that have too often be overlook in recent day , include by the conservative party . the CPS bring these charge under the previous Government , and under the legislation that be in place at the time : the Official Secrets Act 1911 — an antiquated law that be clearly no long fit for purpose in address the complex and sophisticated nature of the state threat that we face today . it have be clear for many year that the legislation have not keep pace with the modern state threat that we face today . it be evident that the Official Secrets Act be no long fit for purpose as early as 2015 , when Conservative Ministers task the Law Commission with review this antiquated legislation — 10 year ago . in 2020 , the Law Commission and the Intelligence and Security Committee of this House be both clear that the legislation , draft before the first world war , need to be update as a matter of urgency . it refer to espionage as " any sketch , plan , model , article , or note , or other document or information … which … might be … useful to an enemy " . those term be archaic in the modern threat landscape that we now face . that be why the Labour party support the passing of the National Security Act 2023 on a cross - party basis , close the loophole that have be expose by this case . the Director of Public Prosecutions have write to the Chair of the Home Affairs Committee , the right hon . member for Staffordshire Moorlands ( Dame Karen Bradley ) , and the Chair of the Justice Committee , my hon . friend the Member for Hammersmith and Chiswick ( Andy Slaughter ) , about this case , and it be welcome that these fact have be set out . the DPP have make it clear that charge be bring in April 2024 base on the law as it stand at the time of the offence . the deputy National Security Adviser — a senior official with very extensive experience in matter relate to national security — provide a witness statement in December 2023 , under the previous Government . far witness statement be request and provide in February and July of this year . all the evidence provide by the deputy National Security Adviser be base on the law at the time of the offence and the policy position of the Conservative Government at the time of the offence . every effort be make to provide evidence to support this case within those constraint . the decision on whether to proceed with the prosecution be ultimately take by the Crown Prosecution Service , which be hamstring by antiquated legislation that have not be update by the previous Conservative Government — [ interruption . ] order . I say to both Front - Bench team : please , this be a very important and serious matter . we could do without the side chatter . despite the evolve nature of the state threat that we face , the DPP have give his assurance that the CPS be not influence by any external party , any member of this Government , or any senior civil servant or special adviser work within it . I want to be clear again today , as the Government have be before , that suggestion that the Government conceal evidence , withdraw witness or restrict the ability of witness to draw on particular bit of evidence be all untrue . the dnsa do not materially change his evidence and be under no pressure from anyone to do so . what have change be the CPS ' s assessment of the case law . the DPP have explain that in a separate case — the Crown v . roussev — the High Court rule on the threshold for evidence need to prosecute under the antiquated 1911 legislation . in the light of this new judgment , the CPS independently decide to seek further evidence . but the fact remain that it be not the policy of the Conservative Government to classify China as a threat to national security . as the right hon . member for Braintree ( Sir James Cleverly ) say as Foreign Secretary , sum up China in one word as a threat be " impossible , impractical and — most importantly — unwise . " I have listen with interest in recent day to advice from former Conservative Ministers on how the UK should now define our approach to China , but I must remind they and the House that what matter be what their policy be in government . the previous Government set out their position on China in the 2021 integrated review , in which they describe China as a " systemic challenge " to UK security . in the integrated review refresh of 2023 , they describe China as an " epoch - define challenge " . as the Prime Minister have explain , the current Government ' s policy position be immaterial to the assessment make by the CPS . minister can not retrospectively change policy that exist under the Conservative Government and , as state before , the CPS decision to drop the case be not influence by any member of this Government , special adviser or senior official . at this moment of profound global change and insecurity , these matter have lead to discussion about this Government ' s approach to China , so let I set that out for the House . we must tackle the threat that China pose , which range from cyber - security attack , foreign interference and espionage target our democratic institution to the transnational repression of Hongkongers in the UK . this Government be unequivocal that the first duty of Government be to keep people safe . we fully recognise that China pose a series of threat to UK national security , yet we must also be alive to the fact that China present we with opportunity . it be the world ' s second large economy , and , together with Hong Kong , the UK ' s third large trading partner . the only way to act in the UK ' s good interest be to take a long - term and strategic approach . that mean work in close co - ordination with five eye and wide ally to build collective resilience to the threat that China pose , invest in our intelligence service and be unequivocal about our position on human right . it also mean develop a consistent and pragmatic approach to economic engagement without compromise on our national security . let I set out the recent action that the Government have take to strengthen UK security against state threat , include those pose by China . MI5 ' s national protective security authority have today launch new guidance to protect the UK ' s democratic institution from foreign interference . the guidance will help member in this House and the other place , member of the devolved legislature , local councillor , mayor and elect representative ' staff to well understand the nature of the threat . it also provide simple , effective step for at - risk individual to take to protect themselves , their team and the integrity of our democratic process . the guidance will kick - start a wide cross - Government action plan that be be drive through the defend democracy taskforce to reduce foreign interference and espionage threat to UK democratic institution . it will be deliver in close co - ordination with the parliamentary security authority . I urge all member of this House to be alert and follow the guidance , and to take up the National Cyber Security Centre ' s important opt - in service for member of both Houses . the Government also remain steadfast in our commitment to hold chinese state - link actor accountable for widescale cyber - espionage . in September , the NCSC co - seal a US - lead technical advisory call out chinese state - sponsor cyber - threat actor target global network , include in the UK . I can reassure the House that we continue to keep all tool under review , and will act as necessary to reduce their threat . the Government be also commit to legislate to far strengthen safeguard against foreign interference . that specifically include a new election Bill to strengthen safeguard against covert foreign political funding , and involve take forward the recommendation from the independent reviewer for legislation on state threat . let I finish by reiterate this Government ' s unwavere commitment to national security and to keep our country safe . we will take all necessary action to deter those who seek to do we harm , and to ensure that the UK be well place to tackle state threat , include those emanating from China . I commend the statement to the House . may I associate myself with the Minister ' s remark about Heaton Park synagogue ? I thank Mr Speaker for all his work on Members ’ security . no one have work hard to protect the integrity of our Parliament . the Security Minister be very well regarded , so I be sorry to see that he have be send here again to make these argument , which will not wash . this be about the ineptitude of the Government , and I can not accept much of what he say . he have bring some update to the House , which we acknowledge , but in essence , China spy on this Parliament and the Government be issue we with leaflet . that be not good enough . there be member here who have be spy on and sanction by China . even Madam Deputy Speaker have be sanction . all mp speak today should be act in the national interest — nothing else . let we remind ourselves of what have happen . two man have be accuse of spy on mps in this very building . the CPS have what it feel be a clear and compelling case to prosecute , but the trial have collapse because , for month and month , the Government have refuse to give the CPS vital information . that be not a mistake ; it be not a misunderstanding ; it look like a deliberate decision to collapse the case and curry favour with the regime in China . instead of admit that , the Security Minister have come here blame the Official Secrets Act , when we know that the Act be enough to prosecute the case . its deficiency have nothing to do with the Government ' s failure . may I remind the House how serious this be ? if the government do not prosecute those who spy on we , it send a message to the public that the Government do not care about their safety ; it send a message to our ally , who share intelligence with we , that Britain can not be trust ; and it send a message to those who spy on we that they can get away with it . let we look at the fact . first , the Government blame the CPS . the Minister come to the House on 15 September and claim that he have become aware of the situation only that day , and that the CPS decision have be an entirely independent one — an assertion that he have repeat today . he say : " I be not able to talk about why the CPS have decide to make this decision . " — [ Official Report , 15 September 2025 ; Vol . 772 , c . 1186 . ] he say that it be not for he to " speculate on the reason " . he tell my hon . friend the Member for Rutland and Stamford ( Alicia Kearns ) to " seek a meeting " if she want to find out the reason . however , we now know , despite all he have just say , that the trial collapse because the Government refuse to give the CPS what it need , and the Minister know full well why it have collapse . the Director of Public Prosecutions have say that he spend month try to get the Government to provide the evidence that the CPS need . secondly , the Government try blame the previous Government . just like the Prime Minister , the Minister claim that the CPS could not prosecute because the previous Government do not describe China as a threat . I can not believe that he would actually say that . he know what we say , but let I remind he . for starter , the 2021 integrated review describe China as — listen carefully — the " big state - base threat to the UK ' s economic security . " the 2023 integrate review refresh say several time that China pose — listen carefully — a threat . in 2024 , the then Minister for Security say from the Dispatch Box that China pose a serious threat . but even if the previous Government have not say China be a threat , which they do , this Government need only to convince a jury that it be a threat , and the Minister know that . I be astonish that he have repeat that nonsense today . the Minister ' s and Prime Minister ' s argument have be refute by no less than a former DPP , two former Cabinet Secretaries — one a former National Security Adviser — two former head of MI6 , and a professor of public law at the University of Cambridge , who say today that minister ' statement so far be " mislead " about the legal position . they be all clear that those people could have be prosecute under the old legislation . be the Government ' s position that they be all wrong and the Government be right ? the Minister refer to r v . Roussev . that case last year make it easy to prosecute , not hard . as the former Director of Public Prosecutions say of recruit people to spy on MPs , " that of itself clearly constitute a threat to national security . " only this Government could mess that up . we know that the National Security Adviser , Jonathan Powell , have a very close relationship with China . be we suppose to believe that he be not involve in the " substance of the case and discussion around it " , as they say ? what do that even mean ? he be in those meeting , act in the name of the Prime Minister . do the Government really expect we to believe that he never mention any of this to the Prime Minister at any point ? we know from the CPS that it spend month and month ask the Government for the evidence that it need . the Government say that the nsa do not take the decision not to give it the evidence , so who do ? who make that decision — can the Minister answer that question today ? be the Government ' s argument seriously that no Minister know anything about this until the trial collapse ? if that be the case , it be astonishing . my suspicion be that that be not the case , and that Ministers do know . they have the chinese super - embassy in their in - tray , and they be allegedly be ask to pay £ 1 billion in compensation for the nationalisation of British Steel . I suspect that they have decide that close economic tie with China be more important than due process and our national security . if that be the case , and that be the Government ' s decision , they should tell we and have the backbone to admit it . they should explain it to the public , the CPS and our international ally , and let they all be the judge . this issue be not go away — there be nowhere to hide . I write to the Prime Minister today and would like to know when I will get a response to my question . we have also write to the Crown Prosecution Service to ask whether the trial can be reopen if the Government finally provide the evidence that they have be hold back . we know that the evidence that the CPS need exist . if the Government decide not to provide it , then we will know that that be because this weak Prime Minister do not have the backbone to stand up to Beijing . I find it genuinely astonish that at no point do the Leader of the Opposition acknowledge that all the act that we have be talk about this afternoon happen when she be in government , on her watch . I believe that it be important to discuss these matter in a fair and reasonable way , so I particularly make sure that the right hon . Lady have early sight of the statement , to give she ample opportunity . she have clearly not read the statement — she either do not read the statement or do not listen to what I have say , because she have ask I a number — [ interruption . ] order . this statement be very important , both to I and my constituent . please let we hear the Minister . I take every opportunity to give the right hon . Lady as long as I possibly could so that she could look at the point that we be seek to raise today . but she have ask I question that I answer in my early response . I say that to she because it be important that we seek to discuss these thing in a reasonable way . matter relate — [ interruption . ] the hon . member for Harborough , Oadby and Wigston ( Neil o ' Brien ) guffaw from a sedentary position , but I think it be important that we should seek to discuss matter relate to national security in a reasonable and consensual way . that be the approach of this Government . I be genuinely really sorry that the right hon . Lady have take the opportunity to make a whole series of baseless smear this afternoon . perhaps we should not be too surprised : the statement that we have hear from the Leader of the opposition be sadly typical of what we have hear from some of her colleague in recent day . for day , the conservative party have be make baseless claim that the Government deliberately collapse an independent legal process through political interference . there be not a shred of evidence to back up any of the accusation that she have make . I do not think that be a responsible way to discuss matter of national security . I remind the Leader of the Opposition that , whatever member might say this afternoon , we be here today because of legislation and policy that exist under the previous Government . the Leader of the opposition reference the letter that she have write to the Prime Minister . we want to respond to she in a timely fashion , so I will now respond to the point that she make to the Prime Minister . in case she have forget , it be she herself who say in September last year : " I have shy away from call China a threat " . she articulate the previous Government ' s policy as Business Secretary , say in September 2023 : " we certainly should not be describe China as a foe " . those be the right hon . Lady ' s own word . opposition Front Benchers have raise a number of question , include in the letter publish by the right hon . Lady early today . I be very happy to set out the Government ' s response to her question . first , on the question of what Ministers know about the Government ' s interaction with the CPS , Ministers be aware that evidence be be provide by the deputy National Security Adviser to the CPS as it build a case for prosecution , as be first agree under the previous Government . minister and special adviser do not take decision about that evidence and they be not cite in the content . the deputy National Security Adviser be give full freedom to provide evidence without interference , as be the case before the general election . secondly , the right hon . Lady ask in her letter whether the Prime Minister be brief by Ministers or the National Security Adviser about the case . the Prime Minister have already confirm that he be brief on the case by official , not least because the case begin under the previous Conservative Government . thirdly , there have be various report allege that in a meeting in September , the National Security Adviser rule that China could not be define as a threat and take decision relate to witness or evidence . that be simply untrue . of course , the NSA take part in discussion about national security and diplomatic relation — that be literally his job . but any discussion be on the basis that the case would be go ahead and about how to handle the implication . the National Security Adviser be not involve in any decision about the substance of the evidence . that mean , to answer the fourth question raise by the Leader of the Opposition , that he make no decision about the content of any evidence — [ interruption . ] hon . member have ask for a thorough explanation and I be give it to they ; they might pay the House the courtesy of listen to the response . the National Security Adviser make no decision about the content of any evidence relate to the case itself . this be a matter for the deputy National Security Adviser — a hugely experienced , highly capable senior official who provide evidence under the previous Administration . on question about when I and other Ministers be aware that the case would not be proceed , I should say that Ministers be inform after the DPP have make his decision and shortly before report restriction be lift . hon . member will note that I come to the House straight away to make a statement . finally , on whether it might still have be possible to argue successfully in court that China be a threat regardless of the previous Government ' s position not to do so , that be a judgment for the Crown Prosecution Service . however , the deputy National Security Adviser provide evidence reflect the threat pose by China as the CPS build its case . on the comment , reference by the right hon . Lady , make by two former Cabinet Secretaries , I note that they have both remark that the Official Secrets Act be not fit for purpose . of course , if the Conservatives have be swift in replace it , we would not be here today . safeguard our national security be the most fundamental responsibility of this Government . in 14 year of rule , the conservative party be slow both to update our national security law and to adapt to the national security reality that we face today . if we follow the Conservatives ' approach — to ignore and refuse to engage with China — that would undermine our national security . on this side of the House , we will always defend our national interest . I call the Chair of the Foreign Affairs Committee . may I begin by express solidarity with the two previous conservative Chairs of the Foreign Affairs Committee , who would seem to have suffer from have chinese spy in their office ? that must have be very distressing , upsetting and threatening . the DPP ' s claim of need further evidence from the government and decision not to publish the China audit have , I think , become conflate and result in a great deal of muddle and confusion , and allegation that the Government be soft - pedal on China . before we disappear down that rabbit hole , may I take we back to basic ? as I understand it , these man be charge with an offence under section 1 ( 1 ) ( c ) of the Official Secrets Act : to pass on information that " might be … directly or indirectly useful to an enemy " . when the Crown Prosecution Service be build its case , presumably it have a witness and presumably that witness be the deputy National Security Adviser , who be there to answer this question : be China an enemy ? without that evidence , there be no point in charge the man in 2024 . what have change since 2024 ? we be tell that what have change be that the enemy be now — [ interruption . ] order . this House will listen to the right hon . member with respect . it seem that there be now case law say that an enemy be a threat to national security . frankly , that seem to be a low test not a high test . but if , in 2024 , there be evidence that China be an enemy and the Crown Prosecution Service have make a decision to prosecute on that basis , I can not understand why there have be a change now . the only other answer be that the Crown Prosecution Service do not properly assess the evidence before make those charge . move away from all the light , heat and fury , it seem to I that those be the central point . I be grateful to my right hon . friend . she talk about muddle and confusion : she be right that there have be a lot of ill - inform commentary in previous day . that be precisely why the Government have proactively bring a statement to the House to set out the fact of the trial , and I be very happy to be able to do that . let I do that again for my right hon . friend . the DPP have set out the reason at the heart of his decision not to take this case to trial . he believe that the evidential test be not meet . the DPP take an independent decision on the evidence , as be set out in his letter of 7 October . the dnsa do not materially change his evidence and be under no pressure from anyone to do so . as the Prime Minister , her constituency neighbour , have explain very clearly , the current Government ' s policy position be immaterial to this assessment . it be only the Government ' s policy at the time that the alleged offence be commit that be relevant . my right hon . friend will understand that the CPS decision to drop the case be not influence by any member of this Government , special adviser or senior official . I have be crystal clear about that today . the Director of Public Prosecutions have give his assurance that the CPS be not influence by any external party . as the Government have already state , the suggestion that the Government conceal evidence or withdraw or leant on witness be all untrue . I call the liberal Democrat spokesperson . I thank the Minister for advance sight of his statement . over the weekend , Sir John Sawers become the late former intelligence chief to express disbelief at the collapse of this espionage case , and our intelligence ally be now also question whether the UK can be trust to counter China ' s grow threat . it be vital that we have a clear answer about who in Government be responsible for the failure to bring this case to trial . sadly , instead of clear answer , over the weekend we have hear minister deliver vague and cryptic line to take . the nation have a right to understand which figure within Government be involve in the process not to proceed with a prosecution . give the Minister ' s statement that the Government have not conceal the evidence or suppress anything , will the Minister commit to publish a timeline showing who know what and when , and who say what and when ? will he publish correspondence between all official , politician and adviser involve with the CPS ? if he will do that , we can gain the clarity that we and the british public need . will the Minister confirm again , with full confidence , that the Prime Minister , or any individual who act on his behalf , play no role in any decision to prevent the supply of relevant evidence to the CPS , which might or might not include word of gentle encouragement either way ? we must learn the lesson from this appalling episode so that we can have confidence in the ability of our national security law to protect our interest and protect our democracy . that be our job in this House . this be the only way to provide the british public with the answer that they deserve and demand , and to rebuild the UK ' s credibility with five eye ally . will the Government commit today to hold a statutory independent inquiry into the China spying case ? we know that China pose a clear threat to this country ' s interest and value , a view that be share by Liberal Democrat Members , as well as by our intelligence chief . yet the Government ' s approach to this case be only the late example of their unwillingness to challenge Beijing ' s effort to expand its espionage capability in the UK and export transnational repression to our shore . it be time for the Government to take the step necessary to protect our interest and those of our citizen . work with the CPS , will the Government look at all legislative option to prosecute the two individual involve ? those option be still available . will the Government block the application for the chinese mega - embassy ? and will the Minister add China to the enhance tier of the foreign influence registration scheme ? I welcome the hon . gentleman to his new role . as he may know , I be a regular visitor to his constituency and I pay tribute to the important national security work that take place there . he ask I a number of question and , with great respect to he , I hope that he will concede that I have respond to a number of they already . on his point about release information , which be an entirely reasonable question , it be not for I to make decision about the publication of evidence that may be use in any further ongoing legal process , so I hope he understand the reason that I be unable to commit to do that at the moment . I take issue with the hon . Gentleman ' s analysis of the Government ' s relationship with China , particularly on transnational repression . I hope that he will accept that the Government take that very seriously . we have do a lot of work through the defend democracy taskforce to ensure that we have the right resource in the right place to protect all those who live here in the UK from the impact of transnational repression , but I be happy to discuss that with he far . the hon . Gentleman specifically raise the importance of our five Eyes alliance , about which I agree with he . that be precisely why the UK recently host the ministerial gathering of the five country in London , where we cement our excellent relationship with our five Eyes partner . as he will know , we share intelligence with they on a very regular basis . that relationship be in good health and have in no way be undermine by recent event . I call the Chair of the Justice Committee . the Government have make it clear that they regret the fact that this case be not go ahead . the Minister rightly say that the CPS act independently when make charge decision , but will he go far than regret and say that , as a matter of law and evidence , this prosecution should have go ahead and that the issue of innocence or guilt should have be determine by a judge and jury ? I have a huge amount of time for my hon . friend . the expression that I use both on 15 September and again today , on behalf of the Government , be that we be " extremely disappointed " . I hope that he will understand , not least give the Select Committee that he chair , that it be not appropriate for Ministers to give advice to the Director of Public Prosecutions or the CPS on matter of law . the CPS and the DPP be rightly independent of Government . frankly , we go down quite a dangerous road if we get into a situation of politician and minister seek to advise they and to influence their decision . that be not the approach that this Government will take . I call the Chair of the Home Affairs Committee . there be a real threat at the moment to public trust in the criminal justice system follow the collapse of this trial . will the Minister make a commitment that he , ministerial colleague and other adviser will co - operate fully with any scrutiny work do by my Committee or other Committees of the House ? I can give the right hon . Lady that absolute assurance . the Government and both the Departments in which I serve take the importance of parliamentary scrutiny very seriously . as Chair of the Home Affairs Committee , the right hon . Lady conduct herself with great gravita and , of course , I give she an assurance , on behalf of Government , that we will work closely with she and her colleague to provide any information that they seek . follow on from the point make by the Chair of the Home Affairs Committee , it be vital that Parliament be able to examine what have happen here . the Government have make a commitment to transparency . we have a wrinkle , in that the National Security Adviser have be appoint as a special adviser rather than as an official , which mean that he have to appear in front of a Committee of the House in camera . that be far from adequate . will the Minister commit to engage fully with the Committee corridor to ensure that the relevant Committees get access to information , as be normal , in a reading room , in camera or in a Cobra situation , in order to ensure that Parliament can satisfy itself of the comment that he have make so clearly at the Dispatch Box today ? I be genuinely grateful to my hon . friend for her suggestion . I hope that she , the House and Opposition Front Benchers know that my approach will always be to make as much information as possible available to colleague , whether through the Privy Council process or through other mean . I welcome the fact that the National Security Adviser will shortly be give evidence to the Joint Committee on the National Security Strategy , but I be happy to look more closely at my hon . friend ' s suggestion and to give she an assurance that we will want to work very carefully with this House and its Committees to make sure they be able to do their important job of hold this government to account . as my right hon . friend the Leader of the opposition say , the 2021 and 2023 integrated review be very clear . all the official and security service say that China be a significant threat . that be sufficient not only for Ministers but for official to give to the CPS . the question be why they do not . the question I really want to ask be about the absurdity of the role , or lack of role , of the National Security Adviser . the Government say that he be not involve in any matter of substance , but be it not the role of the National Security Adviser to be involve in all matter of substance when it come to national security ? what be the point of a National Security Adviser who do not involve themselves in matter of national security , as in this case ? instead , be we mean to believe that the deputy National Security Adviser be allow to involve themselves in substantial matter of national security in this case , but apparently not to discuss these substantial matter of national security with the National Security Adviser ? this seem to I to be a matter of substantial absurdity . the right hon . Gentleman have be consistent in express those concern over many year . I would gently point out to he that the situation he describe as absurd be the same situation that we inherit from the previous Government . the right hon . Gentleman be a very experienced Member of this House , so let I say something to he about the National Security Adviser . over the past year , this Government have rebuild our international relationship , lead on the global stage and sign new agreement with multiple country to safeguard our security and to grow our economy . the National Security Adviser be do an excellent job and , if the right hon . Gentleman do not believe I , perhaps he should speak to Steve Witkoff . I share Mr Speaker ' s fury about the collapse of this trial , as I be sure all member do . it be a huge disappointment that this former conservative party researcher have escape justice . I be pleased that my hon . friend the Minister have be able to be so unequivocal about the fact of this case . it be extraordinary that , have listen to he , the Leader of the opposition should carry on almost as though his statement have not happen , because he have answer many of the question that she pose . on the change that have happen since , can my hon . friend be sure that we would be more able to pursue a criminal conviction if this offence have take place under the current legislation ? if not , can he tell we what he be do to make sure it do not happen again ? I be grateful to my hon . friend , who ask such a very useful question that parliamentarian should be ask themselves . yes , I can give he that assurance , and I have make clear from this Dispatch Box on many occasion the importance that this Government attach , as I be sure the previous Government do , to the National Security Act 2023 . it be a groundbreaking piece of legislation , and as my predecessor , the right hon . member for Tonbridge ( Tom Tugendhat ) , would acknowledge , I have pay tribute on numerous occasion to those who be involve . my hon . friend ask the right question . the NSA close the loophole that we be essentially debate today , so I can assure he that our legislative framework be in a much well place than it be a couple of year ago . that say , because this government take these matter incredibly seriously , we constantly look at the legislative framework to assure ourselves that it be appropriate . we work very closely with Jonathan Hall KC , who have make recommendation , at the Government ' s request , on our legislative framework , and we have make a commitment that wherever there be a requirement for more legislation , we will bring it forward . the integrated review refresh , which state that the chinese Communist party pose a threat to our people and our security , be in fact publish the very day that these two man be arrest . but that in itself be a red herring , because the Bulgaria case prove that it be for a jury to decide whether a country be or could be a threat , and it be not for the Government alone to prove that . the Minister tell the House in response to our urgent question that the Government demand that the chinese charg é d ' affaire come in for the d é marche . do a Minister do that , or do an official do it ? secondly , give that the House have be tell how disappoint the Government be with this outcome and that they seem to be quite clear about the evidence of guilt , what repercussion be they choose to put on the chinese Communist party ? will they be cancel the joint economic and trade commission ? will they be put in place sanction ? will they be ban the embassy ? if they will not act , why not ? of course , the hon . Lady have a very close personal interest in this case , and it will be well understand by member across the House why she have express concern today and previously . I be sorry that she do not feel that the Government ' s response be adequate , but I assure she that I will endeavour to ensure that this government do as much as we possibly can to work with she and the right hon . member for Chingford and Woodford Green ( Sir Iain Duncan Smith ) on this issue , so that she can have confidence that these matter be not able to happen again . the hon . Lady specifically ask about the d é marche I reference in my statement — it be not an urgent question — on 15 September . as she will know , that be do through the Foreign , Commonwealth and Development Office , but I will come back to she with more detail should she wish . I thank the Minister for his statement and for introduce some fact to the debate — I can see that some alternative reality have come crash down . I want to focus on the future and the Minister ' s commitment to protect democratic life in the UK , particularly through the cyber - security measure . he know that this will rely , at least in part , on the Computer Misuse Act 1990 — if my memory serve I right , the 386 Amstrad be then the good computer we could get . as he know , many people think that that Act fail to distinguish between malicious actor , state or otherwise , and cyber - security professional work in the public interest , and perhaps the democratic interest . will he commit to look at that anomaly ? I be grateful to my hon . friend , not least for say that fact matter — they really do . that be why I have come to the House today , to set out fact so that member can make a judgment on how they wish to proceed . my hon . friend also make an important point about cyber - security and the ongoing review of the Computer Misuse Act . I can assure he that we take these matter incredibly seriously . in fact , I will have more to say about it shortly . the Minister and I have be friend for many year , so it give I no pleasure to say this . the statement that he read out today , no doubt under instruction , have throw out more chaff and set up more straw man than a russian disinformation campaign . it be pure fabrication to claim that those be the relevant point and , sadly , he know it . the Minister know it , because we discuss many of these issue when he be in opposition and I be in his place . he know it , because the various security and defence review that have be update in the past four year have set out the clear position of the threat . he know it , because I stand at the Dispatch Box , as he now do , on 15 April 2024 and make clear the position of China be a threat . and the Minister know it , I be afraid , because the right hon . member for Islington South and Finsbury ( Emily Thornberry ) , the Chair of the Foreign Affairs Committee , set out how the DPP have ask a very clear question : why have we not have the information in time for these case to proceed ? that be exactly the right question . the DPP do not say that the evidential threshold be not meet . if it have not be meet , the arrest should never have happen and the Minister should rightly be haul the head of MI5 , the head of counter - terror policing and the Treasury solicitor before he for abuse of power . he be not do that because he know the threshold be meet . instead , the Minister should read the word of the DPP — the threshold be " no long meet " . that mean there have be a change , and there have be a change because something have change . that change could either be a commission or an omission , and from what we have hear today — from the way in which the Government have very carefully use language — it sound much more likely that something have not be do than that it have . as my friend the Minister know , simply ignore an order be not the same thing as not receive one . I be afraid that what this have do , and what this statement do , be advertise that the UK be not willing to defend itself against threat from hostile state . I know that that be not a position he wish to advocate . as the House know well , the right hon . Gentleman be personally invest in this issue . member will understand the history and the reason for the concern he have express , and I understand why he have take the opportunity to express they today and on other occasion . the Government fundamentally agree with some of his concern , though clearly not with his subsequent analysis . he will have note the point I have make today about the issuing of guidance from the NPSA . we have publish that guidance today , and I hope he will acknowledge the determination that exist — from myself as the Minister and from colleague right across Government — to provide assurance and satisfy his concern . one of the way in which we will do that be through the defend democracy taskforce , of which the right hon . Gentleman be a found member . I can say to he and to the House that that taskforce provide the fulcrum point for deal with many of these matter right across Government . it have have its mandate refresh by the Prime Minister , and we invest a lot in that mechanism . it will seek to provide we with some of the answer we need in order to give the right hon . Gentleman the assurance he seek . I hope he will understand that I stand ready to meet he and the hon . member for Rutland and Stamford ( Alicia Kearns ) to far discuss any concern they might have . the right hon . Gentleman may not be satisfied today , but I will do what I can to provide that satisfaction and assurance as we go forward . my constituent will welcome the Minister ' s clarity that China be indeed a threat . [ interruption . ] let I finish . those threat to our national security take place not just here , but overseas , and I be increasingly trouble by the action of the Chinese Government in former british colony across the world , not least in Africa . they be loot mineral , destroy nature and damage democracy . that impact we in this country too , and for far too long , Britain have be miss in action . we have let China run riot , and enough be enough . what engagement have the Minister have with the Soft Power Council to ensure it keep national security in mind as it carry out its work , and can I urge he to work with colleague across Government , particularly in the Foreign Office ? we need to get serious with China and fast , which require a cross - Government approach . I absolutely agree with my hon . friend that these matter require a cross - Government approach , and that be precisely the way in which this government seek to proceed with they . I think it be fair to say that the Government have reference concern about the issue he have raise on a number of occasion , but I would be very happy to discuss they far with he , should he wish to do so . the Minister use the Roussev case in his own defence . in that case , the Court of Appeal set the clear precedent that the appropriate definition of an enemy state be not base on what the Government say — it be a state that behave like an enemy . the judge state plainly that " there be no reason in our view why the term ' an enemy ' should not include a country which represent a current threat to the national security of the UK . " throughout the duration of this case , there have be ample evidence — include from the Intelligence and Security Committee and the current director of MI5 — that China represent a threat to our national security , include at the time when Mr Berry and Mr Cash be act as spy . the Prime Minister ' s comment on this case be frankly nonsense , and it be time that we stop kowtow and take a stand against China . if the Minister mean what he say about future dealing , will he start by do what a number of people have call for and refuse to approve the espionage centre masquerade as an embassy at the Royal Mint ? will he reject it and tell the Chinese , effectively , that enough be enough ? I always listen to what the right hon . Gentleman have to say , but that do not mean that I always agree with it . I do not agree with it today , and I be not sure it be especially helpful to refer to China ' s application for an embassy in the way he have do . I can give he the assurance that I have give the House previously about the importance we attach to national security in the context of that issue . I hope the right hon . Gentleman understand that the issue of the embassy be not a matter for I — there be a quasi - judicial process in place , and it be a matter for the Secretary of State for Housing , Communities and Local Government — but the previous Home Secretary and the previous Foreign Secretary have be crystal clear about the national security implication that underpin that decision . all of we across this House have an interest in protect and preserve our democracy . clearly , we have threat to our democracy , internally as well as externally . the Minister say a little bit about the election Bill , but can he set out in more detail what the safeguard and protection will be for our democratic institution and , indeed , for this place ? my hon . Friend ask a really important question . in July , the Government publish a policy paper outline their proposal for an election and democracy Bill , which we will introduce as the " Elections Bill " as soon as parliamentary time allow . our intent be to modernise our democracy so that it be fit for the 21st century , include reinforce safeguard against foreign influence in our election . in relation to political finance — hon . member may want to listen very carefully to this — tough new rule will require party to assess company from which they be receive donation against a series of test , prove their connection to the UK and Ireland . this will end the status quo whereby a new company register today , own by anyone , fund from anywhere and without even a single day of trade , can donate and have influence in UK politic . the introduction of " know your donor " check will increase scrutiny of donation , require recipient to conduct enhanced check to decrease the risk of illegitimate donation enter our system . this will guard against foreign interference . it will be very interesting to see whether or not Opposition Members vote for that Bill . the Minister say categorically and very carefully that the National Security Adviser take no decision as to the content of the evidence provide to the CPS . will he clarify for the House whether the NSA have any influence at all — direct or indirect , and whether about provision or omission — over the content of that evidence , provide by his own deputy , which lead to the collapse of the trial ? I can give the right hon . Gentleman that assurance . I thank the Minister for his absolute clarity today . will he provide further detail of the measure he have announce today and how they will protect parliamentarian , councillor and those in public life across the UK from foreign interference ? the proposal contain in the election Bill will hopefully go a long way towards provide that kind of reassurance , but again , I reference the importance of the work be do by the defend democracy taskforce . it be a mechanism that we inherit from the previous Government , which bring together Ministers , law enforcement and senior official to look very carefully at these issue and make sure that we have the right resource in the right place . I hope very much that this will be a shared endeavour across this House , to ensure that wherever there be attempt to interfere with our democracy and harass or intimidate elect representative , we can stand together as a House against those threat . the Minister say that it be for another Department to decide whether the chinese Government should have a new embassy . that be certainly true , but the propose new embassy be so large that it would be the big embassy in any country anywhere in Europe . that have national security implication , and if the Minister want to encourage people to believe that the Government be not cosye up to communist China , he should make recommendation accordingly . may I just ask the Minister about the extract he read from the 1911 Act ? I will read a slightly full one , though still one with ellipsis : " if any person for any purpose prejudicial to the safety or interest of the State … obtain or communicate to any other person any … document or information which … might be … directly or indirectly useful to an enemy ; he shall be guilty of felony " . my reading of that extract from the Act be that the felony lie in the disclosure to anyone at all — it do not have to be directly to an enemy . whether or not China be regard as an enemy at the time , the nature of the sensitive material disclose mean it be a felony , even if it be disclose to a China that be not regard as an enemy . surely the trial should have go ahead . the right hon . Gentleman know that I always value his sage advice and listen carefully to what he have to say . [ interruption . ] it be true . he ask about the embassy . so that we can dispel some of the nonsense that have be spout about the embassy , we need to provide a Privy Council briefing for he and for other Privy Counsellors , and I be happy to take that away . on his second point , he know that these be point of law and matter for the CPS and the DPP ; they be not matter for Ministers . I welcome the Minister ' s clarity on tackle the threat that China pose , include the transnational repression of Hongkongers in the UK . that will be a real reassurance to the many british national overseas who live in Milton Keynes . I would like he to go into further detail , particularly in the context of the Intelligence and Security Committee ' s report on Russia ' s interference in Brexit and the Nathan Gill case that have just complete , with eight count of bribery come from Russia . at the time of take those bribe , he be a close colleague of some mps on the other side of the House . how will the new election Bill stop interference through political funding , which we be see gain more and more ground here in the UK , create a real threat to our democracy ? I ask the Minister to be brief and on point regard what this statement be actually about . the safety and security of Hongkongers in the UK be of the utmost importance , and any attempt by any foreign power to intimidate , harass or harm individual or community in the UK will not be tolerate . on my hon . friend ' s second point , and not want to get in trouble with Madam Deputy Speaker , I just say that use a position of public office to effectively furth Russia ' s malign interest while benefit financially will not stand . it be a betrayal of our democratic value and of our electorate . the Minister have tell we that his Government ' s assessment of China be a mixture of national security threat and opportunity for engagement , include economically , but do he accept that that be exactly the assessment make by the last government ? that combination , with reference to the Act and the offence we be concern with , do not require a country only to present a national security threat , simply that it do so , perhaps in combination with other thing . that be the key point , and the Minister have be clear about that , so can we be clear about what happen with the Government ' s evidence ? be it the case that the Government could find no evidence of China present a national security threat ? be it the case that the Government internally decide that the evidence it could find would not meet the CPS ' s requirement ? if so , who make that determination ? be it the case that the Government do supply evidence to the CPS on that specific point , and the CPS decide it be not significant enough ? if it be the latter , will the Minister publish the evidence to the House ? if he do not think that be appropriate — it may not be — will he give authority to the deputy National Security Adviser to share that evidence in full with the Intelligence and Security Committee ? I have a lot of time for the right hon . and learn Gentleman , not least because he bring an almost unique perspective from his understanding of the law and of matter relate to intelligence . he correctly make the observation that ultimately , any Government strategy on China have to take consideration of national security issue . at the same time , any fair - minded , reasonable Government have to understand the economic opportunity that exist . as a former Attorney General , he would not recommend that I get into the business of second - guess judgment and decision take by the DPP . on his point about publish the evidence , he hopefully will have hear the response I give a moment ago . [ interruption . ] I be respond to the right hon . and learn Gentleman ' s serious question about publish the evidence . I hope that he will have hear the response I give a moment ago . the Minister state : " we will take all necessary action to deter those who seek to do we harm , " and that include threat " emanating from China " . despite ongoing transnational repression of Tibetans , Uyghurs and Hongkongers , continue cyber - security attack on this country , and member of this Parliament be sanction and spy upon , there appear to be no consequence for China . instead , the UK Government give in to its coercive , bully behaviour . I have a straightforward question : if the Minister be serious about deter this behaviour and these threat , will he take the necessary action and include China on the enhance tier of the foreign influence registration scheme — yes or no ? any decision about the enhance tier of FIRS will be bring forward to Parliament in the normal way . I can say to the hon . member that any attempt by any foreign power to intimidate , harass or harm individual or community here in the UK will not be tolerate . we know the very basic fact , which be that the Director of Public Prosecutions ask for a statement from the Government to clarify that , at the time of the offence , China be a threat to national security . he say in his letter that such an assurance , or evidence , or a statement from the Government be not forthcoming . we know that the Government withhold that vital element of the case . the Minister be shake his head , but who decide that , in the word of the DPP , it would " not be forthcoming " ? somebody decide that . he seem to be say that it be the deputy National Security Adviser who be somehow accountable for make those decision , but I question that point . to whom be they accountable , if not to the National Security Adviser ? let I seek to clarify . the deputy National Security Adviser , who be a senior and highly regarded official with extensive experience in matter relate to national security , provide a witness statement in December 2023 . that be under the previous Government , and I make that point early . further witness statement be request and provide , as I say early , in February and July this year . all the evidence provide by the deputy National Security Adviser be base on the law at the time of the offence and the policy position of the Government at the time . I can give the hon . member an assurance that every effort be make to provide evidence to support this case within the constraint that I have just outline . the decision about whether to proceed with the prosecution be ultimately take by the DPP and the CPS , which be hamstring by antiquated legislation . I admire the Government ' s attempt to pin this on the previous Conservative Government . it be an endeavour in which I would usually join they , but on this occasion I can not , because the argument simply do not stack up . the argument seem to hinge on the Conservative Government ' s classification of China as a threat to national security . that be not a formal classification , but one that need to be substantiate . the Government seem to be argue that it be not because , for instance , in the integrated review refresh of 2023 , China be merely describe as an " epoch - defining … challenge " . however , the same paragraph in that report talk about the Chinese Communist party as present " state threat to the UK ' s democracy , economy and society " . report by the Intelligence and Security Committee of the same year talk about how China ' s " ambition at a global level … pose a national security threat to the UK . " we have hear other testimony today from MI5 and other . my question to the Government be : be this the sort of evidence that be provide to the CPS ? if not , why not ? whose decision be it not to present that kind of evidence ? there be , I be afraid , a fundamental flaw in the hon . Gentleman ' s question . these activity take place under the previous Government and under the legislation that be in place at the time . this be not about seek to blame the previous Government , but it be a statement of fact to say that those activity , about which there be concern across the House , take place in the previous Parliament and under the previous legislative framework . that be just a statement of truth . I have to say to the right hon . Gentleman , whom I respect very much indeed , that his answer to the question put by my right hon . and learn Friend the Member for Kenilworth and Southam ( Sir Jeremy Wright ) , the former Attorney General , raise more question than he give answer . be he seriously suggest that the National Security Adviser , with all his link to the 48 Group and to the Grandview Institution , have no involvement whatsoever in the advice that go to the Crown Prosecution Service ? while he be about it , will he clarify that apparent conflation of this country ' s economic tie with China , which he appear to give in mitigation for the mess that the Government appear to have get themselves into ? I respect the right hon . Gentleman too , and I hope that he will understand that any Government will seek to balance issue relate to national security as well as issue relate to economic prosperity . that , I think , be not an unreasonable way in which to proceed . I do , however , want to pick he up on one point : the National Security Adviser do not have any link to the 48 Group . foreign interference in our democracy be , of course , deeply concern , and transparency from government and , indeed , all legislator be essential . that include transparency in relation to past elect representative , such as Reform UK ' s former leader in Wales , who have plead guilty to accept bribe from Russia . to uphold public accountability , will the Minister commit to work with the Attorney General to publish the name of all individual interview by counter - terrorism police in connection with the Nathan Gill bribery case ? the people of Wales be rightly concerned . the right hon . Lady be right ; transparency be important . if she will forgive I , I will look carefully at the point that she have make and take it away , but I hope this also mean that she will be seek to support our election Bill . I be go to keep this quite basic , because I think this be where a lot of the public will come from . the Government should always want to do everything they can , and more , to keep the british public and our institution safe , so I do not understand why they will not do everything they possibly can at least to try to bring this to trial — at least to try to give a jury an opportunity to take matter into its hand and consider this case . I do not understand why they be willing to accept advice , and not actually put this matter to trial when they have the opportunity to do so . will the Minister please commit to publish all minute from any meeting at which matter discuss with the CPS , or what the CPS have request , be ask for ? I will keep it basic as well . this government will do everything that we can to keep the public safe , and the hon . Lady will have hear the response that I give early with regard to publishing issue . the stench emanating from the collapse of this chinese spy case make a manure heap seem positively floral . the bottom line be that everyone be disappoint , everyone think there be enough evidence and everyone seem to agree that China be a security threat , yet the case have collapse and China have be give , essentially , carte blanche to carry on spying in the United Kingdom . I have it on good authority that senior figure in Washington now fear that five eye have become six eye . the one thing that have change since charge be make in April 2024 be the National Security Adviser . will the Minister give a commitment that the National Security Adviser will appear , and answer question in person , before any parliamentary Committee that wish to have those question answer ? the hon . member talk about a stench . he have some brass neck , give what have go on in his party recently . the National Security Adviser be a special adviser , and , give the reference to the United States , I would point the hon . member in the direction of President Trump ' s policy adviser , who just this morning praise the contribution make by the NSA . the problem that the Government have be that the story keep change , either each day or within a day . the right hon . Gentleman , who be obviously state the Government ' s position now , be give we a view that completely contradict the message give by Ministers over the weekend . he have clearly refer to a huge number of meeting at which — I say this with the great respect — he be not present . can he agree now that the content of all those meeting , and the minute of those meeting , will be publish , so that everyone in the House can understand what have happen ? if that have to be do under certain rule so that the public do not have access to the information , fair enough ; but the reality be that until such time as the Government come clean , the stench of this will continue . let I assure the hon . member that I take very seriously the point that he have make . clearly there will be a legal dimension to all this , but I be happy to go away , look at his point and then come back to he . in 2023 the Intelligence and Security Committee publish a report on China in which it write that China be a " whole - of - state threat " . in their 2023 public response to the ISC report , the Government write that they recognise " the committee ' s concern about the long - term strategic challenge " . the ISC have use the word " threat " rather than " challenge " . do the Minister regret that in 2023 the Government ' s response do not use the word " threat " ? with respect to the hon . member , I be not go to become involved in a critique about whether the Government should have respond in a different way , because that be a matter for they . however , he mention the important work of the ISC . the Government consider that the ISC have a very important role to play in Parliament . it be obviously independent of Government , and it will clearly be for the Chair , the deputy Chair and the wide Committee to take a view on how they wish to proceed . as for the specific report to which the hon . Member refer , all that material would have be available to be consider by the CPS . the right hon . Gentleman be the Minister for Security . I have be here for almost an hour and a half , and I have not hear he answer this question : be China spy on Parliament , or be it even a consideration that it be spy on Parliament ? I have be crystal clear — [ interruption . ] if hon . member will allow I , let I say that China pose a series of threat to the United Kingdom , and I be very clear about what they be . I refer specifically to a number of particular issue . I could not have be clear about that . I thank the Minister for come forward . as he know , this topical issue lie heavy in the heart of many people in constituency throughout the United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland as we consider whether national security have be at threat owe to the semantic of language , and the general public be ask for openness and transparency . I have be contact on a number of occasion by concerned constituent of chinese descent who believe that they be be shadow by the chinese secret service , and the decision not to prosecute mean that they be feel even more insecure and even more fearful . that must be address . will the Minister tell we exactly when the decision be make to classify China as non - threatening , and how will I tell that to my constituent who be live in fear right now as a result of this so - call non - threat ? I be grateful to the hon . member , as always . I think he be refer to activity that take place under the previous Government , but let I agree with his basic point : the public do want to know what have happen . that be why the Government have put forward a statement today , to provide that transparency . what I think the public do not want , however , be Ministers , or politician , interfere in the legal process , and seek to influence , persuade or cajole senior figure in the CPS , include the Director of Public Prosecutions . I do not think that be the right way to proceed , and I think that hopefully , if Opposition Members , and indeed member throughout the House , step back for a moment , we can reach a consensus that it be not right for Ministers to second - guess legal decision make by the Crown Prosecution Service . the Minister have comprehensively take on several strawman argument , answer question that have not be ask , and stick to his carefully construct sentence . one example be : " minister and special adviser do not take decision about that evidence , and they be not sight on the content . " but be any Minister , the National Security Adviser , any other special adviser or any senior official other than the deputy National Security Adviser , such as the Cabinet Secretary , sight on the decision regard the evidence send to the CPS ? fundamentally , the decision be one for the DPP and the CPS . I could not have be clear about the fact that this Government have not seek to interfere with the process . I listen carefully to the Minister ' s statement , but question remain . the Minister say that China pose threat . will the Government now publish in full the China audit , so that we can know the scale of those threat ? the Minister say that the Government will act against transnational repression of Hongkongers here in the UK , so will the Government now implement target sanction against the official in Hong Kong and Beijing who be responsible for the bounty ? the Minister say that the Government will legislate against foreign influence . will he ensure that the new election Bill tackle not only covert foreign political funding , but all foreign political funding , by shut down the opportunity for foreign actor to influence our politic through corporate donation ? the hon . Member reference the China audit ; I be sure that he will acknowledge that the then Foreign Secretary come to the House to give a statement specifically on the China audit . the reason why the China audit have not be publish be that it be at a high classification than document that would normally be publish . I hope that the hon . member ' s second point be at least a tacit welcome of the Government ' s election Bill . there will be a number of measure in there , which I hope that he and his colleague will be able to support . it be important that we seek to work together to transform the political landscape to make it much , much hard for those who seek to interfere in our democracy to do so . the Minister have make great play of the need to work cross - party on this issue . may I gently suggest to he that the time to do that be before the case collapse , not afterwards ? the Minister have leant heavily on what official be willing to say about the threat or otherwise that China pose , but official do not make Government policy and do not state the position of the UK Government ; minister do . if the Government be struggle to find an official who would say in a witness statement that China be a threat , be there any good reason why they could not have ask the former Security Minister to do so , my right hon . friend the Member for Tonbridge ( Tom Tugendhat ) , who be happy to give a statement at the Dispatch Box ? I be sure that many other former Government Ministers would have happily give evidence that China be a threat , enable the case to proceed . what possible reason be there for not do that ? the hon . member talk about my make great play of the need to work cross - party , but that be because I genuinely believe that on important matter of national security , we should proceed in a certain way , and where possible , we seek to work across the political divide to establish consensus . I think there be a slight irony in the point that he go on to make . I agree with he that minister be accountable , and if Opposition member want to hold Ministers to account , that be absolutely a matter for they . what I think be most unfortunate — I be not say that he be responsible for do this , but other have do it — be when member seek to blame official or imply criticism of they . I do not think that be the right way to proceed . it seem to I that the right hon . member for Islington South and Finsbury ( Emily Thornberry ) , the Chair of the Foreign Affairs Committee , put her finger on the nub of this matter . we know that in April 2024 , the CPS decide that the evidential test be meet . the evidential test be that there be a reasonable prospect of conviction for the offence of pass useful information to an enemy . we know that in September ' 25 , the DPP maintain that the evidential test be not meet , so what change ? who change it ? how do we move from the evidential test be meet to the evidential test not be meet ? be the evidence before the DPP withdraw ? be it find to be unreliable , or do the Government fail to substantiate the evidence that enable the evidential test to be meet back in April 2024 ? with great respect to the hon . and learn Gentleman , that be what I be at great pain to explain in my opening remark . do the Minister agree that the Government have now set a perverse incentive for british official , in that admit to espionage problem with China be see as rock the boat ? no , I do not agree . the Government have not have a great record in the court recently . Kneecap ' s case be throw out because the paperwork be not correct , and now we have the spy case not proceed because evidence be not provide . the fact of the matter be that China now control many of our supply chain , hold a lot of our national debt , and be an important part of the economic framework in the United Kingdom because of its investment in strategic industry . the general public may not understand the intricacy of how a case be build up and who be involve in it , but can the Minister understand that despite his excuse - ride statement today , many member of the public might be come to the conclusion that national security be be sacrifice because the Government be not prepared to deal with our increase economic dependency on China ? no , I do not agree . there will be those , include in this House , who will seek to simplify the nature of the relationship to a single word . more sensible and fair - minded colleague , and certainly the public , will understand that difficult choice have to be make . fundamentally , this Government ' s approach will always be to put our national security first . I have be crystal clear about that today and previously , but that do not mean that we should not look for opportunity to trade with a country where there will be some economic advantage to do so . that seem to I entirely reasonable and completely pragmatic , but we will proceed on the basis that our national security absolutely come first . last month , the Security Minister come before the House and state that he be not happy with the decision not to prosecute . I ask he why the Government be dither over formally challenge China , have exclude it from the enhance tier of the foreign influence registration scheme , and he suggest that they be not do so . subsequent revelation have suggest that the Government have yield to chinese threat to withhold investment , and to offer to waive the outstanding debt owe to Jingye . would the Minister like to correct the record and explain why China be not in the enhance tier , give that we be discuss spy for China ? can he clarify what role the National Security Adviser , Jonathan Powell , have play in decide that China should not be classify in the enhance tier alongside Russia and Iran ? " extremely disappointed " be the way that I describe our reaction , both on 15 September and again today . I gently say to the hon . member that he should not believe everything that he read in the paper . he ask I about FIRS . I hope he hear the response that I give some moment ago ; I say that we look very carefully at any question of whether to place a particular country on the enhance tier of FIRS . FIRS be an important part of the National Security Act 2023 . there be those , include on the hon . Gentleman ' s side of the House , who say that we be not go to roll it out , but we roll it out on 1 July . I say that we be go to roll it out on 1 July , and we do . we look very carefully at how we can most effectively use that tool , and we will continue to look closely at that , but any decision about the enhance tier will be bring forward in the normal way . the Government say that they want to take a long - term and strategic approach to China , but that be exactly what China do , whether we be talk about it increase control over supply chain to gain leverage over the west , the belt and road programme , or the debt - trap diplomacy with which it be associate abroad . this be nothing less than a concession to an authoritarian regime , and it play into China ' s hand , as it want to continue gain economic and military leverage over the west . the head of the CPS say that he request evidence from the Government to allow the case to proceed , but the Government do not provide that evidence . why not , and be it still the Government ' s view that it be impossible to argue in court that China be a threat ? on the hon . Gentleman ' s final question , I have take every opportunity to try to provide the Government ' s response . I be not entirely clear about his critique of take a long - term strategic approach and whether he think that be a good thing to do or not . I think it be a good thing that government think carefully and strategically about their role in the world and the nature of their relationship with country like China . yes , we have to be clear - eyed , and have to always defend our national security , but we also have to look for opportunity for economic growth as well . on a point of order , Madam Deputy Speaker . be it to do with this statement ? yes , Madam Deputy Speaker . like you , I be one of the parliamentarian sanction by China . like many member of this House , I be leave wonder whether it be not just our office that be spy on , but our family , our home and our child , and in the absence of a trial , I have no way of find out what happen . the Minister have be ask multiple time whether he will publish the minute of the meeting in which this case be discuss . we know from the DPP that , over month and month , the CPS ask again and again for evidence that be not forthcoming . however , without the minute of those meeting , we be not able to find out what be ask for , why it be refuse or who make that decision . what mean be available to this House to get hold of the minute of those meeting , which the Government do not want to publish ? what parliamentary mean do we have to get hold of the minute of meeting in which this issue be discuss and these decision be make , so that we can find out the truth ? I thank the hon . gentleman for give some notice of that point of order . he be absolutely correct that he and I be two of the four sit mp who be sanction by China . I have be advise to say that he should seek advice from the Table Office as a first step to see how these document can be publish . the Minister have say repeatedly in response to member from across the House that some material may or could be make public at some point . I be not sure what that material will be , or what format it would be in , but I have no doubt that the hon . Gentleman will seek advice from the Table Office , to make sure that the information be make available , if it can be . unless the Minister wish to respond to that point of order , I will let the matter fall . Digital ID I have always believe in give people power and control over their life : control over the public service they use and how they access childcare , benefit and housing support ; control over their datum , and who see it ; and control over the choice they make to rent or buy a home , apply for a job , open a bank account , and much more besides . in the age of the smartphone , we can take this control quite literally into our own hand , but too often it feel like we be at the mercy of a system that do not work for we as well as it should . it be one with endless form filling and bureaucracy just for people to prove who they be , and one where they may need their passport to apply for a job , their national insurance number to pay tax and their drive licence to buy a pint or a glass of wine — if they be lucky enough to be ask . most frustratingly of all , they may have to rummage around in a drawer look for an old electricity bill just to open a bank account , join the library or enrol their child in school . it be time to fix this : to put power back in people ' s hand ; to get more out of our public service ; and to bring the UK into the modern age . there be three reason why we want to introduce a new , free digital ID , available to all UK citizen and legal resident above the age of 16 . first , it be about give people great agency over their life . in over 15 year as a local MP , I have lose count of the number of people who have come to I because they have struggle to get the public service they need or have to battle for support from different part of the welfare state . I be sure many hon . member will know a frustratingly similar story . People be pass from one person to another , and ask to repeat their story and provide basic information time and again . they be make to fit into a system , rather than the system work for they , which ultimately leave they feel as though they be a number on a list , not a human be with a life . bring in a new digital ID be about far more than replace numerous bit of paper just for people to prove who they be . it be about change the way the state interact with its citizen through what I like to see as a new digital key that unlock well , more join - up and effective public service that actually talk to one another and fit around they . in build our new system , we will learn from the experience of other country , some of which have have digital ID for over 20 year . many show we just how transformative this can be . in Denmark , a graduate apply for job have to log into a portal only once , and their ID automatically link to their school record , save they retype their qualification each time . in Finland , a parent can go online to register their child for day care without upload a payslip or put in their salary , and the site automatically calculate the right fee . in Estonia , a digital ID mean that when someone have a baby , they do not need to go to a local office to register the birth , sign up for childcare benefit or apply for nursery place . that happen automatically from day one in the hospital , so parent be free to focus on what matter most . Digital ID have the potential to empower million of people like that in the UK , with quick , effective , seamless and secure integration between different government system . we know that the tell we once service make the process of register a death more straightforward , but we should not have to wait until the end of someone ' s life to offer they join - up , personalise support . so our new system will help modernise Government service to fit around people ' s life , rather than force they to fit into the system . the second reason for introduce digital ID be to offer people great security and actually great control over their own datum . other country that have introduce digital ID find that digitally check credential be far more secure than physical document . they be much less likely to be lose or steal , they have reduce error and mistake , and they have help crack down on fraudster who can ruin people ' life . privacy and security will be hard - wire into the system from the start . there will be no pooling of people ' s private information into a single , central dataset — it will be a federate data system — and user control will be at the heart of our plan . with a digital id , people may end up have more choice over what they show the world , not less . if they be buy a drink at the bar , instead of show a physical driving licence reveal their full name and address , they will be able to prove they be over 18 without even show their exact birthday if they do not want to . we will ensure that our digital ID operate to international good practice standard for datum security and privacy , and we be work closely with the National Cyber Security Centre to ensure it keep pace with the change threat we face . the third and final reason for introduce digital ID be to deliver great fairness by show exactly who have the right to work in the UK . Digital ID be not a silver bullet for tackle illegal immigration , but it will be a deterrent to would - be migrant who be consider come to the UK , alongside all the other action we be take . make ID check both mandatory and digital for all employer will provide we with far more actionable intelligence , so we can move swiftly to identify rogue employer who be not follow the rule . under this Government , illegal working arrest have go up 50 % in the last year . that be progress , but our digital ID will help we to do more . it will be mandatory for right to work check by the end of this Parliament , help tackle illegal working , crack down on rogue employer , create a level playing field for employer who do the right thing , and give people who do have the right to be here the cast - iron guarantee that this be their country and that they be welcome in the UK . for our new ID to be both effective and fair , it must be genuinely inclusive . that be non - negotiable for the Government , and for I personally . currently , around one in 10 UK adult do not have a passport or a driver ' s licence to prove their identity , and around 1 . 5 million people do not have a smartphone , laptop or tablet , or be digitally exclude for another reason . we be already make progress with our digital inclusion action plan . we will continue to work closely with all the relevant organisation to understand the barrier to inclusion and how they can be overcome , so we bring everyone into the system . I want to hear directly from hon . member across the House about these matter , and from those in the digital identity sector who have so much experience to learn from . we will consider physical alternative to the virtual document and face - to - face support for those who need it , such as the 5 % of UK household who do not have home internet access . ultimately , however , we want Britain to be a country where everybody have the digital skill and access to be part of the modern world , include through our new digital ID to unlock more effective service and support . to conclude , we will launch a full consultation on our plan by the end of this year , include with parliamentarian , the devolve Administrations and member of the public . legislation inform by that process will follow shortly afterwards . I know hon . member will have many question and I look forward to take they , but let I just say this . some 92 % of people over 16 already have a smartphone . many of we already use digital credential hold in our phone wallet , from ticket to event and online banking to store boarding pass . People should expect the same service from the Government . indeed , we should be criticise if we be not modernise our service to make they easy and more convenient for the public . year from now , when we look back , I believe that have your id on your phone will feel like second nature , put more power directly into people ' s hand and give they more control over how they interact with government and the whole range of service . that be something worth strive for . I commend this statement to the House . I call the shadow Secretary of State . nearly three week ago , the Prime Minister unveil a plan for mandatory digital identity that will fundamentally shift the balance of power between citizen and state . he do not announce it here in this House , but at a love - in of the progressive left , sponsor by Labour together and haunt by the ghost of Tony Blair . the justification be his own catastrophic failure on migration . he know it will not stop the boat . when Brits be force to have ID as illegal migration continue unabated , it will simply confirm fear of a two - tier society , fuel the division and conspiracy theory that he so arrogantly claim he be the antidote to . what a cynical mess . can the Secretary of State set out how the scheme will identify illegal migrant work in the black economy , when their gangmaster be expert at avoid any state interaction ? she rather slink away from those key point in her wonderfully innocuous statement about make it easy to join library . we have in the official press release this glorious piece of doublethink : " it will not be compulsory to obtain a digital id but it will be mandatory for some application . " when employment itself require government - issue identity , you can not meaningfully consent — unless , of course , you never want to work . here be the fundamental issue : in a free society , the burden of proof have always rest with government to justify its action to earn our trust . mandatory digital identity reverse that . while today the scheme focus on work check , Labour say it want to extend this type of mandate into more area of our life . which area ? where do it stop ? I understand that even 13 - year - old be now be consider . what about those without digital access ? Labour have deprioritise gigabit roll - out and publish a very worthy digital inclusion action plan without any action . the Prime Minister point to Estonia and India as model we should seek to replicate , despite serious cyber vulnerability . the UK ' s own sign - on system be breach during red team test this very March . when 2 . 8 million people petition against the plan , the Government assure they that they would adhere to the high security standard . can the Secretary of State confirm to we here today that the system on which her mandatory ID will be build already meet those standard , and that the National Cyber Security Centre will publicly back she up ? this crafty scheme be not in Labour ' s manifesto . even the Cabinet think the whole thing be a fantasy . the Secretary of State can not even bring herself to tweet about it . why do the Prime Minister keep hand she his steaming mess to scoop up ? the migration argument have totally bomb — we hear it here today . she and the Prime Minister be now reframe this whole thing as the route to well online service — no more rifle around for utility bill ; not an ID , we hear today , but a key . they be deliberately conflate two very different thing . well and more convenient online service be already come in . we already have right to work and rent check , convenient DBS — Disclosure and Barring Service — check and drive licence renewal , all design with choice , consent and privacy in mind , paper option retain , nobody force down the digital route and trust as the key , and private identity provider enable . this be not about Luddites versus moderniser ; this be about the fact that Labour can not resist its big fat socialist dream : centralise database , state mandation , big money , the exclusion of private sector expertise . why create this honeypot for hacker ? how much will it cost ? why should we trust Labour to be the verifier of someone ' s identity , when during the passage of the Data ( Use and Access ) Act 2025 it would not even commit to record someone ' s sex accurately ? let I be clear : conservative oppose mandatory digital identity in principle and in practice . if we believe it be necessary , we would have introduce it in government . we choose not to because you can deliver well online service without resort to a costly , control , complex and risky system . this be a cynical distraction from a desperate Prime Minister . he want people to believe that mandatory ID will fix his migration mess , but it will not . channel crossing will continue until he introduce a real deterrent , but he have not get the gut to take on the lawfare industry that make he . we believe that government should empower citizen , not the other way round ; that government should earn citizen ' trust , not the other way round . only those entitle to benefit should receive they and those with no right to be here must leave , but those imperative be not well deliver by control british people instead of those who do not play by the rule . the Government who promise to tread lightly on our life have get their boot out . will the Secretary of State now kill this plan , rather than be the sacrificial lamb for another of this Prime Minister ' s grubby mistake ? well , Madam Deputy Speaker , that be definitely the first time I have be call a big fat socialist . [ laughter . ] the hon . Lady ask how it will help crack down on illegal immigration . make ID mandatory and digital will really help we to get , much more swiftly and automatically , more actionable intelligence about rogue employer , and about who be do the check they be require to do and who be not . secondly , the hon . Lady talk about those who be digitally exclude . as I say in my statement , I take that issue extremely seriously . we actually have a digital inclusion action plan . the Conservatives do not do one for 10 year . if they care so much about it , perhaps they would have do . understandably and rightly , I be sure we will have lot of question about have the high possible standard . we will be work to international good practice standard . there be not many advantage to lag behind so many other country — many other country — that have digital ID , but one be that we can learn from their experience when thing have go wrong and how they improve their security . that be what we intend to do . I finish by say this . the hon . Lady come to the Dispatch Box with fire and brimstone , but it be quite interesting that she differ from the shadow Home Secretary . back in February , the right hon . member for Croydon South ( Chris Philp ) back the idea , say there be " very significant benefit " . in August , he say the Conservatives should consider it . the Conservatives ' leader in June say that she have move her position on digital ID and that if it could answer difficult problem then , yes , that be something they would look at . give the amount of flip - flop on the other side of the Chamber , you would think it be still summer . they be not serious , and they be not credible . until they be , they be not electable . I call the Select Committee Chair . the Secretary of State be absolutely right to champion access to a consistent , trust digital ID . all of we online have digital id aplenty already — facebook , TikTok , his Majesty ' s Revenue and Customs , Tesco — so she be right to bring the benefit of one digital ID to my constituent . but make digital ID mandatory for everyone seek work be poke a stick in the eye of all those with security , privacy and / or Government capacity concern , which my Committee will be examine as part of our work on digital government . for now , though , can she first confirm that people will be in control of their digital ID datum and who access it ? secondly , will she say whether it will be procure externally from the private sector or develop in - house by Government digital service ? my hon . friend be right to raise the important issue of security — people be rightly concerned about the security of their datum , and that be why that will be at the heart of our consultation . in answer to her specific question : yes , people will control who see and access their datum , and we absolutely expect this system to be design and build within Government , build on the one Login . I call the liberal Democrat spokesperson . I thank Secretary of State for advance sight of this statement , but I be quite frankly disappointed that this be how we be start the conversation on digital ID in Parliament . we Liberal Democrats believe that freedom belong to citizen by right , but the Government ' s plan for digital ID for every single work person risk erode the hard - win freedom to control the way we live our life . they risk exclude million of vulnerable people from their own society and waste billion in public money chase expensive solution that will not work . yet again , it be a gimmick to tackle irregular migration — something I have hope be reserve for the Conservatives . yet again , by erode public trust with these rush , retrofit policy , the Government have squander an opportunity to use technology to improve public service by bring people with they . in addition , the Government announce this — a scheme that will impact every single work person in the UK — week before it could be scrutinise by Parliament . any claim from this government that this scheme will be non - compulsory and give agency be poppycock in reality . as a requirement for the right to work , it be mandatory ID in all but name — the Secretary of State say so herself just now . where be the choice in that ? last week , the Foreign Secretary propose issue digital id for teenager . this be clear Government mission creep , and it be dangerous . liberal have always stand up against concentration of power , and for good reason . we have see the Government ' s abject failure to secure people ' s datum before — just ask the victim of the Legal aid Agency datum breach or the armed force personnel who be victim of the Ministry of Defence datum breach whether they have faith in the Government to keep their most personal datum secure . how can the public have trust in the Government to manage a system that will manage the datum of almost the entire population ? will the Secretary of State commit to publish an impact assessment for the 8 . 5 million people without foundational digital skill , such as my constituent Julie , who do not own a smartphone and be fearful of be exclude from employment , healthcare and other essential service ? will the Secretary of State come forward with a plan to reduce the risk of further marginalisation ? all these serious concern , from privacy to exclusion , come at a staggering cost . this scheme will cost the taxpayer billion — money that will be waste on a system do little to tackle the Government ' s state aim of immigration enforcement . meanwhile , our public service be crumble . finally , I ask the Minister how much taxpayer money the Government be prepared to waste on this — a scheme for which they have no mandate and no public support — before they admit it do not work . I will try to keep this brief , Madam Deputy Speaker . the hon . Lady raise a number of different issue that I mention in my statement . on digital exclusion , we have a digital inclusion action plan and will be spend £ 9 . 5 million in local area to help people who be currently exclude to get online . we will be publish a full consultation on that , and I be sure she will feed in her view . it be interesting that the liberal Democrat leader , the right hon . member for Kingston and Surbiton ( Ed Davey ) , say last month that if a UK system be about give individual the power to access public service , he could be in favour of it . I hope the Liberal Democrats drop their partisan approach and work with we to deliver the system . I say to the hon . Lady and to other hon . member that many , many other country have digital ID system . the EU be roll out a digital ID system in all member state — ah ! [ laughter . ] I know that those on the conservative Benches do not like it . I think we need to keep a little perspective . rise — order . we have two Select Committee statement and a substantial debate later this evening , so this statement will have to conclude in 45 minute . I ask colleague to keep their question short and the Secretary of State to keep her response even short and on point . just over a month ago , I visit Tallinn , in Estonia , to understand why digital ID be so popular with the old , the young and those who be define as digitally exclude . they tell I that it be because they have control over their datum that be hold by the state ; they can see it , see who have access it and who else can see it . what be critical , in a state that border Russia , be that they have confidence in their absolute control over their data security . I believe there be lesson that we can learn . in the UK , my constituent want to know who be in this country , who be legally entitle to use our public service , and who be entitle to work here . do the Secretary of State agree that we need to learn from country such as Estonia and Denmark on those matter ? yes , I do . my hon . friend be right that the citizen of this country rightly want to know who have a right to be here and who have a right to work here . that be a very important principle . I be wholly opposed to this policy , as I know be many of my constituent . while the Government have talk about the so - call economic benefit of access service and digitalise how we interact with Government , my constituent be concerned about infringement on liberty and the shift relationship between the individual and the state . the state must always be accountable to the individual . can the Secretary of State rule out this system ever become one through which the Government can track location , consumer spending habit or social medium activity ? yes . I appreciate the Secretary of State set out the Government ' s ambition . I have to pick she up on something , though , because she say this policy would be free , but ultimately the taxpayer will have to pay for it . the costing that we have see be about £ 1 billion to £ 2 billion to create the system and another £ 100 million each year to run it . we know the cost of a data breach : the Office for Budget Responsibility have suggest it could be 1 . 1 % of gdp — in fact , our entire growth — be it to happen to the economy . Marks & Spencer , Jaguar Land Rover and Co - op have all show we that . can the Secretary of State therefore give we at least a ballpark figure for the capital and revenue cost that she envision for what she have set out ? I thank my hon . friend for her question . we also need to look at the potential benefit of this policy in saving from crack down on fraud and make service more effective and efficient . clearly , the eventual cost will depend on the design and build of the system , which be what we be consult on . I be sure that she and many other colleague will feed in their view . give that digital ID will not stop illegal immigration and will far erode our civil liberty , will the Secretary of State confirm that the Prime Minister announce it only as a deterrent to those seek to topple he at the Labour party conference ? if not , what be the actual purpose of this policy ? that be nonsense . I have be contact by a large number of constituent in recent week , whose healthy scepticism about digital ID make a material difference in tackle illegal immigration I share . I think there be scope for well digital integration across the public sector more generally , but the Secretary of State talk in her statement about a lot of hypothetical thing — thing that this policy could do in the future — and the only use case that have be confirm so far be right - to - work check . can we be clear on the use case that we intend to pursue and over which timescale , so that we have the information we need to make a decision on whether we want to go down this path ? these be not hypothetical ; we be look at how other country have use these system to deliver more effective Government and other service to their citizen . we have propose have mandatory right - to - work check by the end of the Parliament , but there will be many important voluntary way in which people can well access service and support . we will be consult on that fully when we come forward with the detailed proposal . I be firmly against the Government ' s plan to introduce digital ID , which be alarm state overreach . this pledge — seemingly make on a whim , give that it make no appearance in the labour manifesto and there be no mandate for it — seem to be a desperate attempt to shore up Labour ' s moribund pledge to smash the gang . there appear to be little appetite or enthusiasm for this proposal on the Government Benches , and the claim that it will curb illegal immigration , when we be still offer asylum seeker somewhere to live and an asylum support enablement card of £ 49 . 18 a week , be not support by the evidence . have receive a huge amount of correspondence on this matter , I ask the Secretary of State what guarantee she can give my constituent that the scheme can be afford , that their datum will be safe , and that the scheme will be never use to track their use of service . I have already say that the scheme will not be use for that . in many other country these system have make access Government and public service much easy , quick and more efficient . I think there be some scaremongere about this issue . such scheme in other country really have make Government fit around people , rather than make people fit into Government and their different service , and I think that be a huge benefit . give the serious threat that digital ID pose to civil liberty and our data security and the risk of our datum be hand over to US tech giant , I be firmly opposed to it . however , be it not also a real big waste of money , and should the Government not instead focus on the no . 1 priority of people across the country , which be tackle the cost of living crisis ? would it not be well to push the money from this into that while safeguard civil liberty ? I think that provide well value for taxpayer money by get service to work more quickly , effectively and efficiently and by crack down on fraud and reduce error and waste be a really important part of deliver for the british people . I fully agree with many of the point make so far , and I too have have many comment from constituent . this scheme will not help in area of digital exclusion , especially where there be poor phone coverage , as there be in many part of Devon , and neither will it stop rogue employer who currently employ cash in hand and do not look at the book . why would they look at ID on a phone ? they will not . Digital ID must be optional . could the Secretary of State please assure we that it will be build along the line of sovereign AI and that we will not hand over control of a system like this , with information about people ' s life , to company such as Palantir ? we absolutely will not . if the hon . Gentleman would like to write to I with more detail about area and group of people in his constituency who be digitality exclude , I will make a commitment to do everything possible to tackle that problem . I think that many member have fundamentally misunderstood the proposal . it be actually about put power in the hand of the citizen , not the state . the state already hold this information ; digital ID will allow citizen to access it . on fraud , £ 11 . 4 billion be lose in scam last year , and £ 1 . 8 billion per year be lose due to identity theft . do the Secretary of State see a role for digital ID in crack down on the grow problem of fraud and identity theft ? I absolutely do . the country that have introduce digital ID have find that it help to tackle fraud . People can lose form of identity and they can be use by other people . the scheme will help to tackle that problem as well as make service more effective and efficient . I be completely opposed to digital ID card as a matter of principle . the proposal be not in the Labour party manifesto , and the Government have no mandate for it . it be basically a multibillion - pound gimmick to try to address the fact that small boat arrival be up a third since they come to power and they have not get the faint clue how to stop they . I have two very specific question to ask of the Secretary of State . first , how much — even as a ballpark figure — will it cost to bring in this system ? secondly , if it be to be mandatory , which would be completely wrong , what would be the penalty for a citizen who refuse on principle to have digital ID ? I do not know why the right hon . Gentleman think that people should not be require to prove that they have the right to work in this country . it seem a very reasonable thing to do . some 92 % of people over 16 have a phone , and as I say in answer to a previous question , we be consult on how we will design and develop this whole programme . further detail about costing will come out in due course . on the Public Accounts Committee we regularly hear example of government IT system that be out of date , inefficient and open to fraud and hacking . that be the reality of it . when look at other country such as Estonia and Denmark , will the Secretary of State also look at how they have completely reform and recreate modern , comprehensive it system where individual have easy access ? in Estonia , as I understand it , an individual have the right to know which part of Government have look in their IT system at they . my hon . friend be absolutely right . we will be learn lesson from those country . People will be able to see who access their datum , so this proposal will give they more power and control . if I may , Madam Deputy Speaker , I will reply to the second question from the right hon . member for Rayleigh and Wickford ( Mr Francois ) . there will not be a sanction or penalty for people who do not carry digital ID . there will remain penalty on employer who do not obey the law and do ID check , but there will not be penalty on the individual . I be not sure , however many example the Secretary of State give of other country , that she will convince the people of Britain that mandatory ID card fit with our particular value . will she listen to the million who sign the parliamentary petition , as well as to the fighting Yorkshireman Harry Willcock and the Churchill Government of 1952 , who consider the abolition of ID card an important symbol of a society that trust its citizen ? I think that when the british people — so many of whom now have online banking on their phone and store so much in their digital wallet — look at their friend , neighbour and colleague across the channel and see that many across Europe have digital ID as a matter of course and that it make their life simple and easy , their common sense will say , " we want a bit of that . " as Chair of the all - party parliamentary group on digital identity , I welcome the Government ' s proposal . however , many of my constituent have deep concern and be seek reassurance . in order to build trust in the digital ID system , it would help if people feel that they have choice and control over whether to use digital ID or not . as such , will the Secretary of State look again at the proposal for mandatory digital id for adult and allow people a choice for non - digital alternative , which incidentally would offer resilience against it failure , and control over their datum with a decentralised or federated datum approach ? the Prime Minister have be very clear that it will be mandatory for right to work check , but I can confirm to my hon . friend that we do not want one big , centralised datum set and that it will be federate . that be one of the lesson we learn from other country . I be sure that there be many more thing we will have to do to make sure that people ' s data be secure , but this will give people more control because they will be able to see who access their datum , and that be a good thing . if it be not so sinister , it would be quaint to hear the Secretary of State say that it be international , novel and modern , and therefore it must be good . try tell that to Jaguar Land Rover worker , M & S customer , or postmaster and postmistress . will the right hon . Lady recognise what I recognise when I be the Home Office Minister responsible for national cyber - security : when one concentrate datum and make it interconnect and interoperable , one also concentrate risk , and the risk be that people life will be damage and possibly even destroy ? I thank the right hon . gentleman for his question . he have a lot of experience in this area . we want not only to learn from other country but to work closely with the National Cyber Security Centre to make sure that we have the high possible standard of security . where mistake have be make , we can learn to put they right , and we be determined to do that . I be very happy to meet the right hon . gentleman to discuss this in more detail , because we want to get this right . identify rogue employer who exploit labour and dodge taxis be one thing . however , it make no difference whether someone hold digital ID over paper id if the employer refuse to acknowledge the ID . could the Secretary of State point to the evidence , which I be very interested to see , of how a digital ID will prevent rogue employment ? the hon . member be always rightly concerned to see the evidence , and when we publish our consultation on this proposal she will see it all there . it be important to understand that make ID check mandatory and digital , rather than solely rely on get information from individual , as we do at the present , can make a real difference in identify those who be not do the full range of check . it be not the only thing we need to tackle rogue employer , and there be many other action we need to take , but it be a good step forward . just as we oppose ID card under Tony Blair , we will oppose digital ID under this Labour Government , as they seek once again to impose this unwanted scheme on a sceptical public . the whole idea of digital ID be an attack on our liberty and privacy . it be a treasure trove for hacker and those who would hoard personal datum . it will do little to tackle illegal immigration and it will cost billion of pound . we in Scotland want nothing to do with this Britcard , and the Scottish Government will energetically oppose it . my question to the Secretary of State be this : when we rightly and inevitably oppose and reject this , will she do the usual UK thing of impose it on we anyway ? it be not a Britcard . I must say that I be tiny bit confused , because in March 2021 the Scottish Government publish " a change nation : how Scotland will thrive in a digital world " , which include plan to " introduce a digital identity service for user … to prove who they be , and that they be eligible for a service . " the hon . Member have well make up his mind . I do not know how many door I have knock on in my 12 year as a Labour member , but I do know that not a single person have ever tell I that what they really need to improve their life , their community and the country be mandatory digital id . it will not tackle irregular working , it would undermine civil liberty , it be divisive among the public , and it will not make a difference to people ' s life . why be we do it ? why be we burn political capital and public money on that instead of focus on the issue that really be impact our constituent ? I worry that this be yet another huge mistake . in the 15 year that I have be an MP , many people have say that it can be a nightmare try to talk to different bit of the public sector : repeatedly have to give the same information and tell their story time and again . they be concerned about illegal work in this country . this be an important step forward in term of improve how the state fit around people ' s live — it do not force they to fit into the system — and I think that be an issue that many member across the House have in common with their constituent . I congratulate the Secretary of State on her new position . I be mindful of her previous position , where she mastermind the personal independence payment reform , so with her proposal before we today I be concerned that she be fast become the Minister for lose cause . in my constituency , we have an awful lot of people who be digitally exclude ; it be really sobering . will she please give we some clear example of how people will be help ? I know of dozen and dozen of people who be against the proposal in principle , but what about those who will potentially be exclude ? we have a £ 9 . 5 million digital inclusion fund that will support local organisation with grant of between £ 25 , 000 and £ 500 , 000 to help specific group of people who be currently digitally exclude , to ensure that they can get the benefit of all manner of different private and public sector service that be available online . we will announce the result of the application process shortly . as always , I be happy to meet the hon . gentleman for he to tell I about the specific issue in his constituency . if we need to do more to ensure that everybody be digitally include , we will act . well , here we go again , 15 year after the Conservatives abolish it . I say to the naysayer that our passport datum and our drive licence datum be on a database , so we need to be careful about throw out the baby with the bathwater . we have have GOV . UK Verify and tell we once , so there have be attempt to do this , and we all log into our HMRC account , so we be use digital identification in many way , but will the Secretary of State be really careful about the challenge that some will face ? also , why on earth be it mandatory ? the previous proposal be for voluntary use , and interestingly it be popular with migrant , who really want to have that ID to prove their right to access , but they do not have to do so . that would allow public service the time to work with those who be digitally exclude . my hon . friend have a huge amount of experience on this issue ; I look forward to discuss it with she . the only area where we be propose the digital ID to be mandatory be for right - to - work check . [ interruption . ] no , we be not propose it to be mandatory for any other area . I believe that as people start to see those benefit , they will want to have it on their phone for access public service as well as those in the private sector . we have to get the security right and we have to get digital inclusion right , but I believe that in today ' s world , where so many of we have so much information on our phone , there have be a shift in opinion . I look forward to hear more from she about what she think we need to do next . this ID card be be tout as an idea to do mandatory work check . it rather surprise I that the right hon . Lady , who until recently be in charge of the Department for Work and Pensions , be not aware that we already have mandatory check in order to work . her statement be contradictory : she say that it will give people more control over their datum , but unless you be a multimillionaire who do not need to work , you will need to have an ID card , so it be not really optional at all . she have fail to answer question from many mp across the House on how much it will cost . can she say how much it will cost ? at the risk of repeat myself , cost will depend on exactly the design , build and delivery of the programme . we will set out further detail . I think people would expect that those who work here have a right to do so . that be an important principle , and one that I be proud to support . I welcome the statement and the consultation as a contribution towards modernise our public service . constituent of mine be frustrate by how they can not interact with the state . alongside my hon . friend the Member for Bassetlaw ( Jo White ) , I go on the recent trip to Tallinn , and I be strike by not just how digital identity could make thing easy , but how it could drive the uptake of thing like childcare and pension credit and actually provide a service to people . I be also take by the fact that , in Tallinn , the identity system be develop to stop the overreach of the state , and civil liberty be build into it . will my right hon . friend ensure that control and datum use be a real part of the consultation ? I agree with my hon . friend that this could give people more power and control over their datum — who see it and who use it — as well as all the other benefit he rightly set out . the british people do not vote for a two - tier digital police state run by this fail Labour Government . this policy be undemocratic and authoritarian and will do absolutely nothing to stop illegal immigration . will the Secretary of State listen to the overwhelming volume of public opinion and drop it immediately ? no . I recall the debate about the previous attempt to bring in ID card , when people be concern about have to produce they if demand by authority such as the police . I too have be to Estonia , and I understand that the argument have move on — we now have app on our phone such as the NHS app and we have the GOV . UK one login , so we all have a digital footprint these day — but can my right hon . friend categorically state that that at no stage in the future will people be require by the police to produce this digital ID ? I can . EU national in the UK be guinea pig for a digital - only status . serious concern be still be raise , include about access issue that result in people be wrongly deny work , housing , education and welfare . extend digital id to the british people will result in another layer of mandatory surveillance and loss of privacy . will the Secretary of State confirm what independent oversight will monitor data breach , error and misuse ? there will not be surveillance , and we be not propose that it will be mandatory to access all different type of service . that be just a wrong characterisation of what we be propose . the current proposal be that digital ID will be mandatory for right - to - work check by the end of this Parliament . concern have be raise with I by constituent that that make it de facto mandatory for working - age people . have the Secretary of State consider simply stick with it as a voluntary service so that people who wish to can get the benefit of a streamlined id , and then , when it be bed in , perhaps look at whether it be necessary to make it mandatory for right - to - work check ? we have consider all those different aspect . it be right for the Prime Minister to say that it should be mandatory for right - to - work check by the end of the Parliament to prove a person ' s right to be here and to work . I also believe that as we develop it and show the benefit for many other aspect of daily life , for which we be not propose it will be mandatory , people will see the benefit of that . I hope that that will start to shift the debate . I want to pick up the question about punishment , because I be confused . the Secretary of State say that , in order to work , someone will have to have a digital id — it will be mandatory — yet she also say that the impetus will be on the company and not the individual , who will not need to have one . how will that work ? will the individual have to have one ? if they choose not to , will that mean they can not work ? will it mean they have to claim benefit ? or will it mean they will go to prison because they do not have a mandatory id ? no , that be not what it will mean . the specific question be whether there would be sanction or penalty on a person for not have one , and I say , " no , there win ' t . " as be the case now , if an employer have not do the require check , it can face a civil penalty of up to £ 60 , 000 for each individual worker or , for a criminal offence , up to five year in jail , but there will not be penalty or sanction on the individual . I thank my right hon . friend for her statement , which set out clearly how far the UK be lag behind our european neighbour on fast and easy access to service . that say , my constituent have raise two main concern with I , and I would be grateful if she could provide some reassurance . one be about why they will require digital ID to work when they already have national insurance number , and the other be about how digital ID will impact the most vulnerable resident . I hope that I have explain why digital ID need to be mandatory for right to work check , and the benefit of that as one part of a toolkit of thing to crack down on illegal immigration . make sure that vulnerable people — those who do not have smartphone or tablet , or the skill — have access be extremely important to I . we will be work closely with all the organisation that can make a difference and the digital inclusion action committee , and we want to look at what more we can do very locally to support group that we know have access to people . I would be very happy to meet my hon . friend to talk in more detail about what we might be able to do to support her constituent , because we be determined to make sure that Britain be a digitally include country . through the Secretary of State , may I thank the Minister for Digital Government and Data , who be sit to she left ? he be in Belfast last week and engage with the Minister for Communities in the Northern Ireland Executive . he will know , and she should know , that our principled and practical objection to this proposal 20 year ago remain to this day , but the Secretary of State will also know that since the policy ' s announcement there have be many fanciful and facile comment in Northern Ireland suggest that it would be in breach of the Belfast agreement . she know that ideologically , practically , principally , politically and legally , that be wrong , so will she at least confirm today that nothing within the consultation will give an option to anyone to suggest that the policy , if it be to be introduce , would be anything other than across the United Kingdom ? it will be across the United Kingdom . as the right hon . Gentleman say , my right hon . friend the Minister for Digital Government and Data be in Northern Ireland just last week , and he also visit and talk to member of the Irish Government . the Good Friday agreement and the common travel area be absolutely sacrosanct . this will be a UK - wide proposal , and nothing that we do would ever harm the Good Friday agreement . over 20 year ago , I begin a career with Experian , a data company , and we be talk about have a unique reference number for everybody in the country . that be for the benefit of company , so that they could make more money off we , whereas what the Government be do be look to give we access to our own datum . I be excite by digital ID , but I use a Facebook post to ask my constituent what they think . I have over 400 response , which be really kind and consider — Order . we do not have time for 400 — sorry . it be — order . I be on my foot , so be seat . question . my question be this : with all the argument for and against take into account , and with trust in politician and politic at an all - time low , what assurance can my right hon . friend give that she will work with I to ensure that my constituent feel like this be be do with they , rather than to they ? I be sure that my hon . friend will send I the result of her survey , and I will look through they in detail . I believe that if we can show people that the Government be change , and that we be work around they and meet their need and concern , that will be one of the way in which we can build trust , and that be what we be determined to do . my constituent have be crystal clear with I : they do not want a mandatory digital ID force upon they . it would mark a clear erosion of their civil liberty and — let we face it — the Government ' s track record on datum security be poor to say the least . many in my constituency do not have phone signal or wi - fi , and roll out digital ID be set to cost between £ 1 billion and £ 2 billion — four time what the Government plan to save with the family farm tax . please , Minister , learn the lesson from the welfare Bill , listen to your Back Benchers and do not waste this colossal amount of taxpayer ' money . I do not really know what the question be there . I thank my right hon . friend for her statement and her comment on digital inclusion . will she say a bit more about how the inclusion strategy might address some of the challenge face by care - experienced young people and care leaver ? will she guarantee that the priority will be bring together and integrate the public service and support that they be entitle to ? too often , they fall between the crack of those service . absolutely . that be one of the issue that have already be raise with I directly , along with people who be homeless , woman who may be flee domestic violence , people who do not have access to broadband , and a whole range of other issue . we will work closely with the group that work with care leaver , but obviously we will want to talk to they ourselves . I be more than happy to follow up that conversation with my hon . friend . why do the Minister think that a staggering 3 million people have already sign a petition against her expensive and intrusive plan ? do she perhaps think that those people want she to get on with fix thing that matter to they , like illegal immigration and smash the gang , which this measure will do nothing to fix , as the construction of her statement seem to suggest she understand ? will she spend her time try to sort thing that really matter to people , rather than try to create problem to which there be no obvious solution ? at the risk of repeat myself , I think that try to get Government service to talk to one another and work more effectively be what people want . the right hon . Gentleman raise the issue of action on illegal immigration . the Home Secretary have make it clear that she will do whatever it take to secure our border . [ interruption . ] somebody ask , " how ' s it go ? " removal be up to 35 , 000 . return of foreign national offender be up 14 % . we have take the first step in our french return deal , and we be invest an extra £ 100 million to boost our border security . there be much more to do . I think this be one of the tool to do it . I believe that it be possible for the Government to tackle illegal immigration and transform our public service and give people great control over their datum . the right hon . Gentleman ' s Government do not , but this government do . thirty - one per cent of child in Wales live in poverty , and 25 % of household in Wales be in fuel poverty . give the scale of the crisis face people , do the Minister honestly believe that an intrusive and unpopular digital ID system should be a priority ? tackle child poverty be also a priority , as the hon . Lady will see when we produce our strategy . the people of Mid Bedfordshire , in response to my survey , say that they do not want digital ID , and nor do I . do the Secretary of State agree that the individual freedom of british people be an unacceptable price to pay for failure to enforce exist law , protect our border and stop illegal working ? will she please answer how much this will cost ? if she do not know at this moment in time , be it responsible of she to be push it ? how much this cost will depend on exactly how we design and build it . I believe that this will help tackle illegal immigration and help give people more control over their datum . there be a lot of misinformation out there about what this will and will not do . I do not believe it will take away people ' s freedom . I do not believe that people in Estonia , Denmark , Australia , France and many other country believe it take away their freedom either . as have be mention , the petition oppose the Government ' s proposal be the fourth large that the people of this country have sign . I have have nearly 100 email from my constituent oppose the scheme . will the Secretary of State please commit to document every single use case for the scheme , and will she say how the separate island of automation across Government and public service will be prepare to take advantage of a single digital id ? all those detail will be set out in the consultation . I be sure that the hon . Gentleman and his constituent will respond to that . I will say once again that many other country do this . they have learn from experience about security , and they have learn how to keep people ' s datum secure . we will learn the lesson from what they have do , and I look forward to his response to the consultation . I have be contact by a contractor who work on the last Labour Government ' s ID card scheme . he write to I that " it be a massive waste of money " and suggest that it could be like " write Fujitsu a blank cheque " . what sum be the Government set aside for that cheque to the contractor to pay for the development of digital ID ? the hon . Gentleman may not have hear I early , but I say that it will be design and build in - house . let we be absolutely clear : a national digital ID system create infrastructure for surveillance and control , not freedom or efficiency , and in the hand of future government it could be weaponise against the most vulnerable community . that be not a hypothetical threat . history show we how identity system have be use to target the powerless . we do not build tool of authoritarianism and simply hope they be never misuse . will the Government listen to the overwhelming public concern from more than 2 million people , many of whom be my constituent , and finally scrap this draconian proposal ? I think there be a lot of misinformation out there about this proposal . it be not about surveillance ; it be not about a police state — the police will not be able to stop people and require they to show their digital id . in many other country where such a scheme have be use , it have be about make the Government and the state more effective and efficient and about give people great control over their datum so that they can actually see it . I do not know whether the hon . Gentleman use search engine or whether he have any form of online banking on his phone , but I gently say to he that the world have move on . I understand that lot of people have concern , but I believe that there be a strong case for make this happen , just as it have happen in many other country . I respect the Secretary of State greatly , but honestly on this one I be afraid I just can not support she whatsoever . I say that because the opposition to this ID in the United Kingdom be great , but in Northern Ireland , the Labour party , the Government and the Secretary of State in particular have manage to unite all the political party against it . my goodness — she should do more stuff on Northern Ireland affair , because if she can get everybody together , we could do thing that be never do before . I say this with great respect : this be not about illegal immigration ; this be about the nanny state . it be the first step on an icy , slippery slope — an impose restriction by Government — and my constituent be say no . would the Secretary of State reconsider what she be put forward , because really , it be go nowhere in Northern Ireland ? the hon . Gentleman and I agree on a football club , but it would appear that we do not agree on digital ID . as the hon . Gentleman know , my right hon . friend the Minister for Creative Industries , Media and Arts visit Northern Ireland last week . we will work through all the different institution . I want to be very clear to anybody who have concern about this that it be not a Brit card — that be not what we be call it . we want to ensure that security and privacy be build in from the start . the Good Friday agreement be absolutely sacrosanct . I think there be real advantage here : when people see the system that we want and the benefit to their life , they may reconsider their view . point of order on a point of order , Madam Deputy Speaker . on Tuesday 16 September , the Chancellor and the Secretary of State for Science , Innovation and Technology visit my constituency to officially open Google ' s new data centre in Waltham Cross , an investment that I be proud to have help secure when I be leader of Broxbourne Council . however , not only do I fail to receive notice from the Science Secretary that she would be accompany the Chancellor , who herself inform I at the very last moment , but not one elect representative be invite to this official event . I be sure that the Government would not have be play politic when they fail properly to notify I or Broxbourne ' s fantastic growth - focus Conservative - run council , so could you , Madam Deputy Speaker , please advise I how this situation can be remedie , and how I can hold Ministers to account for obvious breach of the ministerial code ? the hon . Member have put his point on the record , and someone on the Government Front Bench will no doubt be make a note in order to notify the appropriate Ministers . it be appropriate for colleague across the House to notify colleague when they be visit their constituency for work and political reason . far to that point of order , Madam Deputy Speaker . I really apologise if we do not inform the hon . Gentleman that we be come . that be an error and we will make sure that we put it right . rise — be this an actual point of order , Mr Shannon ? indicate assent . time be tight , so be quick . on a point of order , Madam Deputy Speaker . as you will know , the woman ' s rugby team win the world cup , beat Canada . the Ryder cup team beat the USA , despite all the verbal abuse and beer be throw at Rory McIlroy and Shane Lowry . be it possible that Mr Speaker or the Prime Minister have organise a reception for both team , ever mindful that the Ryder cup team take unreal abuse from the USA people ? New York people — big in the mouth , big in the stomach . Mr Shannon , this put I in a very difficult position , because that be not actually a point of order , but that will make I deeply unpopular , and I can not talk on behalf of Mr Speaker or the Prime Minister and say what they wish to do . on a point of order , Madam Deputy Speaker . on 25 September , I send a letter to the Foreign Secretary that be sign by more than 80 member of the House . it express our press concern for the safety of british citizen participate in the global sumud flotilla , a non - violent humanitarian mission try to deliver aid to Gaza . we be concerned that the flotilla would be violently intercept by israeli force , and we call on the Government to protect british citizen . a week later , that actually happen . it then also happen just last week , when participant on the Gaza freedom flotilla be also intercept , include four british citizen . I and other member of this House have receive many email about that , and we even have constituent on board . that be twice that the safety of british citizen be put at risk , and to our knowledge the Government do not condemn Israel ' s action , and we have not be make aware of what action be take to secure their release . Madam Deputy Speaker , can you advise on how member can hold the Government to account during the recess , particularly at time when the safety of our citizen be under threat ? can you advise we on how member can secure timely response in time of urgency ? it be incredibly important that timely response be give to Back - Bench mp who be here to secure advice , guidance and response to their constituent . those on the Treasury Front Bench will no doubt have hear that and will ensure that a swift response from the appropriate Department be give to the Back Bencher . business of the House ( today ) order , that , at this day ' s sit , ( i ) the business determine by the Backbench Business Committee shall be treat as be take on an allotted day provide under paragraph ( 4 ) of Standing Order no . 14 and , notwithstanding the provision of paragraph ( 1 ) and ( 2 ) of Standing Order no . 22d relate to the scheduling of select committee statement , select committee statement on the Third Report of the Scottish Affairs Committee and the Fifth Report of the Education Committee may be make after the conclusion of proceeding on this motion ; ( ii ) proceeding on the Motion in the name of Andy MacNae relate to baby loss may be proceed with for up to three hour after their commencement , or until 10 . 00pm , whichever be the late , and shall then lapse if not previously dispose of ; those proceeding may be enter upon and may continue , though oppose , after the moment of interruption ; and Standing Order No . 41a ( defer division ) shall not apply . — ( Stephen Morgan . ) Glasgow Safer Drug Consumption Facility Select Committee statement we now come to the Select Committee statement on behalf of the Scottish Affairs Committee . Patricia Ferguson will speak for up to 10 minute , during which no intervention may be take . at the conclusion of her statement , I will call member to ask question on the subject of the statement . these should be brief question , not full speech . I emphasise that question should be direct to the Select Committee Chair , not to the relevant Government Minister . front Benchers may take part in questioning . I be very grateful to the Backbench Business Committee for afford I the opportunity to make a statement on the publication of the Scottish Affairs Committee ' s third report of this Session , on the pilot safe drug consumption facility in Glasgow ' s east end . despite a reduction in death this year , Scotland continue to face the high rate of drug - relate death in Europe . without a doubt , that be the most pressing public health issue face Scotland , and it be in that context that the Committee agree to undertake a thorough examination of the pilot facility on Hunter Street , call the Thistle . the Committee ' s inquiry follow up on excellent work conduct by our predecessor Committee on problem drug use in Scotland , and I take this opportunity to express our thank to everyone who contribute to this inquiry , in particular Dr Saket Priyadarshi and the team at the Thistle for their continued engagement with our work . this be a challenging issue , and I express my gratitude to the member of the Scottish Affairs Committee for their thoughtful and collaborative work on this report . in 2024 , some 1 , 017 people die from drug - relate cause — a figure expect to rise in 2025 — with the high concentration of death occur in the Glasgow city area . the problem be not new . high level of drug death have be a concern in the city for over a decade , and other harm , such as the transmission of blood - bear virus , remain prevalent . between 2014 and 2020 , an outbreak of HIV among people who inject drug see 188 new diagnosis report in the Greater Glasgow area . to address those harm , Glasgow city health and social care partnership , NHS Greater Glasgow and Clyde and other partner launch the Thistle , the UK ' s first sanction safe drug consumption facility . the Thistle be open as a three - year pilot . at the Thistle , visitor can self - administer drug in safe , hygienic condition under medical supervision . staff can reverse overdose , treat wound and provide hygienic injecting equipment . of equal importance to the immediate medical harm reduction be the space the facility provide for expert clinician to build trusting relationship with people whom it would otherwise be hard for support service to reach . those relationship can be a pathway to engagement with other health and social service , such as drug treatment , counselling and housing service , which can help address the driver of problem drug use . when we visit the facility shortly after it open , we be particularly impress by the expertise and dedication of the staff we meet . the opening of the Thistle mark a radical change in approach to drug use in the UK , but internationally , safe drug consumption facility be not uncommon ; similar facility already operate in 60 city across the world . none of those facility have ever report an overdose death on the premise . as part of our inquiry , we visit Norway and Lisbon . we see how safe drug consumption facility have be a core part of Portugal ' s strategy to reduce drug harm . we look carefully at what Portugal have do , give that it have achieve a radical reduction in drug harm ; it have achieve an 80 % reduction in the number of drug - relate death over the past 20 year . we also travel to Oslo and Bergen , where we see how facility can be successfully integrate into local community . above all else , our report call on the UK Government to adopt an evidence - base approach , and not to make up their mind about the Thistle before the trial have conclude . to that end , our report also argue that expert in the evidence , rather than those with preconceive idea , should determine the facility ' s future . there be no statutory basis for a safe drug consumption facility to open or operate in the UK . instead , the Thistle have be able to open because of prosecutorial discretion apply by Scotland ' s Lord Advocate . the Lord Advocate have decide that it would not be in the public interest to prosecute user of the facility for possession offence . while the Lord Advocate ' s dispensation have be crucial to enable the Thistle to open , our Committee find that prosecutorial discretion be not a substitute for a consider legal framework . our report also consider the cost of the Thistle . the Scottish Government have commit up to £ 2 . 3 million per year to fund the facility for the duration of the three - year pilot . evidence to our inquiry find that facility like the Thistle can be value for money , generate saving elsewhere . such facility reduce cost associate with public injecting , hospital admission , ambulance call - out and treat blood - bear virus . for example , prevent just six to eight case of HIV annually could generate saving equivalent to the annual cost of the Thistle . while it be right that the cost of the Thistle be properly consider , the context of Scotland ' s drug crisis can not be forget . the Committee argue that the scale of Scotland ' s emergency — there be over 1 , 000 death in 2024 alone — necessitate a commensurate response and significant investment . while the Thistle have not divert funding from other service , we do hear concern during our inquiry about the need to strike the right balance between invest in service like the Thistle and investing in traditional recovery service . we know that safe drug consumption facility be not the only tool available for address problem drug use , and we be clear in our report that this facility be complementary to and work in tandem with traditional recovery service . in other word , it be not an either / or . our report recognise that drug trend in Scotland be change . the facility offer supervision for only the injection of drug , but inhalation be become more prevalent and can be a safe method of consumption . the Thistle must be able to adapt to meet the need of the population it be try to help . an inhalation space be currently not possible due to both reserve and devolve legislation , and our report encourage the Lord Advocate and the Scottish Government to consider any future application for an inhalation room on its merit . the Thistle open in Glasgow ' s east end — an area with long - stand issue around public injecting . since its opening , we have hear concern about its impact , particularly regard drug - relate litter . we know that community support be of paramount importance to the pilot ' s success . that be why consultation work be undertake about the opening of the Thistle and continue through the community engagement forum . when member of our Committee attend a community engagement forum meeting in August , they be able to see that consultation work in action , but we encourage the Thistle to go one step far and develop a more responsive communication strategy to maintain dialogue between meeting . as I say , an independent evaluation be under way to assess the facility ' s impact on people who inject drug , local resident , business and public service . that include examine the service ' s effectiveness , reach , cost and potential long - term saving . community concern must be take seriously , but it be also important to allow time for the pilot ' s local impact to be properly understand , and we await the result of that evaluation , which will provide an objective assessment of the Thistle ' s impact . if the Lord Advocate continue to apply her discretion beyond the three - year pilot , the Thistle and any future facility in Scotland could continue to operate without UK Government support , perhaps indefinitely . however , the Committee have find that the legal position of the pilot be fundamentally precarious , and the arrangement be undesirable in the long term . we therefore conclude that if the independent evaluation deem the pilot a success and the Thistle be to be make permanent , the UK Government should ensure that there be a full legal framework for safe drug consumption facility in Scotland . I be grateful to my right hon . friend the Member for Kingston upon Hull North and Cottingham ( Dame Diana Johnson ) , who be then the Home Office Minister with responsibility for this area , for give oral evidence to our inquiry . she tell we that the UK Government will not introduce safe drug consumption facility , and point instead to alternative ongoing intervention to address drug - relate harm . while those approach be need , the evidence we have hear be clear that the sustained scale of Scotland ' s drug death crisis demand further action . I will conclude by echo the sentiment in the report that any intervention that be find to be effective at save life and reduce harm deserve the Government ' s serious consideration . the Committee look forward to the Government ' s response , which I hope will reflect serious consideration of our recommendation . rise — for member who be new to this , Back Benchers may ask question for 10 minute follow Select Committee statement . I thank our Select Committee Chair for the statement — I have a brief question . I be sure that she expect I to say this , but I just want to say for the record that although I support the report as a whole , there be a couple of recommendation that I could not support . the first be the recommendation on the inclusion of an inhalation room , and the second be on the provision of tourniquet . I can not ever support the facilitation of addiction as a way of help to treat addiction — I just do not see that as an option . why , before we know the result of the pilot , do the report conclude that it should be extend ? I hope the hon . Lady do not mind if I call she my hon . friend . I thank she for her question . I think it fair to say that the issue we look at challenge we all . many of we be consider issue that we have never reflect upon before , so it be a challenge , and I perfectly understand that we will have disagreement about how to go forward . the thing about inhalation that be highlight to we be that for many people , inhalation be safe than inject , which have all sort of risk attach — infected wound and blood - bear virus , for example . inhalation do not have those problem , and be become increasingly popular as a method of use drug , so it seem to the Committee that we could encourage its consideration . we be not suggest that there should be further injection space at this time — we think it be important to see what the evaluation say , and that any decision should be base on that particular finding — but we be aware that other place in Scotland be look at the Thistle with interest , and may well make those application , although that be not the gist of the report . Scotland have the bad drug death figure of any nation in Europe , and they have increase again , with 607 suspect drug death in the first half of this year . six year ago , the SNP Scottish Government declare a " drug death emergency " — just another example of soundbite announcement with no actual delivery . they have have two decade to tackle this issue , but the truth be that they have fail . none of they be here tonight . do my hon . friend agree that the independent evaluation panel will determine the Thistle ' s efficacy and , ultimately , its future beyond the three - year pilot , and that that gold - standard service be not an either / or but must work in tandem with a range of other recovery service ? I hope that my hon . friend will forgive I , as the impartial Chair of the Committee , for not criticise or comment on the failing or otherwise of the SNP , whose member be not , as he point out , here this evening . he be absolutely right that this be not an either / or . it be important that the provision be part of a range of option offer . if any of those option can help to reduce the drug death number in Scotland , they must be consider seriously , and that be what we suggest . I thank the Select Committee Chair very much for the report ' s conclusion , particularly the call on the Government to consider a secure legal footing for safe drug consumption facility . from the discussion that have be have , do she have any sense of the chance of a less legal mechanism from the Attorney General to give comfort in relation to the risk of prosecution for people use and run such facility in England and Wales ? to be perfectly frank , I can not answer the hon . member ' s question because we do not take evidence on the situation elsewhere in the UK and be particularly focus on Scotland , as one would expect of the Scottish Affairs Committee . it may be that the prosecutorial discretion that the Lord Advocate have offer be something that other wish to look to , but whether or not the law in England and Wales would allow that be not for I to say because I genuinely do not know . the facility be locate in my constituency . the report stress the importance of engagement with the local community . drug litter and public inject very close to the facility be a cause of real concern for my constituent , whose worry be not be properly address . there be now suggestion that the facility could open for 24 hour a day — a cause of real worry for my constituent . the community must be properly consult about material change to the facility . do my hon . friend agree that a robust strategy be essential not only for communicate with but for listen to and address the concern of my constituent ? my hon . friend be absolutely right to say that public confidence in the facility be paramount if it be to have a future — and even for the duration of the three - year pilot . committee member who attend the forum be very strike by the fact that although forum member from the community and local business be raise question with the operator of the Thistle and those involve most closely with it , there be no mechanism for a response to be give between meeting . we suggest that the communication strategy need to be much more responsive so that if a problem be raise , or a good comment make , the Thistle can respond to it rather than wait until the next meeting . that would give the public a lot more confidence and reassurance that their concern be be address . I thank the Committee Chair for bring this statement forward . I share the concern in the question ask early about the recommendation ; I would be concern about the addiction aspect as well . but I recognise that some of the problem in Belfast city , for instance , be the same as those at the Thistle pilot scheme in Glasgow , which the hon . Lady outline . ever mindful of my own opinion , I think it would be worth while share the information from that pilot scheme with those in Belfast , who may have a similar outlook and point of view . I thank the hon . gentleman for his question . many report have be do on international facility , which he might want to bring to the attention of his colleague in Belfast . he be absolutely right that it be not just Glasgow or Scotland that have these problem , although Scotland seem to be suffer particularly badly . there be other model . in Lisbon , we see a mobile model that accompany the fix facility . that seem to be popular ; a queue of people be wait to use it when we be there — a small queue , but a queue . there be other way of address the issue , and he may wish to consider those . as a member of the Scottish Affairs Committee , I thank my hon . friend for secure time for this statement . the report make it clear that drug consumption room be just one of the tool that can be use to reduce drug - relate harm and that one intervention must not come at the cost of another . Scotland sustain the high number of drug - relate death in Europe . do my hon . friend agree that a lack of recovery bed and facility undermine a holistic , join - up approach that those live with addiction deserve ? I thank my hon . friend for that question . she be absolutely right : it can not be one thing or another . a holistic attitude must be take towards eradicate drug misuse . give Scotland ' s particular situation , we have to be open to consider any and all option . but recovery facility be certainly vital . I thank my hon . friend and her Committee for this important report . the effect of drug addiction and misuse hit community hard in Scotland , as we have hear , but also in Newcastle - under - Lyme and elsewhere in Staffordshire . I think of the work of Paul Sweeney MSP on the ground in Glasgow ; he have do much on these important issue . there be often enhance challenge around the stigma of drug in religious and ethnic minority community . will my hon . friend touch on what the outreach at Thistle look like for those furth - to - reach community ? that will be particularly important for my constituent in Newcastle - under - Lyme , as the Government learn the lesson . I thank my hon . friend for his question . we do not look closely into that issue ; if someone be go to inject drug , they will buy they and take they almost immediately , so the reach of the Thistle will never be much furth than the localise community around the building . for that reason , we have not look at the issue in the way that he suggest . it will be interesting to see from the evaluation whether there have be more of a reach than be imagine at the beginning , when the facility be be scope . but that be certainly not the experience that people have have until now . I thank the Select Committee for its report . I have be follow the international evidence on take a public health approach . could my hon . friend set out how the centre be develop a harm reduction model and how it will evaluate that ? I be think particularly of engagement with clinician . it be so important that people get the right support in the right way when they enter such a centre . I thank my hon . friend for that question . it be important to understand that , although prosecutorial discretion be offer by the Lord Advocate , the Thistle be quite limited in what it can offer . at the moment , it would like to be able to offer tourniquet , for example , to allow people to inject more easily . it have also apply to become a drug testing centre . there be an increase incidence of synthetic opioid , which can be very dangerous , come on to the market in Scotland . testing would allow the police and academic to track those and take they off the street more easily . thing like that can be do , but permission need to be give to do they . at the moment , the facility do not have such permission and it be simply an inject centre . that be not to say that staff be not able to refer people to other facility , perhaps those where recovery or housing service be more of an option , or where there be a space for people to have a really good wash , get some clean clothe and go out feel well . however , at this facility people be able to talk . no one leave the premise immediately after inject , so people will sit around have conversation with each other and with the professional at the facility , who be try hard to be really supportive . Special Educational Needs and Disabilities Education Committee Select Committee statement we now come to the Select Committee statement on behalf of the Education Committee . before I call the Chair of the Committee , I remind hon . member that question should be brief and should be direct to she and not to those on the Front Bench . as Chair of the Education Committee , I be pleased to present to the House our fifth report of this Parliament , " solve the SEND Crisis " . I thank the Backbench Business Committee for allocate time for this statement . this inquiry be our first major undertaking in this Parliament . we choose the subject because the crisis in special educational need and disability provision — SEND — be not just a challenge , but a moral imperative . our report focus on practical step that can deliver an education system where every child , regardless of their need , be give the opportunity to flourish . the crisis touch every corner of our education system , from early year to post - 16 education . it affect 1 . 7 million child and young people , their family , their teacher and a wide range of other professional . for too long , child and young people have be let down by a system that be fragment , not fit for purpose and , as a consequence , often too adversarial . our report set out a road map for change — a vision for an inclusive , equitable and sustainable SEND system , ground in the voice and experience of the child and family it serve . over eight month , we conduct a rigorous inquiry . I put on record my thank to everyone who take part . we receive over 890 write submission and hold seven oral evidence session . we hear from child and young people with SEND , whose courage and clarity move we profoundly . we hear from parent exhaust by battle for basic right , from teacher stretch beyond capacity and from professional yearn to deliver but constrain by broken system . we visit school in Norfolk and learn from the inclusive model in Ontario , Canada , where child ' s need , not process , drive support and where SEND provision be everyone ' s responsibility . the evidence be stark . the number of child identify with SEND have rise by 400 , 000 in a decade to 1 . 7 million . nearly half a million child have an education , health and care plan , and 1 . 2 million rely on SEND support . behind those number lie story of frustration , exclusion and unrealised potential . parent tell we about sleepless night , navigate a maze of bureaucracy , and the impact on the whole family of have to fight constantly just for their child to be able to access education . teacher speak of the deep frustration they experience when they be unable to meet every child ' s need . local authority describe the invidious situation they face , hold the statutory responsibility for deliver for every child , but without the power to do so , and with a funding crisis that be drive they to the edge of bankruptcy . this be not what inclusion look like — this be a system at break point . our report identify a series of critical failure and offer practical , evidence - base solution . first , inclusive education remain an aspiration , not a reality . a decade after the 2014 reform , there be still no shared definition of what inclusion mean . without clarity , school , local authority and family be leave adrift , with no consistent standard to aim for and no clear accountability for deliver it . we call on the Department for Education to publish a clear definition of inclusive education within three month , underpin by national standard for SEND support and ordinarily available provision , back by statutory duty and proper funding . secondly , trust have collapse . parent and carer feel sideline , blame or force into costly legal battle to secure their child ' s right . last year , 95 % of SEND tribunal appeal be uphold , a damn manifestation of systemic failure . we must rebuild trust through genuine partnership . this mean treat parent and carer as equal partner in their child ' s education , ensure access to independent advocacy and make transparency the cornerstone of every process . thirdly , while there be many committed , highly skilled professional who work hard every day to deliver for child , there be some fundamental way in which our workforce be not equip to deliver . teacher and support staff be dedicate but overstretch , lack the training and resource to meet rise need . special educational need co - ordinator be in short supply and be too often regard as the sole person with responsibility for SEND support in a school . educational psychologist be mire in assessment , prevent they from directly deliver intervention and share their expertise with other professional . we propose a cross - departmental SEND workforce strategy , jointly lead by the Department for Education and the Department of Health and Social Care , to invest in training , to secure the recruitment of specialist and to free professional to focus on frontline support . fourthly , funding be break . the notional £ 6 , 000 threshold for SEND support , unchanged since its introduction in 2014 , be woefully inadequate . high - need deficit be spiral , and the statutory override be a temporary plaster on a deepening wound . we urge the Government to commission a full cost - benefit analysis of inclusive education and to ensure sufficient funding in the high - need block to deliver early intervention , which can transform life and reduce long - term cost . finally , accountability be fail and there be a structural misalignment of statutory responsibility and power . we hear time and again that health and social care partner be too often absent from the SEND table and can not be hold to account . in education , accountability be unevenly distribute , lead to an understandable over - reliance on the statutory part of the system — the education , health and care plan — because it be accountable . we also hear that local authority do not have the power or the funding to deliver the school place that be need , which be contribute to their financial pressure as they be force to purchase expensive independent school place to meet their statutory responsibility . we recommend statutory duty for health and social care , enforceable SEND tribunal power for health provision and a SEND lead within the NHS to drive accountability , a statutory framework for SEND support and ordinarily available provision , and well alignment between local authority ’ responsibility and their ability to deliver the school place that be need to meet they . we have see what be possible . at Aylsham high school in Norfolk , we witness a resource base seamlessly integrate into mainstream education where every child ' s need be meet with flexibility and care . in Ontario , we see a system where support be base on need , not diagnosis , and where parent be partner , not adversary . these be not distant dream ; they be model that could be emulate across our country . I make it absolutely clear that the statutory entitlement to an education , health and care plan should remain unchanged . that be a commitment the Government must honour . during our inquiry , it become crystal clear to we that if we build a truly inclusive and properly resource mainstream education system , we can ease the pressure and the struggle that so many family face in secure an ehcp , because in setting that have a whole - school approach to inclusivity , the need of more child be meet without have to go through that process . inclusive education be not just a right ; it be a necessity . it benefit every child , strengthen our school and build strong community . it be also cost - effective , reduce the long - term burden on public service by invest early in child ' s potential . this report be not a catalogue of despair ; it be a call for action . our 95 recommendation offer a blueprint for reform , root in the live experience of child , family and professional . we can not afford another decade of delay , so I urge the Government to act with urgency and ambition , to work across Departments , to listen to those at the heart of this system , to rebuild trust and to place inclusion at the core of our education system . every child deserve the chance to thrive . every family deserve to be hear . every education set deserve the tool to succeed . let we build a SEND system that deliver not just for today but for generation to come . let we make inclusion a reality . I commend this report to the House . rise — order . it be usual to run Select Committee statement for only 20 minute . member can see that many be stand to speak , so some will be disappoint unless everybody keep their question short and the Chair ' s answer be also short . I be grateful to the hon . Lady and her Committee for a detailed and important report on a subject that be of huge importance to all our constituency . I want to pick up particularly on parental involvement in the process , which be primarily cover in paragraph 96 to 102 of her report . too often , parent feel that the process be something that be do to they , rather than with they . I would be grateful if the hon . Lady could set out what immediate , practical step she and her Committee think can be take to move the process away from feeling like a confrontation and towards more of a collaboration . I thank the right hon . member for his question , which be an important one . the evidence we see in Ontario in Canada be that where parental involvement be embed in the system , partly through statutory entitlement to participation in decision about a child ' s education , that build much well partnership work , build trust and confidence , and foster collaborative relationship between parent and professional . those be the step that we have see in practice and believe can make a difference in the area that the right hon . member raise . for the record , my wife be employ as a local authority senco . in my local authority , the London borough of Bexley , we have not only a safety valve but an ofsted judgment of systemic failing , one of which be around health service . from have rewrite my own daughter ' s EHCP on three occasion to make sure it be legally compliant , and from my constituent , I know of those real issue with health provision . paragraph 289 and 290 of the report contain recommendation about the involvement of health service in ehcp and in SEND provision . could my hon . friend elaborate on those recommendation and what we can do to make that provision fit for purpose ? I know that my hon . friend have extensive experience of this area , not least through his own family experience . I be really pleased to see Ministers and the Secretary of State from the Department of Health and Social Care on the Front Bench for this statement — by accident , I think , but I will take full advantage of it . we hear time and time again from parent and from professional work in the SEND system that health have such an important role to play in the ability of child with SEND to access education , but that health service be too often absent from the table and there be no mechanism to hold they to account . it be nonsense that the SEND tribunal can make ruling that be bind on education , but can not make ruling that be bind on health . as we propose in our report , that be an easy fix that would create more accountability in the health system . our report contain other recommendation , but we need to get this right , because the consequence of not get it right be child be lock out of education . there be a 12 - year - old child in Dorking who be autistic and have have two suicide attempt , the most recent within the past four week . they do not have an ehcp . as the Chair acknowledge in the report , there be serious concern about local authority governance . I have receive 120 family testimony from Surrey and 650 from across the country of lawbreaking , unethical and harmful behaviour by local authority relate to SEND . how can parent have confidence that live such as that child ' s will be save unless and until local authority be hold accountable under the law and there be swift and decisive intervention if they abuse their power ? the hon . member raise a devastating case , which be sadly not a unique example across the country . the pressure that family face as a consequence of this fail system cause further health complication , not least with mental health and wellbeing . he be right that there be problem with local authority ’ ability to deliver against their statutory responsibility . we highlight in our report the broken nature of the link between power and responsibility — currently , local authority do not have everything they need to enable they to deliver — but the crisis across the system also mask local authority that be perform poorly , even by the current standard . I believe the hon . member ' s local authority be one that face particular challenge . I thank the Chair of the Select Committee for the report — we agree with the recommendation that have be make . do she agree that the Select Committee reach those recommendation by engage with community and local mp , such as in Corby and East Northamptonshire , which bring together local senco , parent and other to input directly into the Committee ' s report ? will she thank they , as I do , and say well do to they for shape that report and its outcome ? that be where it need to come from — people who face these issue day in and day out make sure that this report belong to they . I thank my hon . friend for his question . it be a real pleasure to meet some of his constituent who come to Parliament to participate in a workshop and to present their finding and their recommendation to I , which be then submit as evidence to our inquiry . I hope that his constituent will see their experience and their need reflect in our report , and I agree with he that part of the key to solve this enormously challenging area of public policy be well engagement with parent , family and professional across the country . that be how we understand where change need to take place , and it be how we build trust for the future . I thank the Chair of the Select Committee for her statement . as part of the evidence we gather , we go to Ontario to see its inclusive education system , and I be sure I be not alone in find that one of the bit of evidence that make the most impression . a couple of thing stand out . Ontario focus on communication from kindergarten , because social integration be vital for child to thrive . parent there do not have to fight , because dialogue work well . family be listen to and their trauma acknowledge . all behaviour be a form of communication ; we have to understand what these child be try to tell we . do the Chair of the Committee agree that there be so much we can do to transform the education we offer to child with SEND that do not need to cost huge amount of money ? it just require a radical shift in attitude , and that start with — order . I make the point early that in order to get as many member in as possible , we have to have short question and answer . I thank the hon . member for her question , for her participation in this inquiry and for the contribution she make to our report . what we see in Canada show we what be possible here . we see a system where SEND education be everybody ' s responsibility in a school and across the system . we see child with much high level of need than would ever be usually in a mainstream school here , with their need be meet well . there be huge benefit for the whole school community and the wide community from that approach . I hope that the Government will take seriously the recommendation that come from that experience in Ontario . I thank my hon . friend for her statement . do she agree that improve ordinarily available provision alongside effective SEND support can meet many pupil ' need without the need for an EHCP , as our Committee ' s visit to Aylsham high school in Norwich prove ? do she hope , as I do , that the Government ' s forthcoming White Paper will not seek to restrict access to ehcp , but instead will offer early and effective support , thereby bring the need for ehcp down naturally ? I thank my hon . friend for her question and for her contribution to this report as a member of the Select Committee . the situation that we see in Aylsham high be one where child ' s need be meet across the whole school through a whole - school approach to inclusion . the headteacher of that school tell we powerfully , " we be not a net generator of new ehcp . " we be talk about what we have see be deliver and what we therefore know be possible . a system that deliver whole - school approach to inclusion can restore the EHCP to what it be originally intend to do under the Children and Families Act 2014 — specifically to deliver support for the child with the high level of need . an inclusive approach to education can work for everyone . one of the key finding of the report be that there need to be a clear definition of what an inclusive education mean . do the Chair of the Select Committee agree that inflexible , draconian disciplinary system at secondary level apply without consideration for reasonable adjustment be one of the thing that contribute to a hostile environment for child with SEND ? will the Select Committee consider that and how we might improve education for all child ? this be why we be concerned that there should be a definition of inclusive education apply across a number of dimension of the system , so that we can think about building and the extent to which they be inclusive , welcome environment , about the curriculum and the flexibility that it afford to deliver for child , about the expertise within the system , and about other aspect of education as well . the hon . Lady be right to say that the policy approach take by school have a bearing on whether those school be accessible to the wide possible range of pupil ; that be why it be important for the Government to set out the definition , so that everyone be clear about the basis on which we be work . I start my teacher training in 2008 , and I continue to work as a teacher and to be a teacher trade unionist until 4 July last year . I know that the SEND system be break , although I do not realise quite how broken it be until I open my email on day one . we all know that the system be break throughout the country , but it be most break in Staffordshire , a place that I have the pleasure to represent but which have the eighth high refusal rate for ehcp in the country , reject more than 45 % of request . it also have a high rate of appeal , more than double the national average at nearly 10 % , and a startling 98 % of those appeal be successful . do my hon . friend agree that if we genuinely want to solve the SEND crisis , we must solve the problem of the postcode lottery that so disadvantage people in Lichfield , Burntwood and the village , and more widely across Staffordshire ? my hon . friend be right . as we make clear in our report , there be pocket of very good delivery — there be school , local authority and professional across the system that be do their good — but there be a postcode lottery in SEND , sometimes even within different school that be very close to each other . we need a whole - system reset so that we can secure consistent delivery for all child , wherever they live . Backbench Business Baby Loss I call Andy MacNae , who will speak for about 15 minute . I beg to move , that this House have consider baby loss . I be deeply privileged to be open this debate in the middle of national Baby Loss Awareness Week , and in advance of the international " wave of light " on Wednesday . I want to start by welcome the bereaved family who have join we in the Galleries , and particularly for do so at such a late hour : they have show fantastic stamina in sit through some fascinating business . I know that a number be also watch online . I have no doubt this will , for many of we , be an emotive debate that will bring back many memory , so I say this to those in the Galleries : I be grateful for your courage in join we , and your presence lift this whole debate and this whole day . I know that for many of you , your story be one of be let down by the system . while today can not undo that , I hope that this national spotlight on what you have experience , and our share commitment to fundamental change , will be of some comfort . I also thank everyone in the Chamber for their attendance today , and for the cross - party support that the debate have receive . this be a personal topic for I and for my family . our daughter Mallorie be bear in 2015 with Edwards ' syndrome , a condition that we be tell be not compatible with life ; yet she live for five day , and die in my arm . those day be both the hard of our life and the time that we value most . we spend those day in the butterfly suite , a bereavement room fund by the local baby loss charity friend of Serenity . throughout that time , we receive amazing support from the maternity team at Burnley hospital . I want to take this opportunity to thank , once again , all the team at Burnley , and to recognise the amazing work that baby loss charity do throughout the UK . the year since Mallorie ' s death have be challenge . the impact of lose a child do not end after a week or a month or a year ; they stay with we . my wife , Vanessa , suffer depression and post - traumatic stress disorder follow Mallorie ' s death , and have never be able to fully recover and return to her work as a health visitor . for 10 year she have have consistent difficulty in access sustain specialist mental health support , instead be bounce between short - term intervention and generalist . her NHS career have now be terminate on ground of ill health , and she be back on a five - month waiting list for therapy . yet we count ourselves among the lucky one . we have as good a hospital experience as we could have have in the circumstance , and time to prepare for what we know be an inevitable outcome . we do not leave feel that more could have be do , or that we have be let down ; we feel listen to and support in the week that follow . sadly , however , as we will hear today , far , far too many family have have the very opposite of that experience . we will hear heartbreaking account of baby who should not have die , of family ' concern be belittle and ignore , of practice that fall well below any acceptable standard , and of institutional culture of denial and cover - up . I believe that as we reach the end of today ' s debate , no one will be in any doubt that address the long - term systemic failing in maternity care once and for all must be an imperative for this Government . let I start by detail the extent of this challenge . tragically , 13 baby die shortly before , during or soon after birth every day . every day , 13 mother know the immense grief of lose a child they be expect to welcome into their life . in 2023 , there be 4 , 478 baby death in total . some 1 , 933 of these be neonatal death , while 2 , 545 be stillbirth , with the cause of one third of those stillbirth still unknown . more broadly , ectopic pregnancy affect one in 80 , while 240 infant die every year from sudden unexplained death syndrome , and evidence suggest that one in six pregnancy in the UK end in miscarriage . crucially , these family tragedy be not share equally throughout society ; ethnic minority and those live in deprivation be far more likely to experience this loss . this have be know for 70 year , yet little action have be take to address it . even in 2023 , black baby be over twice as likely to be stillborn compare with white baby , while neonatal mortality rate among black and asian baby be over one and a half time high than the rate among white baby . similarly , baby bear to mother live in the most deprived area be twice as likely to die shortly after birth than those in the least deprive area . this profound inequality must be root out . these death occur amid a pattern of poor culture and practice in too many of our maternity ward and trust . in its 2022 to 2024 review , the Care Quality Commission find that only 35 % of maternity unit be rate as " good " for safety . no unit be find to be " outstanding " , and 65 % be rate " inadequate " or " require improvement " . behind these figure lie a litany of family tragedy . in response , there have be no shortage of inquiry . over the last 10 year , we have see review or investigation into care in East Kent , Morecambe Bay , and Shrewsbury and Telford , as well as the ongoing review in Nottingham . these have reveal much and make many recommendation , yet change have not come and the cycle of failure have continue . it be in this context that the Government have rightly decide to launch a national investigation — a systematic and urgent national review of maternity service . this be an opportunity that we must grasp , and we have a Secretary of State who I believe truly understand the urgency and importance of make it count . we have the investigation be lead by a chair of the high reputation , we have a commitment to a taskforce to deliver on recommendation , and we have many colleague in this place who be determined to make sure that the voice of family be hear and act on . we must get this right , so before I hand over to colleague , I would like to make four key ask . first , the investigation must provide clear and bind step to achieve national change in maternity care , particularly to tackle the inequality of outcome that be dependent on the race or wealth of the mother . to this end , the investigation must set out clear , consistent approach to safety across all maternity unit in England , which mean unequivocally define " safety " — amazingly , there be no shared definition of " safety " across maternity service . the inquiry must identify the reason why past recommendation have not be implement or result in change . it must be willing to address any embed cultural , structural or governance factor that undermine quality , safety and accountability . when the investigation report and the taskforce release its action plan , the Government must fully resource the delivery and ensure there be robust monitoring and real accountability . secondly , it be crucial that the Government set new national maternity safety ambition . in 2015 , the then Government announce ambition to halve relative rate of stillbirth , neonatal death , maternal death and brain injury by 2025 . alongside that , they also announce an ambition to reduce preterm birth from 8 % to 6 % . those ambition be due to expire and , in any case , be never on track to be meet . it be a stark reminder of how important this issue be that 2 , 500 few baby would have die if the target have be reach . the UK ' s baby death rate be still considerably bad than those of the well - perform country in Europe . to match those country , Sands and Tommy ' s have propose new ambition , with an end date of 2035 to align with the NHS 10 - year plan . I apologise for the list , but they include a stillbirth rate of two per 1 , 000 total birth ; a neonatal mortality rate of 0 . 5 per 1 , 000 live birth for baby bear at 24 week ' gestation and over ; a preterm birth rate of 6 % , with disaggregate datum for iatrogenic and spontaneous preterm birth ; and eliminate inequality in these outcome base on ethnicity and deprivation . the Government ' s commitment to close the black and asian maternal mortality gap be welcome , but it must explicitly include close the black and asian stillbirth and neonatal mortality gap . establish routine data collection on miscarriage should be prioritise . once that be establish , an ambition to reduce the miscarriage rate should be add . I urge the Government to be ambitious , and to implement these new target , which will help to guide and inform the improvement that will be make in service in the year to come . thirdly , we must urgently improve bereavement care for parent in hospital and the mental health support they receive after discharge . lose a child be devastating , and compassionate care , both immediately and in the long term , be vital to process grief . the national bereavement care pathway aim to standardise bereavement care , and state that this should be give by train staff , with dedicated grieve space provide , opportunity for parent to have meaningful moment with their baby offer and referral for further support make . since its 2017 launch , NHS trust have gradually adopt the pathway , with full coverage achieve in 2024 . however , voluntary uptake and a lack of ringfence funding have lead to highly inconsistent implementation , and sometimes it be entirely lacking . a bereaved mother describe the hospital support she receive as : " terrible . no aftercare whatsoever . I feel abandon . my mental health spiral due to lack of support and not know where to get help … I leave that hospital with a broken heart . " bereavement support must continue post discharge . I have describe the challenge that my wife Vanessa have face in access specialist support , and she be by no mean alone . sand ' 2025 report find that over 80 % of bereaved parent need specialist psychological support post discharge , yet despite the introduction of NHS maternal mental health service in England , only 17 % of bereaved parent be actually able to access it . we must also recognise the additional barrier that father and partner face in access support . only 29 % of service offer basic assessment to father in 2024 , and those be often quite perfunctory . one father explain how he be assess and recommend for psychological intervention and a referral to a clinic , yet the only support he actually receive be a leaflet outline local self - help group . it be not good enough , and service must recognise that father and partner also grieve . so I urge the Government to issue clear standard and national guidance for commission specialist mental health support service for bereaved parent , include father and partner . support must also be give to healthcare professional , who can themselves be impact by baby death . training remain inaccessible for many healthcare professional , and staff often lack the time to attend session . bereavement care training must be available during work hour , and overall we must ensure staff be equip to support grieve family and to look after themselves . finally , I want to touch briefly on the role of regulator , most notably the Nursing and Midwifery Council . in an area as critical as maternity safety , an effective and accountable regulator be a crucial component , yet issue with the NMC be long term and well document . as be note in relation to the 2024 culture review of the organisation : " good nurse be find themselves be investigate for year over minor issue and bad nurse be escape sanction because of a system that ' s not function as well as it should . " such failure can have tragic consequence . for instance , the NMC clear a midwife who have be refer to it follow the avoidable death of a baby in Morecambe Bay in 2008 . in 2016 , the same midwife be link to the death of another baby , and subsequently dismiss by their trust for action fundamentally below acceptable standard . this can not continue , and if we be to deliver on our maternity safety ambition , we need an effective , culturally healthy regulator . the NMC still have a long way to go until it could contribute in this way . the Government must continue to offer rigorous scrutiny , demand accountability and ensure that the NMC become the regulator that nurse and midwife , as well as the public as a whole , deserve . to sum up , each year baby die who should not have die , every year mother be fail and harm , and every year parent experience profound loss without the support to deal with it . we can not continue as we be . we have both an opportunity and an obligation to act . this Government have the chance to drive a change that will be feel in the life of family for generation . to do this , we must deliver on the full potential of a national investigation . clear , impactful and binding action must address systemic weakness and embed culture . to ensure long - term focus , we must also adopt ambitious , measurable target to align with the NHS 10 - year plan . these step to reduce baby loss must come in tandem with a compassionate system of care for those who do experience loss despite our good effort . to this end , the Government should issue national guidance on commission specialist mental health service for bereaved parent . finally , the Government must ensure the sector have capable and accountable regulator to ensure that professional standard be maintain . take together , we can make what have be a story of national tragedy into one of national pride , deliver compassionate and exemplary care for woman and baby when they need it most . this be the challenge and the opportunity before we , and we must not fall short . it be a great privilege to follow the hon . member for Rossendale and Darwen ( Andy MacNae ) . I thank he for work with I and the hon . member for Sherwood Forest ( Michelle Welsh ) to secure the debate , and I thank my many colleague on the all - party parliamentary group on patient safety . I would also like to thank the Secretary of State for Health and Social Care , the right hon . member for Ilford North ( Wes Streeting ) , for be here himself today . it mean an enormous amount to family up and down the country to see that commitment from he . I know it be an issue in which he have take enormous personal interest . I think the most difficult meeting I have when I be do his job many year ago be with a man call Carl Hendrickson , who come to see I a few day before I stand at that Dispatch Box to give the statement on the Morecambe Bay inquiry . Carl lose both his wife and his son at Morecambe Bay NHS Foundation Trust . a midwife mistake some fitting by his wife as just faint . his wife die an hour later from an embolism . the next day , his son Chester die from brain damage . he come to see I with his 11 - year - old son , Conrad . I will never forget it , because it be obviously go to be a very difficult meeting and I ask he whether he would like his son to sit outside with some of the civil servant while we discuss what happen . he say no , because he want his son to know , for the rest of his life , that he have take his concern about what go wrong right to the very top and ask awkward question . and that be what he do . I owe a great debt to the Morecambe Bay family : to Carl and to Simon Davey , Liza Brady , James Titcombe and many other . the american thinker Margaret Mead have a saying : " never doubt that a small group of thoughtful committed individual can change the world ; indeed , it ' s the only thing that ever have . " for I , those Morecambe Bay family be that small group of thoughtful , committed people , along with the family from Mid Staffs , Shrewsbury and Telford , East Kent , Nottingham and many other place . as we reflect in this very sad and meaningful Baby Loss Awareness Week about what have go wrong , it be also important to remember that progress have be make since then . since the Morecambe Bay inquiry , the overall number of baby death be down by about 20 % . that be about 700 few a year , or two few a day . the NHS be well than it be about be honest about mistake . there have be a lot of reform . we have a chief inspector of hospital and a CQC that be set up to call a spade a spade when there be poor care . we have the duty of candour , which will be far strengthen by the new Hillsborough law . we have medical examiner , we have Martha ' s rule and we have " freedom to speak up " guardian . despite those improvement , there be some warning sign . since the pandemic , the decline in baby death have plateaue . the number of maternal death have actually increase . as the hon . member for Rossendale and Darwen just say , there be big inequality . you be far more likely to die as a black or asian mum . you be far more likely to die as a black or asian baby , or a baby from a deprived background , than other baby . still we have a third of NHS staff , accord to the staff survey last year , say that they be afraid to raise safety concern , and half say that they do not think anything will happen if they do . the thing that be so important to remember — I have say this to the House on many occasion — be that if you be in a birthing unit and present at a c - section and something go wrong , there be nothing as a professional that you want more than to be open , honest and transparent about what happen , so that lesson can be learn and you can make sure that mistake never happen again . but our system make that practically impossible . we have the CQC , the nmc , the General Medical Council and the trust . lawyer get involve and people worry . there be jeopardy for clinician : that if they be honest and open about the ordinary human mistake that anyone can make , they will be punish for it . the result be that the one thing that need to happen more than anything else — truthfulness to the bereaved family and learn the lesson so that the tragedy be not repeat — can be the very thing that do not happen at all . instead , we get a five - year legal process happen and the truth be not establish for maybe five , six or seven year after that . so what need to happen to put it right ? we all have our list of thing , and I echo absolutely everything that be say in the wonderful speech before mine . for I , first of all , it be absolutely essential that we get the CQC back on its foot . it go badly wrong , but under new leadership that the Secretary of State have put in place , I believe it be now go in absolutely the right direction . we must return to the one - word rating so that parent and family know absolutely whether the care in their local hospital or NHS organisation be safe . that be really important . secondly , we have a litigation culture . at the moment we spend about £ 3 . 5 billion annually in maternity award for where maternity care have go wrong , which be not far off the £ 4 billion total cost of all NHS maternity unit . it have go so badly wrong that many parent think that when something go wrong , their only friend be not a doctor but a lawyer — that can not be right . we need to have much well accountability . the Government be rightly absolutely committed to bring back family doctor . People have their own gp would make an enormous difference , because at the moment there be no one inside the NHS to turn to when these thing go wrong , and go back to the system of everyone have their own gp could make a really big difference to that . we need to support the work of brilliant charity such as Tommy ' s , Sands , the Clinical Human Factors Group and Baby Lifeline in their contribution to make maternity care safe . we also need to tackle the dangerous culture of " normal " birth , which still see too many mother steer away from get a surgical intervention when that would be the safe route for they and their baby . those be all important change . I would like to say one final thing , which be that we must not return to a target culture . I have some concern about the new NHS league table . I know they be set up with the good of intention , but safety and quality be not one of the factor that ensure a move up the list . I know the Secretary of State will take great care in the way that those be implement , but I think it be really important that there be always a bottom line — a floor — on safety and quality below which the system never go . what I really want to say to the House , in conclusion , be that we must not lose hope . if we have the same level of maternity safety as Sweden , one few baby would die every day ; if we get to the same level as Japan , two few baby would die every day . if we could get the NHS back on the trajectory it be on in the year lead up to the pandemic , we would be able to get to care as safe as Sweden ' s in the next five or six year , so it really be something within our grasp . I will finish by say this . the NHS be set up on the premise of equality , and the idea that no matter who we be — whether we be rich or poor , young or old , from the north or the south , from the city or the country — everyone should be able to access the healthcare they need . everyone mean every baby , too . we talk about safety more than any other healthcare system in the world . in this very sad week , when we remember all the people who have lose their dear baby and their dear love one in the process of have baby , let we redouble our effort to make the NHS the safe , high - quality healthcare system in the world . rise — Order . I will now call the next co - sponsor of the debate . after she have speak , there will be a five - minute time limit . as a harmed mother from Nottinghamshire , I give birth to my son by emergency c - section because health professional treat I with utter contempt , ignore I and do not do as they should , and then say it be all my fault . my son be not put in my arm when he be bear ; instead , he be rush over to a consultant to start he breathe . while I wish I have time to share the detail of what happen in the Chamber so that other can understand the severity of a fail system , time do not permit I . to those who have lose a baby , we know that when the world say , " I ' m sorry for your loss " , it sound thin and distant , because what be lose be not just a child . family have lose first breath , first step , first day of school , and a lifetime of " I love you . " they have lose hope . we must stop whisper about baby loss in the shadow . we must speak about the preventable error , miss opportunity and systemic failure in our maternity service that have turn dream into dust . Grief be a fact , but these failure be not inevitable . for too long the grief of affected family have be treat as a private sorrow and an isolated tragedy , but let I be clear : these be not isolate incident . the heartbreak and loss be a consequence of a system that be fail , where warning be miss , staffing be insufficient , preventable error steal precious future , tragedy be sweep under the carpet and family have to fight for answer . we have hear the datum and read the report , and we have share our devastating story . we know the truth : maternity service be fundamentally break and our baby be pay the price . I be not ask for a miracle , but I be demand competence , safety and accountability , and a country where every mother who walk into a delivery room know that she be in the safe hand possible and that her baby will be protect . our child deserve that safety , and the child yet to come deserve it too . while we can not bring back the precious baby we lose , we can honour their memory by ensure that their fate be never repeat . we be not just mourn a past but fight for a future where safety be guarantee , where every mother be hear and where every birth be meet with the excellence and dedication it deserve . let the memory of the child we hold in our heart be the light that guide our resolve . let the story be the steel in our spine . we pledge to they and ourselves that we will fix maternity service and build a legacy of safety so powerful that their short life will forever protect the long life of other , and we will do it for good . I know from my own experience as a harmed mother in Nottinghamshire that speak out and share what be potentially the most traumatic and personal experience can be terrify , and I want to commend those who have speak out publicly and the hundred of family who have speak to I about their experience . from talk to thousand of woman and family , I have see the recur issue within our maternity service , include a culture of woman not be listen to , a lack of accountability and situation where baby have die in the most horrendous circumstance and family be have to fight over and over again for answer and to relive the bad moment of their life over and over again because the system in this country be quite frankly break . I be the first elect member in Nottinghamshire to call for an independent review into maternity service at Nottingham University Hospitals NHS trust back in 2020 . I be immensely grateful to the family , some of whom be in the Gallery today , who be lead the fight for change in Nottingham . we know that almost one in five stillbirth and neonatal death in this country could have be prevent through well care , yet the previous Government fail to act on this crisis , and family across the country have suffer immensely as a consequence . if I hear one more time that a previous Government Minister stand up and say that they be go to do it — well , they do not . they do not assign funding to it . they give false promise to woman and baby . we have a real opportunity under this government to make maternity safe . every woman deserve a birth experience where she feel hear , respect and , above all , safe . let I also be clear that this should never be an argument about natural versus surgical ; it should be about what be the safe option for each woman . for too long the narrative have be poison by judgment . we have see a damaging trend of label c - section as a failure , a shortcut or a less way to give birth . the judgment be not just unfair but dangerous . the pressure create by this toxic conversation can sometimes push clinician to delay necessary , lifesave procedure or make woman feel immense guilt for a safe outcome . let we be clear that the safe birth be the most informed birth . we must ensure that every woman have access to high - quality education regard birth and feel confident ask critical question about their care . we need to create a space where ask for help be see not as a weakness but as a commitment to their wellbeing and their baby ' s health . we must empower and support doctor , midwife and nurse , so that they can make decision purely on medical necessity and safety — decision that be free from dangerous judgment , include regard c - section . that require we to have a workforce in place , so that clinician can do their job , can make time for training , and , most importantly , once again have time to listen . a key part of the conversation be continuity of care . we must ensure that midwife be give time to fully understand each woman ' s need and want . by do so , we can reduce the number of instance in which potentially life - threaten issue be miss and woman fall through the crack . continuity of care can help address disparity in maternity care . when woman — particularly black , asian and minority woman — see the same midwife throughout their pregnancy , they can build a relationship and ensure that their experience , culture and religious need be consider . that create a safe place for woman to discuss sensitive issue and remove the frustration of have to repeat their story to numerous staff . if we can rebalance the conversation and culture around birth and put in place a system that allow for continuity of care , we can reduce the harm do to baby and family . continuity of care after birth will also be vital in reduce the incidence of death just after birth , which disproportionately affect baby bear to mother live in the most deprived area of the UK ; they be twice as likely to die in their first month as baby bear to mother in the least deprive area . change be so desperately need . that be what family need , and what they be call for . it be time to listen to the bereaved , and to harm family , and to put they at the heart of any reform . I thank my hon . friend for make such a move speech ; she be an inspirational mum , raise awareness of this . if she will allow , I will raise the case of Hayley Patrick - Copeland , a bereaved mum who have be raise awareness of baby loss and put in place support for bereaved parent . if I may , I will also put on the record in this place , for century to come , the name of her child , Alya and Aleah , whom she lose . will my hon . friend join I in remember they , and in commend Hayley for her inspirational work , just like my hon . friend ' s , raise awareness of baby loss ? I thank my hon . friend ; that be an important thing to say . I be so pleased when the Secretary of State for Health and Social Care announce a rapid review of maternity service , which I believe he do to ensure that we get on with fix the problem that we know be there — for example , with continuity of care — as soon as possible . it be vital that we take family with we and ensure that they be listen to and treat with respect . let we not waste this real opportunity to change the system that have be harm family for far too long . the final key aspect that I would like to address be the need for true accountability . too often , negligence lead to loss ; the failure be there for everyone to see . I ask those who have recently call for a reduction in accountability this : how can accountability be reduce to improve maternity service when it be not even there ? I be not talk about hound midwife and obstetrician , but if someone make a mistake again and again , as we see in Nottinghamshire , family have to fight for the truth . mother leave hospital have be make to think that they be at fault . there have to be accountability . we need accountability and support to allow midwife to become great . family should be clear about the process , which should work with they , so that they get answer and the truth without have to fight for they . my hon . friend be make an excellent speech and be a great advocate on this subject . I be sure she know about the MBRRACE - UK — Mothers and Babies : reduce risk through Audits and Confidential Enquiries across the UK — datum ; it show mortality rate across the country . like Nottinghamshire , Leeds have high mortality rate — in fact , they be the high in the UK and 70 % high than the average . those preventable baby loss be not an accident or a statistical mistake . do she agree that the leadership of hospital trust with such high rate need to take accountability and fix they ? this be not an issue for individual maternity unit ; this should be take on by the chief executive and those at the high level in teaching hospital . I absolutely agree ; if we have that approach in Nottinghamshire , the story would have be very different . this start with we build a culture that allow people to say , " this go wrong , and this be why . I make a mistake , and I be sorry . it ' s time to fix it . " we can not accept any more maternity scandal in this country . of course , there will be time when nothing more can be do , through nobody ' s fault , but in instance where mistake be make , clinician need to come forward . how do we learn from mistake if they be never identify ? regulator such as the Care Quality Commission , the Nursing and Midwifery Council and the General Medical Council need to step up . the evidence be there for all to see in Nottinghamshire : the NMC fail , the GMC fail and the CQC fail . all those organisation be inform over and over again about what be happen in Nottingham , and nothing be do — not one thing . to this day , no one have be hold accountable . I welcome the Government ' s decision to publish a consultation on secondary legislation in order to modernise regulatory framework . I would be grateful to hear more about that . I ask the Government to involve bereaved and harm family in the process , because regulation must work for family , and to work with organisation such as the Royal College of Midwives to ensure that clinician be involve . in any reform and change , there must be balance . it be time for this Labour Government to take action . what successive government have allow to unfold in maternity care tell a devastating story about how little the life and experience of woman be value . those of we who be make to feel completely expendable at the most vulnerable moment in our life will know that to be only too true . in choose how to respond , this Government have a powerful opportunity to send a decisive message about how they view and value woman . it be possible to make change . every day , I meet fantastic organisation run by people who have use their experience to fuel their work to change life . they include Jo Cruse from deliver Better , Sharon Luca from the Luca Foundation , Heidi Eldridge from the MAMA Academy , Laura Corcoran from Dignity Care Network , and Clo and Tinuke from five x More . I could name so many more . it be truly astonishing how many people across the country , from all corner of our society , from mother to midwife , be work themselves to the bone to improve our maternity and bereavement service . they be all push for change for woman and the baby of the future . this be no long just a campaign ; it be a movement , and if the Government and the NHS do not act now , they risk be leave behind . we face many crisis in our maternity service , and the only way through they be together . family , midwife , mother , father , nurse , obstetrician , charity , decision maker and member of Parliament must come together in this movement to fundamentally reshape our service , so that safe birth , continuity of care and accountability be at their centre . all of we here be bind by a shared , heartbreaking truth : no parent should have to say goodbye before hello . affected family deserve more than condolence . it be up to we in this Chamber to demand an end to the preventable failure , systemic neglect and outdated protocol that steal future . Grief must become the engine of change . it be not enough to patch a broken system ; we must rebuild it , strong and safe than ever before , for every baby whose life be too short , for every family leave shatter , and for every future family depend on we right now . our task be clear . the time for analysis be over . the time for delay be over . I will not rest until our maternity service be fix , permanently and profoundly . we be fight for a future in which safety be guarantee , every mother be hear and every birth be meet with the excellence and dedication it deserve . let the memory of the child we hold in our heart be the light that guide our resolve : baby Harriett , baby Teddy , baby Junior , Amaya , baby Winter , Maya , Dexter , Smokey , baby Ladybird and baby Coupa , the wonderful , kind and funny Ryan , and every baby and mother impact and go too soon . we must pledge to they and to ourselves that we will fix maternity service . we will build a legacy of safety so powerful that their short life will forever protect the long life of other , and we will do it for good . this Baby Loss Awareness Week , we honour those child who be love and miss , and we recognise the parent , sibling , family and friend who carry their memory every day . today , I want to emphasise just how vital it be that we see the quality of bereavement care standardise , and that this standard be mandate for every NHS trust and health board . my constituent John and Holly Osman live in Wells with their two lively child , six - year - old twin name Alex and Amelia . it may surprise some of my constituent that I speak about John , as we do not share a political perspective . however , we share a life experience with each other , many of my constituent and , I understand , one in every two people in this country : the terrible loss of a pregnancy or the death of a baby . that experience transcend all political difference . some eight year ago , John and Holly lose their much love twin , Logan and Lottie , five month into their pregnancy . Logan and Lottie ' s life be short . Logan be with they for 15 minute and Lottie for 57 minute . Holly , who be in the Gallery this evening , tell I that register their birth and death will remain one of the hard thing they have ever have to do . John and Holly be lucky to receive excellent bereavement care from the team at the Royal United hospital at Bath , which in 2017 and 2018 be pilot the national bereavement care pathway . be able to deliver in the forget I not suite , where they receive care from train bereavement midwife and spend two day with their baby make memory , be something they say they probably do not realise how much they need then , but that they cherish deeply now . as Holly highlight , the power of compassionate , skilled bereavement care can not be overstate . it help parent begin to process trauma , to create memory and to honour a life , however short . that care do not erase loss , but it bring dignity , acknowledgement and a foundation for healing . the care that parent receive in those heartbreaking moment stay with they forever . no one can turn back the clock , but we can make a difference through have compassion , understanding and well care . it shock I that 50 % of bereaved parent report that they be able to access the support they need , but only 17 % be able to do so through the NHS . I pay tribute to the NHS clinician , midwife and support staff who deliver that care with tenderness and professionalism . good care help parent and family begin to navigate the painful journey of bereavement . whether those NHS staff who engage with the bereaved family during this journey have receive specialist bereavement training depend on where that care be be provide . poor care can deepen trauma . we know that bereavement leave parent vulnerable to increase risk of develop mental health condition . that be why it be essential that every bereaved parent in the UK have access to standardise high - quality bereavement support , include clear signpost , timely referral and specialist mental health care when it be need most . excellent bereavement care should not be a matter of luck or postcode . the national bereavement care pathway have finally be adopt voluntarily by every hospital offer maternity care in England , with the last trust have adopt it last year . however , in Scotland , the pathway have be mandate by Government . the difficulty with voluntary adoption be exactly that : it be voluntary , which mean that the nine standard of care that comprise the bereavement care pathway be not national standard in England until they be mandate by the Department of Health and Social Care . I ask the Secretary of State to consider mandate the bereavement care pathway with immediate effect , so that family and friend can be reassure that care in the most difficult of circumstance will be exemplary . to Lottie and Logan ' s family and to the many other who have write to I , thank you for your courage in share the most personal of story . your love for your child and your determination to help other family be a gift to we all . we can not take away the pain of loss , but we can ensure that no parent walk through it alone . I welcome this important debate , and I thank my hon . friend the Members for Sherwood Forest ( Michelle Welsh ) and for Rossendale and Darwen ( Andy MacNae ) , and the right hon . member for Godalming and Ash ( Sir Jeremy Hunt ) , for bring to the House , during Baby Loss Awareness Week , this debate on a grief that touch thousand , who often grieve in silence . I will use this debate to call for a UK - wide perinatal death reduction programme , and will talk about foetal growth restriction monitoring . I be really glad that the Secretary of State for Health be in the Chamber ; that show his commitment . this debate be well time to inform the rapid review of maternity and neonatal safety in England . for many , baby loss be invisible and misunderstood . this week break that silence , honour life cut short and stand with family who carry their baby ' memory every day . like other member , I pay tribute to charity like Sands , Tommy ' s and the Miscarriage Association . their work must be support and recognise . I speak with a heavy heart to share the story of Maia Devlin Corfield , a beautiful baby girl who should be here today . her parent Sherena and Jack come to my advice surgery to tell I about Maia ' s stillbirth at Kingston hospital . though Sherena ' s pregnancy be low risk , Maia show sign of growth restriction . Staff reassure Sherena but fail to act . Maia be bear still on 29 November 2024 . the autopsy show she be healthy , but die due to a placental condition that halt her growth and breathing . baby with growth issue like Maia be eight time more likely to die , and it be Kingston ' s foetal growth monitoring system that fail she . it diverge from national standard and , despite early warning , many unsafe practice like that remain . the Government ' s own maternity and neonatal safety investigation into Maia ' s death make nine recommendation , yet risk still persist and be not listen to . Sherena and Jack often feel that they be not be listen to , but bereaved parent need to be hear because by listen to they , we can identify those area that need to change . it be that culture and the regulation and standard that all need to work together to see real change . freedom of information request by Sherena and Jack have reveal that at least 27 trust can not properly identify baby with growth issue . the issue be that many hospital use a global growth monitoring system that under - detect small baby in high - income country like the UK because it use datum from across the world . Safer UK - develop system base on NHS datum do exist and be use by many unit , but Maia be fail by outdated growth chart still in use at Kingston and St George ' s and at many other hospital . a key part of the system be those growth chart . Donald Peebles , NHS England ' s clinical director for maternity , have confirm that a national safety alert will soon advise trust to stop use these intergrowth chart , but be there a system to track which hospital still use they , and how can we update foetal growth monitoring system urgently ? I have also talk to the chief nurse for the South West London integrate care board , who highlight issue of midwife retention and recruitment and , in particular , maternity triage , which need reform with a universal standard that would ensure consistency of safety and access — those early warning system that fail Maia and be fail other . just as we have a mental health investment standard , we should consider a similar maternity service standard as well . I turn to the demand for change . the " Saving Babies ' live Care Bundle " publish by NHS England in June 2023 outline three key element for foetal growth monitoring , but they be not consistently adopt and then monitor to ensure that they be implement . there be too few of those death in each trust to rely on the trust to take the action ; it have to be do at a national level . in fact , it have to be do across every nation — Northern Ireland , Scotland , Wales and England — otherwise there will be inconsistency as there already be between the different nation . will the Minister work with counterpart across the UK to ensure that no nation fall behind ? will the Minister meet Sherena and Jack to discuss how to improve maternity care and look at the finding they have ? we owe it to Maia . we owe it to every family shatter by preventable baby loss to demand accountability , enforce standard and ensure that no parent be ever tell that everything be fine when it be not . I pay tribute to the hon . member for Sherwood Forest ( Michelle Welsh ) and for Rossendale and Darwen ( Andy MacNae ) and to my right hon . friend the Member for Godalming and Ash ( Sir Jeremy Hunt ) both for bring this debate during Baby Loss Awareness Week and the incredibly thoughtful and move contribution they have already make to the House . I suspect we will see this House at its good this evening , debate in a measured but passionate way something of huge importance to so many of our constituent . I welcome to the Public Gallery those family member who have stay until this late hour because this matter so much to they . I pay tribute to Bliss , Sands and other charity that do so much in this space . it have be a privilege for I to meet , and read correspondence from , constituent of mine who have be affect by baby loss . I have to say , they have carry themselves with the most incredible dignity give what they have be through . I be very conscious that it be something that they will never get over . I will not use surname as I have not seek permission , but some family have give I the name of the baby they lose , and I want to place those name on the record , because it matter : baby Wynter , baby Harry and baby Ciara - Mae . I know that they will always be their parent ' baby . it be important that we remember that . I hope to do they justice . the hon . member for Sherwood Forest speak with incredible eloquence when she say that it be about not just mourn the past but fight for the future . she sum up what this debate must be about if it be about anything . we have see progress , but it be sadly not enough . as my right hon . friend the Member for Godalming and Ash mention , that progress have apparently plateaue since the pandemic . we still see terrible inequality of outcome across different group in our society . sadly , give birth be not risk - free , but by no mean be all those baby loss inevitable — many be avoidable . we need to ensure that we do all we can to reduce that risk . when something go wrong , as sadly it have on too many occasion , family deserve transparency , openness and a fight for improvement . they need to be believe and listen to . we have see problem in Morecambe Bay , Telford , East Kent , Nottingham — I could go on . let I focus briefly on Nottingham — as a Leicestershire MP , many of my constituent will have be affect . Donna Ockenden ' s work be very welcome ; she have build extraordinary trust with the family and those who have be fail . I also welcome the national review that the Secretary of State have put in place , and the work be do by the noble Baroness Amos . I know that the Secretary of State know this , but I gently say to he that there be different view among the family , and I encourage he and the review team to continue take the family with they , to work with they at each stage , and to listen to they . improvement be need . my right hon . friend the Member for Godalming and Ash mention the CQC and he be absolutely right to do so . we need to see continued transparent engagement by that review with the family . we need to see whether more can be do to consider the role of the independent regulator . it be important that we look at the support available for both parent when the bad happen and they be bereaved . we need to raise more awareness . I know that the Secretary of State know that . the family I have speak to speak well of he . I know he well ; he be a decent man and care deeply about this . I know that he be listen . the fact that a Secretary of State be on the Treasury Bench at this hour and will conclude the debate at around midnight be testament to his commitment — I wish he well in his work . it behove we all to continue to strive and do more to reduce the number of avoidable baby death and the pain the avoidable baby loss cause . equally — I echo the word of my right hon . friend the Member for Godalming and Ash — we must also focus on hope and progress , and on safety , accountability and what more we can do to ensure that a child come into this world be not a moment of sadness and grief but a moment of joy . I wish the Secretary of State well in his work on that . I thank my hon . friend the Member for Rossendale and Darwen ( Andy MacNae ) for his work to secure this debate and for share his personal experience . I also thank my hon . friend the Member for Sherwood Forest ( Michelle Welsh ) . hear people ' s personal experience make this a well place for we to legislate and do what we have to do , so I thank my hon . friend very much for sharing , which take bravery and courage . I be sure that the whole House share those feeling . lose a child be one of the most devastating experience that any parent can face , as other member have say . word can not describe the immense personal pain of deal with such grief . to carry a child for nine month — sometimes less — and to dream of their future only to lose they be simply unimaginable . as a mother of three , my heart go out to every parent who have endure the heartbreak of lose their child or baby . this debate , during Baby Loss Awareness Week , could not be more timely . baby loss be not just a personal tragedy but a public health issue , in particular when it occur as a result of preventable error or gap in care that we have the power to fix . baby loss have a deep and lasting impact not only on mother and father , but on sibling and entire family . for some , that pain come immediately after the loss ; for other , it may take week or month before the full emotional weight be feel . that be why I welcome the amendment to the Employment Rights Bill that will extend bereavement leave to those who experience pregnancy loss . I thank my hon . friend the Member for Luton North ( Sarah Owen ) , the Chair of the Women and Equalities Committee , for her work in drive that change . it can not be right that someone who suffer a miscarriage in the morning , lose the future that they dream of , be expect to turn up at work at 9 am as if nothing have happen . I be proud that the Labour Government have recognise the real human cost of such a loss , and ensure that family receive the time , care and support that they need to begin to heal . in Bradford , we have see the devastating impact when maternity care fall short . Bradford teaching hospital NHS foundation trust be one of the 14 NHS trust now under review for historic maternity failure — a clear sign that systemic change be urgently need . in November 2021 , two newborn baby tragically lose their life at Bradford royal infirmary after lapse in hygiene allow a drug - resistant superbug to spread through the neonatal unit . a report find that staff be not consistently follow hand hygiene guideline and be unclear about the use of protective equipment . these be preventable death , heartbreake for the family involve . I welcome the measure that the trust have since put in place , but we must ensure that lesson be truly learn so that no family ever have to endure such pain again . every mother deserve to give birth know that she and her baby will receive the good possible care — care root in safety , dignity and compassion . in Bradford , a mother give birth to her son on 13 February 2023 ; sadly , he pass away the next day . she be move between unit with little communication and no explanation of what be happen . she be not offer a transfer to another trust where her baby might have receive neonatal care and a chance of survival . her son be bear alive but die in her arm , and her record be later find to wrongly describe the loss as a miscarriage . no mother should have to endure such failing . in describe what she go through , she say : " my experience at Bradford Hospital ' s maternity unit destroy I . my son die after birth . I nearly die myself , but they didn ' t care . they send I home the same day he die , even though I have clear sign of infection . I leave that hospital with not just empty arm , but with a body that have never be the same . now all I have be a baby I can visit at the graveyard and a lifetime of pain that they cause . " in my own constituency , I have consistently advocate the concern about the standard of maternity service and the leadership at the Bradford teach hospital trust . on new year ' s eve last year , a couple from Bradford be wrongly tell that their unborn baby have die ; the day after , she be deliver fit and healthy . Jamal and his wife Fozia be tell by doctor that there be no heartbeat when they go for a routine test . they describe their experience as go through hell and back . no parent should ever have to experience such pain and uncertainty . I have write to the Secretary of State , and I be glad that he be take notice . I welcome the maternity review be lead by Baroness Amos , but lesson must be learn . the failure at Bradford really need to stop , so that nobody go through such experience again . Genevieve Meehan , affectionately know as Gigi , be bear on 18 July 2021 at Stepping Hill hospital . she be small but perfectly form , and by all account the happy little person anyone could meet . gigi love dance with her big sister , try spaghetti bolognese and play with her favourite green tambourine . those be the precious , ordinary moment that make up a childhood — the moment that every parent treasure and that we photograph , remember and hold dear . Gigi have be reach the magical milestone that fill parent with pride and wonder : she wave for the first time , she pull herself up to stand and she say " Da - da " . each of those be a cause for celebration and a promise of all the milestone yet to come . gigi ' s parent , Katie and John , do everything right . they choose a nursery that be well know in the area , have positive recommendation from friend and have respectable ofsted result . they visit multiple time and attend settling - in session . the staff seem well trained and capable . it feel safe . they trust that nursery with the most precious thing in their life , but in May 2022 , that trust be shatter . Gigi , a love and happy 10 - month - old girl , be leave strapped to a bean bag , face down , without be check by the nursery staff . she die at nursery . the nursery be not safe , it be not care and it fail Gigi at the cost of her life . no parent should ever have to experience what Katie and John have experience . no parent should have to bury their child because basic standard of care be not follow , or to campaign for change that should already exist in order to protect the child who come after , yet that be exactly what Katie and John be do . in the face of the most earth - shatter loss imaginable , they be campaign tirelessly for Gigi and to make our nursery safe for all child . as a new father , I can not begin to comprehend the devastation that Katie and John have endure . when I look at my daughter , Poppy , I see the same joy , wonder and infinite promise that Gigi bring to this world , and I be haunt by the knowledge that what happen to their daughter could happen to our child . Katie and John be not alone in their grief : it be an all - too - common story that nationally agree standard of care be not be adhere to , lead to avoidable death , whether in maternity unit , neonatal care , nursery or cr è che . gigi ' s campaign have already achieve important progress . ofsted inspection will be more frequent — every four year instead of every six year . in collaboration with the Lullaby Trust , the early year foundation stage statutory framework will be update to include more detailed safe sleep guidance , but that can not be the end . mandatory safe sleep training for all staff be need , CCTV should be implement in all nursery and far more ofsted inspection must be unannounced . there can be no doubt that the life of baby and their family will be save if those measure be seriously consider and implement by the Government . as the Sands and Tommy ' s policy unit report , " Saving Babies ' live 2024 " , state : " with political will , progress be possible . " this Government must have a relentless political will in ensure that our nursery and maternity unit be the very safe of place . no baby should ever lose their life at the hand of inadequate standard of care , a reliance on whistleblowe culture or a lax inspection routine . Katie and John should be watch Gigi grow up . they should be see she start school , make friend and discover who she be . instead , they be fight to ensure that no other parent endure their nightmare . we owe it to Gigi , we owe it to Katie and John , and we owe it to every parent who trust we to keep their child safe . we have to do well . I thank my hon . friend the Members for Sherwood Forest ( Michelle Welsh ) and for Rossendale and Darwen ( Andy MacNae ) for secure the debate . it coincide with Baby Loss Awareness Week , a time when we pause to remember every baby who have be lose far too soon . the week provide we with a chance to take stock of this sensitive issue and to commit to support family member , include father and sibling , by improve service for all family affect by baby loss . in 2023 , there be more than 4 , 000 baby death in the UK , behind each of which be a family whose life will never be the same again . the pain that those family experience be the same as the pain of lose any child , and they deserve to be treat with the same sensitivity as with any other bereavement . although we have make significant progress over the past few decade , the rate of baby death remain too high , and disproportionately so in african , caribbean and asian family and those from deprive background . that inequality be a challenge that our society , our NHS and our Government must address urgently . our NHS maternity and neonatal service must have proper funding and training to provide care and support through a service provision that recognise the medical , social and emotional need of those family . it also mean ensure that staff have the support to offer a service with empathy and compassion , and to understand that baby loss have a profound impact on all member of the family . every parent experience miscarriage , stillbirth or neonatal loss deserve a safe space where they can grieve with dignity . finally , I take this opportunity to pay tribute to forever Stars , a charity base in my Broxtowe constituency found by Michelle and Richard Daniels , who have live experience of baby loss . their strength and dedication to family who have experience baby loss have flourish into an organisation that provide understanding and comfort to hundred of family across Nottingham and Nottinghamshire , but that should not have be leave to a grieve family . the creation of baby loss service , memorial garden and specialist bereavement space should be a standard part of our health and social care service . I therefore call upon the Government to see this as an opportunity to design and develop improve service for family who experience baby loss . my constituent ' s sister be stillborn many year ago , in a situation in which my constituent ' s mother be simply tell , " Don ' t worry , dear , you ' ll have another one next year . " there be no bereavement counselling and , more importantly , no marked grave . my constituent find out some year later — quite recently — that his sister have be bury in a communal unmarked grave . it appear that , because this practice go on until the late 1980 , there be some 89 , 000 such child . these family have have the lifelong pain of not know where to grieve , how to grieve or where to focus their attention , with no chance of find it . these child deserve our support , and I hope that this House will share my view that the Government need to step in to provide a small memorial so that these family can have a focus for their grief , and some acknowledgment that these child exist . I would be grateful if the House share this call , which I have table as an early - day motion . I know the Minister have kindly offer to meet these family , and I be extremely grateful for his support . I be very glad to be able to take part in this very moving debate and to follow so many excellent speech as we once again mark Baby Loss Awareness Week , not least on behalf of myself and my story , and that of my beautiful baby Lucy , who I tragically lose back in 1998 , but also on behalf of all the mps in this place , woman and man , who be not yet ready or able to stand and tell their story , as indeed I be not for so many year . for almost 20 year I never speak of my loss , and I never tell anyone who do not know I back when it have happen , until I help to set up the all - party parliamentary group on baby loss back in 2016 , 11 year after I be first elect . that be along with a cross - party group of MPs , all of whom be no long in this House , although Baroness Prentis of Banbury be now in the other place . I tell they my story in the Tea Room , and I could point to the table that we sit around to share our story through flood of tear . it be the first time I have speak about it in any detail since it have happen two decade early . baby loss be , and I think it may still be to a certain extent , the last great taboo that a lot of parent have to navigate their way through . not long thereafter , I be approach by one of the officer of the new all - party group regard the private Member ' s Bill introduce by the former Member for East Worthing and Shoreham , Tim Loughton . as those member who be around at the time will remember , part of that Bill cover baby loss and the lack of any recognition for stillborn baby bear before 24 week — what be , in law , still call late - term miscarriage . his private Member ' s Bill try to address this through what would become know as baby loss certificate . he have be approach by his constituent Hayley and Frazer , who give birth to their son Samuel at 19 week . tragically , he be stillborn , and they have be horrify to receive no official recognition and — even bad — to learn that their child be enter in the official record as a miscarriage , as indeed my Lucy be at 23 week and four day , just a few day short of the legal definition for recognition . Tim also cite another tragic case , that of twin bear either side of that 24 - week threshold . one thankfully survive and be give a birth certificate , but the other — bear just a day or so early on the wrong side of 24 week — tragically do not survive , receive no official recognition , and be enter in the official record as a miscarriage . this feel grossly wrong to all those parent and to Tim , as it do to I and my husband when it happen to we . Tim set about try to change the law , hence approach I to see whether I would be brave enough to stand here — on the Opposition Benches as I be then — and tell my story , as it be so relevant to the case he be try to make . somehow , I manage to do it — it be all down on record for anyone to read or watch , so I will not repeat it today — and it involve an awful lot of tear . those who have speak today have somehow manage not to be in flood of tear . I do it , as lot of member have do today , and I commend they all for share their heartbreaking story . we should remember , though , that for every member who bear witness in this Chamber , there be no doubt many more who be not yet ready to do so . I be very proud of myself back in February 2018 to give mine and Lucy ' s story in detail in that private Member ' s Bill debate , and for my experience and Lucy ' s all - too - brief life to perhaps have make a difference in help to change the law and bring about the baby loss certificate , which be now much treasure by so many parent . it be something I be still very proud of . after that debate and all the publicity it garner , the right hon . member for Godalming and Ash ( Sir Jeremy Hunt ) — who be Health Secretary at the time , and who I pay tribute to for everything he do — set up an official Department of Health expert working group , which Tim and I sit on , to consult on what a change in the law would look like and how the baby loss certificate would work . I be very glad when in February 2024 , just before the election , the last Government announce the roll - out of the first ever baby loss certificate . as welcome as those certificate be , I worry that there be still some unintended consequence , as there often be when first enact new policy . I have be contact by Catherine , whose much - want baby die at 12 week . through the grieve process , she find comfort in know that she would get a baby loss certificate for her son Matthew . however , when she apply for that certificate , she find that she be not able to add her partner ' s name to it , as he be register with a gp on the scottish side of the border . while relationship across the English - scottish border be not common , neither be they unheard of . Catherine ask I to ask the Secretary of State — I be very happy that he be in the Chamber in person tonight — what step could be take to enable both parent ' name to be include on baby loss certificate where those parent be register with GPs in different country in the UK . I be sure that what I have describe be an anomaly , and I hope the Secretary of State will address it in his response . due to time , I will leave my remark there , Madam Deputy Speaker . I thank you for your grace . I appreciate the hon . Lady finish her remark . member will have notice that I indulge the hon . Lady , but unfortunately after the next speaker I will have to reduce the time limit to four minute so that I can get all member in . I thank the hon . and right hon . member for bring this debate to the Chamber today . I thank other speaker for their move remark , and it be a privilege to follow the hon . member for Washington and Gateshead South ( Mrs Hodgson ) . I thank she for share her story , on behalf of all those untold story . I speak for all my family in Esher and Walton who have deal with baby loss . their story be many , their grief be unlimited , and I pay tribute to they and those family with we today who be intent on turn their grief into other ' hope . your bravery humble we all . today , I will focus on one family . last week I be visit by my constituent , the wonderful , brave parent of Jimmy Alderman , whose story remind we that there be still so much we must do to protect our young and most vulnerable . Jimmy be just six week old when he die last October . he have be breastfe while be carry in a sling at home , which many parent understandably see as practical , safe and nurture . tragically , Jimmy slip into an unsafe position and lose consciousness . despite his parent ' desperate attempt to save he , he die three day later . follow the inquest , the senior coroner issue a prevention of future death report , which find that guidance available to parent on the safe use of baby carrier and sling , particularly when feeding , be wholly inadequate . the coroner highlight the absence of clear NHS advice , the lack of visual guidance show safe versus unsafe position and the limited awareness of suffocation risk , especially for newborn and premature baby . in response , the National Childbirth Trust and the Lullaby Trust have both update their advice , warn that hand - free breastfeeding or bottle - feeding when use a sling be unsafe , particularly for baby under four month old . their message be now clear that if a baby need to feed , they need to be take out of a sling . those be important step , but it should not fall solely to grieve parent and charity to close such critical gap in public information . national guidance must keep pace with modern parenting practice , and it be vital that the NHS clearly set out the risk and good practice around baby carrier and feed safety . Jimmy ' s parent have show extraordinary courage , and in Jimmy ' s memory they be call for a couple of simple , but vital reform . first , they want a national awareness campaign to promote the safe use of sling and carrier . secondly , they want consideration of tight regulation in industry standard for baby carrier safety . those sensible , achievable measure could save many life . that be what Jimmy ' s parent be motivate by . nobody should have to go through entirely preventable grief , as they have . will the Minister agree to meet with Jimmy ' s parent and I to discuss how the Department of Health and Social Care can support this campaign , include through update NHS guidance , a national awareness initiative and a review of safety standard for baby carrier ? by work together , we can ensure that Jimmy ' s short life lead to last change and that no other parent have to endure the unimaginable pain that his family have face . I thank the hon . and right hon . member for secure today ' s debate on such an important issue that be sadly too often overlook . early this year , I be incredibly grateful to meet Angels and Rainbows , a local group in my Lowestoft constituency run by bereaved parent who support other through the experience of baby loss . I put on record in this place my sincere thank for their vital work , which be life - affirm , trauma - inform and ground in the reality of grief . one key issue they wish I to raise today be how woman who have just lose a baby be place on the same ward as those who have just give birth . it feel deeply cruel that parent who have just be through the trauma of child loss should have to share the same space as joyful new mother and healthy new baby make their first cry . that be why hospital should provide a space away from new parent and the maternity unit , so that parent can grieve in peace . as my local hospital , the James Paget , be brilliantly part of the new hospital building programme , I hope that its senior leadership look at the need for a dedicated private space for bereavement care in its plan . training be key , too . parent tell I how vital it be for staff to receive appropriate training in how to communicate sensitively with family go through baby loss . as one constituent say : " I feel the staff weren ' t prepare or prepare I on what be happen or go to happen . it be as if it be a taboo subject . " the quality of care receive by my constituent have be very inconsistent , with some feeling well support and other not at all , particularly once they be out of hospital . one of my constituent find out at her 12 - week scan that she have suffer a " miss miscarriage " , and be give medication and tell to expect an experience similar to a bad period . instead , she nearly pass out from the agonising pain , have contraction , and pass the pregnancy on her bathroom floor at home . she have be give no guidance on what to do next , and be not give any reassurance when she reach out for advice . she be not offer a follow - up scan , contact by a midwife , or signpost to counselling or a specialist service . leave without support , she be later diagnose with PTSD . unprepared staff , the dearth of support service and long waiting time for counselling make this horrible situation bad , and it be important to recognise that father too be suffer from that lack of support . dad have tell I that they even feel ignore by service , while also need to support their partner in turn . we must do well , for everyone , which be why Angels and Rainbows be campaign for a full - time bereavement midwife or bereavement support worker in every hospital . for a while we have one at the James Paget , and some really positive change have be make as a result and through work with our intrepid support group . sadly , in May this year that role be cut , despite the trust ' s acknowledgment that the role be " undoubtedly beneficial to family " . while all midwife need training , it take a lead to help to co - produce change with those with live experience , drive it through and then , importantly , sustain that change . in the word of one of my constituent , baby loss " be not ' just ' a medical event . it be the loss of a child , a dream , and a future . without compassionate system in place , the trauma of miscarriage can last a lifetime . " with her word to close my speech , I be grateful for the opportunity to participate in this moving debate during Baby Loss Awareness Week . I commend the hon . member for Sherwood Forest ( Michelle Welsh ) and for Rossendale and Darwen ( Andy MacNae ) and the right hon . member for Godalming and Ash ( Sir Jeremy Hunt ) for call this important debate . I have see at first hand the commitment of the right hon . member for Godalming and Ash to these issue , and I applaud his dedication . on Thursday I sit down with my constituent Jamie and Ellie Thompson . they lose their son Billy on Easter Sunday 2024 , just 15 day short of his fifth birthday . it be diffuse intrinsic pontine glioma , one of the rare cancer and one of the bad . it attack only child , it attack the brain , and it be untreatable . Billy be the bright , most cheerful little boy . he love superhero and he love rugby , just like his dad . his mum say that everyone who meet he fall in love . one day he be play at the beach with his sister Maddie and his parent , and he be not his usual self . five month later , he be go . Jamie and Ellie tell I how their beautiful boy become angry , anxious and in agony . they speak of their terrible struggle to look happy in front of he , before break down in the room next door . one day Billy say , " Mummy , I can ' t see , " as he slowly lose his eyesight and the use of his limb . sadly , mistake in palliative care mean that his last day be brutal too . today , his family be try to make sense of it all . Jamie take out his anger on play a season of hard rugby ; Ellie throw herself into her local community project in Billy ' s memory . they both suffer from flashback , but thankfully Maddie be now eight and seem to be ok . time and again , I have see people take tragedy in their own life to turn it to positive change for other . Jamie and Ellie have start a charity , Billy ' s Battalion . they be fundraise to support five promising trial of DIPG treatment at Great Ormond Street hospital , and I ask the Secretary of State to see whether there be anything that the Government can do to support it . this be what Jamie and Ellie be do to honour Billy ' s memory , and it be people like they who inspire I the most . it be a privilege to speak in the debate , and I thank the co - sponsor and the Backbench Business Committee for allow it to happen on the Floor of the House today . I also thank everyone who have speak so far and so bravely , whether that be share their own experience or that of their constituent . these debate have a true impact . this issue be of profound personal significance to I , as it be to so many family up and down the country . alongside Tommy ' s , many member of this House , Myleene Klass MBE , Sands and the Miscarriage Association , I have be campaign for five year for simple change . first , I want to recognise those for whom this be not an abstract discussion but a reflection of one of the hard chapter of their life . to every parent who have experience the heartbreak of lose a baby , I want to say , " your loss matter , and your voice matter . " time and again , investigation into maternity and neonatal care have reveal the same issue : poor communication , miss warning sign and family leave to fight for answer . national standard of care be not be follow , and too often bereaved parent be leave wonder whether lesson will ever truly be learn . that be why the forthcoming national investigation into maternity and neonatal service be so important . it must drive last change , and I urge the Secretary of State , who I be so pleased to see in his place , to ensure that there be clear national oversight of how any recommendation be implement . the investigation must also take ambitious approach to improve maternal heath and reduce baby loss . we need a focused national strategy that set new maternity safety ambition , tackle inequality and ensure consistency across all service , and I want to briefly mention infertility service . I have decide that locally commission service be simply not good enough — they be not fit for purpose . in some place , you get nothing ; in other place , you get three cycle of in vitro fertilisation , as NICE suggest . in other place , you have to pay thousand of pound if you be LGBT . as show by " Joy " , the Netflix story that be tell so well , the same backward thought about infertility treatment still exist in local commissioning board . that be no more so than in South Yorkshire , where the NHS trust be currently consult on — I be quote from the website — view on " how many cycle of IVF should be provide to people in South Yorkshire " and on " how much gluten - free … produce should be prescribe " . I have coeliac in my family and understand the struggle , but to compare that to the loss of baby , which many couple who go through IVF will have suffer , be simply not good enough . the trust ' s own number show that the saving from reduce two cycle to one would be only £ 280 , 000 a year . that would be less than 2p per person in the whole ICB area . let we take that money centrally , so that no matter where you live in the UK , you have access to three chance to start a family . you might have suffer five miscarriage , three miscarriage , baby loss or stillbirth . you might be be tell by your doctor not to try for a baby give the risk to your life , and only to get support through IVF . it be simply not good enough , and fertility service be also diagnostic . I know people who have have endometriosis , polycystic ovary syndrome , block tube , endometrial cancer , polyp or fibroid discover not through go to a gynaecologist , but through go to a fertility doctor . we should value that and not just see it as an excess cost . I think fertility service should be take back centrally and provide on that basis . I pay tribute to all the move speech we have hear so far tonight . there be few loss in life more devastating than that of a child — it be every parent ' s great fear — but when a baby die just as life be begin , at the very moment when joy and expectation be at their high , the pain be all the hard to bear . Chloe and Toby from my constituency of Horsham , along with nine other Sussex family , have go through this unimaginable experience . their baby die in the care of the University Hospitals Sussex NHS trust between 2021 and 2023 . Chloe and Toby be not natural campaigner ; it be not something they ever expect or want to do . they be simply grieve parent look for truth , accountability and , above all , change . University Hospitals Sussex , like public service in general , be under immense pressure . staff be work in a system stretch beyond capacity . I want to acknowledge the effort of the countless clinician , midwife and support staff who show up day in , day out . they , too , have be let down by the system ; it be not just the family . nevertheless , the fact remain that something have go seriously wrong . nine baby have die in circumstance that the family believe be avoidable , and thus far they have not have satisfactory answer . fundamentally , this be about trust . trust need to be restore . for that to happen , we first need to fully understand what go wrong . I understand that thing can go wrong in any profession — and my own father be an obstetrician — but , unfortunately , in obstetric the consequence can be devastating . I very much support the word of the right hon . member for Godalming and Ash ( Sir Jeremy Hunt ) , who say that this be not about launch some kind of witch hunt , which could actually get in the way of prevent further tragedy in the future , because the key thing , and what we need to focus on , be avoid blame and openly share and fix problem . however , we must shine a light on past mistake . in Sussex , Members of Parliament from across the House be work together on this issue , and I look forward to continue those conversation with my colleague locally later this week . however , the trust itself acknowledge that improvement be need , and I welcome the work already under way to make maternity care safe . however , if this review be to succeed and to carry the confidence of the very people it be mean to serve , it must be guide by the right person . the Government have appoint Baroness Amos to lead the review . she command great respect , and I have no question about her personal ability or integrity . however , as I have say , the key issue here be trust , and in that respect she be not the right choice for Sussex . I ask the Secretary of State for Health to listen to what the family be say in Sussex , which be that Donna Ockenden be appoint to oversee the review at University Hospitals Sussex . I thank my hon . friend for highlight the trust that Donna Ockenden have build through the work she have do , with those Sussex family , and indeed family in Nottingham , Shrewsbury and Telford . her report in 2022 lay out immediate and essential action . she deliberately do not call they recommendation ; they be action that need to be take . they must be deliver in full , so do my hon . friend agree with I that we can not lose any more time and that those action need to happen alongside the inquiry that be now take place ? we can not afford to delay , and these family deserve to see those action implement now . I thank my hon . friend and fellow Sussex MP for her intervention , and I very much agree with she . Donna be a midwife herself , and she have be personally involve with the family in Sussex . the point that the hon . Member be make about the choice of people to oversee the review or inquiry reflect the point make to I by two of my constituent , Amarjit and Mandip , who would have their daughter with they today be it not for failure at the Leeds general infirmary . the point they make to I be that they want any review or inquiry to be clearly and demonstrably independent from the people who have a role in run the Leeds teaching hospital NHS trust in the past . do he agree with I and my constituent on this point , and do he share my hope and trust that the Secretary of State will weigh that request very heavily before he meet the family ? I thank the hon . member for his intervention , and yes , that sound like a very similar situation . as I have say , this be all about trust . I understand that concern have be raise about Donna ' s workload and the risk of rely too heavily on one person , but Donna have indicate that she be willing to participate . I be sure that she would not say so unless she be confident that she could give this task the care and attention it need . unless we restore trust , we risk further harm , further delay and further grief , which none of we wish to see . almost 15 year ago , my constituent Lauren Trevillyan lose her son Olly . she tell I how the support just be not there — not for the family , not for the parent , not for the child . there be just not enough aftercare for people after such a loss , not physically and not mentally . to this day , Lauren be still wait for a response to her request for counselling . Lauren struggle through those dark month , but now she be fight for other . Lauren have be the drive force behind the baby loss awareness drop - in at Corby library over the past week , which be absolutely something we should all be behind . we need to talk about this openly and honestly . we have to break the taboo , because sadly it be far more common than people think . as have already be say , in this country 13 baby a day die close to birth . when I talk about baby loss , I can not do so without raise the courage and determination of numerous family in Corby who continue to campaign and fight for answer : answer on rare childhood cancer , on multiple miscarriage and on those bear with limb deficiency . toxic waste be dump in Corby and we need answer . these family have question that the local authority be not prepared to answer . in a response to the family ' solicitor , the council say , when it be ask where the toxic waste be dump : " the Council understand its obligation of transparency … but consider the weight of public interest … fall in favour of non - disclosure . " family be concerned that those with rare childhood cancer or multiple miscarriage be in certain place in Corby where whistleblower have come forward to say that toxic waste be dump . it be not good enough . family be entitle to answer . if the local authority continue to refuse to be transparent and honest , and to answer the family ' question , then I will lead their call for a public inquiry . we have to end the defensiveness of our public body , either through their own integrity — as it should be — or by the Hillsborough law or , if need , by public inquiry . enough of the defensiveness . it be time for answer . we be determined to get they and the people of Corby deserve to hear they . I thank the co - sponsor for secure the debate and for all colleague ' powerful contribution so far tonight . many of those contribution have focus on preventable baby loss , call for lesson to be learn and for more to be do , which I fully support . however , I would like to take this opportunity to shine a light on the many occasion when baby loss be not preventable , but where I believe there be still more that could be do as a society . early this year , my wife and I have an early miscarriage . it be our first pregnancy and we be extremely excited when we get the positive test result . we be very quick to tell all our friend and family . we have no negative sign ahead of our 12 - week scan , but during that scan it become quickly apparent that something be not right . we be ask whether it be possible that it could have be nine week . then a second staff member come in and shortly after we be tell that there be no heartbeat . we be move to another room where we ask all the question that I be sure many ask in this situation . be there anything we could do ? be there anything we could do differently next time ? we be reassure that , actually , it be extremely common , there be nothing we could have do , and that it happen to around one in four or five people . on our journey home , we feel a bit silly for not know that fact and for not be prepare for how common that type of miscarriage be . we wonder why we have not be tell in our early antenatal appointment that it be a possibility . we also wonder why we have not hear that so much from friend and family , or see it in conversation on the tv . after that , we pledge that we would talk about it more . after that moment , we be face with some morbid choice : a natural miscarriage , the opportunity to take some pill , or some sort of surgical procedure . we be give a leaflet to think about it and off we go . we do not actually have the opportunity to make that choice , because shortly after we find out the miscarriage start to happen naturally . I can only say that I be not prepare for the level of brutality that that would entail . we be tell that it might be like period pain , but it be much more severe than that for my wife and the volume of blood be unsettling . I could not believe it be normal while it be happen . we start google and look online for advice , and we be lucky to find blog by Tommy ' s and other organisation that have be mention today , which provide we with some reassurance . however , we still end up go to A & E because we be concerned about the blood loss . they give we some reassurance , and we manage to go home with some medication and to get through that event . the follow - up from that traumatic incident in our life be a simple phone call ; we have to report a negative pregnancy test a few week later , and that be the end of the support . before I run out of time , I must add that we be keen to get on , and we have since get pregnant again . we have jump that 12 - week hurdle , and we be now aware that the chance of miscarriage have greatly diminish , so we be in a well place than we be . however , we be still wonder about what more can be do to provide reassurance to people in that really troubling moment . I ask the Secretary of State whether we can record every miscarriage so that we can get firm statistic about how often this happen . I ask he also to look at whether we can provide access for people 24 hour a day so that they do not have unsettling moment wonder if they need to attend a & E , and whether the mental health support that be in place after a third miscarriage could be in place from that very first moment , because it be a deeply traumatic event for anybody to go through . I think we need to talk about it as a society much more , so that the next couple be prepared . I start by thank member for bring this important debate and thank those who have speak so bravely about their own experience of loss and harm . no matter how a baby die or a wanted pregnancy end , it be always deeply painful and traumatic for bereaved family , but their suffering be particularly exacerbate when the loss of a baby could have be prevent . I have constituent who tragically know that only too well . our city be at the centre of the large maternity inquiry in NHS history and a corporate manslaughter investigation due to failing by Nottingham University Hospitals that have lead to hundred of baby death and injury — hundred of preventable tragedy . many family be still wait for answer . many have face contemptuous treatment , not just at the time of the loss or injury of their baby , but in the aftermath . these family have be institutionally gaslit , lie to and rob of so much , and they be still have to fight for their child . some have also face abhorrent racism . I pay tribute to the Nottingham affect family group for their unwavering determination to secure accountability and change . it be because of their tenacity that the review be happen at all . it have be a privilege to work with they , and I have be deeply move by their strength and selflessness in fight not only for their own family , but for other , in the face of such appalling institutional failure and systematic neglect . I also thank Donna Ockenden for agree to lead the review and for all her work so far — I be so grateful that family in Nottingham have such a champion fight their corner . above all , there must be accountability for this scandal , and lesson must be learn so that no family have to go through such an avoidable tragedy again . while standard of care at NUH under new leadership have improve , they be still fall short , and further action must be take to ensure that parent and baby receive the care that they deserve . I welcome the Government ' s launch of a national maternity investigation to examine maternity and neonatal service across England . this rapid review will consolidate previous inquiry ' finding and recommendation , with the aim of improve the quality and safety of maternity care . however , I be concerned that family in Nottingham do not feel that they be include in the meaningful way they be promise , and the Government must not simply wait for the outcome of this investigation before take action . I be certain that the Secretary of State will act on that , and I thank he for his ongoing genuine commitment to this . the Nottingham affect family group have be call for the 22 national recommendation from the Shrewsbury and Telford Ockenden review to be implement without delay . the family also want the role of oversight body , which be mean to hold trust and healthcare professional to account , to be scrutinise . the CQC must become a more visible organisation and it must be able to bring prosecution more than three year after the offence occur ; the current limit be far too short , and it be deny people even a semblance of justice . there be so much more to say , but in the last few second I want to pay tribute to charity in Nottingham found by bereaved parent , particularly Zephyr ' s and forever Stars . these organisation be already do the work of support grieve family , but they be operate on shoestring budget and generally do not receive statutory funding . we need to see that change . we need to see statutory funding increase and for those allocate it to recognise that these charity be well place to provide those service , as they have already build relationship of trust within our community . first , I commend all member who have tell their personal story and share with we how their life have be touch by what have happen to they , and how they have try to move on . I think of my mother Mona , who be 94 year of age and have suffer many miscarriage . my speech writer Naomi — obviously a very busy lady — have a miscarriage as well . we all have personal story of this , whether through our family , extended family or those we live with . in 2023 in Northern Ireland , there be 67 stillbirth and 80 infant death register , and for those mum and dad , my heart simply ache . I pay tribute to the friend and family , charity such as Sands , and so many other who rally around those go through the unimaginable . the support they provide be phenomenal and life change , and that must be place on record . I also highlight the tremendous decision to help those who be in the early stage of grieve a loss by make available a baby loss certificate . a certificate do not mean less pain by any stretch of the imagination , but it do provide validation ; it say that a wee life exist , be here and be real , and that it be okay to grieve for that wee life and the promise and hope for tomorrow that have pass . in Northern Ireland , we do not yet have those certificate , but my hon . friend the Member for Upper Bann ( Carla Lockhart ) call for they in the House just last year . whether a loss be feel in the fifth week , the 15th week or the magical 25th week , the fact remain that it be a loss . while some be able to put their word into a song or a poem , and other release grief with the planting of a tree that they can watch grow , and that show they the passage of time , other choose never to speak of it — and all of these be valid . I often think of a very special constituent of mine who come to I some 45 year after she have lose a baby and ask I how to find where the remain have be bury . the hon . member for Corby and East Northamptonshire ( Lee Barron ) refer to thing happen in his constituency ; some of the thing that happen in Belfast over those year would also pose many question . I wish to recall the story of that lady . she be part of the " don ' t talk about it " generation , yet for all those year , she carry that grief , and want to know where her baby boy be rest . the baby have be take from she , and she be not give the option to bury he . while we both believe sincerely that he be safe in the arm of Jesus , she want to know where he be on this earth . this be a subject to which the hon . member for Corby and East Northamptonshire refer . Agnes pass before I could find out which of the unmarked baby grave he be in , but I take great comfort in know that she have finally meet he in glory now . I tell the story of Agnes because it show the lifelong grief that can be feel . I believe that this debate , and the one like it hold every year , be not simply about what must be do ; they be a way to tell the Agneses of this world , who grieve in silence , that they be not alone . each life be so precious , and the loss must be acknowledge and feel . on behalf of the mum and dad of my constituency of Strangford and across the United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland , we honour those little life , and the indelible little footprint leave on heart throughout the United Kingdom . you be here , you matter , you be love , and you be not forget . I want to thank the three member who secure this debate . it be of profound importance . not long after become an MP , I be contact by Hayley Johnson , who want to speak with I about her heartbreak . in April 2025 , Hayley find out she be pregnant with her daughter Evelyn . up until she be 26 week and six day , she do not once see a gp , and be give only phone call appointment . on Tuesday 5 August 2025 , she be suffer with low abdominal pain and call she gp surgery , who say that her daughter be lie funny and prescribe her codeine . on Friday , she start lose blood while she be at home . it transpire that when she have call the GP , her placenta be rupture . she lose over 4 pint of blood and nearly die . luckily , the amazing staff at Burton hospital get her daughter out safely and stabilise Hayley , but after 13 hour , Evelyn sadly pass away with her mummy and daddy by her side . Hayley be inform by the hospital that if her GP have see she in person and examine she , they would have notice what be happen , and her daughter would have stand a great chance of survival . because of the negligence she suffer , all she have leave of Evelyn be a small box in the living room contain her ashe . I promise Hayley that at the right time I would mention Evelyn ' s name in the Chamber , so that she would be remember always in the record of Hansard . no parent ever imagine that they will outlive their child . the loss of a baby be heartbreake beyond word and a grief that shatter hope and dream for the future — the hope of see that child grow , thrive , learn and love , and the joy of watch they take their place in the world . all of those be steal in an instant , leave a space in the family that can never be fill . brother and sister lose the chance of a lifelong companion . grandparent lose the grandchild they have long to cherish and spoil . baby loss touch everyone and take so much from so many . my constituent and friend Suman and Jim Antcliffe have suffer the painful loss of two grandchild : Lenny , who sadly pass away not long after a full - term birth , due to cord entanglement ; and Bhai , whom they lose at 18 week ' pregnancy for a reason no one know . amid deep sorrow , Lenny and Bhai ' s incredible parent , Miriam — Suman and Jim ' s daughter — and her husband Roy , found Lenny ' s Legacy . they have publish an e - book about the physical recovery after a baby ' s death , which include information on postpartum recovery , breastfeeding and lactation . perhaps our NHS could look to fund that in hard copy , so that hospital could to give it to parent who have suffer that loss . soon after I become the Member of Parliament for South Derbyshire , the team and I be contact by Alex and Kirsty Garner , a couple who have suffer a loss . they feel that there be not the support they need , so they create that support with a group call our Little Angels in Swadlincote , run by parent , for parent . my team and I be honour to help they secure the funding for that . I promise Alex and Kirsty and other parent who have walk this painful path that I would mention their baby ' name in the Chamber . I may go slightly over the one minute I have leave — I apologise for that , Madam Deputy Speaker — but it would be wrong of I not to call they by name now . we have Hayley Johnson and John Haddon and baby Evelyn ; Miriam and Roy Prestwich and baby Lenny and Bhai ; Kirsty and Alex Garner and baby Harry ; Ames and Graham Silcock and their baby Olivia , Teddy and Ava ; Gina and Adam Deacon and baby Poppy ; Jaimee Long and Owen Archer and baby Arlo and Ava ; Rebekah Wykes and Matthew Buckley and baby Jacob ; Chelsea and Steve Cooper and baby Flower and Blossom ; Nicolle Taylor and Peter Summerbell and baby Ariya ; Rachel and Leigh Brassington and baby Archie ; Hayley and Anthony Dawe and twin Finley and Darcie ; Millie Garbutt and Luke Lenton and baby Lenton ; Katie Garner and Callum Charman and baby Charman ; Kirstie and James Palmer and baby Palmer ; Amie and Connor Chinnery and baby Noah ; Bev and Oliver and baby Alister ; Beth Milnthorpe and Craig Timbrell and baby Timbrell ; Charlotte Atherton and Callum Keyte and baby Wyatt ; Bec Barker and baby Alister ; Bec and baby Maisie ; Paula Ann Haddon and her baby ; and Lorinda Brownhill and Adam townsend and baby Alfie . to every family who have lose a baby , your grief matter and your child matter . this week , we light candle and wear ribbon to remember they , and to remind one another that love , even in loss , endure . I speak with a number of hat on : as the MP for Morecambe and Lunesdale , represent all my constituent who have lose baby in pregnancy ; as a mum of two child ; and as a woman who have lose two much - want pregnancy . I want to use my place here to shine a light on the pain that family be feel due to baby loss , and the step that the Government can take and be take to help they , from enforce a duty of candour on public body to give bereavement leave to parent who have lose a baby before 24 week of pregnancy . first , I welcome the national maternity investigation . I thank the Secretary of State for his attention to it , and for listen to harm family . I want to emphasise that , on the whole , maternity care in this country be safe , but where it be not , strong action must be take . I be relieve to see that my local trust , Morecambe Bay , will be part of the national investigation , not least because of the experience of my constituent Ryan and Sarah , whose baby Ida be bear in 2019 and die seven day after . Ida die because of failing in her care . I know , as Ryan and Sarah do , that mistake happen — healthcare worker be human — but they have have to fight every step of the way to get the truth about their daughter ' s death , which feel so inhumane . after the hospital trust ' s completely inadequate internal investigation declare there to be no care issue and Ida ' s death be grade as " moderate harm " , Ryan and Sarah have to approach a senior coroner to get a full inquest . it be only at that inquest , five and a half year later , that the trust accept that its failing have lead to Ida ' s death . the thing that break my heart be that those failing have already be identify : the Kirkup report identify major failing , which be mean to have be fix . I first become involved in maternity advocacy in Morecambe Bay after the pretty awful birth of my first child . there be a lot of activity in the trust in response to the Kirkup finding , and I do believe that improvement be make , but two thing never go away , and I think they be still harm family to this day . the first thing that I want to highlight be the ideological belief that certain type of birth be superior to other . we hear talk of " normal " or " physiological " birth . the belief that that be somehow superior to a birth with intervention still harm people today . the second thing be the organisational culture that lead to a care organisation respond to a baby ' s death not with care , respect and humility , but with a gross failure to investigate , a gross failure to act with decency and kindness , and a gross lack of transparency . finally , I want to mention a constituent who come to my surgery a few week ago . her stepdaughter be bear sleep many year ago , and she and her husband recently find out that she be bury in a mass public grave . they know the location where she be put to rest , and they really want to put a marker directly on the grave site , but apparently that be not allow under local council rule . they be puzzle , as be I , as to why mark one baby ' s death be somehow disrespectful to the other baby who lie in that mass public grave . I be work with my constituent to try to address that . I be glad that the pain that family feel across our country be be recognise in this place today . we can not let more baby die preventable death . we can not let those loss go unacknowledged . I thank member in the Chamber today for their work . I thank the right hon . and hon . member who secure the debate , as well as those who have share their story . every Member here agree that the tragedy of lose a child be one of the great anyone can face , yet sadly it be all too common an experience ; nearly half the population have either experience the loss of a baby or know someone who have . it be with that deeply sadden thought in mind that I want to pay tribute to the tireless campaigning of Louise Caldwell in Scotland . after her experience of loss , she have influence the Scottish Government ' s strategy on baby loss . she have also succeed in get two baby loss unit open — at Wishaw hospital , in the constituency of the hon . member for Motherwell , Wishaw and Carluke ( Pamela Nash ) , and at Gilbert Bain hospital , with the support of my right hon . friend the Member for Orkney and Shetland ( Mr Carmichael ) and our liberal Democrat colleague Beatrice Wishart MSP . those dedicated facility allow mother , father and family to grieve the loss of their baby in the most dignified and compassionate environment we can provide . I realise that this be a devolved matter , but I be sure that everyone in the Chamber understand the need for baby loss unit and , along with they , compassionate labour room , away from the sound of happy arrival , for those all over the UK who experience deliver a sleep angel . while dedicated space be essential , we must also look at prevention . I find it deeply concern that we continue to see repeat failing in maternity service . the Ockenden report on Shrewsbury and Telford , and the East Kent inquiry , highlight systemic issue , include inadequate equipment , crumble maternity ward , weak incident management and slow triage of urgent case . furthermore , it be unacceptable that when my hon . friend the Member for North Shropshire ( Helen Morgan ) ask the Department about progress regard implement the recommendation of the report , the answer imply not only that Ministers could not confirm delivery but that they have no mechanism to measure any progress make . that be simply not good enough , as the hon . member for Rossendale and Darwen ( Andy MacNae ) highlight . we need a national strategy that extend across all four nation , with clear baseline to ensure that mother and baby receive the care they need and deserve . we need clear and transparent measure to ensure that standard be be meet and to identify when they be not , because ultimately this be about protect woman and baby . Baby Loss Awareness Week be an opportunity for those affect by baby loss to remember and commemorate their baby ' life and to highlight this deeply important subject . I be glad to see that we be do just that in this debate , and have it not be possibly the good of our Chamber ? I pay particular tribute to my hon . friend the Members for Sherwood Forest ( Michelle Welsh ) and Rossendale and Darwen ( Andy MacNae ) for their very moving tribute , which start the debate . every year in the UK , as we have hear , thousand of family be affect by the heartbreak of baby loss . it be a grief that be often invisible to the outside world and too often a silent trauma , but for those live with it , the impact be lifelong . it touch every aspect of their be — emotional , physical , psychological and spiritual — and the structure must be in place for those who need support follow the loss of their baby . in my constituency of Hyndburn and Haslingden , the staff at East Lancashire Hospitals NHS trust do a fantastic job . they be sign up to the national bereavement pathway , but as we have hear , that be not a statutory requirement . I hope that the Secretary of State will consider make it a statutory requirement , so that access to psychological support be not a postcode lottery . with rise demand on maternity service , additional staffing be require so that every family who experience birth trauma or baby loss can get the support that they need . thank to some work that be undertake by a number of lead expert at the University of Lancashire , include my brilliant constituent who be the perinatal mental health lead at East Lancs Hospital trust , Clare Yates , they develop an evidence - base birth and reproductive trauma debrief service that have be design to ensure that every family could receive that support across East Lancashire , and it be ready for implementation . give the limited resource and staffing , we have not be able to roll it out , but I hope that event such as today ' s debate and the renew focus on this issue from the Secretary of State might change that , so that the enhanced service can be offer to give the care and support that family desperately need . up and down the country , there be compete use for maternal fund , with the result that , unfortunately , trauma , mental health and bereavement support often get overlook , with great importance give to physical health . holistic baby loss trauma service make a profound difference , and we must recognise that support family through baby loss be absolutely essential care , so I urge the Secretary of State to do all he can to ensure the high possible level of care in maternity service , include in the devastating circumstance of miscarriage or baby loss , and to ensure that that support be there for everyone who be unfortunate to experience it . I know that this debate be not an easy one for those of we participate and for the campaigner , activist and bereaved parent who be listen , but it be nevertheless vital and I be very thankful that it be take place . I begin by commend all those , include my hon . friend who have lead this debate in the House and beyond , who have find the courage to stand up and speak about their experience of baby loss . I know from personal experience just how difficult that be to do — to reopen that wound and to relive that pain in public . every story of baby loss , tell or untold , be worthy of our compassion and respect , and I say that because after the occasion when I have share my own experience , I have be meet time and again with question : how long ago be it , how far along be you and how do you know that racism be a factor ? perhaps some of those question be ask in innocence , but let I tell you how it make I feel : as if people be measure my loss , weigh my grief and decide how much pain I be allow to feel , and as if there be a scale for sorrow . it be not one - sided . I have speak to woman who , after hear my experience , have open up about their own and end by say that their experience be not " as bad " because mine be a late - term stillbirth and theirs be a miscarriage . that break my heart because it be not true . to all those who experience baby loss in whatever form , your experience matter , your grief matter and your loss matter . that be why Baby Loss Awareness Week be about all form of pregnancy and baby loss — it be not the loss Olympics . whether it be an abortion someone have to have , an ectopic pregnancy , an early or late miscarriage , a stillbirth or neonatal death , every single one of those experience deserve recognition and care . no one — absolutely no one — have the right to quantify your loss . for those of we who have share our story , we do not do it for validation or pity ; we share they so that other who have endure baby loss know they be not alone , no matter when or how they lose their baby . we share they as a call to action because in a country like our , the figure surround maternal mortality and baby loss should never ever be acceptable . early this year , I lead a debate in recognition of Black Maternal Health Awareness Week , during which I highlight the racial disparity in maternity care and the fact that it have go down . black and mixed heritage woman be now three time more likely to die during pregnancy and childbirth , down from five time when I first launch the APPG for black maternal health , and asian woman be twice as likely . regretfully , this decline be not necessarily something to celebrate , nor be it due to improvement in maternity care for black woman . it be because the UK ' s overall maternity mortality figure be rise . More woman and baby be die in the UK now than in the last two decade . black woman be likely experience even further deterioration . the late finding from MBRRACE - UK reveal a widening divide in neonatal death rate between the UK ' s most and least deprive area . black and minority ethnic people be 2 . 5 time more likely to live in relative poverty and 2 . 2 time more likely to live in deep poverty . in plain term , poverty and deprivation be cost newborn life , so the combination of socioeconomic inequality and institutional racism have a double impact on black woman and their baby ' experience of maternity care and its outcome . the datum also show a sharp rise in stillbirth among baby of asian heritage , and black baby remain twice as likely to be stillborn . urgent , targeted action be need to tackle these death and health inequality and prevent avoidable death . the new report from the Health and Social Care Committee on black maternal health show that the outcome of maternity care be shape by systemic failing in leadership , training , data collection and accountability . the Secretary of State will know that when the Government promise to find a way forward , I be proud , and when the Government make it a manifesto commitment to set a target to end disparity in maternity care , I be prouder , but this have not happen . the NHS 10 - year plan have come and go without a specific plan for racial disparity in maternity care . if that be not the time to announce a target , when will it be ? I thank my hon . friend the Members for Rossendale and Darwen ( Andy MacNae ) and for Sherwood Forest ( Michelle Welsh ) and the right hon . member for Godalming and Ash ( Sir Jeremy Hunt ) for secure this important debate during Baby Loss Awareness Week to give those who have experience pregnancy and baby loss that voice and the feeling that they be not alone . when I have my son 18 year ago , I be lucky to have the support of five other mum during those first tricky year with our baby . however , sadly for three of those mum , they have also suffer the heartbreak of a miscarriage . for they , they have support from each of we . it be not a silent subject ; they could talk and share about their loss . however , at the time , I remember think about how their partner be cope with that loss without have that same support network . it be so important that both parent have the support they need after such devastating bereavement , such as from organisation like Ashby Sands United in my constituency . Ashby Sands be a football team for man who have suffer the devastating loss of a child or a miscarriage . one of their member tell I at a recent event , " sometimes I don ' t need to say anything , the lad know how I feel . the football isn ' t always good , but the friendship and the support I get from they be what I cherish . " in this debate , it be experience that matter , and my constituent Sarah have ask I to share these word : " lose a baby be an incredibly difficult and isolate time , to then learn that our baby ' s death be preventable be just soul destroy . feeling of guilt and regret — and whether it could have be prevent . mistake be make in my pregnancy , incorrect measurement be record , follow up scan be not arrange , our care be mismanage . the hospital admit if these scan have happen and measurement be record accurately ; we would have have a different outcome . at one of our most exciting and vulnerable time of our life , we put our trust and care into the hand of stranger . trust that we will be treat with the dignity and respect that we each deserve . " Sarah stress the need to drive change in teaching and learn to make maternity and childbirth safe for all . she welcome the rapid review and its potential to bring about much - need change to maternity care across the UK , but she stress the need for a trauma - inform approach to the consultation . those who have experience that trauma will need support to engage . will the Secretary of State say more about how trauma will be consider in the review ? I also welcome the rapid review . my constituent can have their baby in Nottingham , Leicester or Derby . as a former Leicestershire county councillor , I sit on the health overview and scrutiny committee . the sad report that I request be about maternity healthcare and baby loss . as Nottinghamshire be a neighbouring trust , I want to understand the situation in Leicestershire . we receive a report on baby who die in childbirth . in a six - year period , seven baby have die and seven family have deal with that devastating loss . in line with the statistic on late - term loss , six of the mother be black or asian . Data indicate that neonatal mortality rate for black and asian baby be over 50 % high than for white baby . will the Secretary of State set out how he will work towards eliminate those stark inequality in maternity and neonatal outcome base on ethnicity and deprivation ? I have consider a number of report on maternity and have a few reflection . maternity healthcare need to be consider as healthcare . I have hear phrase such as " pregnancy isn ' t an illness " and " give birth be natural " , but I have also hear from mother who feel that they be not listen to and feel powerless . every stillbirth , neonatal death or infant death be a tragedy . we must make effort to prevent they from happen . I know that , together , we will fight for justice for those who deserve just a little bit more time . tonight I will talk about Laura Corcoran , an inspirational woman who live in my Bassetlaw constituency . when a scan show no heartbeat , she be send home to wait two week until the delivery of her baby . she remember ask , " how do I collect my baby ? " she say that the thought of flush it down the toilet be something that she do not want to countenance . with no information , Laura be leave feel isolated and alone , and she have to rely on what she have to hand . she resort to use a sieve and a plastic takeaway food box . Laura say : " People be give a test tube to collect urine sample , but when I be tell to collect my baby , I be give nothing . I be angry . " during her recovery , she channel her anger and use her engineering skill to design a device that she have name the " miscarriage cradle " . it hook on to a toilet seat and collect and seal the remain so that they can be take safely to hospital . her mission be for every woman to have well control , give they a choice of manage the miscarriage at home . Laura have begin actively promote the miscarriage cradle in the NHS , and the Royal Liverpool university hospital be the first to adopt it . in a statement , the hospital say that one recommendation of the 2023 pregnancy loss review be for NHS trust to provide woman experience pregnancy loss with a compassionate clinical care kit , and the miscarriage cradle tick all the box . the statement also note that , in the tough world of hospital finance , the trust will save money , because when woman have the option of manage a miscarriage at home , saving be make on staffing and bed space cost . so far , 13 trust have adopt the miscarriage cradle , and the 14th have just get approval . the Northern Lincolnshire and Goole NHS Foundation Trust say : " go through a miscarriage be one of the hard experience that anyone can face . it ' s raw , painful and often feel isolate . this miscarriage collection kit be more than just a product — it ' s a small but powerful way to help woman hold on to their dignity in a moment that can feel so overwhelming . " those word define Laura ' s mission . her focus be for every NHS hospital trust to have miscarriage cradle in stock . she have ask I to raise awareness of her cradle , and she also ask whether she can meet the Secretary of State to discuss this with he . she also ask member to sign my early - day motion on baby loss kit . finally , I take this opportunity to thank JOEL the Complete Package , a Bassetlaw charity , for its support for family experience such crisis , and for its fundraising initiative , which have ensure that there be a room at Bassetlaw hospital for parent face such a difficult time in their life . rise — Order . I ask hon . member to take their lead from the hon . member for Bassetlaw ( Jo White ) so that I can get everybody in . if they keep their speech to three minute , that would be very helpful . I thank all hon . member in this evening ' s debate , particularly those who secure the debate but also the many who share their incredibly powerful story . we have hear from several member about the failure at Nottingham university hospital NHS trust to keep mother and their baby safe . in 2019 , my constituent Carl Everson and Carly Wesson be expect their daughter Ladybird . during the pregnancy , Carl and Carly be tell that Ladybird have a fatal chromosomal abnormality — trisomy 13 , also know as Patau ' s syndrome . they be tell that she be incompatible with life and that if she survive the pregnancy she would live only briefly and in severe pain . face with that devastating prognosis , Carl and Carly make the agonising decision to end their pregnancy . two week after Ladybird ' s funeral , they be tell during an appointment that the long - term culture test show a normal female carrier type . there be no evidence of Patau ' s ; Ladybird have be a healthy baby . Carl and Carly later learn that Ladybird ' s death be not inevitable . it be the result of a misdiagnosis and a failure to follow national guideline around abortion . the Abortion Act 1967 require two doctor to form an opinion in good faith , but Carl and Carly learn through their investigation that the second medical practitioner be , at good , use as a rubber - stamp exercise . that failure lead to the loss of a very much loved and want child . Carl and Carly have spend six year fight for answer — six year navigate a system that should have protect they . today they continue their fight for answer and be work every day to ensure that guideline around abortion be properly follow by doctor and that law be update if require . the second family that I have work closely with on this issue over the past year have be the Sissons . Sarah and Tony Sissons do not lose their son Ryan — indeed , Ryan join we in the Gallery today — but every day they mourn for the man Ryan could have become . Ryan be bear healthy , but just three day after his birth , a sequence of error and neglect at Nottingham city hospital cause he to suffer a catastrophic brain injury . consequently , Sarah and Tony be tell that Ryan would never be able to walk or talk . Sarah be just 19 year old , and be give no help to navigate she drastically change life ; instead , the Sissons be hand a leaflet about adoption . I understand that that leaflet be still frame on a wall in their house . Ryan tell I today about how he learn to march in the sea cadet — he show I in Westminster Hall and he be damn good at it ; he do a pretty good job of walk and talk as far as I be concern . last month Ryan turn 18 , but he do not go out with his friend to the pub to celebrate . he be not apply to university or do an apprenticeship . Sarah and Tony be prepare their home so that Ryan can live with they for the rest of their life . Sarah give up her career to care for Ryan . she spend his childhood fighting to get that care , battle with the NHS and local authority , attend endless appointment and mourn the big life milestone that Ryan never really get to reach . Ryan be the old child be consider in the Nottingham Ockenden review . among the nearly 2 , 500 family affect , Ryan be the first child . Ryan should not have be the first of thousand . the failure of Nottingham university hospital NHS trust should have be learn long ago , but they be not . those responsible have not yet be hold accountable . Ryan should have have the chance to enjoy a happy , healthy childhood . Ladybird should be with her parent , far away from a House of Commons debate on baby loss . despite the effort make today by myself and colleague , it be not possible to put into word how the failing of the NUH trust have profoundly impact so many life in our community . I hope , deeply , that this Government be go to provide the justice that they deserve . rise — order . there be now a formal three - minute time limit . I rise to speak about baby loss on behalf of those affected — those who I know and love , and those who I do not know . this tragedy touch far too many family in Portsmouth North and across our country . we have hear today how each year in England and Wales , tragically , around 2 , 500 baby be stillborn and a further 1 , 600 die within their first year of life . behind every statistic be a grieve family — mother , father , grandparent , auntie , uncle , cousin and sibling — whose world be change for ever . around 2 , 000 baby be bear in Portsmouth each year . while outcome have improve , we still see the deep inequality that drive baby loss , and baby bear in our most deprived community be twice as likely to die before their first birthday than those in our wealthy community . many of our maternity team be work tirelessly to change that . at my hospital , the Queen Alexandra hospital , the maternity service have earn a unicef baby - friendly gold award , a national HSJ digital award and an NHS parliamentary award for innovation and compassionate care — proof that the possibility of dedication and excellence can and do exist . however , such excellence should not be a postcode lottery ; it should be national and available for all . we have the knowledge to prevent many of these tragedy . we have have inquiry that have produce recommendation and action about early , informed and accessible antenatal care , tackle health in pregnancy , support maternal mental health , accountability , transparency , openness and address inequality , and listen to woman and family about their experience , to ensure that their birth choice be right for mum and baby , free from pressure and prejudice . service must be properly fund , staff and join up . when nothing can be do and a loss occur , compassionate bereavement support be vital . parent tell I that small act of care , include a quiet room , a midwife who listen , a support group for all the family , the use of language — that it be a baby loss , not a miscarriage — and the opportunity to talk and be hear , can all make a difference . however , like maternity provision , bereavement support vary widely and too many family be leave to cope alone , often in silence . this week , as we mark Baby Loss Awareness Week , we must stand with every parent who light a candle , remember a name or hold in their heart the baby they never get to take home or who be not physically in their life forever , but who will always be a part of their family . to those family , I know we all say , " you be not alone , your baby be not forget and your courage give meaning to this work and to our debate . " as a Government , we must work with local NHS leader , public health team and charity . we can not talk about break down barrier to opportunity if we do not do that in our maternity service . baby loss be not inevitable , but it be a challenge that we , as a Government , can and must meet . with compassion , we must have action . I thank every member from across the House who have share their personal experience and those of their constituent . I also thank the family who have be listen to the debate in the Gallery . from what have be share so passionately , it be clear that not every family face the same risk or receive the same care . the late datum from MBRRACE - UK — Mothers and Babies : reduce risk through Audits and Confidential Enquiries across the UK — have already be share , but I feel that I must repeat it , as it be so deeply concern . it show that baby of black ethnicity be more than twice as likely to be stillborn as baby of white ethnicity . neonatal mortality rate among black and asian baby be over 50 % high than those among white baby , and baby bear to mother in the most deprived area be twice as likely to die in the first month of life than those in the least deprived area . access to bereavement care be also unequal . the national bereavement care pathway set out what good care should look like , but voluntary adoption , stretch staff and a lack of time for training mean that too many family miss out . when mental health support be need , it be even hard to access . over 80 % of bereaved parent report need psychological support , yet only half be able to access it through the NHS . in particular , father and partner be forget far too often . I thank the Secretary of State for be in the House to listen to the debate . will the Government commit to eliminate inequality in maternal and neonatal outcome base on ethnicity and deprivation ? will they ensure that every bereaved family — wherever they live and whatever their background — can access high - quality bereavement and mental health care ? will every NHS professional who support those family be give the training and time they need to do so with confidence and compassion ? I welcome the step that the Government have take , include extended baby loss certificate and the improvement to parental bereavement leave set out in the Employment Rights Bill . however , member from across the House , like family across the country , be call for the compassionate , consistent and equitable care that every bereaved family deserve . I rise , in Baby Loss Awareness Week , to pay tribute to the far too many family in Gedling and Nottinghamshire who have suffer the devastating loss of their baby in circumstance that be entirely avoidable . they place their trust in a system that should have protect they , and that system fail they . the ockenden review of maternity service in Nottingham be now support 2 , 500 family who have be affect by neonatal death , injury , stillbirth and maternity death . many of they be fail by the NMC , fail by the GMC , fail by the CQC and fail by our NHS . regulation must be overhaul , and accountability must improve . the mother and father who have come forward in Gedling and Nottinghamshire have show extraordinary dignity , courage and perseverance in the face of heartbreak that most of we can barely begin to comprehend . yet even in the face of unspeakable loss , each and every family I have meet in Gedling and Nottinghamshire who have lose a child or suffer harm during birth have remind I that light always shine brightest in the dark place . in the depth of their grief , their pursuit of truth and change honour their child ' s memory and stand as a beacon of tremendous humanity and hope . I want to take a moment to pay a special tribute to the incredible charity , volunteer and support organisation who walk alongside bereaved family day in , day out . they bring comfort where it be need most , and we all owe they a tremendous debt of gratitude . in speaking of courage and compassion , I also want to take a moment to thank my friend and neighbour , the Member of Parliament for Sherwood Forest , Michelle Welsh . long before she enter this place , Michelle walk side by side with nottinghamshire family through year of anguish and struggle , stand shoulder to shoulder with they when few other would . just 37 day ago , she suffer her own loss with the passing of her beloved dad , who teach she to fight always against injustice , wherever she find it . just day after lose her dad , she be back in Parliament , meet bereave maternity family . in thank Michelle for her leadership today — order . the hon . Gentleman will know that we do not refer to member by name in this place . that be the third time he have refer to the hon . member for Sherwood Forest by her name . my apology , Madam Deputy Speaker . in thank my hon . friend the Member for Sherwood Forest ( Michelle Welsh ) for her leadership today , I want to say that her dad would have be so incredibly proud to sit in the Gallery today to see his little girl in this Chamber use the privilege of her platform to fight for those who have be fail and suffer the most unimaginable loss . I also pay tribute to the family who have campaign for year for change and justice . we owe they far more than sympathy . we owe they justice , and we owe they truth . order . the hon . Gentleman have have more than three minute , and I want the Front Benchers to have some time to respond . I call Dave Robertson . I place on record my thank to the co - sponsor of today ' s debate and to all member who have share their personal experience . it have be a very difficult debate for many of we on such an important but such a difficult subject . like many member today , I be here to speak on behalf of my constituent . Tim and Hannah lose their son Zack when he be just 14 hour old . zack ' s inquest find that there be a total and complete failure in his care . I genuinely do not know how parent can receive an inquest verdict like that and find the strength to put themselves back together , but Tim and Hannah do — I be sure that be something we will see in many of the people in the Gallery today . they find the strength to put themselves back together and start look to what come next . zack ' s story be that he catch a group b strep infection as he be bear . it be incredibly common — 20 % to 40 % of woman have it on any give day — and it be generally symptomless in adult , but if it pass from mum to baby during labour , it can be fatal . on average , one baby a week in the UK die of a strep b infection . Group B strep be common in mum and highly dangerous to baby , but the UK do not routinely test for it during pregnancy . instead , we rely on risk factor to identify expect mum who have it , and too often — as in Zack ' s case — that approach be not work . I be pleased that a major trial , the GBS3 trial , be under way to look at whether we would be well off routinely testing , and be due to report later this year . it be no overstatement to say that that trial be a once - in - a - lifetime opportunity to look at our approach to the safety of baby in this situation . I really hope that it report and move we towards a situation in which we can routinely test for this condition during pregnancy . the gold standard test cost just £ 15 , and can save life — potentially , a life a week . we must do all we can to protect baby like Zack and ensure that no more parent go through what Tim and Hannah have have to . it be a real privilege to have the opportunity to speak in this debate , particularly after so many powerful and profound speech and intervention from member across the House . I want to share the testimony of a constituent who have endure an experience that affect many family , yet receive very little attention : hypoxic - ischemic encephalopathy , or HIE . her son survive a HIE event during his birth . HIE be a brain injury cause by a lack of oxygen or blood flow , which can lead to developmental delay , intellectual and physical disability and — tragically — in one in five case , death . some of these complication can remain hidden until school age . my constituent have never hear of HIE at the time , nor have I prior to she contact I , but it be an all - too - common condition that affect three to four birth out of every 1 , 000 . in her son ' s case , it result in mild cerebral palsy . she be support by a wonderful charity call Peeps , which highlight that family affect by HIE often feel that they do not belong in a baby loss space . many of those family experience birth trauma , ptsd and complicated grief . while charity such as Peeps offer support to anybody affect , NHS mental health support can often be restrict to just the mother . this leave father and partner — who be also deeply affect — to cope alone . support must and should be for the whole family . Peeps also emphasise the significant gap in long - term support , especially for family whose child survive but face lifelong , severe disability . they be leave to navigate complex need for year after the initial intensive care end . the trauma be compound for family whose event may have be avoidable . a study in Finland between 2005 and 2024 suggest that a fifth of all such case could have be prevent , or at least could have benefit from preventive measure . this compound the trauma of affected family and underscore the importance of absolute honesty and systemic learning in our NHS service . additionally , HIE be not always record consistently in NHS system or statistic , make it hard to advocate for policy change and obscure potential disparity in outcome , which we know exist for stillbirth and neonatal death . we must listen to brave parent such as my constituent and fantastic charity such as Peeps and ensure that HIE be no long misunderstood or unheard of in conversation about baby loss . we owe these family recognition , compassionate care , and a commitment to address the lack of consistent datum that make it so hard for they to advocate for change . order . that bring we to the Front - Bench contribution , which will perhaps be in the region of eight minute each . the hon . member for Rossendale and Darwen ( Andy MacNae ) and for Sherwood Forest ( Michelle Welsh ) and the right hon . member for Godalming and Ash ( Sir Jeremy Hunt ) must be thank , not just for secure this debate to mark Baby Loss Awareness Week , but for their tireless advocacy to improve maternity service across the United Kingdom — work that they have be carry out for many year . the pain of baby loss be multifacete . it involve not only the unimaginable grief that accompany lose a baby , but the emotional and psychological suffering that come with face the prospect of a life without your child — a future completely different from the one you have hope for . lose a baby can be loud , fast and chaotic , but it can also happen quietly — almost unnoticeably . some parent arrive home from the hospital to a wardrobe full of baby clothe and pile of newborn toy , but an empty cot . other expectant mother may wake up in the morning excited to be another day close to their baby ' s arrival , only to find out that it be not mean to be . half of adult in the UK say that they or someone they know have experience pregnancy or baby loss . accord to Sands , every day in the UK 13 baby die shortly before , during or soon after birth . these family , as we have hear tonight , have to try to pick up the piece , maintain their relationship , work and continue with daily commitment , all while tackle the emotional and often physical trauma of their experience . they often walk that path alone , feel like there be nobody they can speak to about their indescribable grief , or that they should not speak about it , as though they themselves have somehow fail . that be not the case , and no woman should have to suffer in silence . in the case of my constituent , Hannah and Simon , not only do they have to come to term with the fact that they would not be take their baby boy , Austin , home from the hospital , but they have to face the reality that this tragedy be avoidable and that their baby would have survive , have the trust recognise and respond to concern identify in the foetal and maternal monitoring . Hannah and Simon be not the only one . connect with other parent in Sussex result in they hear story from other family whose experience be concerningly similar to their own . between 2019 and 2023 , the University Hospitals Sussex NHS Foundation Trust pay £ 58 million in compensation for 60 medical negligence claim relate to maternity and obstetric care . that be the second - high amount of compensation and the third - high number of claim across all NHS trust in England . that , and Hannah and Simon ' s story , point to a large systemic problem at the heart of maternity care . it be clear then , as it be now , that successive government have be asleep at the wheel on maternity care , and it be the family at the heart of it who pay the price — family such as Hannah and Simon ' s . their baby Austin would have be start school next year if thing have be different , and their daughter , just three when her little brother die , " should not have to continually ask we why her friend get to bring their sibling home , and she have to say goodbye instead . " that family , like too many across the country , deserve well . now , they themselves be call for change so that no one else miss out on a lifetime of memory with their child as a result of avoidable mistake . as part of her inquiry into maternity care , Donna Ockenden provide a blueprint — a starting point from which we could put an end to this scandal , make maternity care fit for purpose and put an end to these unnecessary death . however , not only have the nationally applicable , immediate and essential action of the Ockenden report not all be implement , but the Government have drop the requirement for every ICB to have a woman ' s health hub , and they have announce cut to the national service development funding for maternity service from £ 95 million in 2024 - 25 to just £ 2 million the following year . be it any wonder , therefore , that the UK be underperform compare with other OECD country on infant and newborn mortality , or that , accord to a Care Quality Commission report in September 2024 , 65 % of unit be not safe for woman to give birth in ? we want our country to become the safe place in the world to have a baby , but that can only be achieve if accountability be take for these failing , lesson be learn , and concrete step be take by the Government to put an end to this national scandal . we have hear from a number of member this evening about the impact of deprivation and ethnicity on outcome for maternity and for baby . the colour of someone ' s skin , their bank balance or where they live should not be decide factor in whether they and their baby live or die . quite simply , maternity care should not be a lottery . I very much welcome the Secretary of State ' s presence this evening , and I endorse the comment make by the right hon . member for Melton and Syston ( Edward Argar ) and my hon . friend the Members for Horsham ( John Milne ) and for Chichester ( Jess Brown - Fuller ) , who say that family who have lose baby through medical negligence need to be take with the Government on this journey towards review . I think that the Sussex family would be furious with I this evening if I do not say to the Secretary of State that they be not happy with the way in which the review announce in July be go so far , so I urge he to do everything in his power to listen to the family and take they on that journey together . let I pose a question to the Secretary of State on behalf of Hannah and Simon . these Sussex family have wait over a year for the Government to appoint Donna Ockenden , the one person with a proven record of expose failing and drive improvement . thus far , their patience have be repay with delay , confusion and avoidance . when will the Government act to stop these preventable death by appoint Donna Ockenden to lead the Sussex review , and by confront what have become a national shame for our country ' s child with a full public inquiry ? my hon . friend the Member for Carshalton and Wallington ( Bobby Dean ) speak movingly about his and his wife ' s experience of miscarriage , and I endorse his call for mental health support follow every miscarriage , not just after three . order . I be sure that the hon . Lady will want to conclude her remark very quickly . the theme of this year ' s Baby Loss Awareness Week be " together , we care " , and we do care . we care about all kind of baby loss , and we care about baby like Austin . Hannah tell I : " we lose an entire lifetime . our son never have the chance to grow up , to take his first step , to speak his first word , to make friend " — order . the hon . Lady must have misunderstood what I mean by " quickly " . let I first draw member ' attention to my entry in the Register of Members ' Financial Interests . I congratulate my right hon . friend the Member for Godalming and Ash ( Sir Jeremy Hunt ) and the hon . member for Rossendale and Darwen ( Andy MacNae ) and for Sherwood Forest ( Michelle Welsh ) on secure the debate , and on their eloquent and thoughtful speech . behind the statistic that I will put before member , as other have do today , be the broken family with a gape hole in their life and a pain that will never go away . there be so many unanswered question . what would their first word have be ? when would they have take their first step ? who would they have grow up to become ? for family who have lose a baby , these question , painfully , tragically , will never be answer . I have be honour to meet representative of charity all of which be do excellent work to support family who have be affect by baby loss , and campaign for improved maternity service . I pay tribute to those charity — include Bliss , Sands and Tommy ' s — and to the royal college , and I thank the family in the Maternity Safety Alliance for share their very personal and move story with I when the shadow Secretary of State and I meet they recently . the last Government work hard to improve maternity service . a decade ago , my right hon . friend the Member for Godalming and Ash , then Secretary of State for Health and Social Care , announce an ambition to halve the rate of stillbirth , neonatal and maternal death in England by 2030 , and he make encourage progress . the stillbirth rate fall by about 20 % , as do the neonatal death rate , and the maternal death rate fall by about a third . do my hon . friend agree that the introduction of baby loss certificate follow the pregnancy loss review under the last Government be a vital step in recognise bereaved parent ' grief and offer support on their term ? my hon . friend be , of course , right . those certificate have prove to be of great comfort to many . the hon . member for Washington and Gateshead South ( Mrs Hodgson ) talk about her work in that regard , and I thank she for it . I be also grateful for the work of my former colleague Tim Loughton . one of the reason I go into politic be the fact that one can make more of a difference as a politician than as a single doctor alone . the change make by my right hon . friend the Member for Godalming and Ash mean that , by quite some margin , he have save more baby ' live than I have as a consultant paediatrician . I assure the Secretary of State that it be not flattery when I say that he have more capacity than any NHS doctor when it come to save baby ' life . I be pleased to see he here at almost midnight ; I know that he care , and I know that , like all of we , he want to stop the tragedy about which we have hear so much today . however , I ask he to consider , every day , whether he be really do all that he can to maximise the opportunity that he have , and , in the spirit of constructive opposition , I have a few question for he . he say he come in with a plan , but in fact he take a year to create the 10 - year plan , which create a maternity and neonatal taskforce that be task with create another plan . I sincerely hope that it be a good plan , after all this waiting , but I do worry that it have lose time , so can he confirm when it will be publish ? staffing level have be mention in many tragic incident , and the Secretary of State have promise that he will train thousand of additional midwife . look at the figure , an average of 10 few student have be accept on to midwifery degree in England across his two year in office compare with 2023 . can the Secretary of State confirm when he expect to train the 1 , 000 additional midwife he promise in his manifesto ? the previous Government increase the number of medical school place and build five new medical school . as those student begin to qualify , the specialist training place need to be expand and british graduate need to be prioritise . the Secretary of State seem to understand that at Easter , but what have he do about it ? the applicant - to - place ratio have rise dramatically , and now strike be threaten , which would threaten the care of woman and baby across the country . we know that reduce baby loss start before a baby be conceive and that factor such as teenage pregnancy , smoking , obesity and sub - optimally manage chronic condition increase the risk of stillbirth . we must systemically improve on factor that increase the risk of baby death . I welcome the fact that the Secretary of State have bring through legislation , introduce by the previous Government , to fortify bread flour with folic acid by the end of 2026 . that will prevent 200 case of neural tube defect a year and improve the health of pregnant woman . I be also pleased to see that the Tobacco and Vapes Bill be gradually make its way through Parliament . however , give that the Bill complete its second reading in the House of Lords on 23 April and be not due to appear in Committee until 27 October — more than six month later — there just do not seem to be enough urgency in the Government ' s action . can the Secretary of State tell we what he be do to improve pre - conception advice and optimise the management of chronic condition in woman to reduce the risk of baby loss ? as an NHS doctor , I pay tribute to my colleague , who welcome almost 600 , 000 tiny miracle into the world each year . however , as we have hear this evening , care do not always meet the high standard and too often avoidable death occur . can the Secretary of State assure we that the finding of the ongoing ockenden review into maternity service will be swiftly act on ? Donna Ockenden ' s 2020 review into maternity care at the Shrewsbury and Telford trust find that at least 201 baby and nine mother could have survive have they have well care . from her report come a £ 95 million ringfence fund to improve the care available for expectant mother , but as we have hear already this evening , the Government have slash that fund from £ 95 million to just £ 2 million , with the rest of the money siphon off to England ' s 42 integrate care board . the Government have also reduce ICB budget and be force they to restructure . I be worried that this un - ringfencing of the budget , and the distract reorganisation , will have a negative impact on effort to improve maternity service . what be the Secretary of State do to prevent negative consequence ? neonatal care can be lifesave . one in seven baby in the UK require neonatal care , but unfortunately their fight for life be not always win , and 1 , 933 baby die in neonatal care in 2023 . with that in mind , will the Secretary of State clarify the extent to which neonatal service will be include in the maternity and neonatal investigation due by the end of the year ? how will the quality of neonatal care be assess ? the recent NHS estate review of maternity and neonatal care do not appear to include parental accommodation , yet many parent find that their baby be transfer mile away for specialist care . may I urge the Secretary of State to recognise the value of this accommodation and make sure it be widely available ? as many member have mention , black and ethnic minority woman be more likely to suffer baby loss or maternal death . can the Secretary of State update we on what progress he have make on his Government ' s manifesto promise to close the maternal mortality gap for black and asian woman ? in the decade since the previous Government launch ambition to improve maternity safety in the UK , the number of stillbirth and neonatal death have reduce by almost a quarter , and the number of maternal death have reduce by around a third . these be encourage sign , and they show good progress . we must build on these achievement , but there be so much more work to be do . today we have hear many story of loss and of care failure . only action will turn the page on baby loss . we all wish for improved maternity and neonatal care , but the Secretary of State be the man with the lever to make that happen — the lever to save hundred of life . I urge he to use they urgently . I thank all right hon . and hon . member who have take part in this extremely powerful debate . I thank my hon . friend the Member for Rossendale and Darwen ( Andy MacNae ) , the right hon . member for Godalming and Ash ( Sir Jeremy Hunt ) and my hon . friend the Member for Sherwood Forest ( Michelle Welsh ) for secure the debate , and the Backbench Business Committee for grant it . before I get into the substance of the debate , since this be Baby Loss Awareness Week , I want to put on record my thank to the all - party parliamentary group on baby loss , on maternity and on patient safety for their work in raise awareness ; and charity such as Tommy ' s , Sands , the Miscarriage Association and Bliss , which give bereaved family a voice and incredible support , and which deserve special recognition . I be extremely grateful to member from across the House who have name local charity , run by those — often with live experience — who play such a crucial role in improve service , so that other do not have to experience the torture that they have experience . it be such organisation that drive the adoption of baby loss certificate , introduce by the last Government and expand by this one . I , too , thank Tim Loughton for his work , and my hon . friend the Member for Washington and Gateshead South ( Mrs Hodgson ) for her leadership in this space . not everyone will choose to have a certificate , but the option be now there for all parent who have experience lose a pregnancy to have that loss recognise officially . I know that this have mean so much to those who have take up that option , and to those who be provide the service , particularly staff in the NHS Business Services Authority , who have share with Ministers their pride — many of they have that experience of loss themselves — of be part of the solution . I be of course delight that the Government in Wales have also take up this option . give the time available , there be simply no way of do justice to the contribution that we have hear from member across the House and the story that they have share with we . however , if there be one thing I have learn in my time as Secretary of State work on these issue it be that word will not do any justice to these family . what people want to see be action , and what they need to experience be justice . I really do want to say a heartfelt thank you to member across the House who have have the courage to share their personal story . in particular , my hon . friend the Member for Rossendale and Darwen , by talk about his daughter Mallorie , have give a voice to many father and partner who too often feel airbrush from the conversation and absent from consideration . I think it be very poignant that he open the debate for we this evening . this be no exaggeration , but my hon . friend the Member for Gedling ( Michael Payne ) talk about the leadership of my hon . friend the Member for Sherwood Forest , and it be truly extraordinary that , in the aftermath of such an awful bereavement with the loss of her father , she be back to work in a matter of day , so that she could be there with family in Nottingham to support they in their ongoing campaign for justice . of course , my hon . friend the Members for Sheffield Hallam ( Olivia Blake ) and for Clapham and Brixton Hill ( Bell Ribeiro - Addy ) and the hon . member for Carshalton and Wallington ( Bobby Dean ) all share their story , because other who have speak previously have the courage to share their own experience . I pay particular tribute to my hon . friend the Member for Washington and Gateshead South . I have certainly never forget her speech about Lucy , and she really have blaze a trail for other to follow . I can honestly say that , in the last year , the most difficult meeting have be those with victim of the NHS . I think we should pause for a moment just to reflect on how outrageous that sentence be — victim of the national health service . they be people who , in their moment of great vulnerability , place themselves and their life and the life of their unborn child in the hand of other , but who instead of find themselves support and care for , find themselves victim . it be truly shocking . I have hear dozen of story , each unique , each tell with heartbreaking clarity and each with a common theme : that what should have be a moment of joy become a terrifying ordeal . I have have complete stranger describe to I , a Government Minister , their experience of injury endure in childbirth . woman have have to share with I , a total stranger , what it have do to their sex life and what it have do to their continence . I have have father share with I for the first time their attempt at suicide , and the impact that their loss and grief have have on their mental health . we also hear from my hon . friend the Member for Erewash ( Adam Thompson ) of the harm do to young people , in this case young Ryan , who be with we in the Gallery today . I have see photograph of parent ' child . I have see the ashe of their child in the tiny box . I have see more courage than I could ever imagine muster if I have to walk a day in their shoe . each time they have meet I — each time they have meet anyone — they have have to relive the trauma inflict on they by the state . perhaps what be most shocking of all be that if there be another theme that tie these family together , it be the fact that they have have to battle time and again for truth , for justice , for answer , for accountability and for change , so that other family do not have to experience what they be go through . I can not thank enough the member on both side of the House who have place on record not just the story , but the name of the child we have lose , so that they can stand on the record there for all time , a stain on the history of our national health service , but also a galvanise call to action . I hope there be some small comfort for family who have be with we in the Chamber this evening to hear the debate , or who have watch online , to know that Parliament be listen , that we be learn , and that , crucially , we be act . many member have remark on my personal responsibility and the responsibility that weigh heavily on my shoulder to get this right . we have be join by some of the Nottingham family this evening . when I have meet they , they have arrange themselves around a horseshoe table in date order , with those whose experience go back furthest sit to my left , and those most recently sit to my right . I go back to Nottingham regularly and honestly dread the prospect of go to another meeting with another family arrive on my right - hand side at that end of the table with another story to tell , but one that have happen on my watch . we know how serious these situation and challenge be . we have an implicit message from the system that tell woman not to have a miscarriage at the weekend . we have woman who be class as have a normal birth still leave traumatise and scarred . we still use term such as " normal " to describe a particular type of birth for ideological reason . all these thing need to change . we hear from my hon . friend the Members for Clapham and Brixton Hill , for North West Leicestershire ( Amanda Hack ) and for Wolverhampton North East ( Mrs Brackenridge ) the shockingly wide race and class inequality . we should not kid ourselves that these be statistical anomaly or just institutional failure , because I have hear time and again direct first - hand experience of overt racism : black woman tell that it be assume that that they would be " a strong black woman " and so would not need so much pain relief ; and example of asian mother describe as diva . perhaps most shockingly of all , take a step back and look at the overall picture , we have have the normalisation of death of woman and baby . we have level of loss and death in this country that be simply not tolerate in other . we have a shocking culture of cover - up and backside covering , as we have hear across the Chamber this evening . recognise that I can not respond to every individual point that have be make in the debate , I will undertake to write to member across the House with detailed answer to the question they pose . I want to conclude by make this point , which be about trust . we be set out the rapid investigation lead by Baroness Amos because I need to act urgently on the systemic challenge . I want to acknowledge openly and publicly that not all family be with I on this ; many have concern , and they wonder whether this will be just another review that sit on the shelf . I want to conclude by assure those family and this House of my personal commitment to ensure that that be not the case , and not just through lead the taskforce that will implement the recommendation myself , but by give a promise to this House and to those family , in the spirit set out by my hon . friend the Member for Sherwood Forest , that grief must be the engine of change . the story I have hear from those family at first hand will be the steel in my spine to deliver the change they need . I call Andy MacNae to wind up . thank you , Madam Deputy Speaker . I will speak relatively briefly . I would just like to thank everybody for their presence , honesty and passion today . this have be a move , deeply powerful and deeply impactive debate . I particularly thank the Secretary of State , not just for be here , but for the passion , anger and urgency in his speech . there be a million thing I would like to talk about , but I will just reflect very briefly on the word of the hon . member for Dorking and Horley ( Chris Coghlan ) about Billy and Billy ' s parent and take tragedy and turn that into positive change . if there be one idea that I think sum up this debate , it be the chance to take tragedy and turn it into positive change — an action that make real difference . that be the task before we , and I thank everyone for support it . motion lapse ( Order , Today ) . Petition - Ilkeston Market Place this evening , I be present a petition in the name of Samuel Wilson , who , on 16 December 2023 , be murder in Ilkeston by a man drive a van under the influence of alcohol and cocaine . this murder be possible because of a lack of appropriate anti - vehicle measure on Ilkeston marketplace . this petition have be lead by Samuel ' s family and have be sign by 6 , 870 of Samuel ' s friend , family and member of the wide Erewash community . the petitioner " request that the House of Commons urge the Government to call on relevant authority and key partner to strengthen pedestrianisation measure on Ilkeston market place , and that the petitioner remain informed as to action take to achieve this goal . " follow be the full text of the petition : [ the petition of Loraine Wilson , the family and friend of Samuel Wilson and resident of Ilkeston . declare that Ilkeston Market Place be insufficiently pedestrianise and that new anti - vehicle measure should be put in place to enhance public safety . the petitioner therefore request that the House of Commons urge the Government to call on relevant authority and key partner to strengthen pedestrianisation measure on Ilkeston market place , and that the petitioner remain informed as to action take to achieve this goal . and the petitioner remain , etc . ] [ p003116 ] Heritage site : East of England Motion make , and question propose , that this House do now adjourn . — ( Gregor Poynton . ) I be pleased to have secure some parliamentary time today to highlight our superb heritage in the east of England and the role of Government in support that . I be mindful of the very moving story we hear in the previous debate , so I will keep these remark fairly brief ; I know that other want to intervene , and I be very happy to accept that . I declare an interest as co - chair of the East of England all - party parliamentary group . I begin by wish member a slightly early Essex Day . the official celebration be on St Cedd ' s day in two week ' time , but I be sure St Cedd would not mind an early greeting . in the seventh century , Cedd become the bishop of the East Saxons at the request of King Sigeberht the Good — whose territory include the mighty Colchester , which I be proud to represent , and the muddy river crossing now know as London — and Cedd remain the patron saint of Essex . as a proud Essex girl , I know that Essex retain a fierce and unique identity . we may no long have our own king , but we will shortly be elect our own Mayor as part of this Government ' s commitment to devolution . it be the process of devolution that be the context for tonight ' s remark . power be be reorganise in the east of England , and I and other colleague want to make the case for heritage and culture to be at the heart of that process . the english devolution White Paper , issue last December , say : " Strategic Authorities will also be key partner in boost culture , heritage and the visitor economy , support by close integration with arm ' s length body like Historic England . " however , the consultation issue in July this year for devolution in Greater Essex and Norfolk and Suffolk say that the Department of Culture , Media and Sport and its arm ' s length body should " explore a deep , collaborative partnership with the mayoral combine county authority . " many east of England mp be concerned that this language do not sufficiently prioritise heritage and culture and the economic opportunity that they present within this devolution process . I commend the hon . member for bring forward this debate . I speak to she beforehand . do she agree that european heritage day be a supreme example of how to enjoy heritage site , whether it be in the east of England or anywhere else in this great United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland ? the day provide free entry into many historical venue . the priory in Newtownards , which be a dominican priory build in the 1200 , be one such site that can only be enter on european heritage day . do the hon . member agree that great affordable access for the public will only enhance and inspire new generation to know who they be and where they come from , and that that be definitely worth great UK investment ? I absolutely agree that accessibility and affordability be at the heart of much of this . on the point about devolution , I would like to ask the Minister to address this issue and to work with colleague to enhance the standing of heritage and culture within the ongoing devolution process in the east of England . I thank my hon . friend for her generosity in give way at this late hour . I be not an east of England MP , but I be the Chair of the all - party parliamentary group on UNESCO world heritage site , so this be an issue about which I care passionately . on the point my hon . friend have just make , I ask the Minister to bear in mind very carefully clause 41 of the Planning and Infrastructure Bill , because we do not want that legislation to inadvertently cause second - order effect and challenge for these very important site , which be part of our history , culture and heritage and be a big part of who we be as a society . indeed , plan regulation play an important part in preserve our heritage . I be sure the Minister will make note of those comment . the east be a region rich in history . in my constituency of Colchester , we be rightly proud of our claim to be the first city build in Britain and its first roman capital . we possess the old and long roman city wall , the remain of the temple of Claudius and Britain ' s only know roman chariot race track , which be a monument particularly close to my own heart — think " Ben - Hur " with an Essex twist . it be know as the Colchester roman circus and be a site of international importance , yet continue to face planning and development pressure , which speak to what my hon . Friend just mention , and lack the sustained investment need to realise its full potential . one difficulty we face at that site and at some other schedule ancient monument in my constituency be that their historic importance can be at first sight very difficult to appreciate . the roman circus spectator terrace be so huge that the Saxons , presumably include King Sigeberht , find they a great source of building material . unfortunately , their commendable recycling mean that there be nothing leave of the circus above ground . as a result , I have be in discussion with local heritage architect about the possibility of reconstruct these mighty starting gate of the circus base on design that have be find in similar building elsewhere in Europe . these be the gate through which charioteer and horse would have thunder at the start of every race . we have run into a problem , however , in that Historic England do not seem very keen on reconstruction these day , when in previous generation it may have be more keen . a reconstruction in some form would most likely draw many more people to the site , promote local pride and energise local tourism . give that , I would like to ask the Minister to take up this issue with Historic England to see if its attitude towards reconstruction can be revise in situation such as these . another key site in my constituency be the former Romano - british settlement at Gosbecks field . this date from the early first century CE and be believe to have be the residence of Cunobelin , know to Romans as " King of the Britons " and to Shakespeare as Cymbeline . the site include an Iron Age dyke , which today still form part of the boundary line between my constituency and that of the right hon . member for Witham ( Priti Patel ) . gosbeck be believe to be the place where ancient Britons sign up — or surrender , depend on your view — to become part of the roman empire . it therefore play a vital part in the history not just of our county , but of the country . I would like to see very much more make of Gosbecks . the Romans construct a large theatre and a huge temple at Gosbecks , but here too the brick be recycle and today there be little to see . however , expert — and former colleague of mine — at the University of Essex have a renowned track record in develop immersive technology and virtual and augmented reality application that could help bring Gosbecks back to life for new audience . think Runnymede and Magna Carta — it be of that order of magnitude . there be already some interest in that from the National Lottery Heritage Fund from a green space perspective , but I also see many synergy with the ministerial team ' s responsibility for culture , heritage and medium , with an emphasis on medium , as gosbeck and site like it could provide brilliant opportunity for 21st century interactive medium interpretation that be the gateway to more inclusive access to our heritage and culture . I therefore encourage the Minister and the Department to do more to promote such opportunity , perhaps take Gosbecks as a use case . our heritage site tell our national story , connect we to the generation who come before we and offer opportunity for education and tourism and to create pride in place . however , they also face real and grow threat from neglect , development pressure and underinvestment — threat that become ever - more intense under the previous Government ' s cut to local authority coffer . I welcome the many announcement of enhanced funding for heritage make by the Government over the past year . to give just a few , we have have £ 15 million through the heritage at risk capital fund , a furth £ 5 million through the heritage revival fund , and just this week we have have detail of a new £ 20 million museum renewal fund . those initiative empower community to take ownership of local heritage and breathe new life into neglect building . when do well , such project can deliver multiple return for local economy , create employment , aspiration and pride . I thank my hon . friend for secure the debate . do she agree that other heritage site include independently run stately home like Knebworth House in my constituency receive no Government funding and therefore need a fair fiscal and planning framework ? do she agree that we need the Government to provide streamlined consent for energy - efficiency measure so that they can continue to support rural job , tourism and climate goal ? I agree that all those option be thing to be explore . speak as a former historian , I think that anything that enable great access to heritage be to be celebrate . in the east , beneficiary of some of the grant that I mention include project to revitalise Lowestoft town hall , the former Iron Duke pub in Great Yarmouth and St George ' s Guildhall in King ' s Lynn in Norfolk . as we can see , heritage take many form across our region . in Colchester , work have just begin on a £ 10 million project to restore our magnificent victorian water tower , know as Jumbo . the project be generously support by the National Lottery Heritage Fund , central Government , city and county council , charitable fund and local resident . it will create a great visitor attraction for our city — it be one of the first thing people see as they come into the city on the train . but welcome as those project be , they do not make up for the fact that heritage and cultural sector in the east face ongoing funding challenge . much of the blame for that , like so many of the challenge we face , can be lay on the year of austerity after 2010 . since that year , overall local authority spending on heritage have drop by 45 % . that be bad enough in itself , but accord to figure from Historic England it be down in the east by 60 % , which can be catastrophic for those site . spend on museum in the east be down by 57 % , and on archive by 38 % . by one count from an Institute for Public Policy Research report publish in July , the east of England receive less heritage and cultural funding per capita than any other region : just £ 12 . 57 per person , which be less than half the national average and just a fifth of the amount in London . in bring my remark to a close , I encourage the Minister to consider two broad course of action : first , to create a dedicated regional heritage strategy for the east of England , which could help shape devolve policy under the new mayoralty , with clear priority and long - term funding commitment that address the funding gap for heritage in our part of the country ; and , secondly , to meet I to discuss how we might develop more innovative , inclusive approach to preserve and celebrate our regional heritage . Heritage be not just about brick , mortar or memory ; it be about identity , belong and opportunity in the here and now . when we invest in heritage , we invest in job , tourism , education and community cohesion . as we have hear from member around the Chamber tonight , there be treasure aplenty in our region , and I hope we can find new way to unlock their full potential , with imagination , investment and a commitment to future generation . I be pleased to respond to this Adjournment debate . I congratulate my hon . friend the Member for Colchester ( Pam Cox ) on secure it and wish she a very happy Essex Day . that be something I never think I would say from the Dispatch Box , but I wish everyone a happy Essex Day none the less . as my hon . friend lay out , the east of England have a unique and rich heritage . it be awash with nationally significant heritage asset such as the Iron Age neolithic flint mine at Grime ' s Graves , Framlingham Castle and Tudor Lavenham , and historic house such as Audley End House and Sandringham — and , of course , we hear about Knebworth House too . the region be also home to a rich roman heritage , which be no more evident than in my hon . friend ' s constituency of Colchester , which be not only , as she say , Britain ' s old record settlement , but the former roman capital , with its iconic roman circus . she call it " Ben - Hur " but in Essex — I be not quite sure what that film would be call , but perhaps we can leave that stick to the wall , Madam Deputy Speaker . I want to take this opportunity to thank my hon . friend for her work to preserve heritage in her constituency , include the grade II list Balkerne water tower , which she also mention . I know that she have be involve in effort to restore it and secure its future , and that exciting plan be in train . if there be anything the Department can do to help she with those plan , we stand ready to do so . as my hon . Friend say , our local heritage tell the story of who we be and form the cornerstone of our community in the present in order to preserve the past . the Government be proud to support community to celebrate the heritage building and asset they value and ensure that they can continue to meet their need in the present and into the future . early this year , my right hon . friend the Secretary of State mark the 60th anniversary of the first ever art White Paper and announce £ 270 million of funding to fix the foundation of our art venue , museum , library and heritage sector in community right across the country . that ambition be now start to bear some fruit . my hon . friend ' s constituency have benefit directly from nearly £ 1 . 3 million of Arts Everywhere fund to protect Colchester castle for future generation , enable urgent maintenance and roof repair to ensure the landmark ' s future . furthermore , I be pleased to say that , as announce in August , through the Government ' s heritage at risk capital scheme , 37 much love historic building and site in the place across England that need it most will receive funding to support repair and restoration . that much need funding will breathe new life into our heritage and , in many case , help turn it into vibrant space that our community need today . over £ 2 million of that funding be go to project in the east of England , include £ 700 , 000 to bring Lowestoft ' s derelict town hall back to life as a fully accessible public space with an art gallery , caf é and event venue , and £ 137 , 000 for the Iron Duke restoration project in Great Yarmouth , which my hon . friend mention , bring the building back into use and create 50 much need new job for the area . I be really lucky in North West Cambridgeshire to represent a whole variety of heritage site of different size , include Burghley House , which I visit recently — a 16th century stately home that welcome thousand of visitor each year to the house itself and the garden — and small site such as John Clare Cottage , where the famous poet live , the surrounding of which inspire so much of his poetry . as well as welcome the local , national and international tourism to those site , do the Minister agree that it be important that we support the educational work they do in respect of local history , agriculture and the natural environment ? I thank my hon . friend for that intervention , because it be true : as we have already hear from my hon . friend the Member for Colchester , our heritage be about our future , but it be also about learn about our past . it be good for social cohesion , but it be also tremendous for education , and Burghley House and the John Clare Cottage in North West Cambridgeshire play a vital role in that education . I be pleased to confirm that this year we continue Historic England ' s Heritage Schools programme , which support teacher to bring local heritage into teaching across the curriculum . I hope that that continue , because it be very much a passion of the Secretary of State and I ; we really want to make sure that our heritage across the United Kingdom be share by everyone . the Arts Everywhere project be so important for community cohesion and for young people ' s learn about our history and shape its future . as my hon . friend the Member for Colchester set out , preserve and maintain the rich heritage of this region or any region can be expensive and challenging . in addition to the funding that I have already mention , there have be many other intervention by the Government , the National Lottery Heritage Fund and Historic England to make safe , to maintain and to preserve the region ' s invaluable heritage asset . in 2023 - 24 alone , the National Lottery Heritage Fund give £ 33 . 5 million for heritage in the east of England , include £ 13 million to Norwich castle , an iconic site in the city originally commission by William the Conqueror . thank to sustained investment in our heritage , we be seek see at - risk heritage site remove from Historic England ' s heritage at risk register . my hon . Friend say that that be the legacy that we should leave for future generation because we be custodian of our heritage . that be what the risk register be there for , and I be delighted to see that site be be remove from the register because of that investment . the register give an annual snapshot of the health of England ' s value historic building by identify site most at risk of loss due to neglect . it list 427 entry in the east of England alone in 2024 , but by work closely with partner and community , 14 site have be remove from the register , with £ 800 , 000 in grant be award for repair to an additional 25 site last year . we be make progress , and we be also make it easy for community to take ownership of the heritage asset they love by provide nearly £ 5 million through the heritage revival fund deliver by the Architectural Heritage Fund . in addition , we have change the definition of an asset of community value to state clearly that heritage building be include in that , so that they can be asset for the community to take on . maintain our historic heritage do not necessarily mean preserve it in aspic as a relic of the past . in our town and city , old and new stand side by side , and our heritage have a key role to play in deliver the Government ' s ambitious commitment to boost economic growth and build 1 . 5 million new home alongside our exist heritage . there be example up and down the country where growth and development can co - exist with our wonderful heritage . a local example be Lexden Gardens , which be in my hon . friend ' s constituency of Colchester . that development , which will see the creation of 120 new home on the former Essex county hospital site , include the restoration of the grade - II list main hospital , which have deep root heritage connection and significance to the local community . to support our ambition , we be work across Government to streamline the planning system , include the role of Historic England as a statutory consultee , to ensure timely , expert advice that support high - quality development . the Government remain committed to protect historic asset and will ensure that any change to the planning system do not remove the quality of advice or heritage safeguard . my hon . Friend ask some question . I think I have a few minute to run through some of those . she ask whether we would address the issue with regard to enhance the importance of heritage , culture and tourism within the ongoing devolution process in the east of England . I can assure my hon . friend that there have be no change in position between the two paper that she cite . the Government remain committed to support local area to deliver their own priority , include widen access and participation to culture and heritage and harness their potential for community transformation and economic growth . the Department ' s arm ' s length body , such as Historic England , will continue to explore how to work in partnership with strategic authority within the ongoing devolution process in the east of England . my hon . Friend ask about the local heritage architecture and the possibility of restructure the mighty starting gate of the circus base on design of other elsewhere . it be an incredibly interesting project . my hon . friend Baroness Twycross in the other place take the heritage portfolio , so I will ensure that my hon . friend get a meeting with she to discuss the project in detail . the schedule monument like the roman circus be protect in the form they have be pass down to we by previous generation , but should a proposal come forward to reconstruct element of the circus , as she have lay out , it would require careful consideration through the scheduled monument consent process . I understand Historic England continue to work with Colchester council on that exciting project . my hon . Friend also ask about synergy in the Department ' s responsibility for cultural heritage and medium . I agree that virtual and augmented reality have great potential to bring our heritage to life . in fact , through programme like the Audience of the Future and the creative cluster , we have demonstrate the value that immersive reality can bring to all sort of experience , include museum and storytelling . if she want to take that particular issue to Baroness Twycross as well when we arrange that meeting , that be something she would be very much interested in hear about in term of how augmented and virtual reality could create a real benefit to the people of Colchester and , indeed , the roman castle site . finally , my hon . Friend ask whether the Government will create a dedicated regional heritage strategy for the east of England — one that can help shape the devolved strategy in itself . our devolution reform aim to put power back in the hand of local leader and local people , and to support mayoral strategic authority to lead strategy in the area they want to prioritise to drive the change they want to see — I have no idea what that mean either , but I think it basically mean that the power of have the strategic authority be from the grassroot up . indeed , we should be work with our local council , local member and the strategic authority for that to happen . again , Baroness Twycross would be happy to talk to my hon . friend about that . I thank my hon . friend for secure the debate and provide I with the opportunity to reiterate the Government ' s commitment to protect and enhance our share heritage . we will continue to invest in our heritage , to forge collaborative and collective partnership and to approach development in a pragmatic way , ensure that precious site , many of which have be mention by hon . member , such as the roman circus and the Balkerne water tower , as well as site in the east of England and beyond , be not only preserve but celebrate for generation to come . I look forward to see the ongoing positive impact of these heritage project in Colchester and across the east of England as we continue to build a future where our rich history stand proudly alongside new growth opportunity in all our community . question put and agree to . House adjourn .