but may I say how great it be to see you in the Chair for this debate , albeit in a temporary role ? and may I say , through you , that the Foreign Secretary want to be here for the debate , but he and the Prime Minister be host the leader of over 40 european country at the European Political Community meeting at Blenheim palace today — it be an important day for our country . he will look forward to follow the debate as soon as he return . I congratulate all 315 re - elect and return member of this House , and welcome in particular all member who be elect for the first time . savour that special feeling when you first walk into this Chamber and sit on these green Benches . remember it ; respect it . our constituent have give each of we their confidence ; they have give we the mandate to serve they and the country . two week ago , I stand at my local constituency election count in a sport hall in Rotherham . it be the honour of my life to stand at this Dispatch Box today as the Defence Secretary — as part of the new Government at the start of this new era for Britain . the last time that I speak at this Dispatch Box be a week before the election in 2010 , as a housing Minister deal with planning reform . even then , I warn that " there be fundamental flaw in the Conservatives ' propose planning regime " . however , my main argument on that day focus on accountability . I say : " accountability be a central tenet " — [ Official Report , 29 March 2010 ; Vol . 503 , c . 611 . ] of public life , serious decision and good government . have re - enter Government , I feel that just as fiercely as I do 14 year ago . what we do , what we say and how we conduct ourselves in Government matter . we must always be accountable in this House , to the public and to Parliament . by do that , we will help to regain trust in Government and return politic to public service . I pay tribute to my predecessor , Grant Shapps and Ben Wallace , whom I shadow for over four year from the Opposition Benches . the House will now miss they both in differ way . they serve as Defence Secretaries during what the Chief of the Defence Staff have describe as the most extraordinary time for defence in his career . that responsibility now pass to I . I be grateful to have the support of such a stand - out ministerial team : the Minister for Defence Procurement and Industry , my right hon . friend the Member for Liverpool Garston ( Maria Eagle ) ; the Minister for the Armed Forces , my hon . friend the Member for Plymouth Sutton and Devonport ( Luke Pollard ) ; the Minister for Veterans and People , my hon . friend the Member for Birmingham Selly Oak ( Al Carns ) ; and Lord Coaker in the other place . the first duty of any Government be to defend the country and keep our citizen safe . that be why I pay tribute , on behalf of the House , to the man and woman who serve in Britain ' s armed force , many of whom be overseas on deployment right now . they be rightly respect worldwide for their bravery and their professionalism . we thank they for what they do to keep we all safe , as we thank those out of uniform in UK defence . they will have this new Government ' s full support to do their job in defend this country that be why at the NATO summit in Washington last week , the Prime Minister confirm the Government ' s unshakeable commitment to NATO , and our total commitment to spend 2 . 5 % of gdp on defence . it be why the Prime Minister launch this week a first - of - its - kind strategic defence review . and it be why we announce in the King ' s Speech legislation to create a new armed force commissioner to improve service life . thank you , Mr Deputy Speaker . it be a great pleasure to follow the right hon . member for Wetherby and Easingwold ( Sir Alec Shelbrooke ) , and the excellent maiden speech by my hon . friend the Members for Ealing Southall ( Deirdre Costigan ) and for Doncaster East and the Isle of Axholme ( Lee Pitcher ) . it give I great delight to address this House as the new Member of Parliament for Kensington and bayswater . I doubt that , for any of we , the last seven week have be easy . I know that many hon . member will still be catch up on their sleep after the campaign trail , but have our twin bear in the first week of the general election campaign take thing to another level . if timing be everything in politic , that be certainly not a combination I would recommend anyone repeat — but my child will obviously have a great story to tell when they be old . I want to take a moment to thank the team at Queen Charlotte ' s hospital and across the Imperial College NHS trust for their incredible care . our NHS staff deserve our utmost respect and support , and I hope in the future that Saint Mary ' s , Hammersmith and Charing Cross hospital will finally get what they need to become the first - class premise that patient and staff in our community deserve , include the delivering of plan for a brand - new St Mary ' s hospital . I pay tribute to my two predecessor in this new constituency . Felicity Buchan work hard for the resident of Kensington over the past five year , and I particularly commend she for her work on the Homes for Ukraine programme . some issue be central to our national and international security , which transcend party politic , and support the struggle for a free Ukraine be one of they . I be grateful for her work on this issue . in Kensington and bayswater , we have a ukrainian cultural centre , the Ukraine embassy and a substantial ukrainian population . have personally work to support democracy and anti - corruption in Ukraine for many year , I will make sure that our ukrainian community continue to have a strong advocate in Parliament . I be also fortunate enough to inherit part of Dame Karen Buck ' s former constituency of Westminster North . under previous boundary , she represent north Kensington for many year . I know from experience that ten of thousand of resident have be directly assist by Karen and her staff with expertise and empathy . I hope I can emulate even a small part of her unwavering focus on tackle poverty and our housing crisis , whether that be by hold our social housing landlord to account , by protect private renter , include by abolish section 21 no - fault eviction , or by finally end the outdated feudal leasehold system . Karen do a monumental amount of work to advance those cause , and I be sure she be absolutely delighted with their inclusion in the King ' s Speech . she have always exemplify public service over self - interest . I will do my good , along with my other colleague who be inherit her constituency , to live up to her legacy . I know how grateful we be for her 27 year of service in this House . Kensington and bayswater be an incredible part of London , as many hon . member will already know — indeed , I canvass many of they during the campaign and have already be pick up casework in the corridor . we be an amazing community , with fantastic campaigner and organisation , business , entrepreneur , charity , heritage , music , park and school . there be so much go for it , but there be also a deep inequality that have widen in recent year . there be now a 19 - year gap in life expectancy between a woman bear in Notting Dale in North Kensington and one bear in Holland Park , only a third of a mile away . that gap that have increase by five year in the past decade alone . over 6 , 000 child be live in poverty and over 3 , 000 family be on a grow housing waiting list . we be rightly proud of our contribution to the nation ' s economy in term of growth , talent , innovation and finance in so many different industry , and we celebrate the tourist who come to visit our museum , Portobello Road and our park , but we must also tackle the underlying cause of the inequality that prevent too many people in my constituency from reach their full potential , whether they be housing , education or employment opportunity . I know from the thousand of people I have meet across our constituency that far too many feel like government be not work for they . they see too many politician put political party before country and self - interest before community . I know that trust in government and politician have plummet as a result , but it do not have to be this way . I have spend my career work to make democracy work well in dozen of country around the world by support reformer in government to work with civil society to be more transparent , more inclusive and more accountable and to deliver for people on the priority that they care about . in Kensington and bayswater , that mean , for example , get a grip on the dirty money in luxury property that still stain our community . despite recent progress in legislation , and despite the leadership that Baroness Hodge , the right hon . member for Sutton Coldfield ( Mr Mitchell ) and many other have show on this topic , we still have in our constituency one of the high number of anonymously own property register in tax haven , with loophole allow autocrat and kleptocrat to continue shield their ownership . many of those property sit empty , hurt our local business and school and hollow out our sense of community . I agree that those that be freeze under sanction should be utilise as soon as possible , so I be determined to build on our Kensington Against dirty Money campaign and continue advocate for London to end its reputation as the dirty money capital of the world , and instead become the anti - corruption capital of the world . there be no bad example of what happen when government stop listen to people and when transparency and accountability be discard than what happen at Grenfell Tower over seven year ago . seventy - two people lose their life in an entirely preventable tragedy , yet we still do not have truth , justice and change for the bereaved , survivor and affected community . these be people whose life be change forever on 14 June 2017 and who have have to wait far too long for justice and for those responsible to be hold to account . in the come week , the second phase of the public inquiry will report . I know that hon . member here will join I in look to those recommendation to ensure that a tragedy like Grenfell can never happen again . I warmly welcome the inclusion in the King ' s Speech of the duty of candour law for public servant . I applaud the effective campaigning of those affect by Grenfell , Hillsborough , infect blood and Windrush , and of other who have suffer because of an unacceptable defensive culture across many of our public institution . I hope we can look at further measure to ensure robust oversight of the implementation of the recommendation from those inquiry . Kensington and bayswater be a special place make a huge contribution to our national life in so many way . my hope be that , under this Labour Government , we will become a fairer place too , build on our strength and address the inequality that have hold we back . it will not be easy and it will not happen overnight — as a QPR fan , I have learn over many year to be realistic — but we have an opportunity now to restore faith and trust in government and democracy , and to restore our reputation internationally too .