prayer - [ Mr Speaker in the Chair ] I beg to move , that the House sit in private . question put forthwith ( Standing Order no . 163 ) . Katrina Murray Alex McIntyre Catherine Atkinson Douglas Alexander Fleur Anderson Stuart Andrew Edward Argar Scott Arthur Harriett Baldwin Ruth Cadbury Christopher Chope Ellie Chowns Deirdre Costigan Claire Coutinho Nicholas Dakin Shaun Davies Samantha Dixon Maria Eagle Luke Evans Miatta Fahnbulleh Hamish Falconer Linsey Farnsworth Josh Fenton - Glynn Emma Foody Richard Fuller Allison Gardner Amanda Hack Sarah Hall Monica Harding Carolyn Harris Paul Holmes Claire Hughes Dan Jarvis Stephen Kinnock Katie Lam Edward Leigh Simon Lightwood Keir Mather Jerome Mayhew Siobhain McDonagh Catherine McKinnell Navendu Mishra Joy Morrissey Kanishka Narayan Alex Norris Abena Oppong - Asare Taiwo Owatemi Stephanie Peacock Emma Reynolds Sam Rushworth Oliver Ryan Tulip Siddiq Vikki Slade Rebecca Smith Gregory Stafford Stephen Timms Nick Timothy Jon Trickett Harpreet Uppal Christian Wakeford Catherine West Steve Yemm Gerald Jones Anna Turley the House divide : Ayes 1 , Noes 58 . question accordingly negative . unauthorised Entry to Football Matches Bill Consideration of Bill , not amend in the Public Bill Committee before we come to our proceeding , I remind member of the difference between Report and Third Reading . the scope of debate on Report be the amendment I have select . the scope of the Third Reading debate to follow will be the whole Bill as it stand after report . member may wish to consider those point before decide at which stage , or stage , they want to try to catch my eye . clause 1 - offence of unauthorised entry to designate football match I beg to move amendment 1 , page 1 , line 6 , leave out " or attempt to enter " . with this it will be convenient to discuss the follow : amendment 2 , page 1 , line 8 , leave out " or attempt entry " . amendment 3 , page 1 , line 11 , leave out " or attempt to enter " . amendment 4 , page 1 , line 13 , leave out " or attempt to enter " . amendment 5 , page 1 , line 15 , leave out " or attempt entry " . amendment 6 , clause 2 , page 2 , line 3 , leave out from " force " to end of line 4 and insert " at the end of the period of 2 month begin with the day on which it be pass . " . many people watch and observe proceeding in Parliament will wonder whether we have our priority right . the Bill be about unauthorised entry to football match in particular circumstance , but I think most people be much more concerned about the proliferation of unauthorised entry into our very country , and the failure of the Home Office and its official to do anything effective about it . in my submission , the Bill be a trivialisation of legislation by Home Office official who should be do other thing — but I will not dwell on that now , Mr Speaker . the long title of the Bill state that its purpose be to " create an offence of unauthorised entry at football match for which a football ban order can be impose follow conviction . " however , it be about not just unauthorised entry but any attempt at unauthorised entry . my amendment be design to exclude from the Bill provision relate to attempt to enter . such attempt be less important than actual unlawful entry , and to include they in the same category be disproportionate and unreasonable . when we come on to debate other part of the Bill on Third Reading , point can be make about the Bill more generally , but it seem to I that someone attempt to enter a football match without authorisation should not be subject to the same penalty , as set out in the Bill , as people who actually succeed in get into a football match . actually , 11 July be quite an interesting date . on this very day four year ago the 2020 Euros final at Wembley stadium result in the unauthorised entry of thousand of fan , which cause a lot of disorder . Baroness Casey , who be an expert on produce report , be commission by the Football Association to look into that issue and come forward with recommendation . in her report , which span more than 100 page , she emphasise the fact that much of the disorder be nothing to do with people come in without ticket and tailgating ; in fact , a lot of it be attribute to other failure to enforce the law , in particular the taking of drug and alcohol on public transport in London , which be verboten , and the taking of drug in the vicinity of a football match , which should also be forbid but be allow to proceed with impunity . she also make the point that unlike at many football match , what happen at Wembley be largely exacerbate by the inadequacy of the stewarding arrangement . as a result of Baroness Casey ' s report , the Home Office decide to bring forward this Bill . however , nowhere could I find in the report any reference to the fact that Baroness Casey want to treat attempt to enter in exactly the same way as enter , which be why I have put forward these amendment . there be no need to expand on that except to say that it be in common law . normally , an attempt to commit a criminal offence be an inchoate action , which can itself be the subject of criminal proceeding ; in those circumstance , there would be no need to have this provision write into the Bill . it seem to I that the provision would create a penalty that be quite severe ; it could affect people ' s ability to go and watch football match for many year into the future . the presumption under the Bill — as you will know , Mr Speaker — be that if someone be guilty of an offence , they will be unable to go to football match again as a spectator . my assessment be that that be disproportionate and unnecessary . for those reason , I strongly oppose this aspect of the Bill , and seek through these amendment to remove reference to " attempt " . amendment 6 be another example of where we need to try to tighten up private member ' Bills when they be bring before this House , so that the Government do not have everything their own way . member will know that there be four other Bills to be debate on Report this morning . all those other Bills have a commencement date , but clause 2 ( 2 ) of this Bill say : " this Act come into force on such day as the Secretary of State may by regulation make by statutory instrument appoint . " the question I ask be : why ? why be that necessary ? why can we not in this very simple Bill say that these provision will come into effect either on the day of Royal Assent or within two month of that date ? that would be the norm . what sometimes happen , of course , be that the Government give themselves power and do all the talk about support Bills such as this , and then never bring forward the regulation . the consequence of not have a specific timetable be that the ball be very much — to use that expression — in the Government ' s court , because they can decide whether they will implement the provision of this Bill , which have be put forward by the Home Office . I hope that when the Minister respond to this debate , he will explain why the Bill have to be introduce by regulation on a date yet to be specify . of course , the making of regulation be in itself a further unnecessary administrative burden . I would be interested to hear from the Minister as to why the Bill be be treat differently from the other Bills the Government be hope will get through today . I rise to thank the hon . member for Christchurch ( Sir Christopher Chope ) for his careful consideration of my Bill , although I be somewhat sadden by his suggestion that this be a trivial matter . as he himself go on to say , we see scene at the Carabao cup final that be very troubling and warrant a full report from Baroness Casey . she make an excellent report , with some very good observation and recommendation . indeed , she say that there should be a deterrent effect to any recommendation that be bring in . I submit that the Bill provide just that . I also rise to oppose amendment 1 to 6 . on amendment 1 to 5 and the issue of attempt entry , attempt entry place a particular pressure on stadium security and often require police involvement . it be often extremely crowded outside stadium , with scuffle , struggle and chase through the crowd when people try to enter without a ticket . include attempt entry allow law enforcement to act before the breach of a stadium occur and that provide an additional level of security . I be at the Carabao cup final this year . my right hon . friend the Minister for Policing and Crime Prevention and I be take down to the turnstile with the police . we witness tailgating almost immediately . we also see an attempt tailgating incident , which involve a man in his 70 or early 80 stand at the turnstile shout to the steward for help and assistance because somebody behind he be try to push their way into the ground . it be frightening for he . he stand his ground — I pay tribute to he for do so — but it could have be dangerous . indeed , it be dangerous with the amount of people who be around . I submit that it fly in the face of common sense to release people who have a clear intention to get into a stadium . the police tell I that those sort of attempt be make repeatedly , time and time again . at the moment , the police do not have the power to arrest they . they detain they , but then have to release they . People just go back and try to get in again . it be a constant cat and mouse , as it be , and throughout that period people be put in danger from that action . to omit the offence of attempt entry would take we no far from the current position that the police find themselves in . include attempt in the Bill give the good chance of equip the police to deal with this issue and keep everybody as safe as they possibly can . on amendment 6 , regard a timescale , my understanding be that the Bill be design to come into force via regulation so that that can be align with the start of the football calendar . that will ensure that all relevant organisation have time to prepare , co - ordinate and train accordingly . as a Crown prosecutor for 21 year before I come to this place , I understand at first hand the importance of allow sufficient time for change in legislation to be implement , for staff to be train and for proper resource to be put in place by the police , the Crown Prosecution Service and , most importantly , by the stadium themselves . I be grateful to the hon . Lady for give way and for the diligence with which she have approach this subject , include have discuss it on several occasion with I . she say that instead of a date be specify in the Bill , regulation will be pass to bring in the provision at the beginning of the football season . when be that ? be there a particular date ? I perhaps misspoke ; my understanding be that it be to align with the football calendar rather than the start of the season . perhaps the Minister can clarify that in due course . we be now on a countdown to the start of the football season . my husband , be a season ticket holder for Coventry City FC , be very disappointed that we will be on holiday at the start of the football season in August . obviously it be unlikely that we will get the provision in place by then , but the important thing be to get the legislation in place in time for when we co - host the next european final , which be in 2028 . I think we should be in good time for that . a fix date of two month after Royal Assent would be sufficient time to get everything in place . as I mention early , the Bill have a deterrent element to it . Baroness Casey ' s recommendation be to make sure that it be a proper deterrent . we need to be ready , and we need to make sure that as soon as the legislation kick off , we send a clear message that this sort of behaviour will not be tolerate any long and people will not be able to get away with it . I hope I have provide a thorough and detailed response that satisfy the hon . member for Christchurch , and I respectfully urge he to withdraw his amendment . I rise to support my hon . friend the Member for Christchurch ( Sir Christopher Chope ) . it seem to I that the way that he introduce his very modest amendment to remove the word " attempt " be entirely proper . I support the Bill , but I think it be quite dangerous to introduce an offence into criminal law of just attempt to enter a football ground , because it be quite difficult to gather evidence of or police that . I assure the hon . member for Amber Valley ( Linsey Farnsworth ) that I do not want to delay matter much . I will keep my remark short , because I support the general principle of the Bill . I support make it a criminal offence to actually enter a designate football match ; that be in the Bill ' s long title and be something we can all agree on . widen the scope of the Bill to include attempt to enter a ground be quite dangerous . I assume that the amendment table by my hon . friend the Member for Christchurch will be reject , but I wonder whether it would unduly weaken the Bill if they be pass . after all , the Bill be about have a legal deterrent to crowd of people seek to force their way into a football ground , but there may be many other way in which people attempt to get into a football ground that be not riotous disorder and may be quite honest in intention . when create criminal law , it be dangerous to get into aspect of intention — men rea , as lawyer call it — rather than , in this case , the actual legal fact of enter a football ground . if the law be not change , someone engage in this bad behaviour could be punish only by ejection from the stadium , but there be criminal law of trespass and many other way in which this very bad behaviour can be identify . when Baroness Casey identify in her review the absence of specific offence as a weakness in stadium enforcement , I be not sure whether she be refer to such minor infringement as attempt to enter a football ground . I will say more about that in a moment . I know that the key motivation for the Bill be the Euro 2020 final and the chaos at Wembley when hundred of ticketless individual storm the venue , overwhelmed steward and endanger legitimate fan . that mass unauthorised entry pose real risk , but that be really a riot . that be quite a different situation from somebody on their own , or perhaps a father with his child , attempt to get into a football ground when they may not have a ticket . they may have be mi - sell a ticket — they may believe that they have a genuine ticket . they may have be sell , at vast cost , a ticket by a ticket tout , but apparently now they will face the full force of the criminal law . under the Bill , police and court will be able to ban repeat offender , as it make offender eligible for football ban order . those be quite serious consequence for people who may not be rioter at all ; they may just be genuine football fan . we be talk about a fine of up to £ 1 , 000 and a trial in a magistrate court . I know that such case will not go to a Crown court , but that be still a very serious matter for somebody who might just be attempt to enter a place . we will be tell by the Bill ' s supporter that its enforcement be practical . I understand how entry into a football ground could be enforce , but I be unsure about enforce an attempt to get into a football ground . surely police and steward need clarity . there be no point in we introduce more and more law when we have a whole slate of traditional law against riotous behaviour . law that may be difficult to enforce just bring the whole system into disrepute . I know that football club , police force and fan ' organisation largely support the Bill , but I be not sure whether they be aware just how widely it be frame . I be sure that if they could talk these matter through with my hon . friend , they would think his amendment be a wise and moderate compromise , because people already assume that it be an offence to enter a football ground without a ticket ; I agree that the Bill remove the gap between assumption and reality . the other thing that slightly worry I be that while I can quite understand how such attempt could be deal with by a premier league club , which have steward and the whole panoply of a large football club , we should consider small club such as Gainsborough Trinity FC in my constituency . these small club have face huge challenge , and we be just introduce more burden on they . during covid , Gainsborough suspend season ticket and capped attendance at just 300 . small club already have to deal with many regulation and with public health . their finance be very marginal , and covid worsen already fragile financial situation . I hope that when we consider these undoubtedly worthy Bills — as we look at the Euros , Wembley and all the rest of it — that impose more obligation on football club , we remember small club . the Football Association be not always as helpful as it can be with small club . big club get attention and support , so it may well be possible for they to police attempt to enter , but it may be more difficult for a tiny club — a very worthy , important and wonderful club such as Gainsborough Trinity FC — to deal with the intricacy of the law and understand it . we be talk about enforcement and police resource , and therefore the measure in the Bill should be very moderate . there would be £ 1 , 000 fine or long ban order . be we go to drag people before the court ? I have already talk about the father attempt an entry . could child or young people who sneak in without harmful intent face have a criminal record ? be we really go to do that ? be that the sort of country we want to create ? we do not have a lot of datum on how many attempt there be or how much unauthorised entry there be . we should acknowledge that the Euro 2020 final be exceptional . it be unclear whether make this kind of permanent legislative change , and reject the amendment , will solve the problem . on the datum , the FA report that approximately 600 people regularly attempt to tailgate at match at Wembley and other competitive game at ground across the country . it be not the odd person every now and again ; people be regularly try , over and over again , to get into football ground . that be why it be important that " attempt " be include . do the right hon . Gentleman recognise that ? the hon . Lady make a fair point , but I be make a point about small club . we be here because of a political reaction to the embarrassment create by one major failure , but we can not base good law on one major failure that be on all our television screen . we have to look at all club and consider all the difficulty that they would have in implement this change . there be a big issue with attempt tailgating to avoid pay fare on the London underground . what do my right hon . friend think about the Bill , in comparison with what be happen on the underground ? we know that there be an epidemic of lawlessness on the underground and elsewhere . no doubt somebody will try to bring in a Bill on that as well — and good luck to they — but we be talk about a very narrow amendment and a narrowly focused Bill . I be worried about enforcement , which may vary between club or region . fan may lose trust if they see the law be apply unevenly , and I do not know how club will police these attempt . it be unclear whether ban order will lead to frequent appeal . People would be try just for an attempt . I know that that would only be in the magistrate court , but if they face long ban order , could there be appeal ? we have to apply the law fairly and reasonably ; otherwise , it risk be a blunt instrument . surely we should try to make this sort of Bill tightly focus . the amendment table by my hon . friend the Member for Christchurch be sensible . they would well tool the legislation towards its rightful end . first , they focus on the actual harm . by remove attempt entry from the offence , the amendment would criminalise only complete unauthorised entry — clear fact that can be understand and prove . we should target behaviour that truly compromise safety and public order . secondly , the amendment would ensure that the Bill avoid over - criminalisation . criminalise failed or minor attempt could lead to disproportionate outcome , especially for young people or first - time offender . my hon . friend ' s amendment promote a more measured legal response . thirdly , the amendment would reduce ambiguity , and the great danger in law be ambiguity . " attempted entry " be a vague standard and may vary in interpretation by steward and police . if hon . member try to imagine the policing of a crowded football match with people pour in , I wonder whether they would start to agree that " attempt entry " be a vague standard and may vary in interpretation . we be talk about the criminal law . we be talk not just about somebody be tick off or tell they can not enter the stadium but possibly end up in court . the amendment would give a clear legal threshold for enforcement and prosecution , on the basis of which somebody can be try and sentence in the court . fourthly , my hon . friend ' s amendment would protect civil liberty . I have spend many long year and friday in this place defend civil liberty . I do not believe in over - regulation and ever more law restrict civil liberty . the amendment would guard against penalise individual where intent or context be unclear . we be criminalise only intent ; we be not criminalise an actual fact , and that be a dangerous legal proposition . if we start do it now on this Bill , where will it stop ? will we criminalise an attempt to enter a cinema or theatre ? order . the right hon . Gentleman be stray a little wide into different area . as he rightly say , the Bill be quite narrow . I be sure that he will want to get back on track . this be about football , not cinema . I be so grateful to you , Mr Speaker ; you will be grateful to hear that have make those remark , I be draw to a conclusion . we have a duty to ensure that punishment be base on actual misconduct in enter a football ground , not suspicion or misjudged behaviour . fifthly , my hon . friend ' s amendment would allow for practical enforcement . focus on complete unauthorised entry would help police and club concentrate their resource on the most serious breach , rather than chase marginal case . the amendment would provide necessary implementation time . the two - month delay before commencement give football club , police and steward time to prepare for the new legal framework , reduce confusion and aid smooth enforcement . finally , the amendment would encourage propor - tionality . they keep the law from become an unnecessarily blunt instrument and instead preserve a proportionate , target response to genuine request . I call the shadow Minister . I thank the hon . member for Amber Valley ( Linsey Farnsworth ) for bring the Bill forward and my hon . friend the Member for Christchurch ( Sir Christopher Chope ) for his amendment . at this stage , be it correct that you wish we to speak only to the amendment , Mr Speaker ? [ interruption . ] yes . we the opposition have nothing furth to add to the debate that we have have this morning . I call the Minister . I thank the hon . member for Christchurch ( Sir Christopher Chope ) for table these amendment , which propose two change . first , amendment 1 to 5 would remove attempt unauthorised entry from the scope of the offence . secondly , amendment 6 would bring the Act into force two month after it receive Royal Assent , rather than by commencement regulation make by statutory instrument . it be absolutely essential that the Bill explicitly cover both attempt and successful unauthorised entry . we have see widespread issue involve ticketless fan at football match attempt to force entry and tailgate at high - profile match , include the 2024 champion league final , premier league fixture and at the Euro 2020 tournament . these form of attempt entry place significant demand on stadium safety and security personnel and , at time , require police intervention . maintain provision for attempt unauthorised entry ensure that law enforcement can act before a breach occur and thus maintain safety and security at football match across the country . it also enable the imposition of preventive football ban order against person involve in attempt entry . ban order be an effective deterrent against those who may seek to compromise public safety . I turn to amendment 6 . the Bill be design to allow the measure to come into force by regulation on a date shortly before the start of the domestic football season . this approach will ensure that all organisation involve in safety and security operation be prepare to implement the new offence . a fix date two month after Royal Assent may not coincide with the football calendar or allow sufficient time for training , communication and co - ordination . I therefore respectfully ask the hon . member for Christchurch to withdraw his amendment . the Minister say that the Bill will come into force before the start of the football season . we hear from the hon . member for Amber Valley ( Linsey Farnsworth ) that the season will start pretty soon , within four or five week . I assume that mean the Bill will not be implement until summer 2026 — that be the clear implication of what the Minister say . if I be wrong in that interpretation , I hope he will intervene , because it be important to get it on the record that the Bill will not be in force until a year ' s time . on the issue of attempt , listen to my right hon . friend the Member for Gainsborough ( Sir Edward Leigh ) , I think that I have under - egg the pudding a bit , because he adduce a whole lot of extra argument that reinforce the case for remove attempt from the Bill . apart from anything else , I fear that if we allow attempt to remain in the Bill , the people who be still outside the stadium and never get in will be the easy picking — they will be the one who get arrest and penalise , while the mass of offender who get in without authority will get away with it — because in order for any of this to work , there have to be an arrest and a subsequent prosecution . I wish to test the will of the House in relation to amendment 1 . question put , that the amendment be make . Christopher Chope Edward Leigh Douglas Alexander Fleur Anderson Scott Arthur Catherine Atkinson Ellie chown Deirdre Costigan Nicholas Dakin Shaun Davies Bobby Dean Samantha Dixon Maria Eagle Miatta Fahnbulleh Hamish Falconer Linsey Farnsworth Josh Fenton - Glynn Emma Foody Allison Gardner Amanda Hack Sarah Hall Monica Harding Carolyn Harris Claire Hughes Dan Jarvis Stephen Kinnock Simon Lightwood Keir Mather Siobhain McDonagh Alex McIntyre Catherine McKinnell Anneliese Midgley Navendu Mishra Katrina Murray Alex Norris Abena Oppong - Asare Taiwo Owatemi Stephanie Peacock Emma Reynolds Sam Rushworth Oliver Ryan Tulip Siddiq Vikki Slade Stephen Timms Jon Trickett Harpreet Uppal Christian Wakeford Catherine West Steve Yemm Gerald Jones Anna Turley the House divide : Ayes 0 , Noes 47 . question accordingly negative . third read I beg to move , that the Bill be now read the third time . it be an honour to stand in the Chamber today and present this Bill for its Third Reading , particularly as a lifelong football fan . I put on record that I be a proud Everton supporter — my staff have all too gleefully remind I that this may be the near thing to football - relate success that I experience for a long time . our man ' s team last win a major trophy in 1995 , and the woman ' s in 2010 , so I be sure member can imagine my delight when I see the Amber Valley Codnor sapphire girl under - 10 team win the plate in a tournament in Heanor last Sunday . I be tell that two other team from my constituency , Sleetmoor under - 13 lady and Heanor Junior Hawks , also win trophy that day . I live in hope that Everton can follow suit and get their hand on some silverware at our new ground next season . football have a rich and impressive history . it bridge community and bring people together , cut across generational , gender - base , geographical , cultural and class divide . it be a sport of opportunity and hope that see girl and boy who begin by play on the street of their home town become superstar and role model with platform from which they can enact real change , as we see during covid with Marcus Rashford ' s free school meal campaign . the rule of modern football be think to have be draw up in 1863 , not far from this place at the Freemasons ' Tavern in London . there , among other thing , the somewhat important rule that carry the ball with hand be not allow be agree on . sadly , the referee seem to forget that in the infamous 1986 world cup quarter - final between Argentina and England , in which Maradona produce his " hand of God " moment . the introduction of the video assistant referee mean that today , such a goal would rightly be rule out — not that we England fan be bitter . as these example show , football be in a constant state of change and evolution . it be not only right that as the sport evolve and progress , the regulation around it adapt to reflect and facilitate those change — it be paramount . that bring I to my Bill , which consider the issue of unauthorised entry to football match from a fan safety perspective . it aim to ensure that proper legislation be in place to protect fan and prevent overcrowding in stadium . as we have hear , unauthorised entry often take the form of tailgating , also call jib . that be where a ticketless person push through the turnstile behind an unsuspecting ticket - hold fan . currently , if catch , tailgater will likely be eject without face any other consequence ; therefore , ticketless individual can and do repeatedly attempt to gain entry to a match until they give up or be successful . this be not a trivial matter — it have significant consequence for the fan in the stadium , and for the steward and security staff work there . accord to the Football Association , unauthorised entry to football match result in operational , safety and security problem at major event . there be regularly 600 tailgate attempt at major game at Wembley and at ground across the country . occasionally , there be also instance of mass entry , where large crowd of people try to push their way into the stadium . the potential consequence of this kind of mass entry be both dangerous and tragic . in July 2021 , during the Euros final , around 1 , 900 ticketless individual enter Wembley stadium . it be estimate that around 1 , 200 to 1 , 300 of those individual get into the inner area of the ground . two of my friend , Ross and Siobhan , be at the match that day . they be both extremely experienced supporter of many sport , and travel to attend game at many ground around the world . they be excited that day to watch the game , to experience at first hand the charge atmosphere of such a significant match , and to get behind their team . unfortunately , they do not have the usual experience that they rightly hope for . Siobhan tell I : " we arrive Wembley around an hour before kick off … it be obvious that thing be not as they should be … I feel very uneasy about the atmosphere … we go to the turnstile , which be still very busy and there be people there without a ticket who have manage to get through the first ticket check and be ask people to let they push through with they … I ' ve be to many event at Wembley that be sell out and have never see it in such a mess . we go straight to our seat which we be able to reclaim from the people occupy they at the time and the row be overfill and the stairway be full of people … the place be clearly fill way past capacity … overall I find it to be unpleasant and a potentially dangerous environment … it have put I off … attend England game and I haven ' t be to one since . " my friend be not alone in feeling like that . Baroness Louise Casey be commission to conduct an independent review into the event of the Euros final , which she describe as turn " a day of national pride into a day of shame " . the report find : " the drunkenness , drug taking , irresponsibility , criminality , and abuse of innocent people — include staff , family , and disabled ticket holder — be shocking and intolerable . " Baroness Casey also write : " there be a series of crowd ' near miss ' which could have lead to significant injury or even death " . she conclude : " the exist enforcement mechanism available to the police and other enforcement officer do not offer enough deterrent against those determined to use the cover of football match to commit criminal offence . tailgating , for example , should become a criminal offence . sanction for those break into football stadium and / or recklessly endanger life be weak . " my Bill aim to rectify that by insert a new specific offence into the Football ( Offences ) Act 1991 , namely enter or attempt to enter a designate football match in England and Wales without a ticket that the person be eligible to use . the offence , as we have hear , be summary only and carry a maximum sentence of a £ 1 , 000 fine . it can be try only in a magistrate court , which will help with the big core backlog in the Crown court . a conviction be likely to lead to a court - impose football ban order , prevent the person in question attend match for between three and five year . there be a potential prison sentence if the ban order be breach . the offence , and the ban order in particular , be intend to act as the long - term deterrent that Baroness Casey identify a need for in her report . if pass , the Bill would apply to match set out in order make under section 1 of the 1991 Act . as it stand , those be match in the premier league , championship , league one and two , national league , woman ' s super league , woman ' s super league 2 — previously call the championship — and Cymru premier league , and international fixture hold in England and Wales . after I do an interview with Radio Derby about the Bill , I be touch to hear from my friend , and Amber Valley borough council ' s long - serve councillor , John McCabe . incidentally , he be also probably one of the long - suffer Nottingham Forest football club fan . he have sadly pass away since he leave I a voicemail message that morning , which I still have . he open with his characteristic greeting , " ' ey up , Linsey , " before talk about unauthorised entry in his youth . he say , " well do … it ' s be happen for year — it use to happen when I be about eleven — they use to say ' lift he over , he ' ll be alright , ' but it ' s be happen for year that Linsey . " that " well do " stick with I , and his word and reflection on witness unauthorised entry age 11 far demonstrate the long - stand need for the kind of reform that the Bill propose . I will now turn to some query that be put to I during the Bill ' s various stage . first , the Bill use the word " premise " instead of " stadium " , to allow for arrest to be make and prosecution to be bring against people go through the first cordon where a ticket would need to be display , prevent danger to the stadium itself . in Committee , the hon . member for Harrow East ( Bob Blackman ) raise a concern regard the challenge of electronic ticketing and ticket duplication as a means to illegally provide entry to match . I thank he for his concern and assure he that that would be capture by section 166 of the Criminal Justice and Public Order Act 1994 — a provision that cover the unauthorised resale of match ticket , commonly refer to as ticket touting . also in Committee , the hon . member for Wimbledon ( Mr Kohler ) ask about the change to the wording of propose new section 1A ( 3 ) of the 1991 Act in the version of the Bill promote by Lord Brennan of Canton , which fall at the general election . the provision outline propose possible defence . propose new section 1A ( 3 ) ( b ) in my version of the Bill have be edit so that it cover case in which a person " reasonably believe " that they have a ticket for the match but in fact do not . that be to ensure that a person who innocently buy a counterfeit ticket be not criminalise under this offence , which be specifically about fan safety and prevent overcrowding . as before , the defence also apply in relation to a person use a genuine ticket that they be not eligible to use — for example , an adult use a child ' s ticket . again , because there would already be a reserved seat in the stadium , safety would not be an issue with respect to overcrowding . the Bill , it should be clear , be about safety and the safeguarding of football fan , not villainise genuine supporter . the hon . member for Wimbledon wonder whether that alteration might have the unintended consequence of allow a defence if a person use a ticket that have already be use , regardless of whether they have do so deliberately . I promise that I would raise that with the Home Office legal adviser and the Office of the parliamentary Counsel , which I do . they confirm that a person attempt to reuse a ticket could not be say to reasonably believe that they possess valid authorisation to enter , mean that the statutory defence under propose new section 1A ( 3 ) ( b ) would not apply . furthermore , in practical term , the court be likely to interpret the provision as mean that a person be not eligible to reuse a previously use ticket , consistent with the intent to prevent unauthorised access to football stadium . I thank the Home Office legal adviser and the Office of the parliamentary Counsel for their help in clarify that matter . finally , let I address why the Bill deal with football match specifically . of course , the danger pose by overcrowding be not limit to football and be prevalent in other highly attend sporting and entertainment event ; however , this be a private Member ' s Bill , and as we have hear , in many instance it be good to limit they in nature if one be to successfully change the law within the prescribed timeframe . I visit Wembley to watch the Carabao cup final with the Minister for Policing and Crime Prevention . we witness tailgate take place and when I speak to staff in the police , they suggest that football specifically be an event at which unauthorised entry regularly happen and that it pose a serious risk at the most competitive game . in the light of the upcoming Euro 2028 , which I be glad to say be be jointly host by the UK and Ireland , it be necessary that legislation to protect fan be pass as soon as possible , so that it can come into effect and be a proper deterrent beforehand . if pass , my Bill guarantee that that would happen . will the hon . Lady give way ? I will make some progress , thank you . staff at Wembley also have concern about upcoming sell - out music event . it be clear that unauthorised entry and overcrowding could pose security and safety risk beyond football , and I hope that Parliament will consider legislation that expand the logic of the Bill to address those other area , include other big music and sport event , on another occasion . I be pleased to support this Bill . a lot of the thing I want to say have be highlight by my hon . friend the Member for Amber Valley ( Linsey Farnsworth ) . it be clear that the number be stark , and there be an issue . the hon . member for Christchurch ( Sir Christopher Chope ) ask why this legislation be important , and I will say why and why it be personal for I . on 2 January 1971 , eight teenage boy from the village where I grow up , Markinch in Fife , travel to Glasgow to watch an old Firm game at Ibrox . they walk together to Glenrothes to get on their respective supporter bus . five of they go on the Rangers bus , and three of they go on the celtic bus . only three of they come home . sixty - six people lose their life that day in a tragic crush . just like Hillsborough year later , the trauma of that event still reverberate . the grief never truly lift for the family , for the community or for those who be there . the name of Ronald Paton , Bryan Todd and Mason Philip , who be all aged 14 , Douglas Morrison , who be 15 , and Peter Easton , who be only 13 , be one I grow up with . their life and loss be remember by the friend who come home that day , Shane Fenton and Peter Lee , who have dedicate their life to this cause and to remember they . those tragedy teach we a painful lesson . stadium crush do not start as disaster ; they begin as overcrowding , as bottleneck and as poor control at point of entry and exit . the Bill will not change the past , but it can prevent future risk . we can make football what we all want it to be : fun — about whether your team do well or badly , something to talk about with pal . it be a part of life , but we need to make sure that we keep it safe . this be about fairness . Most fan do exactly the right thing . they queue , they pay , they be search , and they have their teeny tiny bag that mean they be not take thing in . they deserve a system that do not reward those who flout the rule . steward — often low pay , often young — deserve to do their job without be overwhelmed or put at risk by hundred of people surge in unlawfully . this Bill be not heavy - handed . it be proportionate and focused . I thank my hon . friend the Member for Amber Valley for bring it forward and allow I to represent and to record in this Chamber the name of those who my community have lose . I hope that no other community have to go through that again . rise — order . if member hope to contribute , they need to bob throughout . I can not read their mind , if they only bob towards the end . it be a pleasure to serve with you in the Chair , Madam Deputy Speaker . this Bill be an improvement on its predecessor , and I give credit to the hon . member for Amber Valley ( Linsey Farnsworth ) for that , because it allow the defence to which she refer in her early remark , and that be well . I regret that she would not accept the amendment that would have remove the attempt issue , but I must say I be alarmed when she say that she hope the provision in this Bill would be replicate more widely in other Bills . would that be in relation to Wimbledon or Twickenham ? it seem to I that the mischief be address in this Bill be peculiar to soccer supporter . I be not sure about the suggestion that we need to go more widely to deal with this type of hooligan behaviour . I declare an interest as a debenture holder at Twickenham , and I have never experience the sort of problem to which she be refer . when I be at university , I can remember the first football match I ever go to , which be at Dundee United . I stand on the terrace , and I do not feel any danger inside the ground . the danger in Dundee be outside the ground after the event . then , when I have the privilege of represent Southampton Itchen , I be a frequent visitor to the Dell . again , I do not see any problem there . there be problem associate with the need to ensure crowd control , and the football club pay dearly for the cost of police to enable that to happen . that seem to I a sensible arrangement , because the burden of police soccer match be not bear only by the local constabulary and its taxpayer , but also by the club itself . as Baroness Casey ' s report make clear , the Wembley incident that prompt the Bill be essentially a one - off incident cause by a set of different circumstance , include that we be still during the period of covid , which mean a severe restriction on the number of people who could attend such match . other problem be create due to the absence of experienced steward and so on . I remember ask the hon . member for Amber Valley why provision in this Bill would not be include in the Football Governance Bill , which be discuss early in the week . she say that although these provision could have be include in that Bill , because of her legal experience she particularly want to have a Bill in her name on the statue book . I hope that in the end those dream will be fulfil , as that be an important matter for she . I have reservation about how this Bill will work in practice , and I be concern about unintended consequence for the police . if there be an incident similar to the one that take place at Wembley , how will we be able to arrest all those people ? every time somebody be arrest by the police , a policeman have to take that person away and put they in a black Maria or whatever , which mean that they be no long able to police the ground . I fear that what will happen be that an individual will be pick on every now and again , but when there be a problem of mass trespass , we will not be able to do anything about it because nobody will be able to police it . we will get a situation similar to the one in supermarket , with blatant shoplifting and a failure of the police or security people to take any action because they choose not to do so . as my right hon . friend the Member for Gainsborough ( Sir Edward Leigh ) say on Report , there be a danger that bring the criminal law into these area will result in disappointment and , as a result , bring the law into disrepute ; we put all these law on the statute book , but we can not actually do anything about they . as I say early , the Home Office have responsibility for all this , but every day we find that it be unable to fulfil its exist responsibility , let alone new one that will be place on it as a result of this Bill . most recently , the Home Office reveal that it be unable even to record the number of people who have enter this country and then leave . obviously , the way to find out whether people who come in on visa be comply with those visa be to check the visa record when people leave . the Home Office can not even deal with that . we be talk about extend its role in the belief that some magic new Bill will control unauthorised entry to football stadium , when the Home Office can not even control our country ' s border . I be extremely sceptical about this piece of legislation . it be a pity , in a sense , that the private Member ' s Bill process be give rise to this sort of legislation , which be — I return to the word I use early — relatively trivial compare with all the other problem with which this country be face and with which this legislature should be deal . the hon . Gentleman will correct I if I be wrong , but be he say that the safety of those attend football match and the likelihood of they be hurt and , in some case , kill be a trivial matter ? there be already law against kill people at football match . there be already law against criminal damage . there be already law against violent behaviour . I do not know whether the hon . Lady have look at Baroness Casey ' s report on the incident at Wembley in 2021 , but it say that the issue of tailgating highlight by the hon . member for Amber Valley be not the only problem . there be also lot of drunken behaviour — indicate dissent . the hon . Lady be shake her head , but that be in Baroness Casey ' s report — she find that there be a lot of drunken behaviour and evidence of drug taking . those be criminal offence . the expression on the hon . Lady ' s face make it seem as though either she believe that Baroness Casey ' s finding be incorrect or she have some other reason for disagree with that . I think that bring the criminal law into this narrow and specific field when there be already a host of other criminal offence cover these issue be the wrong way forward , but I be obviously in the minority on that . we will soon find out . of course I will give way . I have no interest in intervene . Pardon ? order . a discussion should not be take place while colleague be seat . if the hon . member for Sutton and Cheam ( Luke Taylor ) say he have no interest in this Bill , then he do not have to attend . I think he be seek to intervene , but he be not ; he be want to make some sedentary remark . I have put on the record my opposition to and scepticism about the content of this Bill , and I will leave it at that . I thank the hon . member for Amber Valley ( Linsey Farnsworth ) for bring the Bill forward . for many in this Chamber , the Euro 2020 final be a rollercoaster of ecstasy and disappointment , though I appreciate that certain member from other part of our United Kingdom may have feel a little less devastate at the result . beyond heartbreak on the pitch , the Euro 2020 final be a day that nearly end in catastrophe . thousand of ticketless fan force their way into Wembley , create chaotic and dangerous scene . when disaster be so narrowly avoid , it be reasonable to ask whether anybody make a mistake . sadly , this be not a one - off incident . tailgating be report again at both the 2024 champion league final and the 2025 league cup final . of the 91 arrest make on that day , 68 be relate to fraud — people try to get in without a ticket . we hear from the hon . member for Cumbernauld and Kirkintilloch ( Katrina Murray ) about a particularly upsetting and fatal day . these incident put genuine fan at risk and erode the trust that be necessary to police event of this scale properly . for many people in this country , a trip to the football be the highlight of their year . for many family , it be a hard - earn outing or rare treat for their child — something they scrimp and save for . what must they think when they see hooligan jump the barrier and get in for free ? they must think that they be the mug for have pay and follow the rule in the first place . it be therefore right that we give police and organiser the tool they need , not just to remove people in the moment but to prevent repeat offence through ban order . that build on step take by the previous Government that see drug - relate offence in football stadium likewise result in stadium ban . I welcome the clear focus on intent . the defence include in the Bill be thorough . I hope that the Minister can confirm that enforcement will be direct firmly at dangerous deliberate entry , and will not affect fan who responsibly pass on spare ticket . target , common - sense enforcement be exactly the right approach to tackle this kind of disorder . where new power be necessary , the opposition will support their introduction . the fa certainly seem to support the introduction of a bespoke offence for tailgating . however , all too often , we do not make enough use of exist power . if I understand the sentiment express by my hon . friend the Member for Christchurch ( Sir Christopher Chope ) , who be no long in his place , he be say that the law introduce in this place be often improperly enforce . follow the 68 arrest that I mention early , not a single person have be charge . a bespoke tailgate offence will make little difference unless police and the Crown Prosecution Service be willing and able to secure conviction . we must support they in do so , as well as in take other step , such as co - operate with stadium to advise on case in which stadium ban might be appropriate . more broadly , many of we be concern by the rapid erosion of the social contract . across our society , we be witness a troubling disregard for not only law and order , but standard of behaviour . whether it be people push through ticket barrier on the tube , as my hon . friend the Member for Christchurch mention and my right hon . friend the Member for Newark ( Robert Jenrick ) have highlight , or migrant work illegally as delivery driver , as my right hon . friend the Member for Croydon South ( Chris Philp ) have highlight , the principle be the same : law apply to everyone , or they apply only to those of we who be good enough stick to they , which be deeply unfair . if we do not take action to uphold those standard , particularly when safety be at stake , public confidence inevitably suffer . the starting point must always be the enforcement of our exist law , and we must give full support to institution such as the fa as they take step to improve safety and uphold standard . in the light of all that , I be pleased to reiterate the support express in Committee and confirm our continued support for this private Member ' s Bill . I again thank the hon . member for Amber Valley for introduce it . I warmly commend my hon . friend the Member for Amber Valley ( Linsey Farnsworth ) for bring forward this private Member ' s Bill . as a lifelong football supporter , she have make a powerful case for her Bill , and I congratulate she on secure support for it from across the House . I thank all hon . member who have contribute today , in particular my hon . friend the Member for Cumbernauld and Kirkintilloch ( Katrina Murray ) , who speak movingly about her experience of these matter . my hon . friend the Member for Amber Valley speak about the rich history of football . the Bill address a clear and pressing issue : the grow problem of unauthorised access to football match , particularly at high - profile fixture . it do so by create a new football - specific offence of unauthorised entry to designate match . it capture a wide range of behaviour , from tailgate and force entry to the use of forge document or the impersonation of match - day staff . crucially , it will also enable court to impose football ban order on conviction , provide a strong deterrent and a vital tool to prevent repeat offend and protect public safety . the Bill respond directly to the recommendation of Baroness Casey ' s independent review into the serious disorder at the Euro 2020 final , where thousand of ticketless individual gain access to Wembley stadium , many through mass force entry or tailgating . let I be clear : this be a recur problem . we see further evidence of it at the 2024 UEFA champions league final , which be again at Wembley , where group of ticketless fan make repeat attempt to breach security . similar behaviour be see at premier league match , particularly if away allocation be limited . it be a wide pattern of behaviour that need to be address . such behaviour be not only selfish and dishonest , but fundamentally dangerous . it place enormous strain on stadium security , create serious risk to public safety and undermine the experience of law - abide fan . the Government be clear that it can not and will not be allow to continue . that be why we support the Bill . force entry , tailgating and so - call jibbing be not victimless act . those involve be often aggressive , violent or threatening , and their action can lead to overcrowding , block emergency exit and frightening condition for innocent fan . in some case , individual have even attempt to bribe steward or turnstile operator to gain access . that will be capture by the new offence . the offence will also apply to those who knowingly attempt to use a ticket , whether physical or digital , that have already be use . let I be clear : this be not about criminalise honest mistake or punish fan who have be mislead . the Bill include important safeguard to ensure that individual with lawful authority , such as emergency worker or stadium staff , be not catch by the offence , and it will not apply to those who unwittingly purchase counterfeit ticket in good faith or breach the term and condition of a legitimate ticket . that be a point refer to by the Father of the House , the right hon . member for Gainsborough ( Sir Edward Leigh ) , and by the shadow Minister , the hon . member for Weald of Kent ( Katie Lam ) — I agree with the point she make about enforcement . this be a proportionate , targeted and necessary measure . it reflect the unique public order challenge associate with football , which be not see to the same extent in other sport or event . it be also consistent with the broad framework of the Football ( Offences ) Act 1991 and the Football Spectators Act 1989 . the Bill have enjoy cross - party support throughout its passage , and rightly so . it be a fan - friendly measure that protect the vast majority of decent supporter from the action of a disruptive minority , and it will help to ensure that football remain a safe and welcoming environment for all . I once again thank my hon . friend the Member for Amber Valley for her excellent work on this Bill , and I commend it to the House . with the leave of the House , I associate myself with the tribute to the Ibrox victim give so movingly by my hon . friend the Member for Cumbernauld and Kirkintilloch ( Katrina Murray ) . there be many people I would like to thank for help to get the Bill to this stage , but first I will speak about footballer , vice - captain and much - love daughter and sister Maddy Cusack , who live in my constituency in Horsley and pass away tragically in September 2023 . I dedicate this Bill to she , with the knowledge that she would approve of its content , give her love for the game and for the safety of the fan who come to watch her light up the pitch week in , week out . the Maddy Cusack Foundation have be set up in her honour , with the aim of continue her legacy . the foundation have do wonderful work , provide opportunity and inspire young girl and woman in football , include sponsor local team to ensure that the next generation of footballer be equip to face the world in the fierce , determined and spirited manner that Maddy face it . I encourage member , in their own time , to look into the wonderful work that the foundation be do . I thank the Football Association and the Football Association of Wales , which have both support this Bill ; the Clerks and civil servant who help to draft it and offer support throughout the process ; the member who take it through Committee ; and my hon . friend the Members for Uxbridge and South Ruislip ( Danny Beales ) and for Hartlepool ( Mr Brash ) , who co - sponsor the Bill . I thank Baroness Casey for her report and the important work she have do around fan safety , and I thank my staff , who provide continued guidance and support . I must also extend my thank to Lord Brennan , whose work as the original promoter of the Bill have be invaluable . football be a game of two half . at the risk of create an overstretched analogy , I believe it be fitting that the second half of this Bill and its journey should be play out under Lord Brennan ' s capable guidance and captaincy in the other place , should it pass today . if the Bill pass , I will happily pass the armband to he . question put and agree to . Bill accordingly read the third time and pass . Rare Cancers Bill consideration of Bill , not amend in the Public Bill Committee Clause 1 - Review of law on marketing authorisation I beg to move amendment 1 , page 1 , line 5 , leave out " and " . with this it will be convenient to discuss the follow : amendment 2 , page 1 , line 6 , at end insert " and ( c ) set out a timetable for implement any change in the law recommend by the review . " Amendment 3 , page 1 , line 7 , leave out " in particular " . amendment 4 , page 1 , line 9 , leave out " three " and insert " two " . amendment 5 , page 2 , line 3 , leave out " in the opinion of the Secretary of State " . amendment 6 , in clause 2 , page 2 , line 7 , leave out from " be " to end of line 8 and insert " arrangement in place to " . amendment 7 , page 2 , line 12 , after " appoint " insert " within the period of 6 month begin with the day on which this Act be pass " . amendment 8 , in clause 3 , page 2 , line 33 , leave out " in the opinion of NHS England " . amendment 9 , page 2 , line 40 , leave out subsection ( 4 ) . this be certainly not a trivial bill ; it be a really important piece of legislation , which I congratulate the hon . member for Edinburgh South West ( Dr Arthur ) on introduce and pioneer . it be not a Government handout ; it be an idea that he think need to be the subject of legislation and he have pursue it . we have a fantastic second reading debate . there be tremendous interest in the Bill . may I therefore make it clear at the outset that my amendment be design to try to strengthen the Bill rather than anything else ? I explain my position to the hon . Gentleman yesterday . he say , understandably , that to a large extent he be constrain , because he be try to negotiate with the Government and with the Department of Health and Social Care , and unless he show himself to be reasonably compliant , he would not have get the Bill to a state where it could be accept by the Government . I note the different position on this , and I fully understand and respect the hon . Gentleman ' s position . the hon . member for Mitcham and Morden ( Dame Siobhain McDonagh ) basically say that if she have introduce such a Bill , she would have get so steamed up about it that she would have include a lot more strength and safeguard , and as a consequence it probably would not have get anywhere near be consider on Report . those be two different approach . I be , relatively speak , neutral on the matter — I be a sympathetic supporter of the Bill — but I have a lot of background experience of how government always try to give themselves wriggle room , in effect to maintain control over everything , and in my view the Bill could be improve by be amend , with the will of the House , on Report . we could talk about take some of my amendment to the other place , but the trouble be that the Government machine may say that there will not be any more sit friday in this House , so if the Bill be to be amend in the other place it might fall completely , because it would need to be bring back here . that be why it be important that the House should consider these amendment now rather than leave they to the other place . amendment 1 , which be to be read with amendment 2 , be a prime example of the point I make early . we have a commitment from the Government that : " the Secretary of State must … carry out a review of the law relate to marketing authorisation for orphan medicinal product that be for the diagnosis , prevention or treatment of cancer " — great — " and … prepare and publish a report set out the conclusion of the review . " but what be the timescale for that , and what will happen after those conclusion be produce ? there be no obligation on the Government to do anything else . the review and its conclusion could be just leave on one side . we in the House be in a position to tighten those provision up and say , " this be not good enough . there should be a timetable for implement the change in the law recommend by the review . " that be the essence of the two amendment . to look at another gap that could be exploit by the Government , the Bill say that the report must be " publish before the end of the period of three year begin with the day on which the Act be pass " . I have table amendment 4 to say that the period should be two year . in respect of both those point , I have have a helpful email from Diana Jupp from Pancreatic Cancer UK , who write on behalf of more than 30 charity represent patient affect by rare and less common cancer . she comment on my amendment . on amendment 2 , she say , " we be keen to push for this change with the Department once we reach implementation stage of the Bill . " with the great of respect to Diana Jupp , we can do this now . instead of leave it to she and her colleague to try to pressurise the Department later , we in this House have the power to change the legislation in the way that I have suggest , so that there would be a timetable set out for implement the change in the law recommend by the review . in response to amendment 4 , Diana Jupp say that " this timeline have be agree with the Department and in our opinion would tie into the timeline of other develop cancer policy implementation , include the cancer plan . " obviously , the most important part of her comment be that the timeline have be agree with the Department , because if it have not be , the Department and the Minister would not have take the Bill forward in this way and agree to it . on the timeline , I draw the House ' s attention to the evidence base set out in the impact assessment . it say that the whole process will take one year . the Department reckon that it will cost £ 130 , 000 and set out how many full - time equivalent civil servant will be involve in it . if it will only take one year , why be we say that it need to have three year ? that be an example of why we need to tighten up the Bill , because if this be a review that need to and will be carry out , why do we not get on with it ? to suggest that it will take long than a year be to go against the Department ' s own evidence set out in the impact assessment . the impact assessment say on page 6 , under the heading " mandate a Government review of the orphan drug regulation " : " this will place a duty on the Government to publish a review which will be a comparison of orphan drug Regulations ( specifically Part 5 of the Human Medicines Regulations 2012 ) and international regulatory approach to support the research and development of orphan medicinal product that be for the diagnosis , prevention or treatment of cancer . since the review be concern with orphan drug regulation it be by default cover rare cancer . the finding should be publish within 3 year . " on page 7 , paragraph 19 on financial cost say , " it be difficult to estimate the resource cost require for the orphan drug review , since the exact scope remain to be agree . however , we estimate the cost to the Department of Health and Social Care to produce and publish a report on orphan drug Regulations to incur cost of approximately £ 0 . 14 m in relation to staff resource . this reflect the cost of 0 . 3 x scs staff , 1 x FTE Grade 6 or Grade 7 staff , 0 . 3 x Grade 7 staff and 0 . 5 x seo staff for one year . " that be what the Government say : only one year will be necessary . in that case , why be my generous amendment , which would restrict the period from three year to two year , unacceptable to the Government ? there be a history of dragging of foot at the Department of Health and Social Care , I be afraid ; we certainly hear about that on Second Reading . I give the House that specific example of why , on the Government ' s own evidence , they should accept the change from three year to two . amendment 3 would leave out " in particular " from line 7 , which read : " in carry out the review the Secretary of State must , in particular , consider regulatory approach in other country . " the amendment be intend to probe rather than anything else . why do the word " in particular " need to be incorporate ? surely it would be simple to say that the Secretary of State " must consider regulatory approach in other country " — full stop , period . but that be not how it be at the moment . amendment 5 would leave out the reference to the Secretary of State . this be to do with the definition of a rare cancer . currently , clause 2 would add this wording to the National Health Service Act 2006 : " the research that the Secretary must facilitate or otherwise promote under subsection ( 1 ) ( a ) include research into cancer that in the opinion of the Secretary of State be rare cancer . " why can not it not just say " that be rare cancer " ? indeed , clause 2 would also add this wording to the 2006 Act : " in this section ' rare cancer ' mean a cancer that affect not more than 1 in 2000 people in the United Kingdom . " that be an issue of fact . the Secretary of State should not be able to basically have a veto over the interpretation of what be or be not a rare cancer . this be just another example of the control freakery within the Department . I be sorry that so far the Minister do not seem to have stand up to official who have persuade he , no doubt , that we need the expression " in the opinion of the Secretary of State " . again , the argument be quite straightforward and the people from Pancreatic Cancer UK be on my side , but they be obviously very keen for the Bill to get on to the statute book . we all have to recognise that it be within the Government ' s power to prevent it from make any further progress . that be why it will be quite difficult , I suppose , to persuade the Minister to accept amendment 5 . amendment 6 would leave out from " be " to the end of the line and insert " arrangement in place to " in this statement in clause 2 : " in discharge the duty under subsection ( 1 ) ( a ) in relation to those cancer , the Secretary of State must , in particular , ensure that there be such arrangement in place as the Secretary of State consider appropriate to " . why can we not just say " arrangement in place to enable potential participant in clinical trial " , and so on ? why do we need to give the Secretary of State discretion — a veto , essentially — over whether he consider those arrangement to be appropriate ? it seem to I completely redundant , unnecessary and , indeed , oppressive . it be counter to the express wish of this House on Second Reading , when there be impatience over the delay , because of the need to get on with this , and suspicion over the failure of the Department of Health and Social Care — under not just this government but previous government , which I would be the first to accept — to actually deal with the crisis involve people who be subject to rare cancer . that be amendment 6 . I be try to beetle through these amendment quite quickly , Madam Deputy Speaker , so that other people can participate in this important debate . amendment 7 attempt to tie down when clinical trial will be able to be implement . it relate to the research , and the requirement on the Secretary of State to ensure the appointment of a person to be know as the national speciality lead for rare cancer , but there be no timescale for that to be do , so I be propose six month . there be a wide issue , though . there be no reason why the appointment could not be make now . there be no reason why it could not have be make when the Bill be first introduce . it be quite clear from the impact assessment that the speciality lead will be appoint by a quango , essentially , which already have specialty lead for a whole lot of other issue . why can we not just appoint this person now ? it be say that the cost of the appointment will be a mere £ 16 , 000 . I do not understand why it be necessary to include in the Bill a specific requirement that the appointment be make when we know that the National Institute for Health and Care Research have national speciality lead for research delivery within the research delivery network . their role be " primarily to support research delivery in their discipline within health and care setting , with knowledge and experience of the full scope of the NIHR and the wide health and care delivery infrastructure in England . " the lead work with patient , the public , health and care professional include research and development community within the NHS and wide care system , academic and life science partner . they " aim to ensure strategic oversight and a focus on continuous improvement of the research delivery portfolio . " such specialty lead therefore already exist . they do not exist courtesy of specific legislation require that they exist ; they already exist under the NIHR . why have the NIHR not appoint such a specialty lead to deal with rare cancer ? why be it necessary for we to legislate to require that , but in weak legislation that do not set out any timetable for the making of that appointment ? that , in my view , be another reason for tighten up the Bill . the impact assessment , under the policy objective , state : " this aim to ensure there be adequate oversight of research delivery for rare cancer , by appoint a name person in England to provide leadership and advice for the delivery of rare cancer research . it be envisage this individual would be employ by the NIHR . " it be accept that that person would be employ by the NIHR , so why do we have to wait for that person to be employ ? and it be say that the cost will be only some £ 16 , 000 a year . with my amendment , I be try to emphasise the need for proportionality . amendment 8 would leave out " in the opinion of NHS England " from clause 3 . as we know , NHS England be not short of opinion , but that be by the bye . clause 3 ( 3 ) state : " after subsection ( 5 ) insert — ( 5A ) in subsection ( 5 ) ( da ) ' relevant clinical trial ' mean clinical trial in connection with the research and development of orphan medicinal product for the diagnosis , prevention or treatment of cancer that in the opinion of NHS England be rare cancer " . now , I have already refer to this . the Bill define rare cancer as " a cancer that affect not more than 1 in 2 , 000 people in the United Kingdom . " so , what be it to do with NHS England ? the definition of a rare cancer be already in the Bill . surely , it be a matter of fact ? it should not be the subject of qualification or second - guess by NHS England , so why be it in the Bill ? in my submission , it give the Department more wriggle room . perhaps it mean that a whole lot of people in NHS England will have to work out whether a particular cancer complie with the definition of a rare cancer that " affect not more than 1 in 2 , 000 people " . there be another problem here . the Bill refer to the opinion of NHS England . as I understand it , NHS England be — to my great delight — about to be demolish . or rather , abolish . perhaps both — demolish and abolish ! so , why be we seek to include , in primary legislation , a reference to what , in the Government ' s view , be already a redundant body ? I would have expect the Government to have come forward with an amendment on that , but I be at their service , as always , and if they accept amendment 8 , then they will leave out " in the opinion of NHS England " and remove NHS England , and any reference to that organisation , from the Bill . I hope I be tempt the Minister to accept some of my amendment and tempt other member to speak in support of they . finally , amendment 9 again relate to clause 3 , and the " Disclosure of information for research purpose " . currently , subsection ( 4 ) state : " after subsection ( 6 ) " — of the Health and Social Care Act 2012 — " insert — ( 6a ) a power confer by this section to process information do not authorise the processing of information which would contravene the data protection legislation " . that be fine ; we can understand that . but I would be grateful if the Minister expand , when respond to the debate , on what be then in bracket : " ( but the power be to be take into account in determine whether the processing would contravene that legislation ) . " if somebody could explain what that mean , that would be extremely helpful . we know from the note that the common law duty of maintain privacy still apply . they be not remove as a result of this provision , so what do those word mean ? this be very much a probe amendment to try to obtain more information . Madam Deputy Speaker , that be a succinct summary of the point I be make and why I table those amendment . one or two people — out of ignorance , frankly — have write to I suggest that I have something other than their good interest at heart . I do have their good interest at heart , which I why I be put forward these amendment . I hope I will get a positive response from the Government . I rise to oppose the amendment , but I thank the hon . member for Christchurch ( Sir Christopher Chope ) for table they , for engage with the Bill and for our conversation yesterday , which I really appreciate . I understand the state intent of the proposal , although I be not minded to support they . over the last 10 month , I have hold dozen of meeting with family , survivor , sufferer , charity , clinician and legal expert , all with the aim of deliver meaningful change in this field . those meeting be not so that I could tell people about the Bill , but so that those people could shape the Bill . I fear that if we be to pass these amendment , they would upset the delicate balance of hope and aspiration that underpin the Bill . it be not just about the Minister , as the hon . Member suggest ; there be a whole coalition of people who have different opinion about the Bill , and I do not think any one person have a right to change it in that way , include I . that would be hugely disrespectful and a disappointment to that coalition , but I understand the hon . member ' s point . the Minister will go through the amendment in turn , so I will focus on three key one . the review of orphan drug be one of the hard - fight thing in the negotiation with the Department and charity , but we find a point that we could all agree on . I appreciate that the hon . Member want it to go far , and perhaps we could speculate about the outcome and well prepare for it , but it be much await by the charity and they be grateful for it . I do not want to speak on their behalf , but that be what I have hear from they . that cover amendment 1 and 2 . amendment 5 be about the definition of a rare cancer , which be an aspect of the Bill that I have not speak about in any great detail , so it be worth touch on here . the Bill set the definition of a rare cancer in statute and align it with the definition of a rare disease , which be a useful simplification . in future , let we hope that some condition fall out of that " rare " specification and need less emphasis , and let we also hope that people in the Department look at the treatment that be be develop inside and outside the UK . it be right that there should be a bit of flexibility at the edge of what the Department consider a rare cancer . the timeline of the review be three year . again , we spend a great deal of time talk about that . for some while , it be go to be much long than three year , and all of we want it to be much short , but that be the compromise we reach — it be like " Goldilocks and the Three Bears " . we reach that compromise together , so I urge the hon . member to respect our negotiation on that issue . I hear what the hon . Member be say , but why do the impact assessment say that the cost be for staff for only one year ? if the review will take three year , why be the staff fund for only one ? I thank the hon . member for that question . of course , the review will not start on day one after pass the Bill . it will take time to get up and run . the exist workload of those staff member will have to be reallocate , and I hope and expect there to be some initial engagement with the sector — both charity and pharmaceutical company — so a bit of flexibility be require . to be honest , I would love more money to be spend on that review so that we can get more depth and it can have a great impact . I be sure other hon . member present would agree . I hope the hon . member for Christchurch understand my position and recognise the strength of cross - party and sector - wide support that have bring the Bill this far . I regret not invite he to take part in the Bill Committee — we would have benefit from some of these comment at that stage — but some of the point that have be raise be discuss in Committee . it be a reasonably long discussion ; it do not last for hour , but it be not as short as some . I remain committed to work constructively with colleague as the Bill progress beyond today — let we hope it get beyond today — but I respectfully ask , in the strong possible term , that these amendment be not press . if they be , I hope member will oppose they . to your delight , I be sure , Madam Deputy Speaker , and to the delight of the whole House — especially that of the Government Whips — I be not go to speak for very long on Report , although I be not promise not to speak for some time on Third Reading . I wish to briefly speak to amendment 5 and 8 table by my hon . friend the Member for Christchurch ( Sir Christopher Chope ) . before that , though , I congratulate the hon . member for Edinburgh South West ( Dr Arthur ) on the Bill . I be generally supportive of it and think it be entirely necessary . turn to the amendment , my hon . friend the Member for Christchurch be right . it do concern I that the word " the opinion of the Secretary of State " be include propose new subsection ( 2 ) of section 1E of the National Health Service Act 2006 . as my hon . friend have point out , propose new subsection ( 4 ) of section 1E and propose new subsection ( 5A ) of section 261 of the Health and Social Care Act 2012 set out the definition of a rare cancer , and if the Bill pass , that definition will become law . I therefore think there be a contradiction within this piece of legislation : it contain an absolute definition of a rare cancer , but add some ambiguity by refer to the " opinion " of the Secretary of State . I ask the Minister to explain how both those thing can be true . if the Secretary of State decide that there be some other definition of a rare cancer , how can that possibly be in line with the definition that be write into the law ? as the hon . member for Edinburgh South West have say , the definition that have be include in the Bill — that a rare cancer be " a cancer that affect not more than 1 in 2000 people in the United Kingdom " — align it with the UK rare disease framework , which be publish by Lord Bethell in the other place in 2021 . it seem to I that that be an effective and suitable definition , so again , I ask the Minister whether he expect there to be some other definition . if he do not expect that , why be it necessary to include the word " the opinion of the Secretary of State " ? the Bill be not even consistent . propose new subsection ( 2 ) of section 1E of the National Health Service Act 2006 refer to the opinion of the Secretary of State , but propose new subsection ( 5A ) of section 261 of the Health and Social Care Act 2012 talk about " the opinion of NHS England " . as my hon . friend the Member for Christchurch have point out , NHS England be fortunately go to be abolish very soon . when that happen , will we have to pass either primary legislation or secondary legislation to delete those word from the Bill ? would it not be well if we delete the word " the opinion of NHS England " now ? why will the Minister not consider remove they ? if there be some reason why he think the Secretary of State might have to change the definition , why be those two clause of the Bill not consistent ? I hope hon . member will see that what the hon . member for Christchurch and I be try to achieve — certainly through amendment 5 and 8 — be to establish a clear definition of a rare cancer . we be aim to ensure that there be no ambiguity in that definition , and if there be to be ambiguity , we want to at least ensure that the body or authority that be go to make any change be consistent in the legislation . I call the shadow Minister . I rise to speak on behalf of his Majesty ' s official Opposition in support of the Rare Cancers Bill , and to welcome its thoughtful and necessary intervention on behalf of a group of patient who have be under - research , under - represent , and under - acknowledge for too long . I commend the hon . member for Edinburgh South West ( Dr Arthur ) on bring this Bill forward , and on his ongoing dedication to the issue . the case for the Bill be clear : rare cancer — define , in line with the UK rare disease framework , as condition affect few than one in 2 , 000 people — be individually uncommon but collectively account for more than 20 % of all cancer diagnosis . however , as we know , patient with rare cancer routinely face delay diagnosis , limited treatment option and far few opportunity to participate in clinical research . the Bill do not claim to be a silver bullet , but it do mark a significant step forward in how we think about and legislate for research , regulation and datum access in rare cancer care . it be focused , proportionate and strategically align with the exist NHS and National Institute for Health and Care Research framework . clause 1 place a duty on the Secretary of State to carry out a review of the law relate to marketing authorisation for orphan medicinal product that be for the diagnosis , prevention or treatment of cancer . it also rightly require that the review include comparison with regulatory approach in other country . this be vital . the explanatory note rightly observe that research into rare cancer be often commercially unattractive because of small patient population and high developmental cost . if our regulatory environment create further barrier to entry , patient suffer — not because the science do not exist but because the system do not support it . the UK ' s current approach to orphan designation lack the pre - authorisation incentive find in system such as the European Medicines Agency and the US Food and Drug Administration . the review require under the Bill be the opportunity to ask whether we be do enough to attract the research and development that rare cancer patient deserve . I be not quite sure whether my hon . friend be respond to the amendment or make a Third reading speech . I hope he will address the amendment I have table , include those that relate to clause 1 , about which he have just speak . if my hon . friend bear with I , I will turn directly to his amendment . it be important to first set out the context , because we must understand the clause if we be to debate the amendment to they . clause 2 make crucial change to the Secretary of State ' s duty under the National Health Service Act 2006 by state explicitly that it must include research into cancer that , in the opinion of the Secretary of State , be rare . although this matter , the research agenda be often drive by number and funding scale . by mandate that rare cancer be part of the agenda , the Bill begin to shift the culture towards inclusion , equity and long - term thinking . I particularly welcome the creation of the national specialty lead for rare cancer , model the NIHR ' s exist structure of research delivery leader . this individual will be task with promote and facilitate research , advise on trial design and convening collaboration . the success of this role will depend on it not just be symbolically support but have a clear remit , adequate funding and a strategic alignment with the wide NIHR research delivery network . clause 3 amend section 261 of the Health and Social Care Act 2012 to allow NHS England to disclose information from cancer registry for the purpose of identify and contact potential clinical trial participant . this be a significant and necessary step . the Bill distinguish between a disease registry , like the National Disease Registration Service , and a contact registry , such as be Part of Research . make sure that these system can speak to each other will be of significant benefit when it come to match patient with opportunity . importantly , the clause reaffirm that any such datum sharing must remain compliant with the Data Protection Act 2018 . as propose new subsection 6a to the 2012 Act make clear , " a power confer by this section to process information do not authorise the processing of information which would contravene the data protection legislation " . this be a safeguard that we must preserve , not weaken , if we be to maintain public trust in the system . at this point I turn to the amendment table by my hon . friend the Member for Christchurch ( Sir Christopher Chope ) . he approach private member ' Bills in the way that a jeweller examine diamond — with a magnifying glass , a steady hand and absolutely no tolerance for flaw . we may grumble as the clock tick on , but deep down we all sleep well know that he be read the footnote . this Bill be no different ; he have approach it with rigour , and I thank he for his commitment to precision and improve clarity and accountability . as he point out , the Bill be not trivial . therefore , it be not only right , but indeed the duty of this House , to scrutinise closely legislation and amendment lay before we . to that end , several of the amendment aim to tighten the Bill ' s draft or introduce firm deadline . for example , amendment 4 would reduce the timeframe for the review under clause 1 from three year to two . amendment 2 would require the Secretary of State to " set out a timetable for implement any change in the law recommend by the review . " I understand the concern that review can drift , but the three - year period reflect the complexity of the subject : a UK - wide review of the Human Medicines Regulations 2012 , include benchmarke against other jurisdiction and engage multiple agency . compress the timeline might jeopardise the depth or quality of the analysis . likewise , a statutory timetable for implementation could constrain the Government prematurely , before the review ' s conclusion be even know . I be very grateful to my hon . friend for his unprompted comment . he will know that the funding be sufficient to staff the review only for one year . if there be only fund for one year , why do it take three ? my hon . friend know , far well than I , not to look at legislation in isolation . the Government will at some point bring forward the cancer plan , which will have a direct crossover with the Bill , so it be right to give the Government the freedom and space to implement the legislation . if we rush it , we could get it wrong , which would be even more detrimental for those who suffer with rare cancer . other amendment address definition and discretion . for example , amendment 5 would remove " in the opinion of the Secretary of State " from the definition of rare cancer , and amendment 8 would remove similar wording in relation to NHS England ' s discretion . at first glance , the amendment may seem like matter of tidy drafting , but retain discretion be important , especially as regard rare cancer . prevalence datum can be uncertain or lagging , and flexibility allow for expert judgment about edge case in which rigid definition may unintentionally exclude patient from trial or research that could benefit they . on top of that , there be concern even about simple definition . we be still explore the difference between , for example , pre - cancerous and cancerous cell . if someone go for a smear , that be what they be tell . this be a new area . who know what will come up in the future ? simply define rare cancer on the basis of lag prevalence datum be a risk , and it be therefore right that the Government and the Secretary at State have discretion to direct in one way or another . however , I would grateful if the Government would answer the question , which have be rightly pose , of who or what will fill the role when NHS England be abolish . it be not clear exactly what that will look like . I have ask the Minister this question several time , in relation to the Mental Health Bill and other area , and it be a question that this House should rightly ask . who will be responsible for what , when and why ? that say , amendment 7 , which would ensure that the propose national specialty lead be appoint within six month of Royal Assent , deserve serious consideration . patient have wait long enough . if the Government be confident that the post can be establish promptly and resource effectively , I would welcome that ambition be state at the Dispatch Box today . finally , I must express my concern about amendment 9 , which propose to remove the data protection safeguard in clause 3 ( 4 ) . although the provision may be declaratory , in that it reaffirm exist legal obligation , it none the less offer clarity and reassurance . in an area as sensitive as health datum , such clarity matter , and the subsection ' s removal could cause unnecessary concern , even if the underlying law remain unchanged . in conclusion , this Bill be not about grandstand . it be modest in financial cost , careful in its drafting and realistic in its scope , but its impact could be significant . for patient live with rare cancer , and clinician and researcher strive to support they , the Bill offer real hope — hope for fast access to innovation , hope for more inclusive research and hope for a regulatory system that work for the many , not just the minority . every patient matter , whether they be one in two or one in 2 , 000 . as we state on Second Reading and in Committee , we support the Bill , and I thank the House for give I the chance to explain why . I be grateful to my hon . friend the Member for Edinburgh South West ( Dr Arthur ) for bring this Bill before the House , and I congratulate he on get it to report . amendment 1 allow amendment 2 to be insert into the Bill . amendment 2 would require the Secretary of State , have carry out the review describe in clause 1 , to set out a timetable for implement change to the law recommend by the review . however , it would not be appropriate to presume the outcome of the review of orphan drug regulation that be outline in clause 1 . amendment 2 presuppose that the review will recommend change the law , and that there be change the Secretary of State would be willing to support , follow a legal consultation . that be not consider appropriate at this stage . amendment 3 be unnecessarily restrictive , introduce wording that confine the review unnecessarily . we want to ensure that a thorough review be conduct , and my hon . friend the Minister for Secondary Care will be work with her official to ensure that that happen . for amendment 4 , the three - year timeframe to prepare and publish the review and the necessary resourcing requirement have be discuss with official in my Department and at the Medicines and Healthcare product Regulatory Agency . I remind member that the text in the Bill reflect the statutory deadline , but we will endeavour to publish a report ahead of the three - year timeframe , which have be put forward to be consistent with the MHRA ' s overall workplan . on amendment 5 , there be different definition of a rare cancer , and we work with my hon . friend the Member for Edinburgh South West to agree the definition in the Bill as a cancer that affect not more than one in 2 , 000 people in the UK . however , a level of discretion for the Secretary of State be require over what fall within that definition , since the fact underlie and the datum on diagnosis be constantly change . the amendment would make it difficult to implement the clause in practical and operational term . amendment 6 would remove the ability of the Secretary of State to exercise discretion as to how their duty would be discharge . this be not consider appropriate , since it make the operation of clause 2 less workable in practice , and would lack the Government ' s assessment of what in all the circumstance would be the most appropriate manner of implementation . amendment 7 would introduce a specific timeframe — just six month — to allow the appointment of the specialty lead . although I agree that we will need to appoint the specialty lead promptly , introduce a statutory timeframe be not consider workable for practical reason . there could be unforeseen delay ; for example , recruitment process might delay the appointment beyond six month . on amendment 8 , as mention previously there be different definition for a rare cancer . that be because the datum on cancer diagnosis be constantly change , and decision on whether the criterion for a rare cancer be meet will inevitably involve an element of judgment . the amendment would make it difficult to implement the clause in practical and operational term . I turn finally to amendment 9 . it be essential that information relate to people ' s health and care be share appropriately , lawfully , and in line with their reasonable expectation . amendment 9 would remove the provision confirm that any sharing of information pursuant to the power create by the Bill , and under NHS England ' s exist power , must be in accordance with data protection legislation . that include compliance with key principle such as lawfulness and fairness . that layer of assurance be essential for the protection of patient , and clause 3 be a standard provision that make that explicit . for those reason , I ask the hon . member for Christchurch ( Sir Christopher Chope ) to withdraw all nine of his amendment . Sir Christopher , be it your pleasure that amendment 1 be withdraw ? be it possible to respond , Madam Deputy Speaker ? very briefly . I be ask whether amendment 1 would be push to a vote or withdraw , so if you could alert I to that it would be very useful . I will respond briefly to the debate . in so do , I thank my hon . friend the Members for Hinckley and Bosworth ( Dr Evans ) and for Farnham and Bordon ( Gregory Stafford ) for their contribution . I listen for what the Minister would say in response to my point about NHS England , but I do not hear the expression " NHS England " come from between his lip , and I wonder whether that be an oversight or whether it be leave out of his brief deliberately by official from NHS England . amendment 8 specifically deal with NHS England , and my hon . friend the Member for Hinckley and Bosworth refer to it . do the Minister ' s reluctance to intervene at this stage show that he be in denial about the policy in relation to NHS England ? I presume that he be in such denial . we have have a classic example from the Minister of why the civil service be rule okay , because it can come forward with a valid objection to every possible suggest alternative and amendment . I do not think that this attitude will be very helpful to the people we be try to help through the Bill — namely , those who be suffer from rare cancer and who want we to make progress in this area . I will not press any of these amendment to a vote , but I hope that when the Bill get to the other place there will be more persistent probing , particularly on the issue around NHS England and the definition . to give credit where it be due , I be pleased with what the Minister say about the specialty lead . as discuss , we do not need legislation for this anyway . he say he want to have that deal with promptly but be fearful of accept an amendment that require it to be do within six month because of the possibility of unforeseen delay . I take it from that that he be go to get on with that aspect , and let we hope that that go fast rather than slow . I beg to ask leave to withdraw the amendment . amendment , by leave , withdraw . third read I beg to move , that the Bill be now read the third time . what a joy it be to say that ! Madam Deputy Speaker , it have be 10 month since you pull my little ping - pong ball out of the goldfish bowl and I start this journey . it be worth remember that part of the reason behind this Bill be the death of my father - in - law to a rare cancer type call glioblastoma . I be forever grateful to my hon . friend the Member for Mitcham and Morden ( Dame Siobhain McDonagh ) for the information she give I about that condition and how it impact so many people , because I have always just be focus on my father - in - law . when the ping - pong ball be pull out of the goldfish bowl , I get so many email , many of which be about glioblastoma . the reality be that someone who be diagnose that day with glioblastoma would more than likely be dead by now — that be how serious the condition be . they would face treatment that be out of date , and their future would be dominate by uncertainty . we should not forget why we be here : to change that reality for people and their family . this Bill have resonate with many member of this House and with many people in my constituency . on Second Reading , I share the tragic story of a young constituent call Tilly , who pass away from neuroblastoma , and Kira , who have live with the same condition for a decade — half of her life . I be proud to wear the Solving Kids ' cancer badge , which Kira ' s mother Aud give I when I last meet she . today , I also want to acknowledge the many people from across the UK — not just voter in Edinburgh South West — who have contact I to voice their support and share their story . one lady travel quite far to meet I at my constituency surgery in July in Tesco in Colinton Mains . her daughter be diagnose with a sarcoma . in Tesco , next to the bleep self - checkout aisle , she tell I about the uncertainty she have face after that diagnosis and how she have find it impossible even to understand which trial be available , let alone access they . I could see that she have feel powerless and have lose hope . the other reason she be in Edinburgh — perhaps the most important reason — be that she be meet she ex - husband to scatter her daughter ' s ashe in a local park . what be happen to people who face these condition be quite incredible , so it be right that we seek to address they . it have be incredible to hear these story , and when I reflect on they , I can see that there be three recur theme . the first be frustration . as thing stand , our NHS be ill equip to deal with these patient . Awareness level be often low among clinician , which lead to the scourge of late diagnosis . I know that will be address in the cancer plan . family and patient be also frustrate by the limited access to cutting - edge trial — I have already give an example of that . as a result , many rare cancer patient understandably feel like they have to battle not just against the cancer but for attention . the second key thing that unite these story be perseverance . rare cancer patient continually push back and advocate for the change that they believe must happen — often fundraise or even set up and run their own charity to help to achieve those goal . thirdly , each and every story conclude with an offer of help . rather than ask what I can do for they , because often rare cancer patient know that their option be limited , they want to know what they can do to help with the Bill , help other with the same condition , and help to make this legislation a reality . I believe that be a testament to the transformational role that the Bill could have , and I thank member who have already make that point . for far too long , rare cancer patient have be leave behind — as medical science make significant progress in many other complex field , we have not see enough progress in this one — but they feel this piece of legislation could mark a meaningful shift for many and turn out to be life - alter , perhaps even lifesave , for some . there be one statistic that I often mention : rare cancer be not really rare , as they account for 47 % of all cancer diagnosis in the UK each year . that equate to 180 , 000 people . if you be one of those 47 % , two thing be true : you be more likely to face outdated treatment and you be more likely to die . the Bill be about justice and create a more level playing field for those patient and their family . it will achieve that by place a duty on the Secretary of State to promote research into rare cancer , include appoint a national specialty lead to co - ordinate effort across the sector . if anybody doubt the need for that , I be sure my hon . friend the Member for Mitcham and Morden can talk about what have be happen in recent year . the Bill will also increase patient access to clinical trial by strengthen and streamline the Be Part of Research registry and build a central database of willing patient to help researcher to find trial participant more easily . that be key to attract trial to the UK . lastly , the Bill will trigger a Government review into orphan drug — I really dislike that phrase ; this be about rare condition — to explore new pathway to incentivise pharmaceutical company to trial repurpose and innovative treatment for rare cancer . together , those step will reduce the barrier to research and attract more trial to the UK , and ultimately lead to fast and fair access to lifesave treatment . I be a humble person , and do not want to be accuse of overstate the impact of the Bill , so I will take the liberty of quote other , if member do not mind . the Brain Tumour Charity , which have be so helpful , say that the Bill will be transformative and help to " improve access to clinical trial for people live with rare and less common cancer " . another helpful charity , Brain Tumour Research , say that the Bill " could significantly improve research and treatment pathway for patient . " Pancreatic Cancer UK , which have be at the core of what we be do — and , it turn out , have be in correspondence with the hon . member for Christchurch ( Sir Christopher Chope ) — say that if the Bill " become law , it have the potential to improve survival rate for pancreatic cancer and other cancer that have be leave behind . " I know the hon . member for Witney ( Charlie Maynard ) want to be here today but could not be . instead , his sister Georgie leave a message on my social medium . she live with glioblastoma and be a fantastic campaigner in this field . she say : " your Bill will make a significant difference , help ten of thousand who desperately need more research to find a cure . " no pressure , therefore , for I or we in the Chamber today . there be also a strong economic argument for introduce this legislation . by create the condition for more rare cancer trial to take place in the UK , we can attract investment , stimulate innovation and create new job in research , science and healthcare . this be an opportunity to give british science and institution a global leadership role in tackle some of the most challenging disease of our time . I recently have the pleasure of visit Edinburgh University researcher base in an NHS hospital , the western general in Edinburgh . I be invite along to see a thing call a robotic microscope . it sound exciting , and I be look forward to get my picture take next to it , but it be actually a very ordinary piece of instrumentation . I get my picture take in the end , but I do not think I use it . it be a fantastic piece of equipment , and it be couple with a supercomputer . it do what would previously have be a lifetime of analysis in just a few day . it be fantastic that in this House , we have all agree that Edinburgh University should get a new supercomputer . analysis that use to take a few day will take just a few hour , move we close to find cure . the United States have show how investment in this area can stimulate growth through its cancer Act . it would offer a real step change in the UK if we could do the same . I will draw to a conclusion , because I know other want to speak . there be a strong moral and economic argument for this Bill , and the progress within it be long overdue . once again , I congratulate the hon . member for Edinburgh South West ( Dr Arthur ) on bring this essential Bill before we and thank he for the hard work he have do to make sure we get to this place . as I have say many time in this House , early detection save life , but without meaningful progress in research we will fall behind other country make major advance in cancer care . we call these rare cancer , and they be rare in their individual component , but I have be amazed by how many constituent across Farnham , Bordon , Haslemere , Liphook and the surround village have contact I in support of the Bill and to share their experience . despite rare and less common cancer receive more than half of UK cancer research funding in recent year , a staggering 82 % of patient survey by Cancer52 say that they be never offer the chance to participate in a clinical trial . that be not because there be no public support or because the science be not there , but because persistent structural barrier be in the way . the Bill address those barrier directly . if enact , the Rare Cancers Bill will appoint a national specialty lead for rare cancer within Government , create accountability , facilitate research and collaboration , and embed co - ordination across NHS England — while it still exist — the National Institute for Health and Care Research and cancer alliance . secondly , it will mandate a review of the UK ' s orphan drug regulation , align incentive such as marketing exclusivity and reduce regulatory fee with international good practice . thirdly , it will adapt the NIHR ' s be Part of Research platform to create a dedicated , proactive registry that directly link patient with relevant clinical trial . let we be clear : this Bill aim to deploy smart system , harness the power of artificial intelligence , expand fair access to treatment , end the postcode lottery and ensure that every patient , no matter the type of cancer , have the opportunity to benefit from research and high - quality personalise care . let we also be clear about the need . rare and less common cancer account for 47 % of all UK cancer diagnosis , yet they be responsible for 55 % of all cancer death . that mean that more than half of those who die of cancer in this country do so from condition that receive disproportionately less investment , less attention and less hope . the disparity in survival be stark . for some rare cancer , five - year survival rate languish in the single digit . only 16 % of people diagnose with cancer of the pancreas , brain , oesophagus , liver or stomach survive beyond five year . by contrast , the five - year survival rate across more common cancer be more than 55 % . this be not a marginal issue ; this be mainstream cancer care , but it be neglect . our international peer be take action . in country such as France , Germany and the USA , regulatory framework be actively incentivise clinical trial for rare cancer . the UK , meanwhile , have fall from second to 10th in Europe for access to orphan medicine . we must reverse that decline . we must unlock the potential of our research base , and this Bill give we the legislative structure to do so . the NHS 10 - year plan , launch with the ambition to modernise our health service , be a wide - range document . it rightly champion early diagnosis , innovation and personalised care , and there be no doubt that many of its pillar , particularly those on genomic , digital access and therapeutic innovation , can benefit people with rare cancer , but " can " be not the same as " will " , and " should " be not the same as " must " . the plan set out a national goal to diagnose 75 % of all cancer at stage 1 or 2 by 2028 . that target explicitly include rare and less common cancer . that be an important and necessary ambition but , as campaigner have rightly point out , without specific structural action on rare cancer , we will not hit that target ; even bad , we will leave some of the most vulnerable patient behind . as I have say , these be not fringe disease : these be mainstream condition that be under - research and under - resource . the 10 - year plan include a number of relevant commitment , such as the whole genome sequencing of newborn , support by £ 650 million of investment , which could revolutionise early detection of genetic cancer syndrome . of course , there be some safeguarding issue around that sequence — I do not want to pre - empt my column in PoliticsHome on Monday , but please read it for more about my concern over those safeguard . likewise , the plan include the expansion of genomic and pharmacogenomic service in the NHS , give we the potential to offer targeted therapy for rare cancer . it have a pipeline for advanced therapy medicinal product , include car t - cell treatment , which be already be roll out for certain rare blood cancer . it also streamline the regulatory pathway through a propose innovator passport to bring treatment to patient fast . those be step in the right direction , but let I be frank : the plan do not go far enough for people with rare cancer . there be no dedicated rare cancer taskforce , despite repeat call from Cancer52 , Sarcoma UK and the Brain Tumour Charity . there be no specific ringfence funding for rare cancer service , despite the complex multidisciplinary care that these condition require . there be no rare cancer - specific training pathway or fellowship , despite clear evidence from clinician that a lack of expertise be hamper outcome . the England rare disease action plan , publish alongside the NHS strategy , take some welcome step on collaborative network and datum integration , but rare cancer be again fold into a general framework , rather than give the targeted attention they so desperately need . I be here today on behalf of my young constituent , Imogen , and all young people face tongue cancer . it be a rare cancer , with frightening and disable treatment option . I be also here on behalf of my constituent Ros , who lose her mother to pancreatic cancer just 24 hour after diagnosis . do the hon . Member agree that this House should be unite in its support for practical , target reform to advance rare cancer research , which be support by more than 30 expert charity partner and which so many of our constituent desperately want to see pass into law ? I thank the hon . member for her intervention . she be absolutely right — I hope this matter have cross - party support in the House . as she point out , a significant number of charity across the country hope that the Bill will pass today , as do I . that bring I nicely on to what Jane Lyons , the former chief executive of Cancer52 , have say : " rare and less common cancer make up a massive part of the cancer burden in this country . they need proper structural attention — not just well - mean inclusion in generic plan . " she be right . we need dedicated leadership and a single accountable individual or office for rare cancer research and care . we need smart datum platform , such as the adapt be Part of Research system propose in the Bill , and we need a clear strategy for deliver orphan drug access , so that the UK become a destination for innovation , not a detour . when the NHS 10 - year plan speak of transformation , we must ensure that that transformation be inclusive . when we talk about prevention , early detection and innovation , we must be honest about who get access and who do not . if we be serious about improve outcome for all cancer patient , rare cancer must not be treat as an afterthought . they must be recognise for what they be : a major public health challenge hide in plain sight . the 10 - year plan give we the tool , but it be now up to this House and to Ministers to ensure that those tool be use equitably , strategically and with urgency . that be why I be incredibly sadden to hear that Dr Susan Michaelis , the founder of the lobular moonshot project , die a couple of day ago . Susan ' s life and legacy exemplify why this Bill matter . lobular breast cancer affect 22 woman every single day in the UK and more than 1 , 000 globally . it be not rare in the strict legal sense — more than six per 100 , 000 be diagnose annually — but due to the severe lack of research , awareness and tailor treatment , it deserve to be treat as such by our system . Susan be due to meet the Secretary of State on 14 July — this come Monday — to discuss how to accelerate the vital five - year research project she help to initiate . thankfully , that meeting will still go ahead . the campaign will not stop . the lobular moonshot project will continue — for Susan , and for every woman still face this disease without the research - back option that she deserve . Susan be far from alone . a constituent recently write to I about their mother , who die in 2011 , just three year after her diagnosis with glioblastoma multiforme , an aggressive and incurable brain tumour . the average glioblastoma survival time be 12 to 18 month ; only 25 % of patient survive more than a year , and just 5 % live beyond five . another campaigner speak movingly about the delay she face before be diagnose with a rare kidney cancer — initially misdiagnose , postpone by covid , and ultimately catch too late . there be so many rare cancer , and the story repeat . rare cancer be not rare to those live with they ; they be rare only to the system . accord to Jane Lyons , the former ceo of Cancer52 , " something like 47 % of all cancer diagnosis be for rare and less common cancer , but they account for 55 % of all cancer death … that ' s a massive number of challenge — and a huge opportunity for impact . " Sarcoma UK ' s recent report find that one in three sarcoma patient wait more than six month to be diagnose . referral pathway be frequently misapply , and this delay be not a minor inconvenience ; in cancer care , it can be fatal . the Brain Tumour Charity have call the Bill " essential for any real hope of progress in find a cure . " the less survivable Cancers Taskforce have declare that this legislation be " crucial for early diagnosis and equity of access . " the Urostomy Association , in its rare cancer manifesto , call for urgent structural change to improve datum , screening and outcome , and Lynch Syndrome UK have speak powerfully about the opportunity to accelerate genetic - lead , ai - inform cancer prevention if rare cancer research be properly fund . I believe that the Rare Cancers Bill will help to achieve that . it have three core provision : first , a name lead for rare cancer research so that this agenda have a home in Government and a voice at the top table ; secondly , a review of the orphan drug regulation to create well commercial incentive for new treatment and trial ; and thirdly , a patient - focus datum system build into the Be Part of Research platform so that people be no long leave in the dark about trial that could change their life . this be not just about save life ; it be about improve they . it be about ensure that family be not leave with grief and regret when well system might have give they hope . today , as we consider the Rare Cancers Bill , let we remember people like Susan Michaelis and the countless family who have campaign for change they may not live to see . let we recognise that rare cancer be not someone else ' s problem , but a public health injustice hide in plain sight . let we pass the Bill — not just for the scientist and clinician , but for every patient , and for every parent and partner who have watch a love one suffer from a cancer few people can even pronounce . this be our chance to correct the imbalance , drive innovation and deliver real , last change . if we seize this moment , we can ensure that every patient — no matter how rare their cancer — can access trial , treatment and the possibility of life . let we not waste this opportunity . let we be clear - eyed about the gap and build an nhs that genuinely serve every patient , with every type of cancer , in every part of this country . together , let we leave a legacy worthy of those we have lose , and transform care for those still fight . I rise to support the Bill , which will make a real difference by improve the detection and treatment of rare cancer . we hear really move contribution on Second Reading , particularly from my hon . friend the Members for Mitcham and Morden ( Dame Siobhain McDonagh ) and for Calder Valley ( Josh Fenton - Glynn ) . with permission from my hon . friend the Member for Edinburgh South West ( Dr Arthur ) , I will take this opportunity to press the Minister on research into lobular breast cancer , echo the comment of the hon . member for Farnham and Bordon ( Gregory Stafford ) . twenty - two people a day be diagnose with lobular breast cancer in the UK ; at around 30 in 2 , 000 , it fall outside the scope of the Bill . however , with a UK population of 70 million , 22 a day would popularly be deem to be rare . more importantly , it have unmet clinical need , and that be what really matter . lobular breast cancer be first identify as a separate type of breast cancer 50 year ago , and while breast cancer survival rate have generally improve , research specifically into lobular have be rare and grossly underfunde , and the basic biology of the disease remain mostly unknown . that have lead to two effect . first , it be difficult to detect as its web - like structure mean that it do not have the typical lump , so it often spread before it get detect . secondly , there be no bespoke treatment , so doctor will throw the kitchen sink at it — radio and chemo — and hope for the good . scientist say that a treatment for lobular can be develop ; the only reason it have not be lack of funding for research . in May 2023 , Dr Susan Michaelis , who have be diagnose with lobular 12 year early , launch the lobular moonshot project . one of the moonshot campaigner be my constituent Katie Swinburne : a mother of three and a popular local school teacher . I meet Katie recently in her home , along with Susan and her husband Tristan Loraine . Susan have deteriorate since we have meet on Zoom . she explain that her cancer be terminal — it be too late to save she — but she be determined to spend she last year campaign for change . we hope that she would have year to come . Katie , however , still have a hope for treatment and a cure in her lifetime . she hope to see her child grow old and to carry grandchild . this come Monday , as have be say , we be due to meet the Secretary of State to press the case for £ 20 million for the lobular moonshot project , which be just £ 240 for every person diagnose . we will still press ahead with that meeting , but two day ago Dr Susan Michaelis , the founder of the moonshot project , sadly pass away 14 year after her initial diagnosis . she die peacefully at 5 pm , proudly wear her lobular moonshot project T - shirt . she be surround by her husband Tristan Loraine and some close friend . the lobular moonshot project be the most bipartisan , politically support campaign in the nation right now , with 370 mp from across all party have call on the Government to fund this vital research . during her 14 year ' suffer with this cruel and brutal illness , Susan be give eight different form of breast cancer treatment , but none of they be able to stop the disease progress . none of the treatment she receive be base on the basic biology of lobular breast cancer because , as I say , it have not yet be explore . in the last couple of year , Susan and a team of campaign woman who have be touch by the disease have already raise £ 125 , 000 to set up the infrastructure to carry out research at the Manchester breast centre lead by Professor Robert Clarke . her remarkable campaign have touch woman across the country . if I may , I will share a few comment about Susan . as a young girl , Susan always dream of be a pilot , but there be few opportunity for woman to become commercial pilot in Australia at the time so she complete a degree in marketing and save up the money to become a private pilot . after teach people to fly , she finally become an airline pilot , start off in the challenging Northern Territory of Australia fly to remote community . in 1994 , when she be 32 , Susan start fly the British Aerospace 146 and immediately notice a strange smell in the aircraft . the breathing air supply be be contaminate with jet engine oil decomposition product . despite be tell that there be nothing to be concern about , she suffer increase health effect from those exposure , and three year later in 1997 she collapse after a flight . she feel like she be have a stroke . three year of exposure to a complex mix of chemical include organophosphate , carbon monoxide and endocrine disrupt chemical have seriously affect her health , and she lose her airline pilot medical certificate . she never fly as an airline pilot again . two year later , Susan be partly responsible for the australian Senate carry out a year - long investigation into the problem , which conclude that the chemical exposure be affect flight safety and crew and public health . she be determined that the aviation industry should resolve the problem so she undertake the first ever phd into the subject , and later qualified as an air accident investigator . she publish numerous scientific paper on the subject , and brief airline , oil manufacturer , government and countless other on the topic . in 2007 , 10 year after her first flight as an airline pilot , australian Senator o ' Brien reveal a secret agreement between British Aerospace , the aircraft engine manufacturer , and two australian airline , in which a large sum of money and aircraft part be give in a settlement for problem relate to oil contaminate the breathing air supply on the aircraft model that Susan fly . after her injury , sustain as an airline pilot , Susan complete Half Ironman triathlon and become the first Australian to receive the british citizen award for she and Tristan ' s work on aviation safety . last year , the Dr Susan Michaelis rise be launch by Harkness Roses at the Chelsea flower show . Susan have appear or be portray in numerous documentary and film . she will be greatly miss , but the campaign that she found will live on . I once more thank the hon . member for Edinburgh South West ( Dr Arthur ) for all he have do to bring the Bill forward . we , along with thousand of family throughout the UK , all owe he a huge debt . I be proud to have support the Bill from the very beginning . I also pay tribute to the ongoing work of the hon . member for Mitcham and Morden ( Dame Siobhain McDonagh ) , whose inspirational advocacy have set the example on these issue , particularly for new mp like I . I do not think I need take up much time restate why the Rare Cancers Bill matter ; every hon . member who sit alongside I in the Bill Committee know that already , which be why we report it to the House unamende . the Minister also know , which be why the Government have repeatedly pledge their support , and organisation work with rare cancer know too . the Brain Tumour Charity describe this legislation as " a Bill of hope " and Pancreatic Cancer UK talk of its potential to transform survival for rare cancer . that potential sit with we today . the Rare Cancers Bill take concrete and common - sense step to facilitate research into rare cancer , to improve the speed and quality of necessary clinical trial , and to help get orphan drug — medicine often neglect because they target uncommon condition — to those patient who so desperately need they . I urge the House to advance the Bill and ensure that its provision become law as rapidly as possible . so much depend on get this one right . to that end , I briefly remind the House what exactly be at stake today for family , include my own , throughout this country . when I speak on Second Reading , I tell the story of Group Captain Pip Harding , my brother - in - law , who be diagnose with an aggressive stage 4 glioblastoma in February 2024 . his prognosis be such that he should not be here today . Pip be marry with five child . he have serve in the Royal Air Force in the Indo - Pacific , in Afghanistan and in Iraq . I be immensely proud of he , not least because of his battle against this devastating diagnosis . Pip ' s family , friend and those who love he rally around he . More than 600 of they set up a gofundme page to cover the cost of an experimental cancer treatment , oncothermia , which use radio frequency to target and treat malignant cancer cell . I be happy than I can say to be able to tell the House that Pip be alive and well , and that the tumour have shrink from 7 cm to less than 1 cm as a result of that treatment . for Pip ' s love one , of course , that mean the world — oncothermia be win it for he . it mean that there be more time for his family and more time for more treatment to come online to get his health back . it be a matter of delight that the hon . Lady ' s brother - in - law be still well and that the tumour have shrink . but I should say to the House and all member that that machine , which my late sister campaign and raise funding for , be currently situate in a private hospital in London because it would get nowhere near an NHS hospital . that be the tragedy of the circumstance that we find ourselves in : our system be so restrictive that we can not look for new innovation within our NHS . I thank the hon . member for all her advocacy on the issue . she make an important point , which be make previously : rare cancer be not rare for the victim and their family . that be why we need to bring such treatment into the NHS so that they be available for all , not just for those who set up gofundme page that win ten of thousand of pound . of glioblastoma , Pip say : " this be a very sad disease of which the cause be … unknown and seem to randomly strike individual . it would be just amazing if the policy to support these people be change by this vote and I be personally so grateful to all of you who be so kindly drive this forward . " his successful story and the challenge of access oncothermia underscore equally the importance of the legislation . in sum , innovative new treatment for rare cancer must be bring to patient as fast as possible . my constituent in Esher and Walton , particularly those whose life have be scar by cancer , also feel that very deeply . in the last few day , many have write to I about the legislation to share why its success matter so much to they . one tell I of his very young son , who be diagnose last year with a rare brain tumour that have turn their life upside down . one tell I about his own battle with brain cancer , the excellent care that he have receive in the NHS and the fundamentally limited treatment option available to he base on the current state of research and drug development and marketing . another constituent whose daughter have glioblastoma offer I an important reminder about our work today when they say that " every important issue or gain have to be fight over fiercely before anything be achieve . " they be absolutely right . I will take this opportunity to highlight some other people who have fight and for whom the Bill be vital . my constituent Kate Ford have be campaign for the lobular moonshot project since she be diagnose with lobular breast cancer two year . we have already hear how research for that disease have be entirely insufficient and how necessary that project be right now . I be proud to be one of hundred of mps on both side of the House call on the Government to support it , as we have hear . like the hon . member for Farnham and Bordon ( Gregory Stafford ) and for Bishop Auckland ( Sam Rushworth ) , I be deeply sadden to hear of the death of Dr Susan Michaelis , the project ' s founder , this week . my constituent Kate be now carry forward Susan ' s torch and will be at the meeting with the Secretary of State for Health and Social Care on Monday . I call on the Government to answer Susan ' s call and finally back the project . while I have the Government ' s attention , I will raise one more important issue . Pip be an RAF helicopter pilot . there be a grow number of veteran who serve as aircrew on military helicopter and be expose to exhaust fume during their time in the force , and who have now be diagnose with rare cancer , include blood cancer . that issue have be raise in recent month by hon . member on both side of the House , include my hon . friend the Member for North Shropshire ( Helen Morgan ) and the hon . member for Truro and Falmouth ( Jayne Kirkham ) . I understand that the Ministry of Defence be currently work to test engine exhaust emission and to develop a clear understanding of the health challenge face veteran , include rare cancer relate to their service . those be welcome step , but they be insufficient . although I be conscious that the MOD do not unequivocally recognise the link between exhaust fume and such cancer , and that I be not address the Minister for Veterans , I urge the Minister to do all he can to accelerate the collation of veteran ' health datum , which be an essential project that could otherwise drag on , and to support the development of cancer screening programme for veteran who may be at risk due to their record of serve this country . cancer can touch any life . it can come unexpectedly , and it can come cruelly . the Bill offer hope to all those whose cancer have be neglect and disregard in drug research and clinical trial , but have upend their entire life . it offer we the chance to say to all those people , " you be not alone and you be not forget . " win the battle against rare cancer require we to advance on many front at once , so I gently push the Minister , even as he support the Bill become law , to consider the vital call from the hon . member for Mitcham and Morden to improve outcome for brain cancer patient , which have show too little improvement for too long . will the Minister commit to a target of get 200 glioblastoma patient on to promise new clinical trial every year ? will he engage with the private sector to urge pharmaceutical company to more rapidly make their drug available for those trial ? will he consider mandate training in brain cancer specific oncology for all doctor seek to become medical oncologist ? will he also ensure that all neuro - oncology multidisciplinary team have as a core member a medical oncologist able to contribute their expertise to a patient ' s care ? finally , even as we advance the Bill today , we must not lose sight of the need to do far well by patient with cancer , rare or not . one of the most reassuring aspect of this Bill have be its cross - party support , but while I be here , I want to ask the Minister whether he will listen to liberal Democrat call and turn the current target of start treatment within 62 day of an urgent cancer referral into an iron - clothe guarantee ? will he also consider our call to expand the capacity of the Medicines and Healthcare product Regulatory Agency as another way of ensure that innovative drug be not snarl up in red tape and that they reach patient fast ? there be much work leave to do , but today ' s legislation be a real step in the right direction . I take note of the humbleness of the hon . member for Edinburgh South West , so I will speak about the reach of the Bill and his work . good politic change life and the good politic save life . all of we here in this place be commit to do that . I be proud to support this Bill , and I urge member to vote for all those life that the Bill could help save and for those family whose live it will change . I thank my hon . friend the Member for Edinburgh South West ( Dr Arthur ) for his tireless work on the Bill . if anyone get the opportunity to listen to the podcast he do a few week ago , it be well worth listen to — really insightful . he offer the opportunity to address the deep inequality face by people diagnose with rare and less common cancer . in fact , this be the second debate on rare cancer that I have attend this week . the hon . member for Esher and Walton ( Monica Harding ) mention the previous debate ; I have the pleasure of sit alongside my hon . friend the Member for Truro and Falmouth ( Jayne Kirkham ) in that debate on myeloma — a rare blood cancer that affect just a few thousand people a year in the UK . however , there be a concern of the link between the condition and people fly helicopter in the military . as we have hear , around 180 , 000 people be diagnose with a rare or less common cancer every year . last year , one of those be my constituent Isaac Wilton , and his story will be the basis of my speech . I have the pleasure of meet Isaac last year . he be diagnose with a grade 4 glioblastoma brain tumour at just 21 — he have a seizure during a workout at the gym . his sister Harriet set up a fundraiser to pay for immunotherapy , and within the first six day they raise £ 144 , 000 . Isaac and his family have organise various event to support the cause , include charity football match and community event . last October , family and friend join Isaac to walk from Leicester City football club to Coalville clock tower , cover 13 mile — an extraordinary feat . the campaign be now at an incredible £ 193 , 000 , just shy of its £ 200 , 000 goal to pay for Isaac ' s treatment . his fundraising not only help he access life - alter treatment , but raise vital awareness about the urgent need for more brain tumour research , which receive around just 1 % of national cancer research funding . Isaac ' s voice matter much more than mine in this debate , and I would like to share something he have write with the House : " the disease I ' m fight , that give every single person diagnose such a poor prognosis , only allow for a little hope . live a life day to day almost wait for the bad news . I ' m one of the lucky one . one of the lucky one who be able to see a community of over 15 , 000 people come together . some of which I know and some from overseas … to raise enough money for I to at least explore other option that I can not be give through the NHS . option that might just give I a second chance . but I and other in this fight should be give a fair chance to win this battle because the chance right now be heartbreaking . " this Bill will give hope to Isaac and other in his position . as we have hear , we be not talk about a minority . in the UK , 47 % of cancer diagnosis and 55 % of all cancer death be from rare and less common cancer . a system that leave nearly half of cancer patient behind be not a fair system — not for Isaac , not for the father - in - law of my hon . friend the Member for Edinburgh South West , and not for many other we have hear about today . I will support the Bill today , and I thank my hon . friend for his incredibly dedicated hard work in bring forward this change . I thank the hon . member for Edinburgh South West ( Dr Arthur ) for his work on the Bill , and all those who have support its progress . I rise briefly for two reason . first , to speak for a constituent , Kate , who be only 40 year old and have an inoperable brain cancer . Kate contact I this week to tell I about her case and to encourage I to support the Bill . she be under the care of 10 consultant and specialist as her condition worsen . research on brain cancer and glioblastomas have hardly progress in 50 year , yet it be the big cancer killer in child and adult under the age of 40 . the Bill should improve the rate of cancer patient who be offer trial ; currently , 82 % be not and that be not good enough . the Bill should improve those chance . I also rise to join the tribute to Dr Susan Michaelis , who pass away on Wednesday , for her campaign for the well treatment of lobular breast cancer . I meet Dr Michaelis in October last year , and be move by her advocacy for improvement in treatment , and subsequently , by her support for the Bill . for Kate , Susan and many other , it be important that the Bill pass today . please do support it . I do not want to detain the House too long . I just want to put on record my admiration for my hon . friend the Member for Edinburgh South West ( Dr Arthur ) in guide the Bill to this point and now hopefully forward — with a former Member of this House , Julie Elliott , now Baroness Elliott , in the House of Lords . when I meet my hon . friend to berate he about why he should take up this issue , I do not know about his father - in - law , but I have to say how proud his family must be of what he have do here . I mention that point because it be a motivator for all of we . when we understand the true desperation of face these problem , it can often be the driver to make we work hard for achievement . I be delighted to say that 10 day ago , with the kindness of Mr Speaker , we launch the first glioblastoma drug trial in memory of my late sister . it will be run by Dr Paul Mulholland , who be , regrettably , too well know to many member . he be Europe ' s lead consultant on glioblastoma , base out of University College London , and the trial will include 16 patient at University College hospital who be newly diagnose . they will have have no treatment and no surgery , and will be treat with immunotherapy . we be excited and delight by the trial . it open last Friday and Dr Mulholland meet the first recruit last Monday . this could be the start of great thing , but it be the start of a journey . it be a journey that be incomprehensibly difficult and require a wonderful set of circumstance : Europe ' s lead consultant at a big teaching hospital in London , next to a world - lead university ; a group of my sister ' s friend who campaign tirelessly to raise fund , raise over £ 1 million in the last year — the trial will cost something in that order ; and a Secretary of State for Health and Social Care who give we excellent support and intervene to help we to get to the point of start the trial . those effort be not available to everybody . we need to change thing to get more trial . without trial , there will be no progress , and I know from my own experience that there will be no progress , even with this brilliant Bill , unless we all , as member , insist on progress and keep an eye on it . I be so thrilled that so many people , on the Labour Benches and in all party across the House , be unite in their commitment to see progress on glioblastoma . we want to see hope not only for glioblastoma victim but for the victim of all rare cancer . by start with glioblastoma , we start with the bad . we will not cease our campaign until everybody have a fair chance of a cure . it be a great pleasure to follow my hon . friend the Member for Mitcham and Morden ( Dame Siobhain McDonagh ) , and I thank she for everything she have do on this issue . I also thank my hon . friend the Member for Edinburgh South West ( Dr Arthur ) for take up this Bill and get it to this stage . as I suspect many member do , I rearrange my diary at short notice to be here , because we think there might be a risk of the Bill not go through , but I be glad that that do not appear to be transpire . I be here for three reason . one be obviously the merit of this Bill , which recommend themselves entirely to all side of the House . the second be the excellent whipping by my hon . friend the Member for Mitcham and Morden — I think most of the London parliamentary Labour party be secrete around the building just in case they should be need . thirdly , and above all , it be because of my experience of what constituent of mine have go through , and I be sure that go for all member here ; the email be ping in yesterday say , " you need to be there tomorrow " . I want to briefly mention two case . the first be that of my Chiswick constituent Rob King . I will read a few word of his , because he say what need to be say more eloquently than I could : " during early 22 my wife Marie feel extremely tired . we think three child , busy life . week later she have a diagnosis of pancreatic cancer and we be face with no treatment option beyond chemotherapy to possibly extend her life by a short while . we didn ' t know timeframe , but she have just six month of life remain . the chemotherapy be brutal . relentless . she die aged 39 in October 2022 , just day off her 40th birthday . what she endure , nobody should have to endure . how she endure this be still beyond my comprehension . what this miss be the impact on those around she . the parent in their 70 who lose their daughter . the sibling leave without a sister , without an auntie for their child . her husband , I , leave deal with thing never plan , never envisage in life . and most importantly three little child , age at the time one and a half , five and seven . have the conversation to say mummy be never come back will haunt I forever — explain to an infant what be a rare cancer and why it can not be fix because there be no treatment . the impact of this roll on as they get old . rare cancer be not rare . they hugely impact everyone around individual affect . we urgently need some direction from Government to focus on these , give those affect some hope , and long term see some result . " the second case be of Katie Bernard and her son Alex . my hon . friend the Member for Mitcham and Morden know this case because she help with it . Alex suffer from a brain tumour so rare that I think there have only be 100 case diagnose around the world . his parent go to extraordinary length to get drug deliver . almost on a daily basis we be monitor the pharmacy and hospital , ensure that he have treatment . he do get the treatment and it do prolong his life , but sadly Alex pass away on 30 January this year , age just 23 . there be many more case like Marie and Alex , and it be for they that the Bill have be bring forward . it be not the only thing that need to be do , but it be an important step forward . I hope that , by pass it through the House today and it be enact later this year or early next year , we will make a change . I thank all member who have contribute or be here today . I know that my constituent and theirs will be listen to this debate and hope for the Bill ' s success . Stella Gilbert , n é e Forster , be a much - beloved wife , mother , grandmother and sister to my partner , Jim . she die of a rare cancer . Stella be great — my partner ' s only sibling , a huge matriarch and , as we find out at her funeral , give to boss her local vicar about . she have bile duct cancer , which affect approximately 2 , 000 people a year in the UK . in the Bill ' s term , bile duct cancer be a rare cancer ; the Bill class rare cancer as those that affect no more than one in 2 , 000 people , and bile duct cancer affect 0 . 06 in 2 , 000 . worryingly , research suggest that that incidence be increase . I be grateful that the Bill allow for some flexibility , because if bile duct cancer be to pop over that cut - off of one in 2 , 000 , it would go into a different category . that flexibility be appreciate . Guts UK state that the cause of bile duct cancer be unknown in six to seven out of 10 patient . it be a rare cancer that be increase in prevalence , often with cause unknown , and nearly 3 , 000 people a year die from it . would it not be well therefore not only to prevent this cancer from increase in prevalence , but to make it even rare and more curable ? the Bill open the door to that . it will allow for more focus on rare and less survivable cancer . research be crucial in tackle cancer , and I be hearten by this Government ' s commitment to tackle all cancer type . a national cancer plan be due to be publish follow the NHS 10 - year health plan , and the DHSC have commit more than £ 1 . 6 billion for research to the National Institute for Health and Care Research , which be quite rightly treat cancer as a major priority and allocate funding accordingly . as an officer of the all - party parliamentary group on the less survivable cancer , I be particularly grateful for the commitment to tackle brain cancer , which I have hear a lot about in this place today , in partnership with organisation such as the Tessa Jowell Brain Cancer Mission and Brain Tumour Research . I also welcome the funding call for the brain tumour research consortium , which I read about recently . I can not stand in this place and debate a Bill on rare cancer and not mention pancreatic cancer , which be a relatively rare cancer and a less survivable one . it be the fifth big cancer killer in the UK . my mum , Breeda , die of pancreatic cancer . she fall ill on a Saturday , be diagnose on the Sunday and be dead by the following Saturday . one week after that , my father die of oesophageal cancer — not a rare cancer , I believe , but a less survivable one . my sister ' s mother - in - law , Doreen , also sadly pass from pancreatic cancer after a year - long battle . we be , indeed , surround by cancer . the APPG have address the issue of the early detection of such cancer , so we hope to one day hear few story like my mum ' s . I thank Pancreatic Cancer UK for its support . I welcome the Bill , which offer an entirely reasonable set of step for research , review and , I hope , enable the development of so - call orphan drug — like my hon . friend the Member for Edinburgh South West ( Dr Arthur ) , I dislike the term intensely . the appointment of a national specialty lead for rare cancer will be so helpful in and of itself . in pass the Bill today , we will start the journey to a world where wonderful people , like Jim ' s sister Stella , my mum Breeda and my sister ' s mother - in - law Doreen , do not hear the word , " it be inoperable . it be too late to treat . there be nothing more we can do . " I thank my hon . friend the Member for Edinburgh South West for introduce the Bill . I will vote for it today , in memory of Stella , Breeda and Doreen . there have already be some emotional speech , which be already make I cry . I thank everyone who have speak today . I thank my hon . friend the Member for Edinburgh South West ( Dr Arthur ) for introduce this important Bill . [ interruption . ] I have start cry already . the Bill be particularly important to I , because my mum die of a brain tumour . too many family face a diagnosis that often come too late , with limited access to specialise care and clinical trial . do my hon . friend agree that the Bill ' s mechanism relate to orphan drug be essential ? unless we can get the pharmaceutical industry to find it in its financial interest to start trial , we will not make any progress . I thank my hon . friend for her intervention . I agree with everything she say . there be no doubt that , for patient and their family , an additional challenge of a rare cancer be navigate the system themselves , many of which be not build with rare cancer in mind . I know from conversation with resident and organisation in Huddersfield just how isolate that can be . be tell that you have a rare form of cancer , and struggle to get answer or the standard of treatment that other receive , be really difficult . this Bill will play a part in extend the life of people face cancer , and it will help their family . get target research and clear care pathway will be really important , and I have no doubt that improve patient recruitment into clinical trial for rare cancer will mean so much to those family . again , I thank my hon . friend the Member for Edinburgh South West , as well as the Ministers , my hon . friend the Member for Mitcham and Morden ( Dame Siobhain McDonagh ) , and all the charity that have push this Bill forward . I thank my hon . friend the Member for Edinburgh South West ( Dr Arthur ) , and congratulate he on bring this crucial Bill before the House . I pay tribute to he and to every member who have speak so powerfully today . when this Bill become law , it will ease pain , save life , and ensure justice and fairness in relation to a disease that be indiscriminate . a number of constituent have contact I , urge I to support the Bill today . they all have their own story — their own first - hand experience — each one so move and powerful . today , though , I want to relay the story of one of they : Chelsea . Chelsea be a 31 - year - old mother to a 10 - year - old boy . she be diagnose with a rare , aggressive form of sarcoma in April 2024 . for more than a year before her diagnosis , Chelsea do everything right — she make repeat visit to the gp and to a & E , clearly present with symptom that should have be check out , but time and again , her concern be dismiss . she be not listen to ; she be ignore , and that failure lead to a devastating delay in diagnosis . by the time she be take seriously , her cancer have progress to stage 4 . she have endure two major surgery and have now be on oral chemotherapy for over a year , and will remain on it for three more . her risk of recurrence be extremely high . Chelsea ' s story be heartbreaking , but it be not unique . I be just thankful that she be still here for her son and love one , and I will do everything I can to ensure she get the good treatment available as quickly as possible . too many people with rare cancer be force to fight not just the disease , but the system — a system that fail to recognise the symptom early , under - invest in research , and leave patient feel unheard and alone . I be so proud to support this Bill , and I be so thankful to my hon . friend the Member for Edinburgh South West for bring it before the House today . like everyone else , I want to thank my hon . friend the Member for Edinburgh South West ( Dr Arthur ) for bring this important Bill before the House . I have not intend to speak in this debate ; I be simply go to intervene on my hon . friend the Member for Mitcham and Morden ( Dame Siobhain McDonagh ) , but she speak so comprehensively that it would have be wrong to interrupt she . she speak about the personal motivation that have bring so many of we to the Chamber today . I have just be listen to my hon . friend the Member for Knowsley ( Anneliese Midgley ) , who speak about her own situation , as have many other member . this year , it be 60 year since my father die of oesophageal cancer and 50 year since my mother die of stomach cancer , both of which be rare cancer . if I say that the treatment in those day be rudimentary , I would be lie ; it be cruel . what they go through be awful , and it be appal that only now , 60 year later , be we in this House try to change that . this be an historic Bill , and I thank my hon . friend the Member for Mitcham and Morden — I know what this campaign have mean to she , and to all who love her sister . I ask the Minister to make sure that everything in this Bill be do as swiftly as possible . we can not wait any long . it be a pleasure to follow the hon . member for Brent West ( Barry Gardiner ) . I echo his tribute to the hon . member for Mitcham and Morden ( Dame Siobhain McDonagh ) , who continue to be a pioneer in this campaign and be what I would describe as a no - nonsense lady . she have be in this place since 1997 , and she have make and continue to make an enormous contribution . this Bill will hopefully be an exemplar for member who be successful in the private Members ' Bills ballot . so often , those who be successful in the ballot be tell , " here ' s a handout Bill — we need to fill a little niche here in a bit of legislation . " the hon . member for Edinburgh South West ( Dr Arthur ) have use his good fortune in have success in the ballot to bring forward something that he want to do and that mean a lot to he , but he do not do it selfishly ; he do it after listen to a whole lot of other people and realise that this be a subject on which there be deep - seat consensus , unrest and concern among parliamentarian . full mark to he for do this . I be only once successful in the private Members ' Bills ballot , and it be just after the rule be change , so even though I come third out of the hat , I be no . 17 , because it be do in reverse order so that it look well on television . I think the previous Deputy Chairman of Ways and Means be responsible for that change . I have never have the good fortune of have a Bill that have be able to make progress ; it be something I still look forward to and yearn for . this be a really important subject . when we look at the second Reading debate , in which I be briefly able to participate by way of an intervention , we can see the strength of feeling . I go back to the Minister ' s response to my amendment on Report . I hope he will be a bit more helpful on Third read about the role of NHS England and what will happen . I have pay tribute to he for agree that priority should be give to get on with set up these research body and look into these issue . it be ask too much for the Government to agree to put those thing on the face of the Bill , but I think it be clear from the pressure that be already on the Minister that his Department — however much it may have drag its foot in the past — be now intent on rectify that . most important of all , we will get the Government ' s cancer plan . let we hope that it will not be on the slow burner — we be promise it before the end of the year , and I hope it will be near this end of the year than next year . that could be very important , and as my hon . friend the Member for Hinckley and Bosworth ( Dr Evans ) say , it link in with a lot of what we have discuss today . cancer need to be take more seriously in this country . we need to invest more . we need to get back to the top of the international league table , where we should be , as a lead nation with a very strong economy . I see in today ' s news that the economy be shrink , but that should not be a reason not to campaign to get these cancer shrunk . I call the shadow Minister . I again thank the hon . member for Edinburgh South West ( Dr Arthur ) for his tireless work on this important Bill . it have unite the House , and rightfully so , because it speak to something fundamental : the need for people with rare cancer to be see , hear and address . the Opposition have support the Bill from the outset , and as the shadow Secretary of State , my right hon . friend the Member for Melton and Syston ( Edward Argar ) , and my hon . friend the Member for Sleaford and North Hykeham ( Dr Johnson ) have say , we will continue to do so today . we would like to thank the charity and campaigner who have work tirelessly to bring this issue forward : Pancreatic Cancer UK , the Brain Tumour Charity , Cancer52 and many more . their work have help to put rare cancer firmly on the agenda , and this Bill be part of their legacy . I have be on the other side of this , deliver the news , particularly when I work on an upper gastrointestinal hospital ward as a junior doctor . deliver the news that someone have pancreatic cancer be one of the tough thing I have ever have to do , and it be bad still for the relative who have to receive that news . I long for a day when no doctor have to deliver a death sentence to a patient , and this Bill bring that a step close . my hon . friend the Member for Sleaford and North Hykeham speak in Committee about the repurposing of drug , and I want to highlight its importance . treatment that be develop for other condition may be lifesave for people with rare cancer . it be vital that the Bill ' s scope allow for innovation to thrive . conservative Members urge the Government to embed the provision of the Bill in the forthcoming national cancer plan . I hope the Minister will confirm that that will happen , and hopefully he will tell we when it will be publish . finally , as the expert jeweller , my hon . friend the Member for Christchurch ( Sir Christopher Chope ) say on Report — his keen eye for a flaw be important — there be the glare problem of the pende abolition of NHS England , which pose practical question about datum sharing and , of course , oversight . conservative Members will do all we can to ensure that the legislation remain workable under the new structure , and I hope the Government will do that too . the Bill will not solve everything overnight , but it be a serious step forward and a statement that even the rarest condition deserve our full attention . as Maya Angelou say , " when you know well , do well . " the House know well , thank to the tireless work of the hon . member for Edinburgh South West , and the Bill will help ensure that we do well too . I again congratulate my hon . friend the Member for Edinburgh South West ( Dr Arthur ) . it be a huge achievement for a colleague who have only serve in this place for just over a year to have get a Bill this far . I thank hon . member across the House who have speak in the debate so powerfully and movingly , as well as all those who sit on the Bill Committee . we welcome effective scrutiny from Committees , and we value the vital role that Parliament play in hold we to account . I pay tribute to the charity that be back the Bill , many of which we be engage with on the development of our national cancer plan . the Government want to go far for everyone diagnose with a rare cancer , and the Bill will act to incentivise the recruitment to , oversight of and accessibility of rare cancer research , so that NHS patient be at the front of the queue for cut - edge treatment . we know the benefit of embed clinical research across the NHS and beyond . it lead to well care for patient and more opportunity for our workforce , and it provide a huge economic benefit for our health and care system . on 3 July , we publish our 10 - year health plan , which set out the vision to distribute power to patient and revitalise our NHS , make it fit for the future . the plan will deliver three shift in care to ensure that the health service can tackle the problem of today and tomorrow , all of which will be key to tackle cancer . through the 10 - year health plan we will ensure that patient receive the most cutting - edge treatment , and that everyone can search for research study through the Be Part of Research service on the NHS app . that be why we welcome the Bill , which be align with our commitment . it raise the profile of rare cancer research , ensure our international regulatory competitiveness , and allow rare cancer patient to be contact as quickly as possible about research opportunity . that innovation will be deliver through be Part of Research , our flagship research registry deliver through the National Institute for Health and Care Research , which allow people from all walk of life to sign up and get involve in research across the UK . I urge everyone watch this debate , and member in the Chamber who be interested , to sign up to be Part of Research , and see what research opportunity be relevant to they . the Government want to give all rare cancer patient access to clinical trial , and great choice and control over their healthcare . that be why we be delighted to pledge Government support for the Bill . as we set out in our manifesto , the Government be commit to ensure that the clinical research ecosystem be more efficient , competitive and accessible , and the provision in the Bill align with that . we want the UK to lead the world in this space as the prime destination for clinical research . the Government also want to give patient great choice and control over their healthcare , and rare cancer patient should have access to vital research if they choose to . once again , I thank my hon . friend the Member for Edinburgh South West for present the Bill , and those member who serve on the Committee . I pay tribute to all the charity that be back this important Bill . the Government support the Bill , and I look forward to work with member across the House to improve outcome for rare cancer patient across our country . with the leave of the House , I thank you , Madam Deputy Speaker , and hon . member who have contribute to the debate . I will not thank they all as I want to keep an eye on the time , but I will single out my hon . friend the Member for Mitcham and Morden ( Dame Siobhain McDonagh ) for help I to start out on this journey . when I first meet she , I think she be drive by grief at the loss of her sister , but I now know that she be drive by her love for her sister . that be an important difference . I also thank the many people who use the debate to celebrate the life of Dr Susan Michaelis and who continue to support the lobular moonshot project that she leave behind . we wish they well . I be sure that we will keep her family in our mind today . I thank the DHSC civil servant , some of whom be with we today , for their support throughout the Bill ' s passage . I must also pay tribute to the Minister for his support , as well as the Under - Secretary of State for Health and Social Care , my hon . friend the Member for West Lancashire ( Ashley Dalton ) — we all know who she be — for the comprehensive backing that she have provide throughout . I be at an event on Monday with both the pharmaceutical industry and some of the charity support the Bill , and they all have huge respect for the work she be do . I really thank the hon . member for Hinckley and Bosworth ( Dr Evans ) for his supportive comment on behalf of the Opposition , which go well beyond what I think be reasonable . [ interruption . ] I be try to phrase that in the proper way . I also thank my hon . friend the Member for Bury South ( Christian Wakeford ) for whip we all on these Friday morning and help we along the way — just as he enter the Chamber . I must also thank the many charity who have be at the centre of this process . there be somewhere between 30 and 40 of they , and I mention the key one early . many hon . member say — quite politely — that they have receive quite a lot of email over the last few day , perhaps stimulate by the submission of amendment to the Bill . I think that the charity send about 120 , 000 email this week , which be incredible . as hon . member can imagine , my inbox be a bit of a mess just now , but that tell we how important the Bill be for they . they have wait a long time for this opportunity , and I really thank they for urge I along . I must also thank Sonia from H / Advisors Cicero for her help in recent week as we approach Committee and as we have start to think about the transition to the Lords with some optimism . she and her husband Dan have be fantastic . I must also thank my team in my office for the support they have give I . I thank in particular Noel and Tommy but also Lucie , Hannah , Salim , Maisie , Joe , Xavier and Evie — that be quite a long list of name because we have a slightly complicated situation with our intern just now . I look forward to the Bill ' s continued support . I hope that it will pass today . as have be outline , when it — hopefully — reach the House of Lords , it will be in the safe hand of a formidable woman ; I have great confidence in she . first and foremost , I thank resident in Edinburgh South West for elect I and give I the chance to bring the Bill forward . I do not know it at the time , but without their elect I , I would not be stand here to champion the Bill . I look forward to it receive support today and to continue to champion it as it move to the other place . question put and agree to . Bill accordingly read the third time and pass . secure 16 to 19 Academies Bill Consideration of Bill , not amend in the Public Bill Committee Clause 1 - secure 16 to 19 Academies ( funding , impact and consultation ) I beg to move amendment 1 , page 1 , line 12 , leave out subsection ( 4 ) . with this it will be convenient to discuss amendment 2 , to the title , line 4 , leave out from " Academy " to end . some people may be unfamiliar with the detail of the Bill because it do not receive a second reading debate . it go through on the nod on 16 May . it then go into a quite truncate Public Bill Committee on Wednesday 2 July , and it have now come back to the Chamber on Report . I table amendment 1 to highlight my concern about the consultation arrangement propose in subsection ( 4 ) . amendment 2 be a consequential amendment . as people will have notice , in the Bill ' s long title , it state : " expand a secure 16 to 19 Academy ; and to alter the consultation question require when it be propose to establish or expand a secure 16 to 19 Academy . " if amendment 1 be successful , the long title would need to be amend , and in anticipation of that , I table amendment 2 . as ever , I be most grateful to the Public Bill Office for have ensure that I be on the right line with that and that such an amendment could be table . amendment 1 arise from the fact that section 10 of the Academies Act 2010 state that before enter into an academy arrangement , the provider " must carry out a consultation on the question of whether the arrangement should be enter into . " clause 1 ( 4 ) would insert into that provision an exception that " where the educational institution , if the arrangement be enter into , be to be a secure 16 to 19 Academy … the person be not require to carry out a consultation on that question " . in other word , it be an exemption from the requirement for a consultation on the question of whether the arrangement should be enter into . I do not see that as a reasonable thing to do . in the short debate on this matter in the Bill Committee , there be a bit of a misrepresentation when it be state that " secure school do not compete with other school . " – – [ Official Report , secure 16 to 19 Academies Public Bill Committee , 2 July 2025 ; c . 4 . ] that may be true , but they can compete with other institution , particularly those provide alternative provision . clause 1 ( 4 ) add to section 10 of the 2010 Act that for a secure 16 to 19 academy , the person be not require to carry out a consultation on that question , but " must instead carry out a consultation on the question of how they should cooperate with potential local partner in connection with the establishment and carry on of the Academy . " those local partner be describe as " potential local partner " , mean " person exercise function of a public nature " — I think the Bill have in mind organisation such as the health service , the local education authority , councillor and so on — " and … so far as not fall within paragraph ( a ) , proprietor of educational institution … with whom the person carry out the consultation think it appropriate to cooperate . " again , that discretion be leave with the person carry out the consultation . I do not understand why we be abandon the much more fundamental issue of the consultation . there might be no competition between a secure 16 to 19 academy and an ordinary school , but there may well be competition between that secure academy and another such academy that be already in existence or that may be propose . the 2022 legislation on secure academy be introduce in the previous Parliament . at the time , nobody think there be any problem with have the same arrangement for secure 16 to 19 academy as for other academy . this short debate on amendment 1 will give the Minister an opportunity to explain why that change be necessary , how it be justify , and why there need to be a deletion of the exist consultation arrangement rather than an addition to the exist arrangement of be subject to consultation , which be the subject of propose new subsection ( 2A ) ( b ) to section 10 of the Academies Act 2010 , as in subsection ( 4 ) . while it be quite a short point , I think it be important . what be previously think to be useful in term of consultation be now regard as be of secondary importance . it seem to I that propose to establish or expand a secure 16 to 19 academy be a big decision — a big step — and that it should be the subject of the consultation as originally set out in the Academies Act 2010 . the hon . member for Christchurch ( Sir Christopher Chope ) focus on the specific question of why this change should be make . it be very much a technical change . we have one secure school , the Oasis Academy in Kent , which I have visit . these secure school be for young people who be sentence to custody ; they join the rest of the youth custodial estate , which include three young offender institution and a secure training centre , as well as a yoi in Wales and some secure child ' s home . it be a very discrete landscape . there be no competition with alternative provision or any other provision locally , because it would be inappropriate for a young person who be sentence to custody to go into alternative provision , as they have to go to secure provision — that is , a young offender institution or one of the other secure provision , one of which be the secure school . it be a bit of an oversight in the original legislation to use the term " consultation " about whether it should go ahead , because there be no competition in the locality . a more useful consultation would be about how , because there be issue about work with other partner , include partner that might provide alternative provision , and that be the most appropriate way of do that . I welcome the fact that my hon . friend the Member for Cramlington and Killingworth ( Emma Foody ) have bring this Bill before we today . it seek to make more sense of the legislation , so that it will be more effective for these particular young people and these particular place . I be so grateful to the Minister . what a breath of fresh air that a Minister have actually answer my challenge and give an explanation ! in the light of those circumstance , I beg to ask leave to withdraw the amendment . amendment , by leave , withdraw . third read I beg to move , that the Bill be now read the third time . I be grateful to hon . member for their contribution and to the hon . member for Christchurch ( Sir Christopher Chope ) for table the amendment . in the interest of time , I commend the Bill to the House . I now have the chance to talk about the Bill . I do not have a chance on Second Reading , because the Bill go through on the nod , and I be not on the Bill Committee . I be the loser as a result ; I be not invite . the hon . member for Cramlington and Killingworth ( Emma Foody ) steer it through Committee quickly , and now it have come back to the House and she do not feel the need to expand on it in any way . I will take up one particular challenge , because my hon . friend the Member for Spelthorne ( Lincoln Jopp ) ask a question in Committee and the Minister say : " I thank the hon . member who have contribute so far . on the issue just raise by the hon . member for Spelthorne , they be for the Bill as it make progress . assume that it do progress , however , I be happy to write to he with an answer to those point , as they be pertinent . " – – [ Official Report , secure 16 to 19 Academies Public Bill Committee , 2 July 2025 ; c . 6 . ] I do not know whether such a letter have be send but , if so , I have not see the content as I be not a Committee member . when the Minister respond in his usual helpful way , I hope that he will share his answer to my hon . friend ' s question . that be a relatively detailed point . my great concern about the Bill come from be a great supporter of academy and what they have do to transform education provision in our country by remove that provision from the dead hand of so many local authority . I speak as someone who , early in my political career , succeed in persuade Margaret Thatcher to abolish the Inner London Education Authority , which be one of the great success story of my campaigning . the Police , Crime , Sentencing and Courts Act 2022 deal with this issue and set out the secure 16 - to - 19 academy . I can not understand whether it be an oversight that the legislation be not change then to ensure that there be a guarantee of only two year ' funding . under the Academies Act 2010 , an academy be guarantee seven year of funding after be set up , and if that be curtail , there would essentially be compensation for the academy . more importantly , set up an academy be an expensive job , as I know from the setting up of what become Parkfield school as an academy in my constituency . it transfer from a free school that start in Bournemouth and do not have premise ; it be basically on the third floor of an office block . it could not get planning permission because of hostility from the local education authority , which do not relish the prospect of competition . it then find some premise in my constituency that already have an educational use , because they be the training school for NATS — the national air traffic service — in Christchurch . the cost of convert those facility into a premise suitable for an academy be significant . it be time consume , and critic of the academy system use the fact that so much money be be spend on this provision against the then Government . it be time consume , and critic of the academy system use the fact that so much money be be spend on this provision against the then Government . however , it be make more secure by the fact that there be a guarantee that the academy could stay in place for seven year . I be sorry to say that , at the end of this term , the academy know as Parkfield school will no long exist , because the academy trust that take over the running of it have decide to pull out . the original notice be give a year ago , and last year the school deal solely with people who be wait to complete their gcse . the building there will now revert to the Department for Education . what will happen to they , who know ? the investment be there . maybe it will be use by the local authority for alternative education provision . maybe it will be use as a secure 16 to 19 academy . the point be that an academy would never have be able to get start in the premise at Parkfield school have it be give only a two - year lease of life . member of this House who be elect one year ago this month think that a five - year duration be pretty short . they can not really get their foot under the table and invest to be fit for the future if they have a guarantee existence of only up to five year . if we be talk about premise take on staff , and everything that go with that — even more so if we be talk about secure premise — I can not understand why the minimum notice period under a funding arrangement will be reduce from seven year to two . the argument put forward be that a two - year termination period will enable the Government to prioritise value for money for the taxpayer and have more flexibility , should there be a need to terminate a funding agreement with a secure school provider . that have not be expand upon in any of the debate that I have hear or in the explanatory note . it be just a statement , and a mere repetition of it can not be a substitute for a justification of it . how will lower the termination period to two year prioritise value for money ? it may well mean that short - termism prevail because the academy say that it can not do this or that , and invest for the future , because it have only a two - year potential lifespan . in articulate the Government ' s case , the hon . member for Cramlington and Killingworth go on to say in Committee : " reduce it to two year strike a balance between avoid a lengthy exit period in which Government would be commit to continue fund the secure school long than necessary " — this be exactly the system for academy : if an academy fail , there have to be an exit period , as have happen in Parkfield school — " while ensure that secure school provider have the certainty of funding to avoid issue with recruit and retain the specialist staff require to work in this environment . " – – [ Official Report , secure 16 to 19 Academies Public Bill Committee , 2 July 2025 ; c . 4 . ] I would suggest that have only a two - year contract be hardly encouraging for potential member of staff . I do not think the number of people aspire to be member of Parliament would increase if the knowledge be that there would be an election every two year and they might find themselves retrospectively on a two - year contract . the hon . member for Cramlington and Killingworth then go on to justify the disapplication of section 9 of the Academies Act 2010 in this Bill . that be not the subject of an amendment from I , but she say that it would " remove the requirement that the Secretary of State consider the impact of enter into a new academy funding agreement on other educational establishment in the area for secure 16 to 19 academy . although it be important that secure school be establish as academy , in order to ensure they mirror good practice in the community , they be fundamentally different , as secure school do not compete with other school . " they do not compete with other school , but they could potentially compete with other organisation . the hon . Lady then say : " as such , we do not expect they to have an impact on the viability of other local mainstream school . " that be fine — I do not expect that — but what about school that be not mainstream ? that be use as an argument to say that this Bill would " disapply that duty for this particular type of school , to help any future secure school open with minimal delay . " – – [ Official Report , secure 16 to 19 Academies Public Bill Committee , 2 July 2025 ; c . 4 . ] I come to this Bill in a slightly suspicious state of mind , because we know that the Government be not really enthusiastic about academy . the Minister will correct I if I be wrong , but if the academy programme — I will not call it an experiment , because it have succeed — have be in a position to have be bring forward under a Labour Government , I do not think they would ever have do it . this Labour Government be reluctant and realise that they can not really abolish academy , but I be concerned that what be propose in this Bill may be the starting point of facilitate the making of academy less financially viable and their wither on the vine by remove that all - important seven - year guarantee of funding or indefinite funding with a seven - year notice , which have to be give under the legislation . those be my concern . the fact that this Bill seem to have consensus across the House make I even more concerned . when we look at lawmaking in this House , we see that many of the bad law be those that be introduce with cross - party consensus . the hon . member for Cramlington and Killingworth refer to the issue of time . there be no constraint on we be able to debate this Bill today , which be what we be do . this be the last sitting Friday that have be allocate by the Government , but I be assure by the Government Whip who deal with these thing that this Session of Parliament be likely to continue well beyond the autumn and that there will doubtless be far sit Fridays . if there be far sit friday and some of the business on the Order Paper today be not reach , we will be able to reach it on the next sitting Friday choose . as you will know , Madam Deputy Speaker , although there be a limit of 13 day for private member ' legislation , where a Session of Parliament have be extend significantly there have by convention be an addition of sit Fridays to compensate for that — in the same way that additional time be provide for opposition day by convention . otherwise , strictly speak , under the Standing Orders there would not be sufficient opposition day . I be not suggest we go on debate this Bill into the next Friday , but I hope that when the Minister respond , he do not feel that he be inhibit by time constraint impose by the Whips , because those time constraint be artificial in the extreme and can be alter . I look forward to have my concern address . I be open to be reassure , and I look forward to the Minister pursue such a course . I call the shadow Minister . I rise to express the opposition ' s support for the Bill . I thank the hon . member for Cramlington and Killingworth ( Emma Foody ) for bring it forward . I note that my hon . friend the Member for Christchurch ( Sir Christopher Chope ) be not so keen for I to make the most of the time available , so I do not intend to . as be note during the early stage of the Bill , this legislation largely mirror a previous Bill introduce before the election by my hon . friend the Member for Sleaford and North Hykeham ( Dr Johnson ) — my office neighbour , as it happen . although the previous Bill do not complete its passage , I pay tribute to her dedication and clear commitment to improve outcome for child in custody . she lay the ground work for the Bill we be debate today , and I have no doubt that she will be pleased to see it return to the House with the support of the hon . member for Cramlington and Killingworth . secure 16 to 19 academy , also know as secure school , be a new form of custodial provision , with education and rehabilitation at their core . they represent a much - need shift in how we support and care for young people in custody . the last Conservative Government introduce the first secure school , Oasis Restore in Medway . the evidence show that small unit that focus on education , health and the root cause of offending be the most likely to reduce reoffende . by help these child — and they be child — to turn their life around , we can make sure that everyone be safe in the long run . secure school be not typical educational institution , and it be both appropriate and necessary that different legal and procedural requirement apply to they . the Bill make a number of change to funding and consultation requirement , which be all eminently sensible . although we agree with the Bill ' s provision , we would welcome reassurance from the Government that the school will be properly fund and support , and that appropriate step be be put in place to ensure that young people in custody be properly support to reduce their reoffending . if secure school be to succeed where other part of the youth estate have historically struggle , they must be properly resource , effectively lead and root in strong local partnership . we would be interested to hear more in due course about the Government ' s long - term vision for the youth estate . what further plan do they have , if any , to open any new secure school ? what future role do they see young offender institution and secure training centre play ? how will the Government ensure that partnership with health and education provider be strengthen to maximise the impact of this reform ? I would be grateful if the Minister could make some remark along those line . this be a practical and proportionate Bill . the opposition support it and look forward to see its progress . I be very grateful to my hon . friend the Member for Cramlington and Killingworth ( Emma Foody ) for the excellent work she have do in bring forward this important Bill and navigate we to this point . I be also grateful to the shadow Minister for his support and for his comment . I assure he that we will take forward the issue he rightly raise in due course . in answer to the welcome scepticism from the hon . member for Christchurch ( Sir Christopher Chope ) , I can confirm that I write to the hon . member for Spelthorne ( Lincoln Jopp ) , and indeed copy in the rest of the Committee , point out that Oasis Restore have agree to the rationale for reduce the notice period from seven year to two and for this change to be apply to their funding agreement . as a result , there will be no financial impact on the taxpayer . I pick up exactly the point that the hon . member for Christchurch rightly raise ; it have be deal with . academy be first introduce by the Government of Sir Tony Blair , but the issue raise by the hon . member for Christchurch about academy generally be matter for the Department for Education rather than I . I commend the Bill to the House and thank my hon . friend the Member for Cramlington and Killingworth for bring it forward . with the leave of the House , I thank you , Madam Deputy Speaker , and member across the House . I thank the Clerks , the Minister and the shadow Minister for their support , and the contribution and welcome challenge from the hon . member for Christchurch ( Sir Christopher Chope ) . it be brilliant to see such consensus on this important issue . I also want to say a quick thank you to my team for the work they have do to support I in bring this Bill forward in my first year in the House , along with official from the Ministry of Justice . without their support , I would not have be able to do so . I look forward to — hopefully — the continued support of hon . member for the Bill as it progress through further stage . question put and agree to . Bill accordingly read the third time and pass . court ( Remote Hearings ) Bill Consideration of Bill , not amend in the Public Bill Committee Clause 1 - amendment to legislation about court hearing I beg to move amendment 1 , page 1 , line 22 , leave out subsection ( 4 ) . this amendment would exclude an amendment to paragraph 8 ( 1A ) of schedule 4 to the Local Government Finance Act 1992 . it would reduce the Bill from cover four area , to cover only section 47 of the Family Law Act 1996 , section 9 of the Anti - social Behaviour , Crime and Policing Act 2014 , and section 43 of the Policing and Crime Act 2009 . why be I concerned about remove provision relate to local government ? well , I have be instrumental in discuss , in the House and elsewhere , the cost and burden of council tax ever since it be introduce , consequent upon the failure of the legislation for community charge . I be privileged to help take through this House that legislation on the community charge in the late 1980 . I still meet people who think it be a big mistake to abandon the community charge , which would have ensure that everybody in receipt of local government service , if they be over 18 , would have make a contribution . that be all history . it be change . we introduce council tax , and with it council tax administration and enforcement regulation . it be those regulation that would now be alter by clause 4 of the Bill . instead of what be already set out on the ability of the court to deal with council tax administrative and enforcement problem , it be suggest that those court hearing should be able to be hold remotely . in other word , there would not be any proper ability for people to see what be go on . in my view , the deterrent value of such hearing would be lose , because they would be remote hearing , rather than in - person hearing in the local magistrate court . let I also mention the extent of the problem we already have with the enforcement of council tax arrear . they be now in the order of £ 6 billion , as the Minister will know — some £ 6 billion in council tax arrear . I think almost 10 % of that total be attributable to just four local authority . it will not surprise hon . member to know that those local authority be Liverpool , Birmingham , Manchester and Brent . between they , those four local authority be responsible for more than 10 % of the £ 6 billion in council tax arrear at the moment . what be we do ? why be we try to reduce the pressure on council tax payment miscreant by enable they to hide behind remote hearing instead of have to face the music in a proper court of law , where justice can not only be do but be see to be do ? why should a council tax debtor not be require to attend a court hearing in person ? the court can then make inquiry about the person and discuss mean of payment . it can all be do with witness . the magistrate can see aspect of the demeanour of the defendant in person and take those into account . most importantly of all , they can ensure that the court process act as a deterrent against people think that pay their council tax be essentially a voluntary activity . a real debt crisis be build in this country , and not just on council tax . I serve on the Energy Security and Net Zero Committee ; we have hear evidence that the arrear on energy payment be now £ 4 billion or more . why be we seek in this Bill to reduce the pressure on people who almost make pay council tax seem voluntary ? why do we not put more pressure on the local authority responsible for a lot of the council tax arrear ? I be lucky enough to live in the New Forest district council area ; it be 286th in the council tax arrear league table ; that amount to about £ 69 per council tax payer . by contrast , in Liverpool the arrear be £ 194 , 721 , 000 , which mean that for every council tax dwelling £ 869 be owe . what be be do to put pressure on Liverpool city council to do something about the situation ? the same apply to other council , include in the area that I be privileged to represent . BCP council be 109th in the league table with more than £ 45 million of council arrear , amount to £ 249 per council tax dwelling . Dorset council , in the other half of my constituency , have £ 53 million in council tax arrear , amount to £ 290 per council tax dwelling . I have table the amendment to ask the Minister this : why we be propose to facilitate remote hearing for issue relate to council tax ? the council tax administration and enforcement regulation enable a council to issue a reminder notice and a final notice . if the debt remain unpaid for more than 14 day after a reminder notice be send , the council can apply to the magistrate court for a liability order . there will then be a hearing , and if the magistrate find that the taxpayer have fail to pay council tax , they will order the taxpayer to pay the outstanding sum as well as the council ' s cost — that be set out in regulation 34 . once a liability order be grant , the council can use several different enforcement method to collect the debt . it can instruct an employer to deduct money under an attachment of earning order , it can make deduction from benefit , it can take control of good , or it can issue a charge order . in extremis , the council can even initiate bankruptcy proceeding , and ultimately , it can apply to commit the taxpayer to prison if bailiff have be unable to find good belong to the taxpayer that cover the debt . give that local authority possess all those power under the council tax administration and enforcement regulation , why be they not be use effectively ? why do we think that create remote hearing be go to improve matter ? that seem absolutely ludicrous to I . if ever there be a good use of a magistrate court ' s time , it be to ensure that conscientious payer of council tax in the area cover by that court do not have to subsidise people who do not pay their council tax , result in the enormous arrear to which I have refer . that be why I be concerned about this proposal . remote hearing be introduce during the pandemic and have be use in other circumstance , but the consequence of a remote hearing be that the press and the public be in the dark . one of the good deterrent to council tax non - payment would be for people who be in receipt of liability order in the local magistrate court to have their name and address publish in the local paper . that be go to be make much more difficult if the Bill contain reference to council tax when it become law , so on behalf of all those people who be suffer as a result of the more than £ 6 billion owe in council tax , I urge the Government not to proceed with this particular part of the Bill . that be why I have table my amendment . the hon . member for Christchurch ( Sir Christopher Chope ) raise important concern , but this Bill be not about reduce the pressure on miscreant — it be about deal with they as effectively and efficiently as possible . the Bill do not mandate the use of video ; it allow the court flexibility . instead of the police be use as taxi driver , move people around when they should be deal with other miscreant , case will be able to be deal with in a much more effective way when a magistrate or a judge need to be find at short notice . I can assure the hon . Gentleman that this measure will benefit justice , and will assist in deal with the miscreant that he and I be both concerned about . the current situation make it more difficult to do that . I thank the Minister for his response . perhaps the logic of what he say be that , instead of my amendment to remove the provision relate to council tax , we should add to the Bill a provision about shoplifter and fraudster , so that they be subject to remote hearing , on the basis that this will assist in the administration of justice . I be too slow to table amendment to such an effect in order to draw out the Minister far , but it be implicit in what I have say that I do not accept the explanation he have give . be that explanation to be correct , I urge he to add category to the Bill when it reach the Lords , so that justice can be do , as he would see it . I beg to ask leave to withdraw the amendment . amendment , by leave , withdraw . third read I beg to move , that the Bill be now read the third time . we cover the Bill extensively in Committee , and there be a fairly wholesome debate about amendment 1 on Report . this be a sensible and proportionate Bill . it be slim and sophisticated , and I ask the House to approve its Third Reading . Madam Deputy Speaker , it will not surprise you that , in the light of the Minister ' s response to my amendment , I be very unhappy about the Bill . unamended , it incorporate the provision on local government non - payer that I describe on Report . I can not get my head round the argument put forward by the Minister , and it be replicate in the explanatory note on the Bill , which say : " this Bill create a more efficient process for handle these matter , remove the need to move people from police cell to court and for judge / magistrate to travel to attend court in person to hear the case at the weekend or public holiday . " that certainly do not refer to case involve local government debt . it may well apply to some case relate to other aspect of the Bill . the explanatory note also say : " the use of remote link in Criminal proceeding be relatively common and have deliver significant benefit . it be also common in civil and Family proceeding . in those proceeding , the appearance of a defendant by remote link be permit at the direction of the court , include case of far great sensitivity or gravity . " of course , family proceeding be in camera anyway , so Joe Public of the local Daily Echo will not get access to that . I be not suggest that they should , but if they can not access information about who be in council tax arrear and be be bring before the court , that will become much more difficult . the explanatory note go on to say : " the lack of legal power to order that these case be hear by remote link mean that all arrest defendant must be transport from the police station to court " . early , I go through all the stage that people have to go through before they find themselves threaten with imprisonment for debt . if they go through all those stage , surely it be important that they should be bring to court , and we should not be concern about the fact that they will have to be transport from the police station to court or that the judge may have to travel to court . of course , all that have be make more difficult because we have close so many magistrate court that the travel distance be long . indicate assent . I see that the Minister agree . we have so few court now compare with before that people have to travel far , with all the inconvenience that that lead to . the explanatory note continue : " this lead to delay in deal with the case and be not an effective way of use resource . " I just do not think that that apply in the case of the council tax provision . if there be a sunset clause , and we could see whether put more pressure on council to take action against those who do not pay council tax reduce overall arrear , then we might be get somewhere . I thank the hon . Gentleman for his consider contribution to the debate . I will be brief . he be make some reasonable point , but he be answer his own question . we currently have a bottleneck in the court system , and by be against the measure in the Bill , he be , probably inadvertently , make it easy for these people not to be see by the court system . the Bill be reasonable and small , as I have say . if we can release some pressure in that bottleneck — the point he make about council tax debtor and other be quite right — more debt will be recover and more miscreant will be see in the criminal justice system , and that be always a good thing . he be make reasonable point , but he be answer his own question through the explanatory note . I be grateful to the hon . gentleman for make that point , but I be not sure that I agree . in essence , the criminal justice system be there to ensure that there be a level playing field , that everybody be equal under the law and that the rule of law apply . the figure that I have give show that the rule of law be not be consistently apply across the country when it come to the duty to pay council tax , and quite a lot of enforcement authority seem to be rather cavalier about enforcement . I just do not think that allow remote hearing will suddenly rectify a situation in which council tax arrear in Birmingham and three other authority amount to well over £ 1 billion . indeed , some of the area where council tax arrear be high be the area where we have see complete failure of administration , Birmingham city council be one such example . as a direct result of Birmingham city council ' s failure to operate effectively , the Government have to intervene , put the council into special measure and essentially allow the council to increase council taxis far in excess of the 5 % threshold that normally apply . the same be true in Croydon and Thurrock . if the hon . member for Burnley ( Oliver Ryan ) look at my list of local authority and council tax arrear , he will see that failure to deal with council tax arrear be a very good indicator of a local authority ' s failure , although I have yet to do the work on link that proposition with the salary that the chief executive of those local authority pay themselves . I do not believe that those large , inflexible authority will be motivate by the Bill to have remote hearing when they be not even prepared to use the exist structure . it may well be — this point support the hon . gentleman — that small council like New Forest district council be quick on those who do not pay their council tax or do not pay it promptly . the possibility of have remote hearing instead of those council have to issue court summons might save administrative cost and save the burden . however , in my submission , that potential small benefit be more than outweigh by the problem I have be describe . it would have be so easy for the Government to put forward this Bill on the basis that it would not apply to council tax . have say that , section 47 ( 7 ) ( a ) of the Family Law Act 1996 require that a person in breach of an occupation order , where that order contain a power of arrest , must be bring before a court within 24 hour of the arrest . that be why the argument be make that court have to be available over the weekend and so on . as be so often the case when we be face with legislation like this , it would perhaps be sensible to change that provision , so that the person do not need to be bring before a court within 24 hour of arrest if that period include a Saturday or Sunday . that would be a much more direct way of deal with this issue , in my submission . again , it be an easy cop - out for the Government to say that because the person have to be bring before a court within 24 hour , we have to go for remote hearing . if we do away with the need to bring the person in within 24 hour if it be the weekend , we would not need this Bill . section 47 ( 10 ) of the Family Law Act state that the court can remand a person in breach of a non - molestation order who have be bring before a court pursuant to a warrant for arrest , and the matter be not dispose of forthwith . that be another example of where this situation apply . section 9 of the Anti - social Behaviour , Crime and Policing Act 2014 require that a person arrest follow a breach of an antisocial behaviour injunction , where that injunction contain a power of arrest , must be bring before a court within 24 hour of arrest . why be we not amend section 9 of that Act to ensure that in the circumstance that the arrest take place over a weekend , the 24 hour timeframe do not apply ? similarly , section 43 of the Policing and Crime Act 2009 require that a person arrest follow a breach of a gang - relate violence or drug - deal injunction must be bring before a court within 24 hour of arrest . again , that could easily be amend to avoid the need for these remote hearing , which be what we be concentrate on in this Bill . I be a lawyer by background , as you know , Madam Deputy Speaker . when I be at university do my law degree — or my jurisprudence degree , to be precise — I can remember our law class go to the local assize when a rape trial be take place . as one might imagine , there be a lot of interest from these embryo lawyer in what be happen . in that rape trial — I remember it to this day — the defend counsel get up and ask , essentially , that the House do sit in private . the High Court judge put his foot up on the bench in front of he and say — really , he be speak to the law student , who he know be in the gallery — that , " justice must not only be do , but must be see to be do . " that be a message that I learn very early on as a law student , and I still think it apply . remote hearing could be justify during the covid crisis — fine — but now they be be use as an excuse . we already have some example of where they be permit , but the Bill go too far in extend that . the hon . member for Burnley , who introduce the Bill , may feel it be rather sad that it be be pick at by member of the House — not member — just one . well , I do not know ; I be sure that I speak for many . the hon . Gentleman have make some reasonable point throughout the debate . when I do my graduate diploma in law , we do a similar exercise and go to court to see big trial , but that be not what the Bill would cover . it be for small , mass case that , as have be mention , deal with thing like council tax arrear . as the hon . Gentleman be aware , we be short on time , so I will quietly throw myself on his mercy and ask he whether we can get to the end of this before half - past 2 . the Bill would be of great benefit to the legal system . he will know from his day as a lawyer in the system that some modernisation be require . it be not always a good thing , but I believe that this be a measured approach . if we can please get through to the end of the debate by half - past 2 , we can make some progress . the hon . Gentleman have a disarm smile and approach — dare I say , it be almost seductive ? may I put to he an alternative proposition ? he be in a position to influence the Government whip to ensure that extra sit Fridays be provide . because his Bill be on its Third reading , assume that its Third Reading be not complete today , it would take priority over other Bills when additional sit friday be put on . the fact be that we have not yet even have an announcement about the sit day for next year . a year ago , after the general election , the Leader of the House give we the sit day for the whole period through to the end of this July , and I congratulate she on that at the time . she have not do that in relation to next year , but I understand it be likely that this first Session will go on , perhaps even beyond Christmas . in the meantime , we could have another sit Friday where the hon . Gentleman ' s Bill could be deal with on Third Reading . the question now arise as to whether I should reflect on the point that the hon . Gentleman make in his intervention or just rely on the Minister and my hon . friend the Member for Bexhill and Battle ( Dr Mullan ) on the Opposition Front Bench to put in their three - pennyworth . I recognise that unfortunately we be always time - limited and regret that so many of the Report stage Fridays be take up with one Bill . we be deal with the consequence of that today . we be now debate the fourth Bill of the day on Report , which , if one look at the record , be a pretty good strike rate for a Report stage Friday . we be now in the middle of debate this important Bill , which would affect lot of people . I do not see any reason at all why this important debate should not be able to continue on the next sitting Friday . one have very little power in this place as a Back Bencher , but one thing one do have be power over the time . we want to come on to another important Bill about control drug . I be sure the power that be will know that if we be to get on and discuss the hon . member for Burnley ' s Bill and the Controlled Drugs ( Procedure for Specification ) Bill , we will need an additional sitting Friday . at the same time , we would then be able to deal with the Bill on homelessness by the chairman of the 1922 committee , my hon . friend the Member for Harrow East ( Bob Blackman ) , which go through unopposed at Second Reading , but have be block by the Government ever since . that be intolerable — the debate stand adjourn ( Standing Order No . 11 ( 2 ) ) . order , that the debate be resume on Friday 12 September . business without Debate Controlled Drugs ( Procedure for Specification ) Bill Consideration of Bill , not amend in the Public Bill Committee I beg to move amendment 1 . object . consideration to be resume on Friday 12 September . Hospices and Health Care ( Report on Funding ) Bill Motion make , that the Bill be now read a second time . object . Bill to be read a second time on Friday 12 September . Bank of England ( Inflation Targets ) Bill Motion make , that the Bill be now read a second time . object . Bill to be read a second time on Friday 12 September . rule of Law ( Enforcement by Public Authorities ) Bill Motion make , that the Bill be now read a second time . object . Bill to be read a second time on Friday 12 September . European Union ( Withdrawal Arrangements ) Bill Resumption of adjourned debate on question ( 6 December 2024 ) , that the Bill be now read a second time . object . debate to be resume on Friday 12 September . climate and Nature Bill Resumption of adjourned debate on question ( 24 January ) , that the Bill be now read a second time . object . debate to be resume on Friday 29 May 2026 . election ( Proportional Representation ) Bill Motion make , that the Bill be now read a second time . object . Bill to be read a second time on Friday 29 May 2026 . debt Relief ( Developing Countries ) Bill Motion make , that the Bill be now read a second time . object . Bill to be read a second time on Friday 12 September . Animal Welfare ( Responsibility for Dog on Dog Attacks ) Bill Motion make , that the Bill be now read a second time . object . Bill to be read a second time on Friday 29 May 2026 . freedom of Expression ( Religion or Belief System ) Bill Motion make , that the Bill be now read a second time . object . Bill to be read a second time on Friday 12 September . Letter Boxes ( Positioning ) Bill Motion make , that the Bill be now read a second time . object . Bill to be read a second time on Friday 12 September . hunt trophy ( Import Prohibition ) Bill Motion make , that the Bill be now read a second time . object . Bill to be read a second time on Friday 12 September . Fireworks Bill Motion make , that the Bill be now read a second time . object . Bill to be read a second time on Friday 12 September . Heritage Public Houses Bill Motion make , that the Bill be now read a second time . object . Bill to be read a second time on Friday 12 September . Interpersonal Abuse and Violence against Men and Boys ( Strategy ) Bill Motion make , that the Bill be now read a second time . object . Bill to be read a second time on Friday 12 September . Terminal Illness ( Relief of Pain ) Bill Motion make , that the Bill be now read a second time . object . Bill to be read a second time on Friday 12 September . planning ( Flooding ) Bill Motion make , that the Bill be now read a second time . object . Bill to be read a second time on Friday 17 October . Public Authority ( accountability ) Bill Motion make , that the Bill be now read a second time . object . child ' s Hospices ( Funding ) Bill Motion make , that the Bill be now read a second time . object . Bill to be read a second time on Friday 12 September . Equitable Life Policyholders ( Compensation ) Bill Motion make , that the Bill be now read a second time . object . Bill to be read a second time on Friday 12 September . regulatory Impact assessment Bill Motion make , that the Bill be now read a second time . object . Bill to be read a second time on Friday 12 September . sale of Tickets ( Sporting and Cultural Events ) Bill Motion make , that the Bill be now read a second time . object . Bill to be read a second time on Friday 12 September . river , Streams and Lakes ( Protected Status ) Bill Motion make , that the Bill be now read a second time . object . Bill to be read a second time on Friday 12 September . Domestic Building Works ( Consumer Protection ) Bill Motion make , that the Bill be now read a second time . object . Bill to be read a second time on Friday 12 September . Animal Shelters ( Licensing ) Bill Motion make , that the Bill be now read a second time . object . Bill to be read a second time on Friday 12 September . pet ( Microchips ) Bill Motion make , that the Bill be now read a second time . object . Bill to be read a second time on Friday 12 September . immigration and Visas Bill Motion make , that the Bill be now read a second time . object . Bill to be read a second time on Friday 12 September . British Indian Ocean Territory ( Sovereignty and Constitutional Arrangements ) Bill Motion make , that the Bill be now read a second time . object . Bill to be read a second time on Friday 12 September . Colne Valley Regional Park : Protection Motion make , and question propose , that this House do now adjourn . — ( Keir Mather . ) it be an honour to be here on one of the warm Fridays of the year to enjoy and extend our time in the House for the final Adjournment debate of the week . I be delighted to discuss the Colne Valley regional park , which straddle London , Slough , Buckinghamshire , Windsor and Maidenhead — so many different constituency . its importance for infrastructure and as a strategic geographical location be second to none , which be why I secure this debate . the beautiful south Bucks village of Denham , Fulmer , Richings Park , Iver Heath and the Ivers be all part of the Colne Valley regional park . its national significance be mainly due to its geographical location : it be in proximity to Heathrow ; High Speed 2 go right through it ; and we have all the motorway . it provide the lung of London , and the vital break of green belt between London and the county outside it . we get zero benefit from the ultra low emission zone — the Mayor ' s restriction on how we can go in and out of London — or from Transport for London . all we have be a bit of green space that give we a buffer between London and Buckinghamshire . that be true for all the county that straddle London along west London and the M25 . our issue be that that little bit of green belt — some of which , Madam Deputy Speaker , be as small a divide as the area between the two side of the House — which be our last remain bit of green belt , and which separate we from London , be under attack . it be under attack from overdevelopment , the expansion of Heathrow , hs2 and motorway expansion . the proposal for a third runway at Heathrow would take 900 acre of the regional park directly , not to mention the indirect consequence , include Colnbrook and Horton in my constituency , which would be irreparable . do my hon . friend condemn the Chancellor press the panic button and inflict this irreversible damage on the Colne Valley park ? I thank my hon . friend , who have long be a champion of the Colne Valley regional park and the green belt in that area . it will impact we in such a negative way . I have fight to stop the third runway at Heathrow and to champion and protect our green belt . the problem be we have very little green belt there , and the expansion would increase the impact on that green belt , both with car come into Heathrow and plane take off . the amount of green belt that would be consume would be devastating to my area , as I be sure it would be to my hon . friend ' s . this be a time for the Government to do something incredible . they can preserve the green space of the Colne Valley regional park , which provide the vital lung for London , while allow their infrastructure to flourish around it . it be important that this green - belt land be preserve . that be what must happen now . there be no protection of this because it be an area whose ownership have pass between London , Buckinghamshire and Slough over the year . there be part of it that have be own by London council and then by Buckinghamshire council , and vice versa . it have be go on for quite some time . right now , there be no additional protection . it be not common land or an area of outstanding natural beauty ; it be simply land that be green and that provide vital green corridor for wildlife and farmer and for wildlife conservation across the west London and Buckinghamshire area . all that be under threat from overdevelopment . today , I want to focus on the wonderful landscape and countryside diversity that be at risk . in the word of the Colne Valley regional park itself , our countryside be in crisis . the team at the park have set out a call for action , and in this debate I want to set out my unwavering support for that call . I be grateful for all the community support for the Colne Valley regional park I have see across Denham , Iver , Iver Heath , Richings Park and all the south Bucks village . give its proximity to London , it be one of the most pressurised green - belt area . it be the very epitome of the lung of London , but it also epitomise why we must take action now . an avalanche of development be be propose across the park , which would divide it and cause the closing of the wildlife corridor . they would cause detrimental impact for wildlife and for those who use and access the park . all that be happen while the park sit between two of Europe ' s big infrastructure project : HS2 and the expansion of Heathrow . all that development be happen while the Colne Valley regional park lack any of the protection of an AONB . this be a cross - party issue , because the park crosse into London , Buckinghamshire , Windsor and Slough , and into Labour , Lib Dem and conservative constituency . it touch many political party , because it impact so many constituency across the west London area . the hon . member for Slough ( Mr Dhesi ) could not be here , but he want to show his support for the Colne Valley regional park , as do my hon . friend the Member for Windsor ( Jack Rankin ) , who be rightly in his place to support it today , and my hon . friend the Member for Ruislip , Northwood and Pinner ( David Simmonds ) , who have long be a champion for this area . many other mps would have like to be here today ; they tell I to pass on to the Minister that this issue matter across the party . it be not a political issue , but it be an issue that many member from across this House care about deeply . without a plan , the development will happen around the park , and vital green corridor will be lose forever . the Colne Valley regional park have set out a five - point plan to influence local planning , restore the landscape , reform national planning , establish its status and protect nature . I will focus on two area that explicitly matter to this House and the Government , and will touch briefly on funding . since arrive in Parliament , I have be advocate for strong protection for the Colne Valley regional park . there be a real and urgent need to look at extend the Chilterns AONB to include the park . if there be not an extension of the Chilterns AONB , a specific designation for the park itself need to be progress . will the Minister work with I to explore that opportunity urgently ? the Colne Valley regional park also represent an opportunity to show how we can plan for green space around the edge of city . any big infrastructure project will require the input of green space . please will the Minister make sure that the green space that be require for any such infrastructure expansion be put into the Colne Valley regional park , so that we can work in tandem to provide what the resident and wildlife need , while the Government be still able to put in their infrastructure project where they choose ? at the moment , our approach to national planning do not address the strategic risk , opportunity and problem that face the Colne Valley regional park . we have a unique opportunity to address that . the Colne Valley regional park span many local authority , yet be of national importance for the reason set out . we have to think beyond boundary and integrate area such as the park , which lack national park status or AONB protection , into our national strategic planning . will the Minister explore use the Colne Valley regional park as a case study and test case to explore just how we might do that ? we have an opportunity to plan strategically for our countryside in our national planning policy . for major development around the Colne Valley regional park , and area like it , the park should be an integral part of the planning process , not treat as something for side consideration . we can plan how green corridor for people and wildlife can sit alongside the major development of infrastructure and housing that be plan around the London area . will the Minister consider how the national planning framework can be develop urgently for just that purpose ? finally , I will touch briefly on funding . the Colne Valley regional park rely on local authority , grant and the generosity of corporate donor to fund its operational cost . I hope that I have set out clearly how effectively those resource be use for the good of our landscape , biodiversity and community , but give the strategic development challenge that the park face to its very existence , it need fund support to enable a plan and to develop a response . will the Minister consider way in which body such as the Colne Valley regional park can be well support financially in the context of a dramatically change planning landscape ? will the Minister speak to the Mayor of London to see whether some of the ULEZ contribution be make by driver could be use for the park ' s upkeep and protection ? the park be very much impact by infrastructure project that be happen in London but receive no funding from London , so will the Minister speak to the mayor about some of those resource be reallocate to the park ? there be many more point that time have not allow I to cover , so will the Minister agree to meet I , the hon . member for Slough , my hon . friend the Member for Windsor and other from across the House to discuss the issue of Colne Valley regional park in depth ? the Colne Valley regional park matter to I and my constituent . it have importance nationally , for our wildlife and as a case study for how green space can exist alongside our major city . it mean something that matter to we all . it be time now to listen and act before it be too late . I congratulate the hon . member for Beaconsfield ( Joy Morrissey ) on secure this important debate . she and I disagree on many aspect of politic and policy , but no one can doubt the strength with which she speak on behalf of those she represent . the Government recognise the vital role that the Colne Valley regional park play in provide access to countryside and green space for the million of people who live in close proximity to it . we appreciate fully that it be highly value by local community . we also recognise its importance for biodiversity ; as the hon . Lady know , the park contain part of one special protection area , part of one national nature reserve , 13 site of special scientific interest and seven local nature reserve . I assure the hon . Lady that I share her desire to ensure that the Colne Valley regional park be protect for current and future generation to enjoy , and I hope that I can reassure she today that the Government ' s commitment to deliver the housing and infrastructure growth that our country so desperately need be not at odd with safeguard the park for future generation . it might be useful for I to set out the protection already afford by exist national planning policy . as set out in paragraph 7 of the national planning policy framework , the purpose of the planning system be to contribute to the achievement of sustainable development , include the provision of home , commercial development and support infrastructure , in a sustainable manner . the framework make clear that sustainable development should be pursue through both the preparation and implementation of local development plan and the application of policy in the framework . achieve sustainable development mean that the planning system have three overarch objective : economic , social and environmental . to support its environmental objective , the NPPF set out that planning policy and decision should contribute to and enhance the natural and local environment by protect and enhance value landscape and site of biodiversity or geological value in a manner commensurate with their statutory status — as the hon . Lady have make clear , the Colne Valley regional park do not have such status at present — or their identify quality in the relevant development plan . to support its social objective , the NPPF set out strong safeguard to prevent the loss of open space , make clear that such space should not be build on unless there be clear evidence that it be no long require ; unless equivalent or well provision be secure in a suitable location ; or unless development of the site be for alternative sport and recreational provision , the benefit of which clearly outweigh the loss of the current or former use . I turn now to green - belt policy , an issue on which the hon . Lady have strong view which she have express forcefully in the past . the Government be commit to preserve green belt , which have serve England ' s town and city well over many decade , not least in check the unrestricted sprawl of large build - up area and in prevent neighbouring town from merge into one another . as the hon . Lady mention , the Colne Valley regional park occupy the " inner " green belt on the western edge of London ; I be well aware of how important the designation be to its integrity and future . it be important to note that this Government have not change the five purpose of the green belt set out in paragraph 143 of the NPPF , and we do not propose to alter its general extent . nor be green - belt policy alter , in any way , by provision in the Planning and Infrastructure Bill , which be currently in the other place . we do , however , act quickly to replace the piecemeal and haphazard approach take by the previous Government to green - belt designation and release with a more strategic and targeted approach . I emphasise that minister do not determine what , if any , green - belt land be release in any give local planning authority area . it be for local planning authority themselves to determine whether exceptional circumstance justify do so , and we expect they first to demonstrate that they have fully examine all other reasonable option for meeting identify need for development , include make as much use as possible of suitable brownfield site and underutilise land ; optimise the density of development ; and work with neighbouring authority to assess whether identify need might be sensibly accommodate elsewhere . national planning policy and our recently publish guidance on green - belt assessment be clear that release of , or development on , green - belt land should not fundamentally undermine the ability of the remain green belt across the area of the plan from serve all five of the green - belt purpose . national policy make it clear that , where it be necessary to release green - belt land for development , local development plan must take a sequential approach , first prioritise previously develop land , and then low - quality grey - belt land that have not be previously develop , before consider other green - belt location . under our revised approach , the sustainability of green - belt site must be prioritise , and local planning authority must pay particular attention to transport connection when consider whether grey belt be sustainably locate . it be because we recognise the value that the public place on the green belt that we have take step to ensure that any necessary development on land release from it must deliver high level of affordable housing , the provision of new green space or improvement to exist green space that be accessible to the public , and the making of necessary improvement to local or national infrastructure . our new golden rule , which be the mechanism by which we will deliver that public gain , will apply where a major housing development be propose on green - belt land release through plan make or subject to a planning application . although the hon . member for Beaconsfield do not mention it , I want to touch briefly on the Planning and Infrastructure Bill , which be pertinent to the environmental issue that she raise . when it come to development and the environment , we know that we can do well than the status quo , which too often see both sustainable house building and nature recovery stall . as she will know , part 3 of the Bill will introduce a new nature restoration fund , which will unlock and accelerate development while go beyond neutrality to unlock the positive impact that development can have in drive nature recovery . environmental delivery plan , as propose in part 3 of the Bill , will address any potential negative effect of development on protect site and specie , whether locate in national park , national landscape or elsewhere . edp can be put in place only where the Secretary of State be satisfied that the delivery of conservation measure be likely to outweigh the negative effect of development . where that be not the case , exist environmental obligation , include those arise under the Conservation of Habitats and Species Regulations 2017 , will remain in place . in addition , edp and the conservation measure they propose must be evidence - base and properly scrutinise before be put into place . edp may include back - up measure that can be deploy if monitoring show that the environmental outcome be not be deliver . policy safeguard relate to the protection of national park and national landscape , include those set out in the national planning policy framework and relevant national policy statement , remain in place . have listen the hon . Lady ' s contribution , I think that the bulk of her concern stem from the fact that Colne Valley regional park do not have any statutory status . that be not something on which I can give she a commitment from the Dispatch Box today . she will know that , in other case , such as the Lee Valley park , a specific Act of Parliament bring forward statutory status . however , I be more than willing to sit down with she and other hon . member — I take the point that there be cross - party value attribute to the park — to discuss far how we can ensure that it be protect for current and future generation to enjoy . although I have note the concern that the hon . Lady have raise , will reflect on they and look forward to that meeting , I be clear that appropriate protection be in place to safeguard the country ' s park and green space , and that the Planning and Infrastructure Bill will unlock a win - win for the economy and nature . House adjourn .