thank you , Madam Deputy Speaker . I be honour to speak for the first time in this House as the Member of Parliament for Tipton , Wednesbury and Coseley . I represent the village of Coseley in Dudley , as well as the town of Tipton , Wednesbury and Hateley Heath in Sandwell . in the last Parliament , Shaun Bailey be a tireless advocate for this special corner of the Black Country , and I wish he well as he resume his legal study . let I tell you about Tipton , Wednesbury and Coseley . we be an industrial constituency , shape by factory , foundry , mine and canal . we have beautiful park , lay out for the leisure of work people , and civic building of grace and gravita , such as the grade II list Tipton central library and the 16th - century St Bart ' s in Wednesbury . but more than anything , we have the people of the Black Country — creative , ingenious , hard - work and down to earth people like Thomas Barratt . bear in Coseley , he stop the enemy advance and save his patrol at Ypres . he be a boilermaker , award the Victoria Cross posthumously at just 22 . the worker of Tube Town , the metal finish capital of the world , go out on strike for two long month in 1913 for a decent wage . they be back all the way by their wife , hero in their own right , who somehow keep 25 , 000 family feed amid near destitution . they win . I be proud to say that their union become my union , Unite . worker have come to the constituency from Ireland , the Caribbean , Bangladesh , Kashmir and Punjab ; they leave their home to provide for their family , face racism but prevail , build church , temple , mosque and gurdwara , and see their child succeed . we be a proud , working - class community . too often , people have stand in this place and talk our area down . I will never . of course , the name " Black Country " be for the smoke of heavy industry ; there have be coalmine , steel fabrication , metal finishing , and nail , brick and chain making . we be where the industrial revolution start . James Watt ' s first steam engine haul coal in Tipton , at the Bloomfield colliery . today , despite everything , a quarter of all worker in our area be still in manufacturing . we may be the Black Country , but modern manufacturing be clean , high - skill and high - wage . in Sandwell , 1 , 000 firm — with 21 , 000 job — make everything , from street furniture to hinge to lock to the precision metal form for aeroplane and power plant . I be proud to wear the " make in Britain " badge , and to back our new deal for work people . if we be to have a new industrial revolution here in the UK as we meet the challenge of climate change , let we make it with our hand and our brain , in the place that be the crucible of the first industrial revolution , the Black Country . I stand for no more and no less than this : prosperity for every family . my friend at the TUC work out that if wage have rise in the last decade by the amount by which they rise between 1997 and 2010 , the average worker in my constituency would be £ 93 a week well off . that be nearly five grand a year more in people ' s pocket . in the Black Country , we work hard , but force big than any individual — deindustrialisation , Thatcherism , and the cruel austerity of these last 14 year — mean that good folk there earn less and have few chance and few choice than people elsewhere . fully half of our kid grow up below the poverty line , in infested B & Bs , in home with damp drip down the wall , or in flat make for two , but home to three time that . for many , most week , the money stretch , just about — until the week when it do not . I want to turn the thought of those in this House to the young people in my constituency , almost none of whom go to fee - pay school . four in 10 kid in my constituency do not get grade 4 GCSE in math and English last year . that have to change , and we will change it . as I stand here today , the obstacle to deliver prosperity , and more than that — comfort , security , leisure — to every worker and every family seem almost insurmountable , but we take heart from our history : from Ernie Bevin , who forge the working - class woman and man of the UK into an industrial machine that , from a stand start , equip our country for victory . in my area , those in saucepan factory make grenade , and car maker build the machine to defeat fascism . that be a reminder that once we turn our mind to something , the ingenuity and drive of the british working class can rarely be equalled . it be for we , here , to set it free . I will always stand against decline and for progress . after all , I grow up in a world where people like I could not get marry , but now our beloved daughter have both her mother ' name on her birth certificate . to believe in progress be to believe that once again this country can work for work people . it be time , Madam Deputy Speaker , so my final word be to the people of our town . Tipton , Coseley , Wednesbury , Hateley Heath : I be here to serve you always .