Oral Answers to Questions Science , Innovation and Technology the Secretary of State be ask — Digital Landlines : Rural Communities what step he be take to ensure that rural community be support in the transition from analogue to digital landline . one of the thing that keep I awake at night be how we ensure that people be protect — the most vulnerable and rural community in particular — as we transition from the copper network to fibre . that be why I be glad that , in November last year , I be able to get all the network operator to sign up to a new code of conduct that will , I think , provide precisely that protection . Dominic ' s aortic aneurysm burst at his rural home five year ago . with no phone signal in their stone - build house , it be a 50 - minute landline call to emergency service that help his wife keep he alive while they wait for an ambulance . as Dominic wait for more open heart surgery , can the Minister reassure his family that we be do all we can to mitigate the risk to he and other vulnerable people during power cut ? I certainly can . I send my good wish to my hon . friend ' s constituent . he say that it be a stone - build house ; he be absolutely right that there be particular difficulty with mobile signal in stone - build house — I live in one myself , in Porth in the Rhondda . one thing that we have do recently , as a result of the pressure that I have put on people , be to ensure that the battery back - up power be not just the Ofcom - guarantee one - hour minimum , but considerably long , and that be what lot of the operator be now provide . what awareness be there in very rural area where there be not great broadband coverage and very poor indoor mobile phone coverage — sometimes no coverage at all — of the effect of this change , particularly in place where there be frequent and sometimes extended power cut ? when can we expect a full national awareness campaign ? I welcome the right hon . Gentleman ' s comment — I be glad that he be express an interest in this issue . he take part in a Westminster Hall debate on it only a few week ago , when I be a bit grumpy with he , for which I apologise . he make some good point . he may not be aware of the campaign , which be already up and run , so obviously the awareness campaign need to do a bit more work to make he aware of the awareness . broadband : Rural Communities what assessment he have make of the adequacy of rural broadband coverage . rural broadband coverage simply be not good enough . many rural village in my constituency still suffer from poor broadband access , with no clear date for when it will get well and more demand for huge expenditure to get they connect to the network . I think particularly of resident in Banningham , who have suffer from poor broadband access for year and feel they be at the bottom of the pile . in Finland , the broadband roll - out start with the hard - to - reach property and reach inward , tackle the big challenge first . do the Minister agree that a roll - out strategy like that , rather than one that go for the easy property first , would have serve those community well and fast ? the large chunk of broadband delivery will be do on a commercial basis by the private sector . we do not want to do with taxpayer ' money what could probably be do by the commercial sector . I do not catch the name of the village that the hon . Member refer to . I be not sure whether he have be to one of my Building Digital UK drop - in session , but if he need further information for that particular village , I would be very happy to try to sort it . in my constituency , resident of the rurally isolate community of Balquhidder do not wait for a major provider ; they dig and lay 34 km of fibre optic cable themselves use the Government ' s broadband voucher scheme to partner with a small business and deliver gigabit broadband — a remarkable achievement . that success be now at risk , however , because for well over a year the Government payment process have be struggle to engage with the volunteer - lead project . will the Minister meet I to help resolve that , and will he join I on a visit to the beautiful Balquhidder glen to see at first hand what that resourceful and determined community have deliver ? everybody tell I that Balquhidder be very beautiful — in fact , my hon . Friend tell I early this morning . I would be interested in a visit if it be also possible to visit the new film studio that I think might be come to his constituency . stirling be one matter , but Strathallan and the very wide rural area in his constituency be different . I would be very happy to try to sort out the specific issue that he have in Balquhidder . Digital Inclusion what step his Department be take to improve digital inclusion in Bathgate and Linlithgow constituency . what step his Department be take to improve digital inclusion in North Somerset constituency . it be important that we have the right datum on which place be miss out . that be why , as I have say before , I be desperate to ensure that , if people check Ofcom ' s online announcement on coverage in their area , it match their live experience . I can announce that Ofcom will be radically change its online coverage network system . I have place a letter in the Library today between myself and Ofcom which lay out when we will do that in June . I welcome the investment in my constituency from Project gigabit ' s £ 157 million deal to upgrade Scotland ' s broadband . the remote job market open up employment opportunity for those who live outside the major city . however , several constituent from more rural area around Bridgend , Armadale , Bo ' ness and Bathgate have tell I that they have lose out on opportunity for flexible working , and even lose job due to poor connectivity . can the Minister reassure my constituent that they will not lose out on future opportunity because of where they live ? my hon . friend be absolutely right : in a digital world , we can not have some people engage and who have the connectivity they need while other do not , because that simply will not drive forward economic growth in this country . she make a very fair point , and yes I can give that guarantee . I thank the Minister for his response . during my recent visit to the Nailsea & Backwell disabled access caf é , I have the privilege of meet remarkable resident such as Alison . a recur theme emerge about access Government service , which often assume internet access and capability . what additional measure be the Department implement to ensure that everyone in North Somerset , particularly those with disability or limited digital skill , can access vital Government form and assistance in format that truly work for they ? there be so many part of deliver our public service where we can improve productivity if we manage to do so on a digital basis . I be conscious that , for example , a Doncaster hospital still employ 42 people just to carry around physical medical record . that be clearly nonsense and we need to change it . my hon Friend be absolutely right : if we go to a digital future we must be able to take everyone with we . that must mean that non - digital option should be available to those who be not able to take up digital option . my constituent John write to I to highlight the slow and weak internet connectivity in Boyatt Wood . meanwhile , constituent who live in the centre of Eastleigh regularly struggle to get online . do the Minister agree that all my constituent deserve access to fast and reliable broadband ? what assurance can he give they that that be a priority for the Government ? I would argue that her constituent have a right not only to good broadband — if the hon . Lady want to come to one of my Building Digital UK drop - in session she would be very welcome ; we can go through street by street if necessary — but to mobile connectivity . I bet there be people in her constituency , as there be in every constituency in the land , who see on the Ofcom checker that they have a perfect signal and know that they do not . that be one thing that I be change with the deal I have do with Ofcom . there be some really good example of the delivery of innovative product that provide access in remote and rural area and some good small - scale provider , but in the Cairngorms national park area a provider recently unexpectedly cease the service . consumer have be leave out on a limb , so be it time to put in place , as with the energy system , consumer protection should a provider fail to provide a service ? I have long think that digital connectivity be now akin to a connection to electricity , water or any other public utility . that be how we should treat the law , and I think that would assist the hon . Gentleman ' s constituent . innovation : Hertfordshire what step his Department be take to support innovation in Hertfordshire . the Government be commit to support innovation in Hertfordshire and across the country , and we be invest a record £ 20 . 4 billion in research and development this financial year alone . in the last financial year , UK Research and Innovation invest £ 67 million in project in Hertfordshire . for example , more than £ 650 , 000 be award to Copco Ltd , which be base in Hemel Hempstead , to develop a digitally enhance low - cost technology in aerostructure . I be fortunate enough to visit the British Standards Institution in Hemel Hempstead recently to see its work help business to deliver well product and drive towards a more sustainable planet . its research show that 78 % of UK company increase turnover and productivity because of the BSI ' s standard . what step be the Government take to support more company to adopt and certify standard , such as the BSI ' s AI management system standard , so that we can grow the UK tech sector and enable innovation and collaboration safely and securely ? I be extremely grateful for my hon . friend ' s question ; it show how diligently and assiduously he be work for the business in his constituency . I can assure he that high standard lead to their adoption , and this Government be commit to the very high of standard . I see that myself on visit to Hertfordshire : I visit Airbus and the tech firm Autolus , which be both do cutting - edge work to the high of standard , contribute to innovation in our country as well as the area that he represent so well . the Minister be right that such work be help not just Hertfordshire but everywhere else . he have be a regular visitor to Northern Ireland and have take a specific interest in cyber - security there . have he have the opportunity to interact with company in Northern Ireland to ensure that we can benefit from the expansion of the cyber - security industry ? I be grateful for the hon . Gentleman ' s recognition that I have a personal commitment to Northern Ireland , which I recently visit for the second time . this Government be commit to cyber - security right across the United Kingdom . the budget for it and their application be subject to Barnett consequential . I know that he will be work with the devolved Administration to ensure that that money be spend wisely , and in central Government they will have the partner they need . Artificial Intelligence : Environmental Impact what discussion he have have with Cabinet colleague on the potential impact of AI on the environment . DSIT work closely with other Departments , include the Department for Energy Security and Net Zero and the Department for Environment , Food and Rural Affairs , to align AI energy demand with future energy planning to ensure long - term sustainability . we understand that AI be an energy - hungry technology , which be why we have set up the AI energy council . through that council , we be assess way to address the grow energy demand of AI and AI sustainability , include by explore bold clean energy solution , from next generation renewable to small modular reactor . we know that AI have the power to transform civilisation , but its huge drain on the environment be a problem . for example , ChatGPT have an estimate 57 million daily user , but for every five to 50 question it be ask , 500 ml of water be use to cool down its data centre . the Minister have explain some of the work that be be do and I understand that the AI energy council be look at energy solution to align the Government ' s AI ambition with our net zero goal , but with the increase incidence of drought and the overall climate emergency , what step be the Government take specifically to manage water consumption and sustainability with their AI ambition ? I assure my hon . friend that the Government be commit to ensure that AI development align with sustainability goal . we welcome the advance in cool technology , such as dry cooling and closed - loop system , in addition to promote the use of renewable energy resource . I chair the AI Ministers group , which bring together Ministers from all Departments to co - ordinate cross - cut challenge , include water consumption . the astonishingly successful GrowUp vertical agriculture project in Sandwich , in my constituency , be highly dependent on datum , which could be hugely assist by artificial intelligence . I understand that agriculture be not represent on any of the work party . will the Minister seek to ensure that agriculture be include and possibly find time to visit the project ? as I have set out , we have inter - ministerial meeting that bring Ministers together , include Ministers from DEFRA . the Secretary of State regularly meet representative from the National Farmers Union and other Secretaries of State to discuss these issue . UK - US Trade Agreement : Digital Services Regulation what step his Department be take to ensure the adequate regulation of digital service , in the context of the UK - US trade agreement . I congratulate the Prime Minister and the Business Secretary on the UK - US trade deal , which , among many provision , include the commitment to deepen digital trade . my Department will continue to work across Whitehall to strengthen the transatlantic trade relationship that benefit our country so greatly . when it come to online harm , we will continue to strengthen those provision too . many of my constituent have contact I with concern around social medium and public health . nearly 40 % of child report that social medium have a negative impact on their mental health and , with glare hole in the Online Safety Act 2023 , dangerous small website remain unregulated . can the Secretary of State confirm that protection for child will not be up for negotiation in any deal with the United States ? I be grateful for that question . I certainly share the hon . Gentleman ' s concern for the welfare of young people online , which be why so many provision have be bring in since I come into office , include issue a statement of strategic priority to Ofcom , tackle intimate image abuse and get right behind the implementation of the new regulation from January and age verification , which will come in in July . we be behind those as well as work on what will come next and strengthen it . I reassure he and the House that online harm be never up for negotiation under this Government . I call the Chair of the Science , Innovation and Technology Committee . I really welcome the US - UK trade deal and the fact that the Secretary of State and the Prime Minister keep their commitment not to put online safety on the table in those negotiation . my Committee ' s inquiry into social medium misinformation and algorithm have hear evidence that the algorithm in social medium drive the spread of misinformation , and we see the consequence of that in the summer riot . will the Secretary of State confirm that , as well as not water down the Online Safety Act , he will look to strengthen it and be discuss how to do so with our ally in the US ? I reassure my hon . friend that I be look very closely at how we strengthen the online safety regime in order to protect child far into the future . I have commission research into the exact causal relationship between which product young people use and the impact that they have on they , and I will act accordingly from there . I call the liberal Democrat spokesperson . give the grow concern around the Online Safety Act , which could be weaken during UK - US trade negotiation , and report that the Secretary of State be meet repeatedly with tech giant , include Amazon , Google and Meta , it be vital that child ' s safety remain a red line in both our trade policy and our ongoing , evolve datum protection framework . I welcome the comment that he make around the fact that online harm will not be up for negotiation , but can he confirm that the Online Safety Act will not be up for negotiation in the UK - US trade deal now or in the future ? we have just deliver a deal between the UK and the US , and none of it weaken any of the legislation we have that keep child safe in this country . we be promise by the Conservatives that we be at the front of the queue for a US trade deal ; this Government take we out of the queue altogether and deliver the deal . the previous Government take a decade ; we deliver the deal , and we be strengthen the right that young people have to keep they safe , not weaken they . public Sector Productivity : technology what progress his Department have make on use technology to help increase level of productivity in the public sector . this Government be pilot a range of technology , include generative AI and large language model , across department in order to release their potential to boost public sector productivity . we be aim for a smart , small state , and that be exactly what we will deliver . I thank the Secretary of State for that answer . the Government be rightly focus on drive public sector reform through the smart use of technology , and in Basingstoke we have see what be possible . ICS . AI have already help Derby city council to save million of pound use AI . GemaSecure , another local firm , be develop home - grow tech to help to protect vital infrastructure from cyber - threat , and TBSC have produce software to reduce cost waste on unused it subscription by up to 25 % . will the Secretary of State join I in Basingstoke to meet those firm and other to discuss how his Department can work with they to help to achieve our mission of build a more efficient , secure and modern public sector ? my hon . friend be highlight the great work come out of Basingstoke , which will not just contribute to the productivity of local authority around the country but benefit our entire economy . I can assure he that this Government be commit to harness the power of british technology , put it to use for citizen across our country and for productivity in Government , and I look forward to engage more with the company he have mention . the use of AI in radiotherapy planning increase productivity twentyfold , yet the Government ' s decision to stop fund for AI contouring be estimate to cost waiting list half a million extra day . will the Secretary of State intervene and talk to his friend in the Department of Health and Social Care to make sure that they restore that funding and save life ? I can assure the hon . Gentleman that we be invest heavily in AI technology across the NHS for the benefit of patient . I have visit Huddersfield hospital , where AI have be fully integrate into the radiography department . I will look into the specific issue that the hon . Gentleman have raise , and if there be any conversation to be have , I can assure he that we be on the side of patient and of harness technology for the good of patient . I call the shadow Minister . accurate datum be important , particularly in the public sector — we will be vote on this later today . how will the Secretary of State measure his plan productivity improvement ? how will he define success , and over what time period ? I can assure the hon . Gentleman that we be deploy technology to deliver productivity gain across Whitehall , which be start now . we be invest heavily through the digital centre that we create in the Department for Science , Innovation and Technology and work intensively with department such as the Department for Work and Pensions and his Majesty ' s Revenue and Customs . we have already identify billion of pound - worth of saving , which will be put to use within government without delay for the benefit of citizen . topical Questions if he will make a statement on his departmental responsibility . this Government be harness the power of technology to create a smart , small state . my Department be partner with the Department for Work and Pensions and his Majesty ' s Revenue and Customs to understand how AI can save taxpayer ' money and deliver the world - class public service that people deserve . at the same time , we be tear down the barrier face business that want to invest in Britain . last month , we welcome expert from across the energy and tech sector to the first meeting of the AI energy council , at which we discuss how we can use clean energy to power our domestic AI sector and deliver strong growth and good job right across the country . I meet Jess and Hannah from Aston Clinton in my constituency , who be do brilliant work to encourage parent to delay give their child smartphone . respond on Second reading of the safe phone Bill , the Minister for digital , my hon . friend the Member for Rhondda and Ogmore ( Chris Bryant ) , agree that excessive smartphone usage be detrimental to the physical , mental and spiritual health of young people , and confirm that the Government intend to act in this area . can the Secretary of State share what his next step will be ? I agree with my hon . friend ; excessive smartphone use be detrimental to child , as it be to mps across the House . I can assure she that I be commission evidence on the impact of social medium use on child . I be look particularly closely at the addictive nature of some of the algorithm be deploy , and at how we can act to keep child safe and benefit their welfare . I call the shadow Secretary of State . Labour have cancel Britain ' s new national supercomputer at the University of Edinburgh , damage our research capability and economic growth . that project be fully fund by the Conservatives , and the university say that it will be a disaster if the cancellation be not reverse , so will the Government reinstate that supercomputer , or will it be another victim of the Chancellor ' s fail economic experiment ? it surprise I that the hon . Gentleman continue down this path . one of the first decision I have to take after become Secretary of State be how we deal with an unfunded commitment for hundred of million of pound where the money never exist — the Treasury have not commit it . not a single letter have go to my Department from the Treasury , yet the previous Government spend year make verbal commitment . we will deliver a compute strategy that be fit for purpose , that will get our country where it need to be — order . we be not go to get everybody in , Secretary of State . that project be fully fund , and the Secretary of State know it . while Labour cancel our tech investment , our competitor — the US , Germany and Japan — be all increase theirs . next month , the Chancellor will cut the Department ' s budget in real term , so can the Secretary of State tell we today whether he will allow the Treasury to cancel more investment in Britain ' s future , or will he finally speak up for Britain ' s vital tech sector ? we will release the compute strategy . that strategy will be fully fund and fully deliver — unlike under the Government , which the hon . Gentleman be part of , that let our country down . there be incredible dividend from digital for government administration and service delivery , but some old and vulnerable constituent tell I that they can not use smartphone or be not online and be worried about be leave behind . I be liaise with Citizens Advice , the local council , Age Concern and other to take action locally to help they . can the Minister reassure I that sufficient advice , support and funding will be make available to my constituent to ensure digital inclusion as we rightly seek to utilise digital far more effectively ? my hon . friend be absolutely right . there be old people , and other for that matter , who either have no online access or do not have a smartphone , who would not be able to access thing in a digital world . that be why we introduce a digital inclusion plan , and that be one of the key difference between a Labour Government and a Tory Government : they do not have any interest in digital inclusion and they do not have a plan for 10 year , and we bring one in . before we come to Prime Minister ' s question , I welcome to the Gallery the Speakers of Anguilla , Bermuda , the british Virgin Islands , the Falkland Islands , Gibraltar , Montserrat and St Helena . Prime Minister the Prime Minister be ask — Engagements if he will list his official engagement for Wednesday 14 May . over the past week , we have secure a historic trade deal with India and a landmark agreement with the United States , protect and create british job , slash tariff and drive economic growth . we have also publish a White Paper set out how this Government will end the open border experiment of the Conservatives , bring net migration down , back british worker and deliver fair control of our border . I know that the whole House will also want to mark the 40th anniversary of the Bradford City fire . we remember the victim of that devastating tragedy and celebrate the strength of the community . this morning I have meeting with ministerial colleague and other . in addition to my duty in this House , I shall have further such meeting later today . fourteen year of conservative cut have strip the Environment Agency of the resource and the staff it need to properly deal with badly manage landfill site blight community like mine . the Jameson Road landfill site in my constituency of Blackpool North and Fleetwood have be produce toxic stench for more than a year now , cause nosebleed , headache , vomit and breathing problem for my resident . will the Prime Minister commit to ensure that the Environment Agency have the staff and resource to police such badly manage site across the country , so that it can act swiftly and effectively to protect community like mine ? I love the fact that when anyone say 14 year of a Conservative Government , Opposition member all go , " oh no . " that be how the country feel . once again , a hard - work Labour MP be clear up the mess that be leave behind . my hon . friend ' s resident deserve far well , and we expect rapid improvement . we be closely monitor air quality and will not hesitate to take further action . she be right that we must tackle rogue operator who blight our community . that be why we have boost Environment Agency funding by £ 188 million , alongside tough new rule on incinerator and commercial fly - tipper . I call the Leader of the Opposition . if I may , Mr Speaker : Sir Roy Stone serve 13 Chief Whips , and Prime Ministers from Margaret Thatcher to Boris Johnson . I would like to pay tribute to his extraordinary service and send my good wish to his family . before we start , I would also like to say to the Prime Minister how horrified I be to hear about the attack on his family home . it be completely unacceptable , and I think I speak for the whole House when I say that it be an attack not just on he , but on all of we and on our democracy . yesterday we learn that unemployment be up 10 % since the election . why do the Prime Minister think unemployment be rise on his watch ? may I pay tribute to Roy Stone as well , and the service that be give to we in various capacity ? I thank the Leader of the Opposition for her word about the attack on I and my family , and many other for their kind message in the past few day . the Leader of the opposition message I pretty well straightaway , which I really do appreciate . she be absolutely right that it be an attack on all of we , on democracy and on the value that we stand for . the right hon . Lady come here every week to talk the country down . we have get 200 , 000 new job , record investment and four interest rate cut — contrast that with the disastrous Liz Truss mini - Budget , inflation through the roof and a £ 22 billion black hole . I be not sure that the Prime Minister even know that employment be up , but there be no point in he blame everyone else . the fact be that the Conservatives reduce the deficit every year until the pandemic , more than double the personal allowance , leave 4 million extra job , tackle the post - pandemic inflation spike , and leave the fast - grow economy in the G7 . let we talk about what be happen today . let we look at Beales , a 180 - year - old department store in Dorset . it survive two world war and the winter of discontent , but it could not survive this Labour Government . Beales be have what it call a " Rachel Reeves close down sale " . what do the Prime Minister have to say to all the people who have lose their job ? nobody want to see job loss , but the right hon . Lady must be the only person leave in the country who think that the economy be boom after the last government . we have create new job , record investment and trade deal . the last Government try to do the India deal for , I think , eight year and fail — we do that deal . they talk about a US deal — we do that deal . we also intend to get a strong relationship with the EU . this former Trade Minister must be the only former Trade Minister who be against all trade deal that boost our economy . she say she be against the India deal , even though it contain the same provision that she put on the table ; she be against the US deal , even though it save thousand of job in car manufacturing ; and most absurdly , she say she be go to rip up the EU deal when she have not even see what be on the page . the opposition have be reduce to this brain - rot : a once great political party be slide into brain - dead oblivion . I be very happy to welcome the Prime Minister ' s tiny tariff deal , but the fact be that it have put we in a bad position than we be in in March . he should not over - egg the pudding . let we talk about how thing be get bad now . in every month of this year , household name like Sainsbury ' s , Tesco , Asda and Santander have cut staff number . the Office for National Statistics estimate that there be 100 , 000 few job than there be a year ago — and that be before the Prime Minister ' s job tax , which will make thing bad . can he promise the House that by this time next year , unemployment will be low than it be today ? I think the right hon . Lady just say " tiny tariff deal " . can I suggest that she get the train to Solihull , which take two hour , and tell the workforce at Jaguar Land Rover , and their family and community , that she would rip up the deal that protect their job ? when she have do that , she might travel across to Scunthorpe and tell the steelworker there that she be go to rip up the deal that save their job ; then , if she have time , she could go up to Scotland and tell the people at the whisky distillery that she would rip up the deal that be create 1 , 200 job for they , boost their export ; and then she can come back here next week and tell we what reaction she get . I do not hear a promise to get unemployment down , and that be because the Prime Minister know thing be go to get bad . this go wide than business . last week I meet staff and patient at farleigh hospice . they do fantastic work , but they need to find an additional £ 250 , 000 to pay the job tax . how do the Prime Minister suggest that farleigh hospice — a charity that rely on donation — pay for his tax hike ? we have provide a £ 100 million boost for the sector , and child and young people ' s hospice receive £ 26 million of funding this year . the right hon . Lady turn up every week to carp from the sideline . she moan about what we have to do in the Budget to stabilise the economy , but she have not get the courage to stand there and say that she would reverse our decision on national insurance contribution , and I know why : it be because she do not want to say she be against the £ 26 billion investment in our NHS , she do not want to say she be against the £ 1 . 2 billion more for our police , and she do not want to say she be against the £ 3 . 2 billion more for our school . all the time , she do not have the courage of her conviction , and it show that her criticism be totally confect . I can not believe the Prime Minister be still use that figure . we have have this very conversation at the Dispatch Box — he know it be just capital spending . either he be not pay attention or he be say thing to disguise what be go on . that money will not pay for the job tax . he know that , and the hospice know it too . the other people who know that thing be get bad be the five lead business group in the UK . they say that his so - call Employment Rights Bill will be " deeply damage " to growth . do the Prime Minister accept that they be right , or do he believe that he know well than business ? it be the same old Tories every time : well right for worker be on the table , and they vote against they . respect , dignity and protection at work be good for worker , good for the economy and good for growth . the Prime Minister need to listen to business . we can not have employment right without employment . labour always forget that it be not government that create growth ; it be business that create growth . business be close , and they be blame he and his Chancellor . there be 100 , 000 few job . hospice , charity and nursery be face bill from the job tax that they can not afford . even the union say worker be be throw on the scrapheap , and all of this before his unemployment Bill make hire even more expensive . when will he admit that Labour isn ' t work ? the right hon . Lady say we should listen ; she should listen to business — it be in favour of our trade deal . the India deal be a fantastic deal , with tariff on car cut to 10 % , tariff halve on whisky and gin , and £ 4 . 8 billion come into our economy . what do she say she would do with the India deal ? she want to rip it up . the US deal save thousand upon thousand of job . what do she want to do ? she want to rip it up . the EU deal will be good for our economy . she be not even go to wait to see what it say ; she absurdly say she be go to rip it up . it be so unserious . she be even reduce last week to accuse the Indian Government of fake news — no wonder she do so badly as a Trade Secretary . the project for the Conservatives be over . they be slide into oblivion ; they be a dead party walking . thousand of british job have be safeguard by this Government ' s trade agreement with the US , include for those in my constituency who work for Jaguar Land Rover , like my next - door neighbour Ollie — prove that when labour negotiate , worker win . can the Prime Minister confirm that he will continue to stand up for all worker and our vital motor manufacturing industry as he negotiate a well deal for Britain around the world ? I pay tribute to my hon . friend for her work with JLR and for stand up for the job in her constituency . the deal that we have agree save thousand of job in our car industry , secure the livelihood of countless family . I have be up to JLR on a number of occasion , include last week . I know at first hand what it mean for the workforce , their family and their community — and the Leader of the Opposition say she would go and tell they that she be go to rip it up . she should go up there — [ interruption . ] well , she say she be go to go against it . what do the reform leader say about JLR ? he say JLR deserve to go bust . shame on he ! labour be strike deal in the national interest . I call the leader of the Liberal Democrats . on behalf of my party , may I offer heartfelt congratulation to his Holiness Pope Leo XIV ? may I also offer our support to the Prime Minister and his family after the appalling arson attack on his home ? I echo his thank to our brilliant police and firefighter . three year ago , the previous Government be face with a choice . their own Migration Advisory Committee tell Ministers that recruit more care worker require improved condition , career progression and well pay , but the Conservatives choose not to do that and instead bring in large number of care worker from overseas . the carer look after our love one in care home should be thank , not demonise . will the Prime Minister now do the thing that the Conservatives refuse to do , start with a high minimum wage for carer ? may I first thank the right hon . gentleman for his comment about I and my family ? I really appreciate it . it be important that we have fair pay for care worker , and that be why we have put in place our fair pay agreement . this be the first of its type . it will be apply first to care worker to ensure that they get fair pay , but also a well framework for progression . as he will know , most people leave care work be go to the NHS because of the pay and the ability to progress . our fair pay agreement will deal with , make sure that in the future those job be more secure . I will just add a declaration of interest : my sister be a care worker — I know at first hand how important the work be and how difficult sometimes the situation face they be . I thank the Prime Minister for that reply . it be a good first step , but we will still see people earn more in Amazon warehouse and supermarket than in care home , and that will mean our love one go without the care they need . turn to the middle east , for more than 10 week israeli force have block food , water and medicine get into Gaza . there be now a humanitarian catastrophe , with 2 million people at risk of famine and one in five face starvation . rather than end this crisis , the Netanyahu Government be plan to seize all Gaza indefinitely . I know the Prime Minister will agree that the blockade of Gaza should end and I be sure he will agree that it would be appal if Netanyahu proceed with that escalation , but will he act now and pick up the phone to President Trump for a joint plan to recognise Palestine and get food , water and medicine into Gaza ? I thank the right hon . gentleman for raise this , because the situation in Gaza be simply intolerable and get bad . we be work with other leader urgently to bring about the rapid and unimpeded flow of humanitarian aid into Gaza , which be desperately need — obviously , alongside the release of hostage and get back to a ceasefire — and that work be go on through my team 24 / 7 . I do believe that that be the initial action that need to be take , but I still fundamentally believe that , however remote it may seem at the moment , the pathway to a two - state solution be the only way for settled and last peace in the middle east . we will continue with our ally to pursue that path . find in my constituency , Durdle Door be one of the most iconic bathing site in all the country . last Friday , I be join at Durdle Door by my hon . friend the Members for Bournemouth East ( Tom Hayes ) , for Bournemouth West ( Jessica Toale ) and for Poole ( Neil Duncan - Jordan ) — and , most importantly , by Ron the local seal — to test the water quality . currently , water quality at bathing site be monitor only from mid - May to September , which put at risk the health of all water user , who could be swim in pollution or sewage . with that in mind , will the Prime Minister work with I and my hon . friend to introduce all - year - round testing at popular bathing site such as Durdle Door ? everyone enjoy our beautiful beach , lake and river be entitle to know that the water be clean and safe . that be why we be modernise outdated bathing water regulation , include more regular monitoring site to reflect local demand . after year of failure by the Conservative party , we be act through our plan for change with new power to tackle pollution , include ban bonus , jail term for law - break boss and real - time monitor of every sewage outlet . Diolch yn fawr iawn , Llefarydd . this Prime Minister once speak of compassion and dignity for migrant and of defend free movement . now he talk of island of stranger and take back control . somebody here have to call this out . it seem that the only principle he consistently defend be whichever he last hear in a focus group . so I ask he : be there any belief he hold that survive a week in Downing Street ? yes , the belief that she talk rubbish . Mr Speaker — [ interruption . ] Mr Speaker , I want to lead a country where we pull together and walk into the future as neighbour and as community , not as stranger . the loss of control of migration by the last Government put all that at risk , and that be why we be fix the system base on principle of control , selection and fairness . council tax be the most regressive and unfair tax in this country . it have become a tax on deprivation : the less affluent an area , the more you pay ; the great your need , the more you pay . a band d property in Westminster pay just £ 1 , 017 a year . in Hartlepool , it be £ 2 , 495 a year . for a band h property , the difference between the two area be £ 3 , 000 . it be hammer people in town like Hartlepool . do the Prime Minister agree that this unfairness can not continue ? will he commit to address this inequality once and for all ? I thank my hon . friend ; he have be a dedicated campaigner on this issue for a very long time . as he know , 14 year of mismanagement by the conservative party leave council on their knee , with a total failure to improve and update how council be fund . through £ 69 billion of funding this year and the upcoming multi - year settlement — the first in over a decade — we will give council far great certainty and stability . our detailed funding review will create a fair system to make sure that his constituent see strong , affordable local service . while the Prime Minister prefer to take to the international stage , back here at home Labour ' s Birmingham bin strike be now in its 10th week . rubbish be still pile on the street and recycling go uncollected , and the reputation of the west midland be be trash . his Ministers continue to wash their hand of this and his mayor do not even want to talk about it . will the Prime Minister come to the west midland and sort this out , because at the moment it be only the squeaky blinder that be win ? further evidence of the decline of the Tory party : they say that go to Ukraine at the weekend to try to secure peace for Ukraine , for the security and defence of Europe , be somehow the wrong priority . that conflict have already massively impact people in this country through the cost of living crisis and energy . Ukraine , Europe and we deserve peace , and to live in peace . deal with the bin strike be a priority . we continue to call on Unite to suspend the strike immediately and bring the disruption to an end . we be support the council to ramp up the cleaning operation . we be now collect over 1 , 100 tonne of waste every day and continue to offer our support so that the backlog do not reappear . last week , I visit Sacred Heart primary school in Hyndburn , where the excellent teacher express their frustration at the current special educational need and disability system . one wonderful boy , despite be non - verbal and require personal support , have be wait for over 18 month for an education , health and care plan . there be a risk that he will not get a place in a school for the year ahead that suit his need . how will the Prime Minister ensure that the voice of parent and child be at the heart of the SEND reform that the Government will bring forward ? I thank my hon . friend ; she be a powerful champion on this issue . our principle be that every young person with special educational need should receive the right support to succeed . we have immediately announce an additional £ 1 billion for high - need funding , include almost £ 20 million for school in Lancashire . we will support special school , and deliver truly inclusive place and expertise in mainstream school to help every child thrive . we at Reform , a party that be alive and kicking , very much enjoy your speech on Monday . you seem to be learn a very great deal from we . but can I encourage you please to go far as a matter of national security ? over the weekend , an illegal immigrant from Iran , who we believe come by boat , be arrest in the north of England on serious charge of terrorism . since the speech on Monday , 1 , 000 undocumented young male have cross the english channel . do the Prime Minister agree that now be the time to declare the situation in the english channel a national security emergency ? it be not my speech ; it be the Prime Minister ' s . the situation be serious . the last Government lose control of the border . we be take power — [ interruption . ] this be precisely to the hon . Gentleman ' s point . the Border Security , Asylum and Immigration Bill be the first Bill to give counter - terrorism - like power to law enforcement , precisely so that we can get in before the crime be commit and before people get to this country . this be the most far - reach provision ever for law enforcement to defend and secure our border . that be why it be extraordinary that he , of all people , vote against it , and soon or later he be go to have to explain that . since my election , I have champion and back our country ' s plumber , builder , electrician and all our tradespeople , who be not just build Britain , but hold our community together . that be why I have be campaign for tough sentencing and action on tool theft , and for the real cost of this crime to be recognise . I thank everyone in the sector who have back the campaign , because together we have show that the message be clear : after 14 year of Government neglect , it be time for action and change . will the Prime Minister work with I and the Secretary of State for Justice to include my private Member ' s Bill as we review sentencing and justice , so that the punishment finally fit the crime ? I commend my hon . friend for lead the campaign to highlight the devastating impact of these crime . for hard - work small business , tool theft be not just a violation ; it can mean thousand of pound of potential work lose , with a huge impact on business and family . we be invest more than £ 1 . 2 billion extra in policing , with 13 , 000 new neighbourhood police officer to focus on the crime that impact on community the most . I pay tribute to my hon . friend for her work , and I know the Justice Secretary will look at the detail carefully . whether or not people agree with the Prime Minister ' s net zero target , he must agree that he will not achieve those target without take people with he . the cable corridor and substation for the Morgan and Morecambe offshore wind farm be one of the most object to national energy infrastructure project in the country . what be anger I and thousand of other be that there be a perfect alternative cable route far up the coast that would bring local economic benefit , would be more cost - effective as a whole lifecycle project and could connect to exist national grid infrastructure , but no one be listen . will the Prime Minister now listen , pause the planning inquiry for the exist application and ask the Department for Energy Security and Net Zero to consider and cost the alternative route to avoid untold devastation to our coastline and countryside ? as the hon . Gentleman will know , the Secretary of State for Energy Security and Net Zero be go through a quasi - judicial exercise , and I be therefore limited in what I can say . let I do the good I can within those constraint . the project be go through its examination , where interested party can and should put forward their view on the application . more broadly , as we drive forward renewable project , the planning process be design to ensure that impact be carefully consider . the United Kingdom have rightly help to arm Ukraine with modern , effective capability , and we be send it some £ 4 . 5 billion this year . however , after decade of rely on the peace dividend , our own force be ill - equipped for modern warfare . with colleague interested in defence technology , I be develop a proposal for a joint UK - Ukraine production hub on british soil , which would support Ukraine while modernise our own force at warfighting scale and create the job and know - how need to rearm and stay secure . will the Prime Minister use his good office to support this proposal ? my hon . and gallant Friend be right that our iron - clothe support for Ukraine should go hand in hand with fire up our own defence industry , which mean well - pay , secure job right across the country , include in Plymouth , and strengthen our national security . we reiterate our support for Ukraine in Kyiv last weekend , and I be proud that british industry be play their part in support Ukraine against Russia ' s illegal invasion . I will make sure that he meet the relevant Minister to discuss his proposal . People in the real world be disgust by the Energy Secretary ' s obsessive pursuit of net zero at any cost . the Scottish Borders be under attack , with solar farm the size of town , massive wind farm and now mega - pylon scar unspoilt landscape . nobody sensible support his craze , crank policy , which will put job at risk and rip up farmland . when will the Prime Minister step in and stop his Energy Secretary throw taxpayer ' money at this nonsense ? only a few year ago , deal with the climate challenge be a shared endeavour across this House . it be yet further evidence of how far the Conservatives have fall that they can not see the significance and importance of tackle one of the major challenge of our time . I think we should rise to that challenge , not be defeatist about it . it be further evidence , as far as I can see , that the Tory project be just finish . male suicide be a tragic epidemic in our country . each week , almost 100 man take their own life , and suicide be the big killer of man age under 50 . in my constituency , I be work with Andy ' s Man Club in Maltby , the Learning Community in Dinnington and Better Today in Kiveton Park to try to raise awareness about the fantastic group that offer support for man in the most difficult circumstance . will the Prime Minister use this opportunity to support the campaign that we be undertake in my constituency and also reassure those group and my constituent that mental health service for man will be a priority for his Government ? I thank my hon . friend for raise this crucial issue . I know that Members across House will have their own personal and tragic experience of suicide . we have launch a call for evidence on our man ' s health strategy , which will improve man ' s health in all part of the country , include tackle devastatingly high suicide rate . we be also invest £ 26 million in new mental health crisis centre , fund talk therapy for 380 , 000 more people and recruit 8 , 500 more mental health worker . the plan to upgrade St Helier hospital , include the delivery of a new specialist emergency care building , have be put back by 10 year . I be talk to the trust about a way to bring all or part of those plan forward , but in the meantime there be a very real fear that some of the building on the exist estate be at risk of catastrophic failure before the decade be out . will the Government reassure I that they will work with the local trust on a plan to maintain and adapt the exist estate to ensure that St Helier hospital can survive all the way through to the completion of the major work ? the hon . member ' s constituent have be badly let down by the previous Government ' s empty promise , which be never go to be deliver . we have put the new hospital programme on a sustainable financial footing and increase the NHS capital budget to record level , so that we can address the backlog of critical maintenance , repair and upgrade . I will make sure that he get a meeting with the relevant Minister to discuss that particular case . Great Grimsby and Cleethorpes be the renewable energy capital of England , deliver home - grow , secure energy and boost local skill . More than 12 , 000 people be employ in a clean energy job in Greater Lincolnshire , but those job be now under threat from Reform ' s new mayor , who have declare war on renewable , put livelihood at risk . what step will the Prime Minister take to protect job by support the supply chain and delivery of renewable project ? my hon . friend be a superb champion for energy security , drive down bill and the good secure job that renewable offer . those on the Opposition Benches be climate defeatist — anti - job , anti - growth , anti - business and anti - investment — and they should try to peddle their policy to the ten of thousand of people in this country who work in renewable every single day . those on the Opposition Benches do not think that Britain have the skill and they would deny we incredible opportunity . we be focus on secure billion in investment , create ten of thousand of job and take we off the rollercoaster of international fossil fuel . my constituent Victor Franklin be make severely disabled after a savage dog attack leave he with multiple amputation . will the Prime Minister explain why pensioner , such as Victor , who become severely disabled after retirement be exclude from claim personal independence payment and be instead limit to the less support of attendance allowance , and will he commit to review that unfair rule ? may I extend my thought to Victor and the awful circumstance that the hon . Lady describe , which must be extremely challenging . we do have to reform the system because it be not work — I think there be general agreement about that — but the principle must be clear : we protect and secure those in need of protection and security ; we help those who can work into work ; and we believe that those who can work should work . we have to reform the current system to make it well , because what we have do not work . every week , I meet family in Barking and Dagenham who tell I that they worry about pay their bill because they be on zero - hour contract . my constituent want the chance to work hard in a secure job , earn a decent wage and have dignity in their workplace . as Labour ' s plan for change deliver the big uplift in worker ’ right in a generation , do the Prime Minister agree that Reform mp work and vote against our Employment Rights Bill show that they be no friend of worker in this country ? my hon . friend be absolutely right . let we be clear what the party opposite vote against . strong statutory sick pay — they vote against . the right to guarantee hour — they vote against . protection from unfair dismissal — they vote against . strong protection for pregnant mother — they vote against . a package worth £ 600 to the poor worker in insecure work — they vote against . we be back british worker ; they vote against they at every turn . maternity service in Yeovil be due to shut on Monday , after a deeply flawed Care Quality Commission inspection in January , and be to be move to Musgrove Park hospital in Taunton , which do not have capacity for an extra 1 , 300 birth a year . [ Official Report , 19 May 2025 ; Vol . 767 , c . 10wc . ] ( Correction ) although the closure be initially for six month , I have receive no guarantee that the service will open again , which be create huge fear . will the Prime Minister or the relevant Minister agree to meet I and colleague from the south - west to stop this decision ? I be grateful to the hon . member for raise this issue , which must be of concern . I be not across the detail at this stage , but I will make sure that he get a meeting with the relevant Minister to get to the bottom of the issue . rise — that complete Prime Minister ' s question . on a point of order , Mr Speaker . during Prime Minister ' s question , the Leader of the opposition claim that unemployment have rise by 10 % since the general election . that figure be completely and utterly incorrect . it be no wonder that George Osborne , the former Conservative Chancellor , have say that she have no economic plan if she can not even get basic statistic right . will the Leader of the Opposition return to the House and correct the record ? the accuracy of what a Member state be not a matter for the Chair , but you have correct the record in your opinion . we will leave it there for now . Gaza : UK Assessment ( Urgent Question ) : to ask the Secretary of State for Foreign , Commonwealth and Development Affairs if he will make a statement on the UK ' s assessment of the likelihood of genocide in Gaza . yesterday , alongside partner , the UK convene a meeting of the UN Security Council in response to the intolerable civilian suffering and humanitarian need in Gaza . as I tell the House yesterday , Israel ' s denial of aid be appal . tonne of food be currently sit rot at the Gaza - Israel border , block from reach people who be starve . israeli Ministers have say that Israel ' s decision to block this aid be a pressure lever . this be cruel and indefensible . overnight , yet more Palestinians have be kill in israeli strike . this must end . the message yesterday be clear : the world demand that Israel stop and change course immediately . with our ally , we be tell the Government of Israel to lift the block on aid enter Gaza now , and enable the UN and all humanitarian to save life now . we need an immediate ceasefire now . humanitarian aid must never be use as a political tool or military tactic , and the UK will not support any aid mechanism that seek to deliver political or military objective or that put vulnerable civilian at risk . the International Court of Justice case on genocide be ongoing . we support the ICJ . we support its independence . the ICJ issue a set of provisional measure in this case and we support those measure . Israel have an obligation to implement they . it be the UK Government ' s long - stand position that any formal determination as to whether genocide have occur be a matter for a competent court , not for government or non - judicial body . the UK be fully commit to uphold our responsibility under domestic and international law , and we have at all time act in a manner consistent with our legal obligation , include under the genocide convention . the devastation from this conflict must end . our complete focus be on lift israeli restriction on aid , on free the hostage , on protect civilian and on restore the ceasefire . we will work urgently with our ally and partner on further pressure to make Israel change course . overnight , the UN ' s emergency relief co - ordinator , Tom Fletcher , warn that a genocide be possible in Gaza . one in five people face starvation . the entire population be face high level of acute food insecurity . in Gaza , Gaza North , Deir al - Balah , Khan Yunis and Rafah , there be a risk of famine . there be one primary cause : Israel ' s aid blockade since 2 March . the Security Council be tell that civilian in Gaza have , again , be forcibly displace and confine into ever - shrink space , with 80 % of the territory either within israeli militarise zone or under displacement order . israeli airstrike on the european hospital in Gaza yesterday kill 28 people , with further report of at least 48 death overnight from strike elsewhere . can the Minister tell we whether the Foreign , Commonwealth and Development Office have conduct any recent assessment of its own on the risk that the israeli authority be commit genocide ? last night , the UK ' s ambassador to the UN rightly call on Israel to lift the restriction and ensure a return to the delivery of aid in Gaza in line with humanitarian principle and international law . but that be not enough . notwithstanding the Government ' s position that it be for judicial body to make a determination , what be the Minister ' s response to the late UN assessment that genocide be possible in Gaza ? can he confirm whether the UK stand by the obligation to prevent duty in the genocide convention ? Parliament need to know whether the UN emergency relief co - ordinator ' s assessment will lead to a shift in the UK Government ' s position . why be it that when the horror increase , the UK Government ' s position stay the same ? lastly , to echo the word in Tom Fletcher ' s briefing : " will you act — decisively — to prevent genocide and to ensure respect for international humanitarian law ? " — or will you instead repeat — " those empty word : ' we do all we could ' " ? I be grateful to the hon . gentleman for ask those important question . the testimony of the emergency relief co - ordinator , the very most senior official in the world ' s entire humanitarian system , give last night at the UN Security Council meeting that we call with our ally , be clearly incredibly important . I can confirm to the hon . member that we do abide by our international law obligation , include to the genocide convention , and we consider in all of our IHL assessment , which be ongoing , all the relevant test — and we will continue to do so . the hon . Gentleman ask important question , which have echo in this Chamber yesterday and throughout this long and painful conflict . this Government have take step , whether restore funding , suspend arm export or work with our partner in the UN and elsewhere . but clearly we be in a situation today that nobody in this House would wish to be in — nobody on the Government Benches and , I be sure , nobody on the Opposition Benches either . we will need to take more and more action until we see the change that we need , but the central question , as I have tell this House repeatedly , be that aid be not be allow into Gaza . while it be not allow into Gaza , there be nothing that can be do to get the aid at the scale and in the manner necessary to save palestinian life . it be on that point that we call the Security Council and on that point that we will continue to act . order . may I remind member not to use the word " you " , because I be not responsible for some of those statement ? the Minister have repeatedly say that we do everything to observe international law . will he please accept that there be a grow body of opinion that say that the UK be not do that , and that we be not comply with our obligation if we continue to supply part for the F - 35 programme , because these be drop weapon on child in Gaza ? we can not say that we be observe the Geneva convention , the genocide convention and Rome statute if we continue to supply those good . he talk about do all that we can . if that be the case , why on earth be we not make it abundantly clear to Israel that trade with it be not an option while this continue ? so in answer to the question " be he do all he can ? " , there be many people in this place and beyond who think that we be not . I know my hon . friend ' s commitment to these issue over a long period of time . I do not accept the premise of his question . whether or not we abide by our legal obligation be a question that will be determine by the court . it be be determine by the court this week , so I will leave it to the court to make judgment on our obligation . we be take all the step that we can to bring this conflict to a close . he mention the vital question of the F - 35 programme . I know this House understand the significance of that programme , not just in Europe but across the world . the carve - out that we have put in place have be do on the basis of robust legal advice , which be be test in the court this week . we must abide by our obligation to our ally . we be not sell F - 35s directly to the israeli authority . we continue to supply a global spare pool . that be necessary for the continue function of the F - 35 programme , which have critical importance to european security . we make these judgment calmly and soberly , and we will continue to do so . I call the shadow Minister . the situation in the middle east continue to cause concern . that be why we on this side of the House have be clear on the need to see the return of the hostage and a last ceasefire . although we welcome the release of Edan Alexander , there be still 58 hostage hold in Gaza by the Iranian - back terrorist . those who be still alive be be hold in the most dreadful and appalling condition , without access to aid and medicine . what they and their family have be go through for approach 600 day be unimaginable . they must be release as a matter of urgency , so can the Minister give an update on the diplomatic step be take by the Government to secure the release of the remain hostage , and what be Britain contribute to those effort ? this conflict would have be over long ago , have Hamas release the hostage , and the House should not be in any doubt that Hamas and their iranian sponsor be commit to wipe out the state of Israel . can the Minister tell we what step be be take , with international partner , to deal with the threat to peace , security and stability pose by Iran ? we have constantly ask for a strategy to tackle Iran , so when will this come forward ? the Government have share our view that Hamas can have no role in the future governance of Gaza , so can we have an update on the practical step the Government be take to secure this outcome and end the misery that Hamas be inflict on Gaza and the threat they pose to Israel ? we have debate aid access to Gaza on several occasion , include in recent day , so can the Minister tell we exactly how much UK - fund aid , both directly and indirectly through multilateral organisation , be wait to enter Gaza and give we a breakdown of what that aid be ? the Government have know for a number of month about the concern Israel have about the delivery of aid to Gaza and aid diversion , so can the Minister today explain what discussion have take place with Israel , and what practical solution minister have offer to support the delivery of aid that address its concern ? have the Minister be directly engage in the discussion that have take place with Israel and the US over alternative way to get aid into Gaza ? do he have a view on this and will the UK be participate ? we have also be clear that while we continue to press for humanitarian aid and accountability , we do not consider the action in Gaza to constitute genocide . the case bring by South Africa to the International Court of Justice be not help — order . can we please stick to the time ? the right hon . Lady be almost a minute over . we have to work within the timescale , and member need to time speech . lot of Members need to get in , and we have to support each other . I think the Minister have enough to go on . I of course welcome , as the Foreign Secretary do yesterday , the release of Edan Alexander . I know the whole House think of those hostage who remain in Hamas captivity . I have be in direct contact with the american official involve in that release , and it be a very welcome development . we be focus on ensure that there be no role for Hamas in a future for Gaza . we be work as part of the arab reconstruction plan to try to achieve that . the right hon . Lady ask an important question about the proportion of british aid unable to get into Gaza at the moment . for almost two month , the horrendous answer be 100 % . even before then , there be significant restriction on the aid that we wish to get into Gaza . I see for myself the item that be unable to cross from al - Arish into Rafah . the proportion will be very high , but I will see with my official whether I can break it down in great detail for she . slow and agonising breath , scare , cry , emancipate body fight for every heartbeat — it be death by a thousand cut for the child and for the parent watch their baby deliberately be starve to death . almost 1 million child be at risk of famine and death in Gaza . those who have stand by and allow this to happen should hang their head in shame . I call on the Government to sanction israeli official until the blockade be lift , because if we do not act now , this will be on we . I know the strength of feeling behind my hon . friend ' s word . I be sure she be aware of the finding of the IPC report on Monday , which delineate in great detail the precise suffering be feel because of a lack of food and nutrition . we be horrify by those finding . the need for action could not be more urgent . I call the liberal Democrat spokesperson . Israel ' s continue blockade of Gaza , now exceed 70 day , be utterly unacceptable . will the Government now recognise that the blockade constitute a clear violation of international law ? the Government must respect whatever determination the ICJ reach regard genocide . there be already clear obligation on the Government to prevent genocide in Gaza arise from the ICJ ' s January 2024 order . have the Government take any step to meet those obligation ? will they commit today to ban the export of all UK arm to Israel ? will they reconsider sanction on extremist israeli Ministers like Bezalel Smotrich , who call for Gaza to be destroy ? will the Government commit to the immediate recognition of a palestinian state ? as the UN ' s british relief chief tell the Security Council yesterday , if we have not do all we could to end the violence in Gaza , we should fear the judgment of future generation . do the Minister agree ? these responsibility weigh heavily on I and on every member of the Government and the Foreign Office team . but let we not forget what this Government have do . whether it be restore funding to the United Nations Relief and Works Agency ; suspend arm export in the way we have describe ; provide £ 129 million of humanitarian aid and then be one of the loud voice in try to ensure that it enter Gaza ; or work with Jordan to fly medicine into Gaza , with Egypt to treat medically evacuate civilian , with Project Pure Hope to help Gazan child in the UK , and with Kuwait to support vulnerable child through unicef ; we be take step . we take the judgment of the ICJ incredibly seriously , but I can not pretend to the House that the event in the occupied Palestinian Territories of recent day be acceptable , and we will continue to take every step we can to get a change of course . tomorrow be the 77th anniversary of the 1948 Nakba , which see hundred of thousand of Palestinians displace from their home . that still continue today , and the UN Security Council have say that action be now require to prevent genocide . a key step to a peaceful two - state solution would be recognise palestinian statehood — something that Israel be try to prevent . with 147 country recognise palestinian statehood , be now not the right time for the UK to do so , too ? the question of recognition of a palestinian state be obviously one of vital importance . we want to do so as a contribution to a more stable region . we can see the serious and immediate threat to the viability of palestinian life , and that be what we be focus on in these most urgent of day . I call the Father of the House . I have be a member of the Conservative Friends of Israel for over 40 year , long than anybody here . Hamas be a brutal terrorist organisation that hide its own fighter under hospital , but it be frankly unacceptable to recklessly bomb a hospital . it be unacceptable to starve a whole people . be the Minister aware that many friend of Israel worldwide , notwithstanding narrow legal definition , be ask this moral question : when be genocide not genocide ? I have hear in recent week a series of powerful intervention from Opposition Members , and I take they seriously with the weight they hold , particularly from the Father of the House and my neighbour in Lincolnshire . we will not move towards make determination from the Dispatch Box on question of legal determination , but that do not mean we will wait . the preliminary judgment of the ICJ and the provisional measure it set out be important , and we will abide by they . as the Minister have say , the situation be intolerable with one in five Gazans face starvation ; the use of aid as a weapon of war by Israel be inexcusable . the continued firing of rocket by Hamas and detention of hostage be also inexcusable , and it all must end . I welcome the UK , with our international ally , call an urgent briefing on the situation at the UN Security Council . there , the UN humanitarian chief be clear in his warning about the dire consequence of the situation continue . what step be this Labour Government take to get more aid in , get the hostage out and bring about the ceasefire and two - state solution that we all in this House desperately want to see ? I thank my hon . friend , who I know have be long commit to these issue and use to be an aid worker herself . she be a doughty advocate on these point . we remain absolutely committed to a two - state solution . we be focus all our diplomatic effort on ensure that the current approach be change , that we return to a diplomatic solution , and that we have a ceasefire , the release of hostage and a move back to that two - state solution , which , as she rightly put it , be vital . the situation in Gaza be clearly intolerable , and Israel have to find a way of get aid in safely and without diversion . but do the Minister agree that we need to be very careful about the use of the word " genocide " and that we do not devalue the word ? it be use to describe the systematic and deliberate murder of 6 million Jews by Nazi Germany . we must question whether — and I do not believe that — a war design to release hostage and remove a terrorist threat , against terrorist that hide among the civilian population , cross that threshold . it be the long - stand position of government of all stripe that it be for international court to make determination of that nature , and we will abide by our obligation under international humanitarian law . since 2 March , no food or medical aid supply have reach over 2 . 3 million Palestinians . many of we from across this House have attend many statement and Westminster Hall debate and have submit parliamentary question ask the Government about this critical issue . the hostage still remain in captivity and need to be release , but the reality be that use aid to punish so many people be wrong . do the Minister agree that under the genocide convention , the UK as a state party have an obligation not only to prevent and punish genocide , but to avoid action that may assist or enable genocidal act ? my hon . friend ask important question about aid access and the nature of aid delivery . let I be clear : the UK will not support any aid mechanism that seek to deliver political or military objective or put vulnerable people at risk . the obligation under international humanitarian law and international law more broadly be clear , and they fall on Israel as the occupy power . it must abide by they . very few issue in politic , particularly international politic , be black or white , but this be one such issue . the israeli Government be use collective punishment of the civilian palestinian population , which be illegal under international law and contravene the Geneva convention , to which Israel be party . do the Minister think that the British Government have lose their moral and legal compass in continue their tacit support for Israel ? I have set out some of what the Government have do , and I could continue do so for some time . let I be clear . the hon . Gentleman rightly point out the absolutely appalling nature of any attempt to weaponise aid and use incendiary language , which be clearly breach of international obligation . we have condemn from the Dispatch Box much of that language , some of which be repeat by the Liberal Democrat spokesperson , the hon . member for Esher and Walton ( Monica Harding ) . I take this opportunity to say again that the British Government absolutely condemn that inflammatory language . we will continue to do so , and to make our view know to the israeli Government , in the most forceful possible way . the international community have fail to stop Israel ' s impunity . we have collectively fail to act on violation as they be committed , and to hold Israel to account . with our collective failure , Palestinians in Gaza face collective punishment . israeli Ministers have state that stop humanitarian aid be one of their main lever of pressure . that be not only cruel and indefensible , but an explicit admission of violation of international law . I hear our condemnation , Minister , but I see no action . why be we still send arm ? why be we not sanction israeli Ministers ? the UN have say what many know to be true : as a signatory to the Geneva convention , we have a legal obligation to prevent genocide . Minister , when will we act ? my hon . friend be forceful advocate on these question . she point to failure , and I recognise that failure . so many day and month on , the people of Gaza and the west bank , and of course the hostage , be in the most distressing circumstance possible . I will not comment from the Dispatch Box on sanction , as she would expect , but I can assure she that we will work urgently with our ally and partner on further pressure to make Israel change course . it be become increasingly difficult to keep up with the slaughter in Gaza , the brutality and cruelty on the west bank , and starvation as a policy . the crime come daily , such as the recent killing of Mohammed Bardawil , one of only three key eyewitness to the slaughter of rescue worker just a few week ago , whose body be bury in shallow grave . it be clear to everybody that crime be be commit daily . as a number of member have point out , the UK be a party to international agreement that provide a positive obligation to act to prevent genocide and torture and protect the right of other . we have an obligation , as a member of the United Nations Security Council and a state party to the Geneva convention , to promote peace and security . what advice have the Minister take on the liability that will attach to he as a decision maker ? have the Government receive advice on whether the Prime Minister , the Foreign Secretary , any senior official or previous Ministers may be expose when the reckoning come ? as member would expect , I will not discuss internal legal advice in the Chamber , whether it apply to I or other Ministers . I reassure the right hon . Gentleman that , right across Government , we understand the gravity of the situation and the weight that fall on we to ensure change to this diabolical trajectory . we will continue to use our role in the Security Council , the G7 and the E3 , as we do yesterday , and that action will not stop . the Minister still refuse to address the central issue , which be that our obligation to prevent genocide under the Rome statute have already be trigger by the ample evidence of israeli war crime in Gaza . in the week mark 77 year since the Nakba , how many more time will he come to the Chamber with just word — word that do nothing ? we need action . let we be clear : it be not a case of if but when he will end the UK ' s complicity in arm a state that be accuse of genocide against the Palestinians , and of when he will finally impose sanction on Israel . history will judge his delay . I remind the House of the decision that we take last year . we have discuss the question of the F - 35 global spare pool . the basis on which we make a carve - out be clear and have be debate many time . let I be clear : aside from that carve - out , when we come into government , we take on the solemn duty of make an assessment , which do not appear to have be make , of the serious risk of potential breach of international humanitarian law . we then suspend arm export licence where those weapon could be use in such conduct — that mean in Gaza , on the west bank , and in relation to all the area where those risk accrue . we take far - reach action . that action be still in place , and we continue to conduct those assessment . I can understand why many member may feel frustrated by the F - 35 carve - out . perhaps they also feel frustrated about our continue to sell arm that do not risk a violation , accord to the assessment that have be much discuss here . we think it right that we , for example , continue to provide body armour that might be use by non - governmental organisation in Gaza , or provide part of the supply chain that could end up in the hand of NATO ally . we have take far - reach action on arm . that be important work that we be proud of . I have just return from the High Court this morning , where government lawyer will argue , in defend the continue supply of F - 35 component , that the evidence available do not support a finding of genocide , and that there be a " tenable view that no genocide have occur or be occur " . it appear that the Government — whether they have tell the Minister so or not — have already make a determination , and that explain why they have no intention of ask for an independent assessment of whether a genocide be likely . the Government know that if they do ask for one , it would reveal an unpalatable truth that would prevent they from supply Israel with the weapon that it need to continue its merciless onslaught . it really be as grubby as that , isn ' t it , Minister ? it be not as grubby as that . first , we will not litigate an ongoing legal case in the Chamber , as member would expect . a judicial review on the F - 35 element be happen over these day . the judge will find on that , and we will respect the judgment . let I be absolutely clear to the hon . gentleman : we continue to conduct assessment across a full range of responsibility under international law . it be simply not true to suggest that we be avoid make any internal assessment in order to justify policy . we continue to assess these thing carefully . we do it on a rolling basis , regularly . what he say be simply not true . I thank the Minister for his personal commitment to this cause , and the UK Government for put this matter on the record at the UN yesterday as a matter of extreme urgency . may I also put to the Minister directly the challenge yesterday from Tom Fletcher , the UN ' s aid chief ? he say : " for those kill and those whose voice be silence : what more evidence do you need now ? . . . will you act — decisively — to prevent genocide ? " what be the Minister ' s answer to that question ? my hon . friend have be commit to these issue since before he come to this place . Tom Fletcher ' s word be important . as I say early , he be the most senior member of the humanitarian community in the world , and what he say at yesterday ' s meeting , which we call , be very important . we have not wait for yesterday ' s meeting , or for the determination of international court , to take action . let we not forget what we have do in relation to UNRWA , on arm suspension , on sanction on israeli settler , or through our convene role on the United Nations Security Council . we will continue to take action . Mr Fletcher rightly ask for " decisive " action . have our action yet be decisive ? clearly it have not . hostage remain detain , Palestinians continue to suffer , and a two - state solution feel very distant indeed . we have not yet have the decisive effect that we would wish to see , and we will continue to act until we do . as well as rape , kidnap and kill civilian on 7 October for the sake of it , Hamas have a strategy : to try to prevent further peace deal between Israel and its arab neighbour by provoke a massive , frenzied reaction to the atrocity . do the Minister share my dismay that this brutal strategy seem to be succeed ? I share the right hon . Gentleman ' s dismay that event in the region since the horrific action of 7 October have involve an enormous amount of bloodshed and civilian suffering . this Government hope that we will yet see a day when the region be stable , when there be normal diplomatic relation between all its member , and when there be a two - state solution , with the two state live securely and safely side by side . I regret that it feel such a distant prospect . seventy - seven year since the Nakba , Israel ' s illegal occupation eat away at the land . we now have — I will repeat these word loud and clear — " plausible genocide " accord to the International Court of Justice , the International Criminal Court , Amnesty International and the United Nations . give this week ' s news , what new assessment have be make , and how often , to determine what other action we can take to stop what be happen to the Gazans — the child , the civilian , and the aid worker — and to make sure that we can get aid in ? what other pressure and lever can the Government use , include as part of a bloc , together with international partner and other , in addition to recognise Palestine ? surely that recognition be long overdue . my hon . friend ask important question about assessment . those be make regularly , on a rolling basis , and in the light of new event . I reassure she that we do not wait for assessment or final legal determination before take action . I have list some of that action already , and I reassure she that we will work urgently with our ally and partner on further pressure to make Israel change course . even if the Minister can not condemn what be obviously an act of genocide , will he tell we in clear term whether we be still supply part for F - 35 jet that find their way to Israel and take part in the bombardment of Gaza ? be there still flight go from RAF Akrotiri over to Israel that be carry military equipment that can be use either to bomb Gaza or to undertake military action against the people of the west bank ? the decision that we take on arm bind every part of the UK Government . we be a government commit to abide by our international legal obligation , and we will continue to do so . let I be clear , again , on the position on F - 35s . the F - 35 sale directly to Israel , whether in relation to any particular component , have be suspend . sale to a global pool , which be necessary for the continue function of the global F - 35 programme , have not be suspend . where sale go to a global pool , it be clearly possible that they could find a final destination in Israel , but to suspend our provision of component to the F - 35 global pool would , in effect , render the F - 35 programme inoperable . it be on that basis that we set out the decision that we take in September . may I put on record the relief that I and many other feel about the release of Edan Alexander ? I be say a prayer for the other hostage . every week that we come back to this House the horror be great . many of we wake up this morning to a spokesperson for the israeli Government on the " Today " programme deny that there be hunger in Gaza at all . this House know the reality : we be 10 week into a blockade of aid by the israeli Government , and one in five be starve . the Minister will know that Tom Fletcher speak passionately and with purpose yesterday at the UN about the collective failure of the UN to speak out previously . how do we avoid that this time ? what more evidence do we need before we take action , and what more action can be do ? as I say early , the word of Tom Fletcher in the United Nations Security Council be important . the Integrated Food Security Phase Classification assessment that be produce on Monday — that assessment be authoritative and thorough in its production — be the most important indication of need in Gaza . it should be take seriously by everyone in this Chamber , and indeed by the israeli Government . my hon . friend have long be commit to these issue , and he know the action that we have take so far . I will not speculate from the Dispatch Box , other than to reassure the House that we will be work urgently with our ally and partner to ensure that Israel change course . there can be few now who would believe that the conduct of the Netanyahu Government be anything other than gross and disproportionate . however , do the Minister agree with I that the actor in the region that have unequivocally embark on genocide be Hamas , with their self - avow policy of kill Jews and eradicate the state of Israel ? I have condemn Hamas for their despicable action and ugly and unacceptable rhetoric many time from this Dispatch Box , and I be happy to do so again . it be the event of 7 October , in all their full horror , that trigger this most recent , most horrific round of violence . in addition to call for the release of all hostage , Tom Fletcher , the UN emergency relief co - ordinator , ask last night what action we will tell future generation that we each take " to stop the 21st century atrocity to which we bear daily witness in Gaza . " what action will the Government take if , in the next 24 hour , Israel do not allow aid into Gaza ? as I have say throughout the course of the afternoon , the responsibility weigh heavily on all of we . we do not view the situation as acceptable , and we will continue to take step with our ally and partner to urge Israel to change course . as we meet here , in this rather grand Palace of Westminster , the reality on the ground be that palestinian child continue to die in the rubble . be it not become clear that the central policy of the israeli Government seem more about protect the political skin and life of the current israeli Prime Minister than even save the life of the remain israeli hostage and save the life of Palestinians ? I appeal to the British Government to be again on the right side of history , of the law and of moral judgment , and not to back one particular individual , fight for his political life , back in Tel Aviv . the right hon . Gentleman speak powerfully about the various view in Israel . I will not speculate on the decision making of other , but I listen very carefully to the word of the israeli hostage themselves when they have be release , what they make of the circumstance in Israel and what policy they think should be adopt . those be important voice and they echo loudly , both in this Chamber and across the world . we be clear that , whatever the intention , the international obligation under law on the israeli Government in relation to Gaza be indisputable , and we call today , as we have call every day , for they to abide by they . I declare an interest as the secretary of the National Union of Journalists parliamentary group . it be the anniversary of the murder by israeli force of Shireen Abu Akleh , the renowned journalist . alongside she on that day be another journalist , Ali Samoudi , who be shoot in the back . two week ago , the israeli force arrest he and drag he from his home , and Ali be now in detention somewhere , but we do not know where . under international law , journalist be afford special protection . will the Minister immediately take up with the israeli Government the question of where Ali Samoudi be and seek to do everything we can do to secure his release ? he work for CNN , Reuters and Al Jazeera , and all he be do be simply report on some of the war crime that be take place . my right hon . friend raise incredibly important point about journalist and I be happy to take up the case in question . not just journalist but a whole set of people be afford special protection under international law , include medical professional and aid worker , many of whom we have see involve in terrible incident in Gaza . we have be press for accountability and justice on those question ; I think in particular of the three british national kill in the World Central Kitchen incident more than a year ago , for whom we be still wait for justice . do the Minister accept that , where prima facie evidence of genocide exist , await for the determination to be make formally by a court be not sufficient for we to meet the duty to prevent under the genocide convention ? in this case , the International Court of Justice be clearly the correct authority . it have issue a set of provisional measure , which we support . civilian be starve to death in Gaza . aid have be hold for 10 week and use as a weapon against innocent civilian . my constituent be rightly outrage by what they be see , and so be I . while I welcome the Minister ' s word , what further action can the Government take to send a clear message to Israel that this absolutely have to stop ? will the Minister look again at sanction ? will he look at arm export licence ? and will he recognise the state of Palestine ? I know my hon . friend ' s constituent will be concern , just as my constituent in Lincoln and those across the whole country be concern . I see the situation with my own eye when I go to al - Arish , where british aid be languish while people desperately require it in Gaza . I see the restriction that be prevent aid get in . I can assure she and her constituent that I have raise this personally in every way that I have think I be able to do so , to try and make progress , and we will continue to do so . it be a source of continue personal frustration to I , and frustration to the Government , that we have not be able to get aid back into Gaza in accordance with international law . do the Minister have any information about how much aid be be hold in Hamas - control warehouse in Gaza ? be the key to this desperate situation our link to Tehran ? at the end of the day , the iranian regime pull the string of its puppet organisation , Hamas , who be hold the hostage in condition akin to torture . we take serious step to ensure that Hamas do not get access to aid . we support a review into the function of the United Nations Relief and Works Agency for Palestine Refugees in the Near East . in his remark yesterday , Mr Fletcher set out his view on the robustness of the United Nations provision to try to prevent Hamas from stockpile aid . the finding of the Integrated Food Security Phase Classification report on Monday about the circumstance in which palestinian civilian be try to live in Gaza make for sober reading . I agree with the hon . Gentleman that Iran ' s malign role in the region must stop . it have support Hamas , who have bring nothing but pain and misery , not just to Israelis but to Palestinians as well . last week , in response to a question I ask , the Minister say : " forcible movement of the Gazan population out of Gaza would be forcible displacement " . — [ Official Report , 6 May 2025 ; Vol . 766 , c . 588 . ] forcible displacement be a war crime ; it be already happen and it be about to accelerate . will he say in turn , as the head of UNRWA say this week and as the former israeli Defence Minister , Moshe Ya ' alon , say last week , that Israel be commit war crime in Gaza ? I will resist my hon . friend , who be not just a doughty advocate for the palestinian people but a respected lawyer . as he would expect , I be not go to take the opportunity to make a determination at the Dispatch Box , but I will be clear again that forcible displacement be clearly prohibit by international law , and we be clear on that at all time . Amnesty International have describe the two - month siege in Gaza as " genocide in action " . accord to expert , Israel be deliberately create condition that could lead to the physical destruction of the palestinian people , a pattern many argue amount to genocide . as a signatory to the genocide convention , do the Minister agree that the UK have a legal duty to act when there be a risk of genocide , and that the duty to prevent begin not when genocide be confirm , prove or establish , but when there be a reasonable suspicion that it be occur ? the alarm be flash red and the warning sign be there for the Government to act . will they act ? I have set out the process of determination , the provisional measure that have be issue by the ICJ and the Government ' s determination not to wait until case be conclude but to take action now to try to preserve life . Israel be intentionally starve Palestinians and action should be take to stop the war crime and genocide . those be the word of a lead United Nations expert on the right to food . will the Minister tell we what be prevent the Government from impose sanction on Israel ? what be they scared of ? if we can not discuss this from the Dispatch Box , we certainly can not discuss it behind closed door . the House have hear I talk about sanction in the same term over a long period of time . I understand my hon . friend ' s frustration about my not be able to speculate from the Dispatch Box about the sanction we might take , but to do so would reduce their effectiveness and frustrate the will of the House . we keep all of these matter under close review . we be not scared in the performance of our duty . we be work all the time to try practically to change the situation on the ground , and that be to what all our effort be direct . barely a day go by when I do not receive impassioned plea from my constituent beg for action , not word , from this Government . many have share their distress that we celebrate the defeat of tyranny on VE Day at the same time that the people of Gaza starve and be be bomb to oblivion . they say that we be complicit in genocide . what do the Minister say to my constituent ? I agree with they , but I feel powerless to do any more than come to this House every time and say the same thing . deed , not word . we be restore funding to UNRWA , suspend arm licence and give £ 129 million in humanitarian assistance to the Occupied Palestinian Territories . we have continue work at the UN Security Council and in relation to international court . I recognise the frustration of the House , and I do not in any way wish to weigh misery between the many , many people still in Gaza or the west bank face real hardship at this moment , but the action of this Government have make a real difference to palestinian life — I have see it with my own eye . there be people who be in safety now because of the UK Government , and we will continue to do what we can . I accept that there be more to do , but our action do have impact . I thank the Minister for outline the horror be inflict on the people of Gaza so clearly yet again , but we have hear word from the Dispatch Box many time in support of the Palestinians before . he talk about court proceeding , but they take month , if not year , to complete . man , woman and child be die every hour from hunger , disease and bomb in Gaza at the moment . they can not wait . what be the Minister do ? we need action , not word . I have outline some of the action , but I reassure my hon . friend that we be not wait for legal determination , not least because the ICJ have issue provisional measure , and because it be the policy of this government that we be act now to try to improve the lot of Palestinians . one thing we can all agree on be that we want to see the safe release of the hostage . it be evident that military action , in and of itself , be never go to achieve that . with that in mind , do the Government support or condemn Israel for the most recent escalation of military action ? if they be not prepared to condemn it at this stage , how many more innocent death must there be before they do ? the hon . Gentleman refer to the hostage . some of the release hostage have make this argument with the great force , and they be important word . let I say concretely and clearly that the british Government oppose the return to war in Gaza by the israeli Government ; we oppose the most recent escalation . I be sure that I be not the only Member of this House who be get increasingly frustrate by the number of discussion that we have where we say the same thing over and over again while the horrific situation for the palestinian people in Gaza worsens day by day . do the Minister agree that for we to send a clear message to Israel , we need to do three thing : suspend all arm licence to Israel , include the F - 35 licence ; impose sanction against Israel ; and recognise the state of Palestine ? the House have hear I speak of my frustration on a number of occasion — I share that with my hon . friend . I think I have address the three substantive point that he raise already in this session . you ' re the Minister ! I be the Minister ; these responsibility weigh particularly heavily on I . I be not blind to the IPC or to Tom Fletcher ' s testimony at a session that we call . do hon . member think that I be unaware of the horror be mete out to people in Gaza ? I be not unaware : I be take every action that I can , as be other Ministers . it be an intolerable situation , as hon . member hear from the Prime Minister early , and we be lift every effort to try to change it . nobody want war , but we must reflect that this be a war . it be a war between our ally Israel and the aggressor , Hamas . it be Hamas who brutally murder , mutilate and rape innocent israeli citizen . it be Hamas who still keep 58 hostage under lock and key . it be Hamas who , in their own charter , have genocidal intent , call for the wiping out of Israel and the killing of Jews . will the Minister at least accept that those people who wish to call those try to defend their own citizen genocidal be play into the hand of the terrorist themselves , who will continue to use their own citizen as human shield and give no pathway to peace ? I condemn Hamas and their action entirely . Israel be an ally , but we say to all our ally that international humanitarian law be a bind framework for we all . when it be breach in one place , the breach echo around the world . that be why we have be so clear on these question throughout . I be sick and tired of come back to this Chamber , ask the same question and get the same answer , when war crime after war crime be be commit and a genocide be take place . it be a sick joke to believe that it be right — which it be — to impose sanction on Russia for its unlawful invasion of Ukraine , but that tut - tutting at Benjamin Netanyahu and tell everyone " we think this be really bad " somehow cut the mustard : it do not . word be not enough to stop war crime . we need more than word and more than action . can the Minister advise this House how many more gazan need to be kill , injure and starve by Israel until the Government do the right thing and bring widespread sanction in , like they do with Russia ? People think that we be scared and that this be a double standard . we have take action , as I have describe this afternoon . I have already assure the House that it be certainly not fear that shape our action . I be always happy to return to this Dispatch Box to answer question from parliamentarian about this question , but I do not want to give the House the impression that that be all I do . when I be not in this House , I be work on these task with urgency . I have list some of the action that we have take since I become the Minister . I will continue to work on these question and to return to the House to answer member ' question . over the last 18 month , Israel have facilitate 1 . 7 million tonne of aid go into Gaza . very sadly , much of that aid have end up in warehouse and truck have be raid by Hamas operative . the aid have fail to get into the hand of the people who desperately need it . we now have a position whereby the blockade have continue . will the Minister come up with a credible plan to get the aid in , require the Israel Defence Forces to facilitate the aid go to the people who desperately need it , and prevent Hamas and other terrorist from capture the aid and prevent the people of Gaza from gain the aid that they desperately need ? where Hamas have interfere with aid delivery , I condemn that utterly . we have to be clear that considerable amount of aid be not allow into Gaza , even before this most recent blockade , which be now ensure that nowhere near the scale of aid require be get in . as I think the hon . Member be allude to , there be proposal for other method of get it in . we would support proposal to get aid into Gaza , provide that they be in accordance with humanitarian principle , which be vital in every conflict zone around the world . the UN emergency relief co - ordinator yesterday set out his view on how those principle need to be adhere to . UK manufacturer of F - 35 component can place GPS marker on every single component , and the UK Government can ensure that every component that be export have a gps marker on it , so what be the Government ' s excuse for continue with their programme on F - 35s when they can distinguish the destination of every single component ? I have set out the position on F - 35s and the manner in which the global spare pool work . that be information provide by the expert who be responsible ; I understand that some hon . member may disagree with those fact . the discussion be happen in a judicial review this week , and I will not get ahead of that process . one in five people in Gaza be face starvation , 90 % of people be now displace , over 50 , 000 people be dead , and Gaza be the most dangerous place on earth for humanitarian worker . this have to end . the Government keep on condemn Netanyahu , but he do not listen . the time for word have to stop — we need action . will the Minister take this opportunity to commit to sanction extremist member of the Israeli Cabinet , suspend all arm trade with the israeli Government and recognise a palestinian state ? those three point have already be put to I over the course of the afternoon , so I will not repeat my answer , and I will not speculate on further sanction . however , as the hon . gentleman reference sanction on settler , I will point out that we have take far - reach sanction on settler . we oppose the violent expansion of settlement in the occupy territory , which be illegal under international law , and we will continue to do so . I thank the Minister for his often candid comment in this Chamber , but we will continue to come here and ask question , since our constituent continue to be horrify — as we be — by the devastation that be play out in Gaza . the UN have state that action must be take now to prevent genocide , so do the Minister understand that when our constituent hear a legal response , they remain so frustrated , and that they want to see tangible action ? I do understand the frustration of constituent ; as I say early , that frustration be share in Lincoln and across the country . everybody in this House and everybody across the country want to see an end to the awful scene on our television screen . the Minister have state that the legality of the UK ' s F - 35 export be currently be test in the court . in the High Court , the Government have make submission that " no evidence have be see that Israel be deliberately target civilian woman or child " , and that there be " also evidence of Israel make effort to limit incidental harm to civilian . " if the Government need to be show evidence that Israel be deliberately target civilian , I suggest the Minister and his colleague review the footage capture by the BBC of yesterday ' s bombing of Gaza ' s european hospital , the footage emerge from the Nasser hospital , the million of hour of livestreamed footage available since 7 October , or the thousand of report and article publish since . the past 18 month have see a total war on all of Gaza , with act of ethnic cleansing and extermination , accord to the UN . do the UK deny the existence of that evidence , and if so , have the Government commit perjury ? it be obviously inappropriate to try to rehearse submission that be currently be hear by the court . the Minister know this , but we should put on record that when President Netanyahu say there be " no way " he will stop his onslaught in Gaza , he do not do so with the consent of the hostage family , or indeed of the majority of people in Israel . even President Trump be now avoid he . my hon . friend the Member for Vauxhall and Camberwell Green ( Florence Eshalomi ) be right : we have obligation too . I hear the Minister ' s frustration , and I think that across this House we want to give he strength so that he can go far . he will have hear the call for sanction and report to international criminal court . will he give we a vote in this place about immediately recognise Palestine , as we have in 2014 , so that we can strengthen his negotiation with Israel and send a clear message that what be happen in Gaza be wrong and must stop ? I know that my hon . friend have an incredibly brave and courageous constituent who be herself a member of a hostage family . whenever I have see she , her word ring in my ear , as do those of other hostage family , and I know they do so across the world . they be important view express by those who be most directly affect by the horror of 7 October and all that follow . I have already rehearse some of the argument in relation to recognition . I thank the Minister for his clarity that genocide be a legal test of whether a crime have be commit " with intent to destroy , in whole or in part , a national , ethnic , racial or religious group " . that be exactly what the Hamas terrorist group state in their foundational charter : the intent to destroy Israel and Jews worldwide , as they actively seek to do on 7 October . if they want to end the war , Hamas would release the 58 hostage they continue to hold . how be the Minister support our friend and ally , the democracy Israel , in its fight against this genocidal terrorist group ? I agree with the hon . Gentleman about the horror of what Hamas have do , and the ugly and unacceptable rhetoric they have often employ , not just towards Israelis but towards Jews everywhere , and I recognise the anxiety in this country about the rise in antisemitic rhetoric ever since 7 October . as I say early , Israel be our ally , and we have stand with she when she face legitimate security threat . we have always urge she , as a friend , to abide by international humanitarian law . where there be a risk that she do not , we make that clear , as we have discuss over the course of this afternoon . I preface my question by say that no Member of this House should doubt the dedication and compassion with which the Minister fulfil his duty . over the past few day , the World Health Organisation have warn that Gazans face intergenerational scarring as a result of hunger in the territory . the WHO quote figure produce by the Gazan Health Ministry , which hold that 55 child have die as a result of malnutrition . what assessment do the UK Government make of the extent of malnutrition in Gaza and the number of death attributable to starvation as a result of Israel ' s refusal to allow aid to enter the strip ? my hon . friend ask important question , and I know that he follow these issue closely . the most up - to - date and authoritative assessment of those question be Monday ' s IPC assessment . we be consider it in detail — its finding be appal . we be not yet able to fully delineate the link between aid restriction and those finding in the level of detail that my hon . friend have describe , but the connection be obvious . rise — Order . I be look to finish this urgent question at around 2 o ' clock , so I would appreciate it if member keep their question pithy and the Minister keep his answer pithy , as would the rest of the House . I have recently return from a visit to the Occupied Palestinian Territories with the hon . member for Leicester South ( Shockat Adam ) . we be expect an appalling situation , but it be far , far bad . israeli Ministers be gleefully call for the bombing of food warehouse because they believe it will help bring victory — in their eye . it be clear that israeli hostage be be use as a pretext to continue the slaughter and starvation in Gaza . although I recognise the Minister ' s sincere compassion in the way he have express himself on this issue , it be clear that he come to this Chamber with a straitjacket around he . what we need here be the Prime Minister , who can make the decision ; otherwise , we be not go to see any action on arm supply , on trade or in any other area , include recognition of the state of Palestine . if the Minister can not do those thing , can he at least recognise the right of Palestinians to statehood ? order . I call the Minister . I be glad that the hon . Gentleman be able to travel ; as I have say before from the Dispatch Box , I recognise the importance of member from across the House see these situation up close and be able to form their own judgment . I be the relevant Minister , and I speak with the authority of the Government . the Minister , who be a good man , recognise that the 70 - day aid blockade have make starvation widespread in Gaza . during the recess , I be on a delegation with the hon . member for Strangford ( Jim Shannon ) . we be nearby in Egypt , and we hear real fear that annexation of both Gaza and the west bank be near - inevitable . the Minister have tell we what step he have take up until now , but there have be a clear escalation , so can he please give we some hope that there be further lever that can be pull ? we do not want to be on the wrong side of history . I will not speculate about further action , but I recognise , as I do in my previous answer , how welcome it be that my hon . friend have travel to the region . Egypt be an important partner for the UK on this question . I see the vital role that it be play in support healthcare for injured palestinian child . I see injure palestinian child myself in al - Arish hospital , and I be pleased while I be there to announce a £ 1 million UK contribution to ensure that palestinian civilian displace into Egypt get the help and healthcare that they need . the UN say that Israel ' s denial of aid be evidence of " the systematic dismantling of palestinian life " . there be therefore a risk that we be witness to genocide . the Minister ' s Government can reinstate airlift of aid along the line of those arrange last year , which would send a powerful message . will the Minister act now and enable aid airlift ? we have support airlift in the past , as I be sure the right hon . Lady know , and we be glad to work with our jordanian partner on that question . I have to be straightforward with the House : give the scale of need in Gaza , we should not be displace from the central question , which be ensure that the road crossing open . that be the only way to get aid in at the scale require . thing should have be clear at the outset when Yoav Gallant , the former israeli Defence Minister , say that Israel will " eliminate everything " . some 18 month and 52 , 000 death later , Israel Katz , also a Defence Minister in Israel , state that block aid be be use to " pressure " Hamas , make starvation an openly state israeli weapon of war . elimination , eradication or genocide — as Tom Fletcher say , can this Government now urgently act to prevent it ? my hon . friend ask important question , and I have be clear from this Dispatch Box , and I be clear again , that aid must not be use as a pressure tool , it must not be use as political leverage and it must not be use as a military tactic . we have have truly shocking statement in this Chamber . the Foreign Secretary suggest that not enough Palestinians have be kill for it to constitute a genocide . the Prime Minister state that although he understand the definition of genocide , he do not refer to it as a genocide . the Minister repeat that it be a matter for the International Court of Justice . if that be the case , why be Government lawyer advance submission that no genocide have be conduct when it come to the sale of F - 35 part ? as I have say , I be not go to try to litigate the submission of the court case on the question that we have describe . I have address the issue repeatedly in this House . I have always be clear that we would defend that case , and that be what we be do , and we will see the judgment of the judge . currently , 4 , 000 newborn in Gaza be unable to access essential lifesaving care due to the destruction of medical facility . severe malnutrition and the death of critically ill child be now a daily reality . in the light of the ongoing suffering of child , do the Minister agree that it be time for the UK to go far in its action and find alternative way to get critical medicine into Gaza , protect those vulnerable child and ensure humanitarian access into Gaza ? will he consider alternative route for those child who desperately need critical care ? my hon . friend be commit to these question . I respond to an early question by emphasise the central importance of road route in ensure aid of the scale require . however , I assure the House that we continue to look at what alternative we can find to help where we can . that have include support a small number of Gazan child to get access to specialist healthcare here in the UK , which they be currently access . where we can help , we will help , but I must be honest with the House about the scale of aid that be require if the IPC finding of Monday be to be avert . three week ago , while I be in the west bank , I speak to a young palestinian refugee mother who ask I , with tear in her eye , " why have the world forget we ? " my response then have be echo today : the world have not forget they , but what we have do be fail they completely . the failure look like this : the United Nations have now confirm that since March , more than 100 child every single day have be kill or injure . imagine if it be our child . if , God forbid , 100 european child or 100 israeli child be be kill every single day , would we be supply even a penknife to the perpetrator of the crime — yes or no ? the death of any child be a tragedy . I have set out already the step that we have take in relation to arm suspension . I reassure those watch not from the UK , as I reassure the jordanian mp whom I see this morning , that nobody have forget about Gaza — not in this House , and not in this country . it will continue to be an issue of first - rank importance for this Government , and I will continue to work every day to try to see the change we have describe this afternoon . the Minister have touch on the UK Government supply the global pool of component for F - 35 jet for international security and peace . consider that we be see the live - streaming of a genocide against the palestinian people — F - 35s be a crucial part of that , and be be use to bomb civilian camp and hospital — be the Government consider whether Israel , give its action , should be part of that global pool ? I do not wish to seem evasive , but when these question be be determine in the court this week , I do not want to get ahead of those submission and those discussion . some thank should be give to the Minister for his temperament , his well - choose word and his reaction to all the question . he have show incredible patience , and we all admire he for that . undoubtedly , there be innocent people who be suffer and have be suffer since Hamas ' s genocidal attack on 7 October . the suffering of israeli and palestinian child mean that we must find a way forward to secure peace , so how do the Minister believe we can far push for the aim of peace and make the welfare of the child in this region — the innocent — a priority ? the hon . Gentleman be unfailing in his courtesy , and I be grateful for it again this afternoon . he ask the vital , central question : how can we return to a diplomatic process that provide for security and stability in the region ? it must be in accordance with the arab reconstruction plan , with no place for Hamas in the future , an immediate release of hostage , an immediate return of aid and a return to a diplomatic process that can provide for security and stability for two state side by side . my constituent write to I on an almost daily basis , horrify by the humanitarian catastrophe unfold before our very eye . the denial of aid to innocent Palestinians be not only intolerable , but unconscionable . my hon . friend be right early when he talk about deed , not word , so what do further pressure on Israel look like ? what practical measure will our Government take to prevent genocide , in line with our international legal obligation ? I can reassure my hon . friend and her constituent in Paisley that we discuss these matter urgently with our friend and ally , and we will always abide by our international legal obligation , include those she mention . give the genocide we be witness unfold before our eye every single day , will the Government drop the 2030 road map for UK - Israel bilateral relation and impose economic and diplomatic sanction to apply pressure on Israel to abide by its obligation under international law ? I thank my hon . friend for her continued engagement in these question . as you would expect , Madam Deputy Speaker , I be afraid that I will not be speculate on further sanction from the Dispatch Box this afternoon . I acknowledge the dedication of my hon . friend and british diplomat in this regard , but my constituent be deeply concerned . do he agree that the israeli Security Cabinet ' s recent plan be completely unacceptable ? its aid blockade be also totally unconscionable . we must make plain to this israeli Government that we and the international community will not tolerate this , and that as in other theatre of conflict , we will consider all practical step , include military aid drop , to get aid through to those who need it . I recognise the concern that my hon . friend ' s constituent will be feel , but I can reassure he that we be consider all measure to try to ensure that aid get into Gaza . I regret that there be no alternative to road access , give the scale of the aid require , but we will continue to work on these question with the urgency that he have describe . I be grateful for his word about british diplomat . let I reassure the House that not only the ministerial team but the diplomatic service of the United Kingdom work on these question each and every day , include in yesterday afternoon ' s session of the UN Security Council . the 10 long week since the israeli blockade begin have bring famine to the region , while food be rot across the border and the israeli Government be lie and deny the scale of the atrocity . Israel ' s Defence Minister , Israel Katz , have be quote as say that the blockade be a " main pressure lever " to secure victory . when will the UK Government , as a member of the UN Security Council , impose meaningful sanction to stop the genocide that we be see ? we have cover sanction and determination , but I can reassure my hon . friend that we consider our position on the Security Council to be an important responsibility , which be why we call the meeting yesterday that have lead to so much of the discussion this afternoon . in the scene and picture that we be see , many of our constituent be look for family member . one such family member be Dr Radi , who be stick in north Gaza and be very ill and frail , and whose son and daughter - in - law be important NHS doctor in my constituency . what be we do to ensure that there be a way for people who need care and be stick in Gaza to come out , and to be care for by family member here ? it be a top priority for I , and for my official , to ensure that british national or their dependant who be in danger in Gaza be able to leave safely . I do not wish to comment on the specific , but I be happy to take up that case and other with my hon . friend and any other member whose constituent be in similar circumstance . I , too , thank the Minister for all his work on this issue . give the UK ' s commitment to a two - state solution , and give our obligation under international law , can he explain how the Government justify engage in trade negotiation with Israel while the UN be warn we about genocide in Gaza , and do he agree that pursue a trade deal in these circumstance would undermine both our ability to broker a two - state solution and our positive obligation to act to prevent violation of international law ? I can assure the House that my focus be on the matter that we have discuss this afternoon . they be urgent and immediate , and they crowd out all other priority . the truth be that there be no need for any organisation to tell the public that what be happen be genocide . after all , we have see the attempt extermination of the palestinian people televise live for over a year now . I put it to the Minister that this Government will be remember as have be complicit in , and accomplice to , the war crime be commit by Israel . what actually have to happen before our Government will take meaningful action in the name of humanity and decency ? on the very first day I become a Minister , we restore funding to UNRWA , and within week we have take the far - reach action that I have describe in relation to arm sale . I understand the force of the question , and I understand the feeling of our constituent throughout the country , in my constituency of Lincoln and elsewhere , but let we not pretend that this Government have take the same step as the previous Government . we take a series of step , and we take they quickly and decisively . I be not suggest to the hon . member that what we have do be enough — no one could hear this discussion and think it be enough ; no one could have listen to the UN Security Council yesterday afternoon and think it be enough . but there be a difference between say that there be more to be do and say that nothing have be do . after 70 day of aid be blockade , we be watch an entirely preventable famine unfold in real time in Gaza . meanwhile , the israeli Government ' s anti - ngo Bill seek to restrict the ability of lifesave humanitarian to operate , and instead militarise aid delivery in violation of international humanitarian law . I thank the Minister for all his effort and for his challenge on this point , but will he continue to challenge the israeli Government on it , and do he agree that there have to be accountability ? I be familiar with the draft legislation in the Knesset , and we be engage on the question it raise . I thank my hon . friend for all his work — it must sometimes feel very lonely on that Front Bench — and particularly welcome the urgent session that we manage to secure at the United Nations , but thing have become more difficult in recent day , and we must ask whether we be do enough with our ally on a number of front , particularly recognition . a private letter have be send by dozen of my colleague on this side of the House , and there be unity on both side of the House in favour of recognition of the state of Palestine , action on sanction for Ben - Gvir and Smotrich , and on the violent settlement . above all , can we please rule out a trade deal ? I be genuinely grateful to all member across the House who ask I question and seek I out across the Palace to convey the force of their view on this . I have see the letter to which my hon . friend have refer , and I recognise , give the strength of feeling in all part of the House , that I will be return here almost daily . we will continue to work on the issue that my hon . friend have outline . I will not rehearse answer to her substantive policy question , but I assure she that I will continue to engage with those on the Government Benches and other on the important question that be be raise . Ministerial Code : compliance ( Urgent Question ) : to ask the Leader of the House if she will make a statement on Government compliance with the general principle set out in paragraph 9 . 1 of the ministerial code . the ministerial code be clear : " when Parliament be in session , the most important announcement of government policy should be make in the first instance in Parliament . " that be an important principle by which this Government stand . already in this session there have be 146 oral statement in just 133 sit day — more than one per day , and more than the previous Government make in the entirety of their last session . they have include six important statement from the Prime Minister and more than 20 from the Foreign Office , as well as statement on very important issue such as today ' s statement on infected blood . the Government and I take our obligation to Parliament very seriously , and the Prime Minister and I remind Cabinet colleague of that regularly . there be also other way by which the Government keep the House update , include write ministerial statement — of which there have be 633 so far in this session — response and appearance before Select Committees , and thousand of response to parliamentary question . although the Government remain committed to make the most important announcement on the Floor of the House , we need to balance that with other demand on the House ' s time , especially when there be great interest in the other business of the day . on occasion , development and announcement will happen when the House be not sit , or will emerge later in the sit day . that be why it be not always possible to make every announcement to the House first . it be also important that member have enough time to read and digest any relevant document , and that they be give advance notice in order to be able to question a Minister effectively and seek answer . however , as you know , Madam Deputy Speaker , I take this aspect of the ministerial code incredibly seriously , and I will continue to work with Mr Speaker and colleague across the House to ensure that Parliament be respect , member be inform , the Government be scrutinise effectively , and announcement be make to this House first . in recent time we have see an increase trend of the Government fail to make statement to the House first , despite there be no barrier to they do so . last Thursday be a mess , with the Minister of State for Business and Trade try to withdraw the statement on the UK - US trade agreement , despite member have wait here for seven hour for the statement to materialise . the decision to abolish NHS England be relay to the House on 13 March , have be trail in the medium beforehand . on Wednesday 12 March , an urgent question be grant on an announcement that have be make the day before on the sustainable farming incentive be cancel . on 6 March , a consultation on North sea energy that have be announce to the medium the day before be relay to the House in a statement . in February , the Government change the refugee citizenship rule , and they still have not inform the House . on Monday this week , the Prime Minister announce the content of the immigration White Paper via a speech that mirror Enoch Powell , despite Parliament sit later that day . this be a consistent pattern of behaviour by the UK Government . I be concerned that there be little point in have a ministerial code if the Government can ignore one of the key principle with no sanction and apparently no consequence . the Government be nearly a year into their term , so disorganisation or a lack of familiarity with the rule can surely no long be cite as reason for consistent breach of the code . I believe that the UK Government should adhere to the principle set out in the ministerial code , and that the Leader of the House must urgently set out how she intend to improve the situation and ensure that there be adherence . I thank the hon . Lady for raise this urgent question , and I welcome the opportunity to emphasise that I take these matter very seriously . we have make a number of very big announcement to the House , often respond to world event in real time . I recognise — and I hope she will respect this — that there be judgment to be make and , at time , a balance to be strike , and I have the good interest of the House in mind . although the hon . Lady do not say so , there have be many time in this parliamentary session when statement have be make to this House long before the medium or anybody else be aware of they — for example , on prison capacity , increase defence spending to 2 . 5 % of GDP , the response to the Parliamentary Ombudsman ' s report into the woman ' s state pension age , and many other . on many of those occasion , the criticism that I receive be that Members do not have enough time to properly consider the detail of the statement before have the opportunity to question the Minister . hard copy of the immigration White Paper , which be a lengthy and detailed document , be make available in the Table Office at 9 . 30 that morning to allow member ample time to read and consider it before question the Home Secretary on the Floor of the House in a session that last an hour and 25 minute . the hon . Lady raise last Thursday ' s statement on the US trade deal , and I think we can all recognise that that do not happen exactly as we would have like . international event be often outside our control , and they do not take account of UK parliamentary sitting hour . the Trade Minister make an oral statement to the House as soon as he be able to do so , and I be try to get the balance right . we want to make a statement when the maximum number of Members be here ; otherwise , it would not have be make for several day , because it be a Thursday and the House be rise . we be do a lot . we be get on with deliver on a huge number of policy , and we have sign unprecedented trade deal with other country . the US trade deal , which be deliver low tariff for steel and car manufacturing , be absolutely critical , as be the India trade deal , which be deliver for scottish distillery and for Scotland . we be always try to get the balance right , and I want to emphasise my commitment to make sure that when announcement can be make to this House first , they absolutely be . I call the shadow Leader of the House . I be very grateful to the hon . member for Aberdeen North ( Kirsty Blackman ) for raise this urgent question . as she have highlight , there be a consistent pattern of failure to report first to this House , as be require by the ministerial code . she have rightly draw attention to the farcical scene that we have with the Trade Minister be require to deliver a statement , then have to be UQ ' d the following Monday . he try to give the same statement , without any recognition , and be rebuke by Mr Speaker for not know the difference . back in October we have the embarrassing sight of the Chancellor announce intend change to the Government ' s fiscal rule to the medium before inform Parliament , and have to be publicly rebuke by Mr Speaker for do so . the hon . member for Aberdeen North have mention a number of other case . I would highlight the Secretary of State for Education announce tuition fee to the press before Parliament in November , the Deputy Prime Minister announce planning reform before the final national planning policy framework update be publicly available , and a Ministry of Defence leak on the global combat air programme in December . as we all know , the ministerial code — the Government take great credit for seek to strengthen it on enter office — make very plain what the rule be . it do not say , " judgment be to be make . " it say , " the first announcement must be make to Parliament when the most important announcement of government policy be make . " it do not say , " by the way , you can prioritise these thing . " do anyone seriously think that an announcement on trade , on planning , on tuition fee or on the global combat air programme would not be of the first importance to this House ? no , because every single one of those would be vital . it be not just a matter of the ministerial code and ministerial accountability . these decision be make in breach of the nolan principle of openness and the requirement for accountability , and they be make in breach of Labour ' s own manifesto promise to " restore confidence in government and ensure minister be hold to the high standard . " will the right hon . Lady encourage the independent adviser to make an inquiry , and will she look to the Cabinet Secretary to do the same with civil servant ? will she and you , Madam Deputy Speaker , look to Mr Speaker for adequate enforcement of the present rule , which be be widely flout ? I gently remind the right hon . Gentleman that the ministerial code say that " when Parliament be in session " , announcement will be make to this House first . I also remind he that announcement can be make via write ministerial statement and other thing as well . there be a balance to be strike , and we try to do that in the good interest of the House . the right hon . Gentleman describe this as business question bingo . I will give he bingo : I be not go to take a lecture from he on these matter . this government have do twice as many oral statement as his Government do in the same number of sit day . we be ensure that there be proper time to scrutinise Government bill — something that they do not do . we be answer significantly more write parliamentary question than his Government ever do . I have to remind the House that the right hon . Gentleman ' s Government illegally prorogue Parliament when they could not get their own way — something that he go out and defend to his constituent . the Conservatives have a Prime Minister who be find guilty of mislead this House — something that the right hon . Gentleman also defend . when an MP break the standard rule , the Conservatives try to change they . they have to be drag here time and again . this government respect Parliament . we stand up for the right of Parliament . his Government traduce they . do the Minister agree that there be a certain irony in the SNP raise this matter , give the regularity with which SNP Ministers trail Scottish Government announcement in the press before come to the Chamber in Holyrood ? that be certainly the case when I serve as a Member of the Scottish Parliament . it be vital that important announcement on key area of policy be make in this House first , so be it not right that this Government have come forward with so many oral statement on key area of policy , include the vital trade deal that we have recently secure with India , which be of such importance to the scottish economy ? my hon . friend make a really good point : the trade deal with India be really good for scottish distillery . it will bring in over £ 1 billion of additional trade for the scottish whisky sector . I be not aware of his experience in the Scottish Parliament , but he make a very good point . I call the liberal Democrat spokesperson . I thank the hon . member for Aberdeen North ( Kirsty Blackman ) for secure this urgent question . all of we in this Chamber be elect to represent our constituent and to put the interest of the country first , and to do that we must be able to scrutinise the Government ' s plan and policy . the good way to do that be in this Chamber and as soon as possible , so we be disappointed that they have choose to make announcement in this way . we also note that this be not the first time . the shadow Leader of the House have mention various example , and I would like to add some more . on the NHS , for example , the Government have , without any statement in the Chamber , make key decision such as drop cross - party talk on social care , cut integrate care board budget by 50 % and scrap nearly half of NHS target . the question must be : why be the Government so worried about bring these issue to the Floor first ? I thank the hon . member for that question , but I have to disagree with her analysis . the Secretary of State for Health and his Ministers have make eight oral statement to the House so far this session , nearly all of which have be take by the Secretary of State himself , and they have last for a long time . they have be answer many write parliamentary question , lay write ministerial statement and appear before Select Committees . the Prime Minister himself have make six oral statement to this House , and have appear before the Liaison Committee twice already in this session , far outstrip his predecessor ' record . so we be accountable , although of course we can always do well and improve , which be what we seek to do . we be so busy as a Government in get on with deliver the change that people have vote for , but we be do our good to inform the House . at point over the last few year , the most senior SNP leader in Scotland have be under police investigation , while their government be fail , with Ayrshire ferry that should have cost £ 80 million cost half a billion and be year late , one in six scot be on waiting list and the shambolic creation of Social Security Scotland cost double at £ 700 million . with this constant waste of taxpayer ' money , do the Leader of the House agree that the SNP should not be look to as the model of good government ? my hon . friend make the very important point that we should all hold ourselves to high standard of accountability and transparency , and perhaps the scottish nationalist party should do that as the Scottish Government . the right hon . Lady be an attentive leader of the House , and I hope the Government show the same degree of loyalty to she after a tough couple of week that she be show to they . although I do acknowledge that the Government make many statement to the House , all too often they make they to the medium first , as you note , Madam Deputy Speaker , in your announcement on Monday : " Mr Speaker do not understand why the Government persist in make announcement in this way , when the ministerial code be absolutely clear " . — [ Official Report , 12 May 2025 ; Vol . 767 , c . 47 . ] will the Leader of the House take back the message , even if she can not confess it on the Floor of the House , that they be go too far and they need to stop ? first , I thank the right hon . gentleman for his very kind remark . he be a very attentive member in raise matter with I at business question where the Government be fall short of our commitment to transparency and openness on ministerial question , correspondence and so on , which I follow up for he . as I say in my opening remark , we endeavour to make these important announcement to the House first when the House be in session . obviously , the right hon . Gentleman will appreciate that at time those announcement be not make because the House be not in session or we want to give member ample time to fully consider the detailed documentation sit alongside they . I reassure he , however , that I speak to my Cabinet colleague about this very regularly , as do the Prime Minister , and I speak to Mr Speaker about it as well , and we will continue to raise our game to ensure that big , important statement be bring to the House . far to the detail the Leader of the House have set out in her response to the urgent question , can she say a little more about the modernisation agenda she be champion ? I refer member to the fact that I be a member of the Modernisation Committee , which be so ably chair by the Leader of the House . do she agree that all member on both side of the House should take the agenda seriously , so that we can faithfully and to the full of our ability serve the constituent whom we be here to serve ? I thank my hon . friend for raise that . as a member of the Modernisation Committee , he know that I be determined to ensure that this House of Commons , and Parliament , become and remain the crucible of national debate once again — if , indeed , it ever be enough of a crucible — and that be one of the agenda we be deliver . I want to ensure that all member across the House — particularly , those from the small party who , in our new multi - party House of Commons , perhaps do not have the access that other do — have ample opportunity to scrutinise government legislation and make the most of this House of Commons . I want to proceed on the basis of cross - party agreement , so that every member of this House feel they be able to scrutinise and hold to account the Government of the day . I thank my hon . friend the Member for Aberdeen North ( Kirsty Blackman ) for secure this urgent question . it be not the first time that she have have to raise this issue during her parliamentary career . it appear that whoever be on the government Benches conveniently forget everything they say when they be on the Opposition Benches . the Leader of the House will recall the former shadow Leader of the House , the right hon . member for Walsall and Bloxwich ( Valerie Vaz ) , warn the then Tory Government : " Parliament must be tell first : we be not irrelevant . " — [ Official Report , 19 March 2020 ; Vol . 673 , c . 1169 . ] that warning be as true for this Labour Government as it be for the previous Tory Administration . be what we be witness a case of acute amnesia or simply a belief that it be now their turn to treat member of the House with contempt ? I disagree with the hon . member ' s analysis . as I have make absolutely clear , this Government have make 145 statement in 133 sitting day , which be more than one a day . the vast majority of those oral statement have be make by secretary of State , which we do not see under the previous Government . indeed , for many month , I and other be call for the then Foreign Secretary to come to this House to answer question , which the previous Government block because he be in the other place . we have lay 633 write statement and answer thousand more parliamentary question in this session . I take very seriously our duty to lay ourselves open for transparency , scrutiny and openness with this House , and we will continue to strive for ever - increase respect and standard . as the Member of Parliament for Dunfermline and Dollar — which be , after all , where the infamous campervan be find — I have have a front row seat for the SNP ' s commitment to transparency . have hear more from SNP Members about their position on transparency and openness , do the Leader of the House agree that it be scandalous for they to raise transparency when it take freedom of information request to find out more about when the former First Minister meet the President of Turkey to discuss , among other issue , scottish trade ? I think my hon . friend make a very good point , and I do not need to add to it . I think it would be fair to say that this be not the first Government who have disregard this particular provision of the ministerial code , but may I put it to the Leader of the House that if the charge be that the Government , for their own calculated and tactical advantage , have breach the ministerial code by announce something outside this Chamber , surely the person determine whether such a breach have occur can not be the leader of that government ? be it not time to look again at the recommendation make by , among other , the Committee on Standards in Public Life , of which I be once a member , about how the decision maker as to whether the ministerial code have be breach should be the independent adviser on ministerial standard , not the Prime Minister ? the right hon . and learn Member will know that the independent adviser on the ministerial code appoint by the previous Government be reappointe by this Government , and that the independent adviser ' s power be strengthen to be able to initiate inquiry . those inquiry do not now need to be initiate by the Prime Minister . we be raise standard when it come to member of Parliament , and Ministers as well . we be hold ourselves accountable to much high standard than happen under the previous Government . I would just reiterate for the House that the ministerial code say : " when Parliament be in session , the most important announcement of government policy should be make in the first instance in Parliament . " there be time when Parliament be not in session , and announcement be bring to the House at other time . as a new Member of this House , I have notice that on almost every single day on which Parliament sit , there be a statement from the Government , alongside , quite rightly , urgent question . will the Leader of the House use the Modernisation Committee to look at more way that we can scrutinise the work of the Government without slow down the delivery of government , which be need to rebuild Britain ? my hon . friend make a good point about the balance of business in a day . we be bring forward a number of key piece of legislation , and hon . member from across the House want ample time to scrutinise that legislation . obviously , statement and urgent question can eat into the time for do that ; a balance need to be strike . the Modernisation Committee be look at these issue — at how we can well use parliamentary time to ensure that the Government be adequately scrutinise and hold accountable , include by Back Benchers , every sit day . I be here on Thursday , respond as shadow health Minister to the debate on brain tumour . the debate be bring forward because of the delay to the statement on the US trade deal . we be wait for almost an hour for that statement . can the Leader of the House confirm that there be no pressure from the Prime Minister , or indeed Donald Trump , to ensure that the announcement be make ? she have repeatedly refer to what happen if the House be not sit , but the House be sit all day on Thursday . in fact , many member have to change travel plan and meeting to be in the Chamber . the business be change purely so that a press conference could happen before the statement in the Chamber . can she rule out pressure from the Prime Minister or Donald Trump on this occasion ? I absolutely can rule that out . as I say , an agreement on the very important UK - US trade deal be emerge , and event be fast - move ; the timing be change throughout the day . the deal be not agree until the announcement be make . we be try to balance those factor throughout the day . it be make clear to the House early in the day that there would be a statement once it could happen , and the Minister for Trade Policy and Economic Security come to this House as soon as possible . we be mindful of the fact that there be many people in the Gallery for the Backbench Business debate on brain tumour , which the hon . Gentleman talk about . we be try to not disrupt the business of the House that day , but sometimes big global event happen , and the people in charge of those big global event be not consider the sit hour , or the wellbeing of member of Parliament . the timing be not the Prime Minister ' s , either . be the ministerial code binding , optional , or merely aspirational ? give the blatant disregard of what the code say about make statement , can the House have confidence that minister adhere diligently to the other requirement of the code ? minister be subject to the ministerial code , and the Prime Minister judge Ministers by their adherence to it . as I say , the independent adviser on the ministerial code have a new power , give to he by the Prime Minister , to instigate inquiry relate to the ministerial code . I reiterate that the ministerial code say : " when Parliament be in session , the most important announcement of government policy should be make in the first instance in Parliament . " there be many way in which that can be do , other than through oral statement on the Floor of the House . in early November , Mr Speaker ask the Secretary of State for Education in this Chamber to start a leak inquiry to find out why the announcement that tuition fee would be raise be first make to the press , rather than the House . it be now mid - May . will the Leader of the House please update we on when that inquiry will report ? have it actually begin ? the Secretary of State for Education make absolutely clear to the House , then and on a subsequent occasion , her fury that element of the announcement be leak moment before she stand at the Dispatch Box to make a very important announcement to this House . the announcement have hitherto be keep completely under wrap , and no one have sight of it . she have speak to Mr Speaker about that . I will ensure that any finding from that investigation be report to the hon . Lady . we have see the contempt in which the Government hold the WASPI — Women against State Pension Inequality Campaign — woman , pensioner and the disabled , and their contempt for Scotland ' s energy sector , job creator and the hospice sector , but that be all a function of policy . policy be discretional and therefore , for well or bad — usually bad — legitimate . adhere to the ministerial code be not a matter of discretion . to be honest , it be a little beneath the Leader of the House to say , " we don ' t announce thing to Parliament first every time , but we do some of the time , and sometimes the House isn ' t sit . " every example present to she today relate to a time when the House be sit . when will she relay to the Government and the Prime Minister that member be severely annoy by the Government ' s repeat inaction ? for her information , contrary to what be be say by the three scottish craw sit on a wall behind she , there be no such duty on Scottish Government Ministers as that set out in section 9 . 1 of the ministerial code . [ Official Report , 19 May 2025 ; Vol . 767 , c . 782 . ] ( correction ) as I have make clear , we take the ministerial code , and respect for this House and Parliament , incredibly seriously . we have drive up standard in that regard — standard that be , as I have say , woefully not uphold by the previous Government , who disregard Parliament time after time . can thing improve ? can we do well ? of course we can , and we do our very good to . I remind the House that many time , when statement have be make to this House first , I have get the criticism from many colleague that they be not able to consider the issue properly before question the Minister . we need to get that right , too . we be do our very good , and we will continue to drive up standard . I thank my hon . friend the Member for Aberdeen North ( Kirsty Blackman ) for her urgent question . the people of Britain have lose faith in politic and politician . it be really important that what we do in this place , since the Labour Government come to power and from this day forward , be aim at rebuild that trust . what reassurance will the Minister give I , other member of this House and our electorate that the Government will not deliberately or knowingly breach the ministerial code go forward ? as I have say , I be determined to ensure that the House of Commons become and remain the crucible of national debate , and have the high standard and the good behaviour and culture . we have be look at some of those issue on the Modernisation Committee . we must also ensure that independent member like the hon . Gentleman and the small party have their voice hear in this House . I think this House have show itself at time to have all those thing . I have take step to raise standard by take action on mps ' second job , and to ensure that those who misbehave be not on the estate and have action take against they . I will continue to do that . I hope that he , the small party and other party across the House will join we in take step to ensure that we have the good behaviour and the high standard , and that this House can hold the Government to account and be the crucible of national debate that we all want it to be . infected Blood Inquiry : Government response with permission , Madam Deputy Speaker , I will make a statement on the Government ' s work to respond to the recommendation make in the infected blood inquiry ' s 20 May 2024 report . I be grateful for the opportunity to update the House on this work . on 20 May 2024 , the then Prime Minister issue an apology on behalf of the state for the devastating impact that the use of infected blood and infected blood product have have on countless life . that be echo by the current Prime Minister , who be then on the Opposition Front Bench . I once again reiterate that apology wholeheartedly . no Member of this House will be in any doubt of the harm result from the infected blood scandal . this government be firm that we must listen to the infected blood community and the inquiry and make tangible change to the way that our institution conduct themselves . as the inquiry ' s report make clear , however , an apology be meaningful only if it be accompany by action , and I be here today to set out the action we be take to respond to the inquiry ' s recommendation . last week , the inquiry hold further hearing on the timeliness and adequacy of the Government ' s response on compensation . I attend to give evidence , along with member of the community who have be impact by this scandal ; I encourage all member to listen to the incredibly move testimony of those impact . the inquiry have set out its intention to publish a further report , and the Government remain committed to co - operate with the inquiry and act on its recommendation . on 17 December 2024 , the Government publish our initial response to the inquiry ' s recommendation . I lay before the House an accompany write statement , in which I commit to come before the House with a comprehensive update on our response to each of the inquiry ' s recommendation within a year of the inquiry ' s report . this statement fulfil that commitment . I be grateful for the engagement of all member across the House , and be pleased to have the opportunity to discuss the Government ' s progress today . once again , I thank Sir Brian Langstaff and his team for their work . the recommendation he make be wide - range , well consider and necessarily detailed . the Government have work closely with the devolve government to make progress on the implementation of the recommendation , which we hope will lead to meaningful change . I be grateful to my ministerial colleague for their co - operation , and in particular the Under - Secretary of State for Public Health and Prevention , my hon . friend the Member for West Lancashire ( Ashley Dalton ) , for her leadership on the recommendation for which her Department be responsible . I also thank Health Ministers in the devolved government : the Minister for Public Health and Women ' s Health in Scotland , Jenni Minto ; the Cabinet Secretary for Health and Social Care in Wales , Jeremy Miles ; and the Minister of Health in Northern Ireland , Mike Nesbitt . their engagement have be invaluable in ensure that our approach be as unified as possible across the whole United Kingdom . the Government will continue to engage closely with the devolved government on issue such as support for advocacy charity and implementation by the national health service . I recognise that for many in the community , the Government ' s action come after decade have pass . there be nothing that can put right the damage do by inaction on the part of multiple previous government , and it be not my intention for this statement to diminish that . my priority now be focus on deliver meaningful change to ensure that the scandal of infected blood , among many other scandal , be never allow to happen again . I turn now to the recommendation . alongside this statement , I have publish an accompany paper on gov . uk set out in detail the Government ' s response to each of the recommendation , and I will place a copy in the Libraries of the Houses . equally , I be firm on the importance of these recommendation to the infected blood community , and I be write today to community representative to inform they of the publication of the Government ' s response . the UK and devolve government have accept the inquiry ' s recommendation either in full or in principle , and implementation be under way across Government , arm ' s length body and healthcare setting . where recommendation be accept in principle , we have seek to explain the rationale for do so , balance agreement with the spirit of the recommendation and their implementation . some be subject to future spending decision by the Department of Health and Social Care . I have note the recommendation that have , quite rightly , draw attention from across this House in previous debate , so I will take a moment to touch on those today . I turn first to the recommendation on compensation . I be grateful to those who have attend previous debate on this matter in the House ; indeed , many be present today . the Infected Blood Compensation Authority deliver on the Government ' s commitment to provide the first full compensation payment by the end of last year . IBCA publish its datum on compensation on a monthly basis ; as of 6 May , payment total more than £ 96 million have be make . ibca continue to scale up its operation to deliver compensation as quickly as possible and have confirm plan to contact an average of 100 people every week to begin their claim . I be pleased to announce today that the interim chair , Sir Robert Francis KC , who develop vital work to inform the design of the compensation scheme and have oversee its delivery to this point , will continue in his role for a further 18 month . another recommendation of particular interest to right hon . and hon . member be recommendation 10 , relate to funding for charity provide patient advocacy service . I be pleased that last week , the Under - Secretary of State for Health and Social Care , my hon . friend the Member for West Lancashire ( Ashley Dalton ) , write to the charity confirm that £ 500 , 000 of funding have be make available for this financial year to ensure that the vital patient advocacy work they do for the infected blood community be sustain . official be now meet the charity to begin the grant process to finalise the award . the Government recognise the importance of recommendation 5 on end the defensive culture in the civil service . it be imperative we get this right so that the public can put their trust in institution that have let down not just the infected blood community , but victim of other scandal that have take place over decade . the Prime Minister have commit to legislation on a duty of candour , which he have confirm will apply to public authority and public servant , and include criminal sanction . we be consult on the issue and work to draft the good , most effective version of a Hillsborough law as part of our wide effort to create a politic of public service . the inquiry ' s final recommendation relate to give effect to the recommendation it have make . I be only too aware of the strength of feeling here and the need to ensure that the infected blood scandal do not fade from the public consciousness . a lot more need to be do , and , as I make clear to the inquiry in my evidence last week , I be open to consider how we can improve the Government ' s action to ensure that we deliver justice for the victim of this devastating scandal . as progress continue to be make , my colleague and I will report on the recommendation for which we be responsible . we be commit to transparency and accountability , and will be publish the Government ' s progress via a publicly accessible dashboard in due course , which will be regularly update as progress be make . the victim of this scandal have suffer immeasurably . I pay tribute once again to the infected blood community for their courage , perseverance and determination to demand justice for the wrong that have be do to they . I hope that this update provide they with some reassurance that we be learn from and act on the mistake of the past , and that where there be more to do , this Government will do it . I commend this statement to the House . I call the shadow Minister . I thank the Minister for his statement and for advance sight of it . the infected blood scandal be one of the clear failure of the state and public service in recent year , cause enormous harm over many year to countless victim and their family . next week mark the first anniversary of the publication of the inquiry ' s report , and I add my thank and those of my hon . and right hon . friend to Sir Brian Langstaff and his team for their work and comprehensive report . on 21 May last year , my right hon . friend the Member for Salisbury ( John Glen ) stand at the Government Dispatch Box and make clear his determination to act on the inquiry ' s report . I pay tribute to his work and thank he for the advice and support that he have give to I and the shadow Cabinet Office team on this issue since the election . I be pleased that the Paymaster General pick up from where his predecessor leave off . as I have say previously , both side of the House speak as one on this issue , but sadly there be nothing that we or the Government can do that will undo the terrible damage cause by this scandal . no amount of money will bring back those who have be lose , and no amount of lesson learn can make up for the suffering of those who contract serious illness because of contaminate blood , but Ww would be not only fail in our duty , but fail all those who have die and all those who continue to live with life - change condition if we do not take up this battle on their behalf . to do this , we must directly address the profound distress , anger and fear that be be express by victim and their family at the pace of the roll - out of the full compensation scheme . victim in recent hearing have refer to the wait as " torture " and " disgraceful " — to mention just a few case . of course , the gravity of those concern have be underscore by the decision to re - open the infected blood inquiry for a further report on compensation . although we support that decision , we need to make sure that it do not delay the proper compensation for those who have already lose so much . with every week and month that pass , we know that more infected and affected individual will , sadly , die before receive their full and final compensation . this underscore the human cost of every single day of delay . therefore , although I recognise that the compensation authority be set up precisely to be independent of Government in operational matter , I ask the Minister whether he be content with the current pace of delivery and , if not , what he and the Government be do to help David Foley and his team to speed up pay - out to die victim . let I turn to other recommendation make by the inquiry . may I ask the Paymaster General what progress have be make on recommendation 6 on monitor liver damage for people who be infect with hepatitis c ? on recommendation 8 , which be on find the undiagnosed , what action have be take to ensure that patient who have transfusion before 1996 be offer a blood test for hepatitis c ? can the Paymaster General update the House on how many such test have so far be carry out , and what assessment he have make of the additional infected and affected patient who may now be eligible for compensation ? the journey to rebuild trust with the victim and their family will be long and require not only word of apology and commitment but , crucially , demonstrable action that prove that the Government and , indeed , this House , be listen and respond . the acknowledgement that the current compensation scheme have not yet win the full trust and confidence of the community be a start , and I hope the Government will continue to take these concern seriously to put in place the robust change that be necessary . we will support they in that work . on a point of order , Madam Deputy Speaker . point of order come after the statement . I think I can anticipate the hon . Gentleman ' s point order , Madam Deputy Speaker . I have be reassure by the Department that the statement have be send and be on its way ; I hope that deal with that issue . let I say to the shadow Minister that the cross - party approach that we have take have be very important . it be the approach , as he know , that I take with my predecessor , the right hon . member for Salisbury ( John Glen ) , to whom I have often pay tribute in this House for the diligent way in which he pursue this matter . the shadow Minister ask I about the current pace of delivery . I be restless for progress , and will not be satisfied with the pace of delivery until everyone who be eligible for compensation have receive it . he ask I about what we will do about the pace of compensation go forward . IBCA have adopt a test - and - learn approach , which have now be complete , and I expect to see a significant increase in the pace of the payment . while respect ibca ' s operational independence , I will be hold it to account , and quite rightly I will be hold to account by this House over the pace of payment . I also stand ready to assist IBCA in whatever way I can to speed up the payment . on the monitoring of liver damage , a new surveillance registry will be set up . the shadow Minister ask about the blood test prior to 1996 ; I will ask the Under - Secretary of State for Health and Social Care , my hon . friend the Member for West Lancashire , who be beside I on the Front Bench , to write to the shadow Minister with the precise figure . overall , the whole House be unite on this matter . we all want to see the pace of payment speed up , and that be exactly what I be seek to do . before I call any Member to speak , I would like to say that we have look into Gregory Stafford ' s point regard the lack of copy of the statement . I understand that the Department have now send the statement to the Vote Office , and it be currently be print and will be with we shortly . I know that the Minister will be look into this problem and I be sure that he be as dissatisfied with the situation as the House be . I meet two of my constituent who have be tragically affect by this scandal and attend the hearing last week . they tell I what an emotional day it have be — almost like a family reunion in some way — but they also speak of their immense frustration at still have to fight through the long wait for justice that remain . they tell I again that the pace of payment to victim and family be far too slow , and it be still unclear what evidence they need to provide to support their claim . I welcome the fact that the Government have identify £ 11 . 8 billion to pay compensation , and that , for the first time , this have be properly budget for , but I be sure that my right hon . friend will agree that the challenge now be to ensure that trust be build and maintain as we complete this process . will he tell the House what he can do to ensure that the evidential requirement be clear to family to allow they to prepare for be contact , that payment be accelerate , and that justice be deliver to everybody affect by this appalling scandal ? the hearing last week be an extremely move experience . I be sure that my hon . friend will be aware of the evidence that I give to the inquiry . his point about evidence be important . first , so much happen a long time ago , which make evidence difficult to source . secondly , Sir Brian Langstaff ' s inquiry also identify evidence of deliberate document destruction . for those two reason in particular , it be essential that IBCA take a sympathetic , enable view to the evidence that be require and have caseworker assist victim in find the evidence that they need . I call the liberal Democrat spokesperson . I thank the Paymaster General for advance sight of his statement . the infected blood scandal be a harrowing story of people be fail not only by the medical professional who treat they , but by the NHS , which should have be responsible for the safety of their treatment , and by a series of government who should have prevent such horror from ever take place . as the Minister know , I and my liberal Democrat colleague welcome the introduction of the infected blood compensation scheme . the Government be right to introduce the scheme at the start of the Parliament , and I be glad to hear the Minister say that the Infected Blood Compensation Authority be scale up its operation . however , we be alarmed that the roll - out of the scheme have be far too slow , leave victim without the justice that they deserve . victim and their family have be wait for decade for answer and recognition of the suffering they endure . so far , only 106 people have receive payment from IBCA , and 54 other have receive offer . compensation payout be not due to conclude until 2029 , and that date would rely on a rapid increase in the rate of payment . we be deeply concerned by the speed at which victim be receive their long - overdue compensation , and I be glad that last week ' s hearing look into the adequacy and timeliness of the Government ' s response . to echo the word of Sir Brian Langstaff , " People infect and affected do not have time on their side . " to that end , and to provide confidence to victim and their family , can the Paymaster General clarify what deadline he have for the implementation of the inquiry ' s recommendation ? moreover , what further step be he take to increase the speed at which payment be be make , and can he confirm when all victim can expect to have receive their long - overdue compensation ? what more can be do to help those who need to provide proof of infection but whose medical record have be destroy ? it be crucial that there be mechanism in place to ensure that the concern of charity , organisation and the affected individual be hear . support the work of those vital organisation and engage with they to understand exactly the need of those affect be crucial . the Liberal Democrats be back the survivor ' call for a duty of candour on all public official . as such , I be glad to hear the sentiment behind the Government ' s response to recommendation 5 , but when will the Government bring forward proposal to that effect so that such a scandal be never repeat ? can the Paymaster General clarify why there have be a delay , give that relevant legislation be originally mean to be publish in April ? first , with regard to the current position on payment , just over £ 96 million have be pay , and IBCA have invite 677 claimant to begin the process . I want to be clear about the 2029 date to which the hon . Lady refer . it be correct to say that there be , as I regard they , backstop date of 2027 for the infected and 2029 for the affected , but that be what they be — backstop . they be not target . the target be to make the payment as soon as possible . the hon . Lady ask about evidence , which I deal with in response to the question from my hon . friend the Member for Mid Cheshire ( Andrew Cooper ) . she refer to a situation where someone ' s medical evidence have for whatever reason be destroy , and that be precisely the kind of situation where we expect IBCA to take a sympathetic approach . on the duty of candour , the Government remain committed to bring in duty of candour legislation , but it be important that we get it right and ensure that the legislation will actually achieve the share objective that I be sure the whole House have of try to prevent this type of scandal from happen again . we must ensure that there be no unintended consequence , so it be because we want to get the legislation right that we be take a bit more time . I thank the Paymaster General for his statement . I be in constant contact with the contaminated blood community , and they be furious and frustrated in equal measure at the lack of progress with the claim be process . I be speak to a haemophiliac , who as a child be unknowingly use for research all those year ago . he ask why it be that he be likely to get less in compensation after be use in an experiment than a drunken driver who crash his car and need a blood transfusion . I think that be a fair question . he also ask whether member of this House understand the stress and mental torment that individual be go through , when they be wait on a Tuesday night for close of play to see whether they be one of the lucky hundred to have their claim process the following week . I thank my right hon . friend very much for everything he have do , but I think those be fair point . do he think they be fair ? my hon . friend be and have be throughout this process a powerful advocate for the victim . while this be a broad tariff - base scheme , it be vital that individual ' suffering and circumstance be reflect in the award that be make . to his latter point , I know the agony that victim be still go through in have to wait , and I know that he share my desire to push forward with the payment as quickly as possible . can I start by commend the approach that the Paymaster General be take ? I know that he be totally sincere about get justice and be try his good . however , I think he know in his heart of heart that the system that have be put in place be not work . I have constituent , such as Sue Collins , who be ask why in March IBCA have process the claim of only 250 - odd people out of 4 , 000 people , when they be know to we and have be on previous payment scheme . even more worrying be the fact that IBCA be say that it be aim to process a majority — that could be just 51 % — by the end of 2027 . do he not agree that the right target for ibca would be to process the vast majority — more than 90 % , let we say — by the end of this year , and that it should commit to that ? that be what need to happen , because two people be die every single week , and justice delay really be justice deny . I pay tribute to the right hon . gentleman for the work he do in government on this matter when he be Chancellor of the Exchequer . he ask about infected people who be know already because they be register to scheme , and he be clearly right to identify that particular group in term of prioritisation and what be know . I say last week to the inquiry that I be open to change to the scheme that do not in themselves cause further delay . that be the open approach that I take last week at the inquiry , and it be the open approach I repeat to the House today . I thank my right hon . friend for his statement and update . I know the sincerity with which he want to deliver this culture change — this be one of many example of failure by the state that we absolutely have to correct . as have be say by member on both side of the House and by constituent to I , speed in the delivery of compensation to infect and affected individual be of paramount importance . will my right hon . friend say more about the conversation he be have with the devolved nation , in particular Wales , to bring efficacy to the recommendation ? could my right hon . friend offer any advice to my constituent Suzanne Morgan , who very recently visit my surgery ? her mother Marie Jupe die due to infected blood , but as her mother be not register with an exist infected blood scheme or the Alliance House organisation scheme , Suzanne be not eligible for any compensation . will he meet I to discuss that case ? to my hon . friend ' s latter point , my thought be with Suzanne . in respect of Suzanne ' s mother , although the registration deadline for the infected blood support scheme have pass , it do not mean she be not entitle to compensation . there would be an entitlement to compensation . with regard to the point about the whole United Kingdom , one of the issue , which I be sure right hon . and hon . member will appreciate , be that the awful day when the infected blood product be be import be in the pre - devolution age . many of the recommendation require measure to be implement across the NHS , but health be of course devolve . the undertaking I give to the House be that I will continue to work closely with Ministers in the devolved administration to get the equity that my hon . friend talk about regard the recommendation across the UK . clearly , get to a good and timely operation of the compensation scheme will take the Paymaster General ' s personal attention , and I know that he will give it that attention because of his dedication to get this right . could he give an update to the House on the anticipate memorial dedicate specifically to the child who be infect at Treloar ' s ? it be absolutely right that we have both a national memorial and a memorial dedicate specifically to the child who suffer so much at Treloar ' s , and it be right that the memorial both recognise what have happen and ensure that it will be remember by future generation . the Government be follow the inquiry ' s recommendation that a steering committee be form to decide what memorial be provide and where , with consideration be give as well to memorial in Northern Ireland , Wales and Scotland . the membership of the steering committee will reflect the experience of all route of transmission , those infected and those affected , and crucially it will contain representative of all the UK ' s Administrations . I fully agree with the need for urgency that have be reiterate on both side of the House . I have speak to constituent who be frustrate , and the turmoil and distress they be in be immense . will the Minister provide more detail on how individual be be keep update on the progress of their claim ? what support be provide to address those case , in term of dedicated caseworker ? on the first point , IBCA publish a regular monthly newsletter with datum of the payment be make . on support , the money that the Government have announce for the charity that provide such vital patient advocacy be hugely important . in respect of those who be make claim , I have sign off money for both legal support and financial advice , which be hugely important too . the Minister refer briefly to something call a duty of candour , which will try to avoid a repetition of what be describe as a " defensive culture in the civil service " . will he expand on that phenomenon ? it be quite extraordinary , be it not , that when people in all innocence be infect with lethal disease by the NHS , civil servant should have gather round to deny they the help and compensation they need ? surely some sort of sanction ought to be involve . will anyone be hold to account for this , because otherwise , it will happen again , win ' t it ? to the right hon . Gentleman ' s point about potential criminal sanction , I have always say that I stand ready to provide whatever evidence might be request of the Cabinet Office and across Government to any investigation . to his point about a duty of candour , Sir Brian Langstaff say that there be not an explicit conspiracy ; rather , there be a culture of institutional defensiveness whereby individual public servant put personal and institutional reputation above the public good . as I say early in response to the hon . member for Richmond Park ( Sarah Olney ) , the Government will bring forward legislation on a duty of candour . however , it be not just about legislation , landmark though it be ; it be about leadership across public service to change culture , which will be important in the year ahead . I thank the Paymaster General for his statement and for his correspondence on this issue on behalf of my constituent Alex Robinson . Alex lose her father in 2006 to this scandal , have already lose her mother as a child . she be her father ' s carer from the age of 13 . she be concerned that when a deceased victim leave no spouse or partner , the estate be not entitle to the same compensation , irrespective of the role any member of that estate may have play in the victim ' s life . do the Minister agree that there be exceptional and unique case , such as Alex ' s , and that they need to be look at differently ? will he meet I to explore how we can ensure that that happen ? I think the thought of the whole House be with my hon . friend ' s constituent , Alex , regard the loss of her parent . on the point about carer , they be eligible for compensation under the scheme . if my hon . friend be willing to write to I , I will be more than happy to have an individual discussion and correspondence on that case . last week ' s hearing be both fascinating and disturbing . one discrepancy be point out to I , however , about bereaved partner and whether their love one die before 31 March . partner of those who die before 31 March could receive up to 75 % of their support payment , whereas newly bereaved partner be no long able to register for those payment . these people be often force to give up their career to care for their love one and be totally dependent upon those payment . will the Minister commit to review and rectify that unfairness , so that no bereaved partner be leave behind simply because of the date of their love one ' s death ? to be absolutely clear , the cut - off date be about registration for the support scheme ; it be not a cut - off date for entitlement to compensation . when issue around this be raise with I at the inquiry last week , I say that if there be a particular issue around a gap between cessation of payment and when compensation might be receive , I be willing to go away and look at it , and I will do that . the test that I apply be whether we be push this scheme forward . we have to ensure that I , and collectively we , do not do thing that would cause even far delay . one of the first piece of correspondence that I receive as a new MP on 10 July last year be from my constituent Robert Dickie , who passionately tell I about his brother , who die aged 31 from AIDS and hepatitis C after be infect with contaminate blood product . I therefore welcome today ' s update . the Government recently announce that they have allocate funding for charity , which be a recommendation from the inquiry . will the Minister outline what step he have take with the Department of Health and Social Care to ensure that the funding get to those charity ? my hon . friend raise an important point . the charity have do a remarkable job in support victim and in patient advocacy . I know that there have be meeting already with official , and he can be assure that I be work with the Under - Secretary of State for Health and Social Care , my hon . friend the Member for West Lancashire ( Ashley Dalton ) , who be here on the Front Bench , to ensure that that money get to the charity as quickly as possible . as the Minister be aware , my constituent Gary Webster have have to live with HIV and hepatitis C since be give infected blood as a pupil at Treloar ' s . Gary ' s health be fail fast and he fear that he will not live to see compensation . will the Minister give Gary and the other survive Treloar ' s boy any reassurance that they will be invite to claim for compensation this year ? ibca have be set up in such a way that it be operationally independent , and I respect that independence . as I indicate in a previous answer — indeed , the hon . Lady have raise Gary ' s case with I on a number of occasion — I stand ready , first , to hold ibca to account ; and secondly , to give support as require by ibca to ensure that we be move forward and quicken the pace after the test - and - learn approach that it have use . family in Worcester have spend year in limbo , grieve the loss of love one while navigate decade of delay and bureaucratic maze that be hand down by the very system intend to support they . I therefore welcome this statement of ambition in urgently deliver compensation and justice to those both infected and affect . the change outline at the end of March relate to people who lose their spouse as a result of infected blood be cause anxiety in my constituency . my constituent be concerned that the injustice of delay will be extend to they more severely than to other . will the Paymaster General reassure widow and widower whose spouse die from April this year that they will not be wait year and year for support payment ? my hon . friend raise an important point . as I indicate to the hon . member for Perth and Kinross - shire ( Pete Wishart ) , who be no long in his place , this be not a deadline to claim compensation ; it be a deadline for apply for the support scheme . as I also indicate in my previous answer , if injustice arise from a gap in time , I will look at that . as a number of member have say to the Minister , speed be obviously of the essence . I have two question . first , even though I hear he say that there be a backstop date by which he want everything to be complete , would it be possible for individual applicant to have a target landing date on which ibca will contact they ? that way , their expectation be manage and people can think about their affair in due course . secondly , can the Minister say , hand on heart , that IBCA have enough resource ? if it have twice as many people , could it move twice as fast ? in answer to the right hon . Gentleman ' s first question , I be sure that he , as a former Minister , will understand that I respect ibca ' s operational independence in term of the payment that be be make , but as I have indicate , I stand ready to help to push this forward . secondly , absolutely there be adequate resource here . we have allocate £ 11 . 8 billion to this scheme . he use the example of the number of caseworker , and I stand ready to assist with that in order to push thing forward with IBCA . I thank the Minister for his statement , which fulfil his early promise to make one , and for his correspondence with I on a specific case . I also welcome the fact that the Government be commit , in principle or in full , to all the recommendation make by the inquiry . last week at the inquiry I meet my constituent Martin Threadgold , one of the victim of this scandal . Martin have express to I several concern about the pace at which victim be be compensate , and those concern have be echo across the House today . may I ask two question on Martin ' s behalf ? first , £ 11 . 8 billion be allocate in the Budget to this scheme , so can the Minister confirm how much have be pay out so far ? secondly , will he use his good office to ensure that IBCA pay out as many claim as possible and as fast as it possibly can ? I be grateful to my hon . friend for raise this — he speak powerfully on behalf of his constituent . as I indicate in an early answer , just over £ 96 million have be pay out , but I will continue to use my ministerial office , as well as work to hold ibca to account , to move from what have be ibca ' s test - and - learn phase into a different phase and start to really speed up these payment . I thank the Minister for all the work he be do to lead on this matter and bring justice to all the victim , and indeed for his statement today . be it his understanding that victim of the infected blood scandal should not be bad off in the transition from the interim payment to the new compensation scheme ? I have speak to one victim , a constituent , who seem to have be offer a compensation offer that be much , much reduce compare with the offer he previously receive under the special category mechanism . the issue of how the special category mechanism be translate across into what be know as the health supplemental route in relation to infected people be something I discuss before the inquiry last week . as I be sure the hon . Gentleman will appreciate , I do not know the fact of the specific case he be talk about , but if he be willing to write to I with the two different figure and the way in which his constituent feel that he be bad off , I will be more than happy to look at it . the partner of Helen , my constituent from Farnham , die in 1994 from infected blood . unfortunately , Helen now have stage 4b ovarian cancer , so she be not in a great state . she write to the Chief Secretary in August and , despite chase this up numerous time , it take month for a rather unsympathetic response from the Chief Secretary to come back . I know that the Paymaster General be keen to speed this up for those infect , but there be also plenty of people who be affect and whose time be short , so can he commit to speed up the process for they , too ? the hon . Gentleman make a good point : we have people who be infect and people who be affect in a terrible way by this scandal , and he speak powerfully about Helen and the particular circumstance she find herself in . I be sure the thought of the whole House will be with Helen . I have not , to my knowledge , see the piece of correspondence that he be talk about , but if he want to write to I directly at the Cabinet Office about Helen ' s circumstance , I be happy to look at that . I should add that I expect payment to the affect to begin by the end of this year . I thank the Minister for today ' s update . although I welcome the progress that have be make on the compensation scheme , as he have highlight , I once again have to highlight the case of my constituent who be infect with hepatitis C during a transplant operation when she be 15 . she have suffer terrible physical and mental illness throughout most of her life . the fact that she be infect in 1993 , after the cut - off date for the support scheme , mean that she have have no formal acknowledgment of her suffer from the Infected Blood Compensation Authority , and no support payment or interim payment . can the Minister formally address the concern of unregistered infected people from that period from 1991 to 1996 , when we know people be still be infect , and commit to urgently recognise their suffering and the urgency of their compensation claim ? again , I be sure that the thought of the whole House will be with the hon . Gentleman ' s constituent , give the terrible experience that she have clearly have . with regard to the category of victim he be talk about — unregistered , living , infected people — he be absolutely right to raise their position . the objective of this compensation scheme be to ensure that every victim , whatever their circumstance , receive the compensation they be due , and that obviously include his constituent . I will be forever indebted to my constituent Clive Smith , who be also the president of the Haemophilia Society . he have be a long - stand advocate and a voice for those victim seek justice for be affect and infect . of course , time be of the essence and many victim still feel disillusioned and that the Government be drag their heel . while the Government have accept publicly that victim will die before they get the compensation they be owe , as have be reference in this Chamber , surely this just illustrate that the system be not go fast enough . what reassurance can the Minister provide that compensation will be deliver at speed and that the system will be as simple as possible for those affect and infect to apply for compensation ? also , what reassurance can he provide that they will be keep inform and update as part of that process ? I have meet Clive Smith and I pay tribute to the campaigning work that he have do over many year . on update , I entirely agree with the hon . Gentleman that it be important — that be why IBCA publish regular newsletter with update on the statistic — but he also identify a statistic that should give we all pause for thought , which be that a victim of this scandal be still die every few day . that show the impetus and the imperative to speed these compensation payment up , and that be absolutely what I be committed to do . a constituent of mine infect with hepatitis C and under the special category mechanism have write to express their distress that early this year supplementary regulation remove the provision , which they have previously be promise , to bring their compensation in line with those with cirrhosis . the group be assure that there would not need to go through another round of evidence gathering , yet they have be leave without recourse through this mechanism . will the Minister explain why these provision be change , what redress be available to this cohort of approximately 915 people , and what step will be bring forward to ensure that further reassurance be not breach ? the issue that the hon . Gentleman raise about the special category mechanism be one that I be ask about in front of the inquiry last week . it relate to condition that qualify under the special category mechanism , some of which go into the core route for infected people and some of which go into the supplemental route . I give an undertaking to the inquiry last week that I would look at whether there be particular issue , and I think that be what he be identify in relation to his constituent . as I say quite openly to the inquiry last week , the test that I use around change to the scheme be to ensure that it do not cause even far delay . I be grateful for the Minister ' s statement , but I too would like to identify the gape hole in the compensation scheme that relate to the special category mechanism . I point out that some of my constituent be in very poor health and their life may be limited time - wise , yet they will end up with less compensation than someone who be in stage one and be healthy . at every point throughout the process , the compensation scheme have say that the SCM infected should be compensate . the infected blood inquiry say the same thing . the Government ' s own expert group also say in August 2024 , until they be haul back into the Cabinet Office and then they change their mind , that they must have compensation . I invite the Paymaster General to meet I and my affected constituent — it would have to be online , and it would be with his carer because this gentleman be very ill and suffer dreadfully , and yet he seem to have be exclude from get fair compensation . again , the hon . Lady quite reasonably raise the issue of the special category mechanism , which I answer a question about from her hon . friend the Member for Harrogate and Knaresborough ( Tom Gordon ) . on the specific case she talk about , I would be grateful if she write to I with all the detail , and then I would be more than happy to ensure she get a reply as soon as possible . point of order on a point of order , Madam Deputy Speaker . I have give notice to the Speaker ' s Office and the hon . member for Ashfield ( Lee Anderson ) of this point of order . I refer to column 95 of Hansard on Monday 12 May . in an intervention on the Minister in the debate on border security and immigration , the Member claim that " more than 600 illegal migrant have enter this country today . they could get up to all sort of mischief , and commit crime and maybe even act of terrorism . do she agree that these young man cross the channel should be immediately detain and deport , along with the right hon . member for Islington North ( Jeremy Corbyn ) ? " — [ Official Report , 12 May 2025 ; Vol . 767 , c . 95 . ] do you agree , Madam Deputy Speaker , that this kind of language , innuendo and inaccuracy be unbecoming of this place and not fit to be utter in this building , and that member when they speak in Parliament should show respect for each other , rather than risk bring our whole political process into disrepute ? I have no problem with debate , but people should not stoop to abuse , fundamental inaccuracy and conjecture , as the hon . Member do , and I have inform he so already . I be grateful to the right hon . member for give I notice of his point of order . I understand that he have inform the hon . member for Ashfield ( Lee Anderson ) that he intend to refer to he in the Chamber . the right hon . Member have put his point on the record . while I be not persuade that anything unparliamentary occur in the debate , I remind all member that " good temper and moderation " , in the word of " Erskine May " , should be " the characteristic of parliamentary debate . " I encourage all member to act towards each other with courtesy . on a point of order , Madam Deputy Speaker . I have give prior notice of my point of order to the Speaker ' s Office . I seek your guidance on a matter concern procedure relate to the ability of member to hold the Government to account . yesterday , I attempt to table a question relate to the use of RAF Akrotiri by israeli bomber plane but be block . I receive the follow response : " the Government have block question on the use of military basis " . the reasoning for that block be give as an answer from the Minister to a similar question table by my right hon . friend the Member for Hayes and Harlington ( John McDonnell ) on 4 October , with the Minister respond on 14 October . since then , six question have be table relate to the activity of RAF Akrotiri , all without obstruction , and they all receive timely answer from the Minister . under this new ruling , all would have be rule out of order and automatically block , yet they be allow to be table . give the importance of transparency and parliamentary scrutiny , particularly in matter of defence , this raise serious concern . operational decision must not be take on an ad hoc basis to impede the ability of parliamentarian to scrutinise the decision of Government . will you advise on whether it be in order for the Table Office to decide to block legitimate question in this way and on what recourse member have when attempt to scrutinise and debate Government policy and activity be be block ? I thank the hon . member for her point of order . she should raise the matter with the Table Office in the first instance . I can , however , advise she that the Minister for the Armed Forces , in response to a write parliamentary question on 14 October , indicate that the Government would not " comment on any foreign nation ' military aircraft movement … within UK airspace or on UK overseas basis . " it be not the Table Office but the Government that have block question on this specific subject . other question about activity at RAF Akrotiri may none the less be in order . I advise she to talk to the Table Office , who be always happy to help . on a point of order , Madam Deputy Speaker . I give prior notice , both to the Speaker ' s Office and to the Member concern , that I intend to raise this point of order . yesterday , the hon . member for Boston and Skegness ( Richard Tice ) appear on Channel 4 in his role as deputy leader of Reform UK . film in my constituency , he call into question the future of our local power station and therefore the hundred of job that it support locally , which I know will cause real anxiety for constituent in Selby . he do not inform I that he be come to Selby or that he intend to use our industry , our job and our local community as a political football for Reform UK ' s national agenda . on behalf of worker in my constituency , how might I prevent this from happen again , and how might I relay the message that if he wish to push his anti - worker , anti - job and , quite frankly , anti - yorkshire agenda , he can do so from his constituency across the border in Lincolnshire ? I thank the hon . member for give notice of his point of order — I understand that he have inform the hon . member for Boston and Skegness that he intend to raise it . as he and other member be aware , paragraph 44 of the guide to convention and courtesy state that " member must inform colleague in advance whenever … a Member intend to visit another colleague ' s constituency ( except for purely private purpose ) . all reasonable effort should be take to notify the other member and failure to do so be rightly regard by colleague as very discourteous . " on a point of order , Madam Deputy Speaker . follow on from the point of order make by the right hon . member for Islington North ( Jeremy Corbyn ) , the comment make against he be absolutely disgusting and disrespectful . the word we use in this place can have direct consequence on the outside and impact on the security of Members . what step can be take to hold member to account for the language that they use in this place , so that debate be respectful at all time ? that be not a point of order , but the hon . Member have place his comment and feeling on the record . bill present sustainable Aviation Fuel Bill Presentation and First Reading ( Standing Order no . 57 ) Secretary Heidi Alexander , support by the Prime Minister , the Chancellor of the Exchequer , Ed Miliband , Hilary Benn , Ian Murray , Jo Stevens , Steve Reed and Mike Kane , present a Bill to make provision about sustainable aviation fuel . Bill read the first time ; to be read a second time tomorrow , and to be print with explanatory note ( Bill 240 - EN ) . victim of rape and Serious Sexual Offences ( Free Access to Sentencing Remarks ) Bill Presentation and First Reading ( Standing Order no . 57 ) Sarah Olney , support by Josh Babarinde , present a Bill to require the provision , free of charge , to victim of rape and serious sexual offence of transcript of sentencing remark deliver follow conviction for those offence ; and for connected purpose . Bill read the first time ; to be read a second time on Friday 11 July , and to be print ( Bill 241 ) . Energy and Employment Rights Bill Presentation and First Reading ( Standing Order no . 57 ) Carla Denyer present a Bill to set a timeline for the phasing out of UK oil and gas production and the decommissioning of related infrastructure ; to require the Secretary of State to publish a plan for ensure that oil and gas worker have access to appropriate redeployment or retrain opportunity , and to involve union and community in the production of this plan , which should include plan for funding ; to make provision for the establishment of a training fund for worker in the oil and gas industry , to which oil and gas company would contribute by pay a levy ; to make provision for a proportion of worker ’ wage to be guarantee by the state for a define period after they leave the oil and gas industry ; to introduce sectoral collective bargaining in the energy industry ; to extend legislation relate to pay and condition for UK onshore worker to cover all offshore worker in the UK Continental Shelf and UK Exclusive Economic Area ; to require GB Energy ' s investment to support UK job ; and for connected purpose . Bill read the first time ; to be read a second time on Friday 4 July , and to be print ( Bill 244 ) . Equitable Life Policyholders ( Compensation ) Motion for leave to bring in a Bill ( Standing Order no . 23 ) I beg to move , that leave be give to bring in a Bill to make provision about the pay out of compensation under the Equitable Life ( Payments ) Act 2010 for person adversely affect by maladministration in the regulation before December 2001 of the Equitable Life Assurance Society ; and for connected purpose . Most Members will know that I have , for the past 15 year , be campaign for proper compensation for Equitable Life policyholder who lose pension saving because of Government and regulatory maladministration . my hon . friend the Member for Leeds North East ( Fabian Hamilton ) — a friend be what he be to I — have also campaign , as have many other friend and colleague from across the House . this have always be a cross - party campaign for justice ; mps from six political party support the propose Bill . for the benefit of Members who may not be familiar with the scandal , it be a sorry saga span nearly a quarter of a century . the Equitable Life Assurance Society be consider the gold standard of the retirement saving world . found in 1762 — the world ' s old mutual insurer — it be widely respect and consider a safe place to invest a hard - earn pension . however , it turn out that in the 1990 the society be effectively be run as Ponzi scheme . return and bonus be be fund by contribution from new member . the house of card eventually collapse in 2000 , follow a House of Lords court case , which lead to the inescapable conclusion that the society do not have enough money to cover its commitment . the question inevitably arise as to how the collapse of one of the big and apparently safe pension company could possibly have happen . while several inquiry be set up with vary and limited remit , it be not until the parliamentary ombudsman undertake a four - year detailed investigation that we get to the bottom of what actually happen . although the society be clearly mismanage , the ombudsman ' s 2 , 800 - page report publish in 2008 — I recommend it to colleague for bedtime reading — conclude that there have be a decade of serial maladministration by Government Departments and their regulator , whose job it be to oversee the society in the first place . specifically , the ombudsman conclude that the serial maladministration " result in the true financial position of the society be conceal and misrepresent . " the ombudsman far go on to say that " the prudential regulation of the society during the relevant time period fail — and fail comprehensively . " she say that it be not " a system failure , but a failure properly to implement … the system of regulation that Parliament have enact . " it be the most serious maladministration ever discover by the parliamentary ombudsman . it be important to emphasise that the maladministration lead to a failure of prudential regulation , which Government Departments and their agency be responsible for . although the management of the society have fail , the ombudsman be clear that the prudential regulator alone be responsible for scrutinise the society ' s financial return , and verify its solvency position . they fail to do that to an acceptable standard . as a result , the society be able to continue to take people ' s money , while they have no idea of the house of sand into which they be place their hard - earn saving for those pension . the ombudsman make five finding of injustice that policyholder suffer because of the maladministration . three of they be relate to financial loss . in propose redress , the ombudsman call on the Government to , " put those people who have suffer a relative loss back into the position that they would have be in have maladministration not occur . " in 2010 the incoming Chancellor of the Exchequer formally accept all the ombudsman ' s finding , and apologise to the more than 1 million people affect . he accept that the financial loss that policyholder have suffer because of the maladministration amount to £ 4 . 3 billion . he subsequently revise that down to £ 4 . 1 billion . despite that , the Chancellor announce that only £ 1 . 5 billion compensation would be make available as redress , cite the state of the public finance at the time . personally , I think that where the state have accept responsibility for a failure and accept how much someone have lose because of that , it should provide full compensation . that be the moral , correct thing to do and , to their credit , the current Government be take that general approach to the blood contamination and Post Office scandal , although there be clearly serious issue about agree individual amount and the speed of payment in individual case . my Bill , however , be not about the £ 2 . 6 billion compensation still owe to those affect by the Equitable Life scandal ; it be about the £ 1 . 5 billion that have already be allocate . it appear from public information , parliamentary question , and freedom of information request that £ 180 million of the allocate funding be set to be keep by the Treasury and not reach the people to whom it be owe . when the compensation scheme be announce in 2010 , the Government decide that of the £ 1 . 5 billion make available , 37 , 000 annuitant would get 100 % compensation via an annual top - up payment for life , with £ 625 million allocate and index at that time for that purpose . as a contingency , in case those individual live long than expect , the Treasury hold back £ 100 million . the rest — £ 775 million — be allocate to 895 , 000 non - annuitant via one - off payment , effectively give they 22 . 4 % of their acknowledge loss . of that latter group , more than 100 , 000 people be never trace , contribute to a £ 24 million underspend of their allocation . in addition , the data show that the annual compensation payment to annuitant have be run significantly below forecast , by some £ 54 million from the most recent figure I have see . that mean that the £ 100 million contingency reserve will never be spend . in total , around £ 180 million — over 10 % of the money allocate to compensate people for their loss — be set to be keep by the Treasury , unless something be do . the Bill that I propose would require the Treasury to pay the full value of the £ 1 . 5 billion allocate for compensation to those affect . in do so , I would prioritise around 10 , 000 of the most elderly annuitant who be , in my view , unfairly exclude from compensation simply because they buy an annuity prior to the Government - impose cut - off date of September 1992 — I have never understand why that date be choose . the reality be that those annuitant suffer the same consequence as other : reduce pension payment because of maladministration and the failure of prudential regulation . through campaigning by member of this House and the Equitable Members Action Group , the Government announce an ex gratia payment to that cohort in 2013 , which be welcome in so far as it go . however , that cohort should be treat the same as other annuitant . accord to EMAG , ensure that would cost around £ 108 million , after deduct the cost of the ex gratia payment that the cohort receive . this group represent the most elderly and vulnerable policyholder . those who be still alive be in their 80 and 90 . many will be veteran who serve and risk their life for this country , and who we have so recently celebrate and thank . many other work in our national health service and other service . they should be treat fairly , in line with other annuitant . payment can be calculate simply and quickly . the Government , the Treasury and the Prudential , which take over their policy , know who they be and where they live . as we might imagine , the people who save responsibly for their retirement find it difficult to understand why they have not have full redress , when the state have accept responsibility for the failure that lead to their financial loss , which have be calculate and accept by the state . in the absence of full redress , it must surely be right that the money that have be allocate for compensation actually reach those affect . it must also be right to prioritise the most elderly and vulnerable . that be what the Bill seek to do , and I hope that the House will give leave for it to be introduce . it be support by mp from six political party and , I be sure , by many other colleague . question put and agree to . order , that Bob Blackman , Christine Jardine , Fabian Hamilton , Sir Desmond Swayne , Si â n Berry , Jim Shannon , Stephen Flynn and Andrew Rosindell present the Bill . Bob Blackman accordingly present the Bill . Bill read the first time ; to be read a second time on Friday 4 July , and to be print ( Bill 242 ) . great british Energy Bill consideration of Lords message Clause 3 - object I beg to move , that this House agree with Lords amendment 2b in lieu . with this it will be convenient to discuss amendment ( a ) to Lords amendment 2b . I thank all member of both Houses for their continue scrutiny of this important Bill . in particular , I extend my thank to my noble Friend the Minister for Energy Security , Lord Hunt of Kings Heath , for his expertise and , dare I say , resilience , which ensure that we reach the resolution that we be here to discuss . lord amendment 2b be add to the great british Energy Bill during consideration of Commons amendment , and the Government motion to accept Lords amendment 2b be pass in the other place . the great british Energy Bill deliver on our manifesto commitment to establish great British Energy , which will accelerate clean power deployment , create job , boost energy independence and ensure that UK taxpayer , bill payer and community reap the benefit of clean , secure , home - grow energy . we recognise the breadth of concern across Parliament and from the public on this issue , and particularly on the issue of how great British Energy will tackle force labour in its supply chain . throughout the passage of the Bill , the Government have consistently state that they wholeheartedly share that concern and agree on the importance of tackle force labour in supply chain wherever we find it . that be why we table Lords amendment 2b , which be the late move in the Government ' s work to tackle the issue of force labour while we progress towards become a global leader in clean energy . we expect all UK business to do everything in their power to remove any instance of force labour from their supply chain , and great British Energy will be no different — in fact , we have state many time that we expect it to be a sector leader on this matter . lord amendment 2b make it clear that great British Energy be commit to adopt measure so that it can take the appropriate step to act on any evidence of force labour in its supply chain , as we would expect from any responsible company . I be sure we can rely on the Minister to ensure that no solar panel be instal on british farm that be make by the Chinese Government , use slave labour . I be sure that he can assure we on that point . I have set that out in this debate in a number of way . we have absolutely commit that great British Energy will not invest in any supply chain in which there be any evidence of force labour , and the measure that we be outline today show how we will deliver that . there be a wide question about force labour in supply chain for which great British Energy do not have responsibility , and we have outline a number of action for tackle the issue right across the economy . just a few week ago , I host the first cross - Government meeting with colleague from the Home Office , the Foreign Office and the Department for Business and Trade look at how we can make regulation much tight . we want to ensure that what the right hon . Gentleman want apply across supply chain , not just in the energy space , but across the economy . the Minister be give an important speech on a really important topic — a speech that I think everyone across the House will agree with . do he agree that part of the advantage of have a government - run GB Energy be that we will have great control over supply chain , and whether slave labour be be use ? my hon . friend be absolutely right . we want Great British Energy to be a sector leader in this area . it must meet all the standard that we expect from every other company , but we want it to go far and really demonstrate what be possible in this space . he raise a wide question about the importance of great British Energy to deliver investment in the supply chain , so that we be deliver not just energy security through the clean power mission , but good , industrial job . that be what this Bill be all about . great British Energy will strive to be a lead example of good practice , not just in this space , but right across corporate due diligence , set a benchmark for ethical standard in supply chain management . that involve ensure that human right consideration be integrate into corporate policy , procurement and supplier ' conduct ; we will draw on guidance from lead expert in the sector , such as the Helena Kennedy Centre at Sheffield Hallam University . Lords amendment 2b will strengthen our framework . it demonstrate that both great British Energy and the Government be absolutely committed to maintain supply chain that be free from forced labour . I urge the House to agree to Lords amendment 2b and the position that the Government have reach on this critical issue . I call the shadow Minister . on 25 March , when we last debate amendment to the Bill , the Minister assure we that the mechanism for prevent modern slavery in supply chain be adequate , and that the Procurement Act 2023 would provide adequate protection against technology that could have be manufacture use slave labour be deploy in the UK . he confirm that in the come week , he would convene cross - departmental meeting on that matter , and say that a broad strategy would be develop , through work with the solar taskforce and other Government Departments . then we have the incredible sight of Labour mps troop through the Lobby , be whip to vote against an amendment that would have prevent great British Energy from invest in supply chain in which link to modern slavery be prove . the offshoring of our emission , our manufacture base and our skilled job be understand and acknowledge to be the result of Labour ' s energy policy , but on that day , we also see the offshoring of labour ' s moral compass . we see its narrow - minded , ideological obsession with achieve the unachievable : clean power by 2030 , at any price and any cost , deliver through solar panel make by slave labour and with coal power in the People ' s Republic of China . follow all that , though , a screeching u - turn take place . literally week after the Government whip their mp to vote against the modern slavery amendment the last time the Bill be debate , the Government concede what we all know to be the case — that the mechanism cite by the Minister in this House be simply not up to the job . however , we sincerely welcome the acknowledgement that the UK must take a principled stand . the Procurement Act 2023 and the Modern Slavery Act 2015 be groundbreake when they be introduce , but it be evident that more need to be do today to prevent good taint by slavery from enter UK supply chain . as my hon . friend know , heaven rejoiceth when a sinner repenteth . do he share my hope — let we hope it be not naive — that , with this volte - face by member on the Treasury Bench on this important issue , the cross - party consensus about the seriousness and perniciousness of modern slavery be restore , so that the House can face up to it , whenever and wherever it manifest itself ? I wholeheartedly agree with the sentiment express by my hon . friend . he be absolutely right : over the past decade and more , a cross - party consensus be reach in this House about the pernicious nature of modern slavery and the work we must do together to drive it out of supply chain that could be contribute to , or invest in , the United Kingdom . I think we all believe that we have to achieve that . now that the Government have acknowledge that the mechanism in the Bill be not up to the job , as we say at the time , I hope that we can revert to cross - party work on this incredibly important issue . the transition to clean power must be just , as we have say before and as the Minister have say many time , but it be clear that there be no justice where there be slave labour in supply chain , so we be glad that the Government have listen not just to the official Opposition , but to member from across both Houses . however , there be a serious question : what do this mean for the clean power 2030 mission ? if the route to decarbonisation rely on import technology from China make with slave labour , surely there should be a rethink of whether that mission be conducive to good policy . we be pleased that the Minister have row back from the position that the great british Energy Bill need no extra provision to exclude slave labour from supply chain , and have accept an amendment that safeguard against slavery and human trafficking . while we welcome the Government ' s change of heart , it would be remiss of I not to reiterate for the record that the official opposition remain resolutely oppose to the creation of great British Energy , which be not great , not british , and will not produce any energy . the Minister often cite my constituency in Aberdeenshire in these debate because of the location of GB Energy ' s headquarters , but I say to he in all sincerity that the people and business of north - east Scotland do not want more government . they want government to get out of the way and let they get on with what they do well : extract oil and gas from the North sea , keep the light on and home warm in our country . instead of waste time on this wasteful vanity project , the Government should lift the ban on licence and work fast on replace the energy profit levy . that would really create job — indeed , it would save job — and drive investment in Aberdeen , unlike this Bill . high industrial energy cost be push energy - intensive industry such as ceramic and petrochemical overseas . the impact of those cost be real for industrial community , and we need to see a real plan that show that the Government understand that and will act on it . we be grateful to the Minister for heed our call — and , indeed , those of other right hon . and hon . member — for provision on slave labour to be include in the Bill , and for listen to the argument make by member from all Benches in both Houses . today , we welcome a small victory , the acceptance of an amendment that seek to prevent modern slavery in our energy supply chain . that be a positive change to the legislation — legislation that should not exist , but a positive change none the less . I call the Liberal Democrats spokesperson . I rise in strong support of Lords amendment 2b and the consequential amendment table by the hon . member for Rotherham ( Sarah Champion ) . the Liberal Democrats welcome this key step by the Government towards prevent good link to chinese slave labour from be part of our renewable business ' supply chain . the decision , as we have hear , take time , and it be bear of pressure from member of all political party and the sheer strength of feeling across both Houses . the great british Energy Bill need amending , and we thank the Government for reconsider . I want to express in particular my appreciation of Lord Alton of Liverpool ' s tireless advocacy . together with Lord Hunt of Kings Heath , the Bill team and colleague from across both Houses — with important input from the Inter - Parliamentary Alliance on China — there have be a constructive and cross - party effort to confront an issue that be too often leave in the shadow : the scourge of modern slavery in our energy supply chain . groundbreake investigative research have help to shine the necessary light on what be at stake . we have hear irrefutable evidence from the BBC , the Guardian , and the world ' s foremost expert on Uyghur force labour , Professor Laura Murphy , that force labour be be use to produce the solar - grade polysilicon that power most of the global green transition . I reiterate and support what the hon . Lady and the shadow Minister have say . I understand that this Bill apply to all the region , include Scotland , Wales and Northern Ireland . one concern raise with I by my colleague in the Assembly be slave labour and what be happen to the Uyghur Muslims in particular . the view of the Assembly back home in Northern Ireland — I be a member of it , although I be not now , of course — be that this legislation be important , so I welcome what the Government have put in place and thank the hon . Lady for outline all the people who have contribute to make sure this change happen , include the all - party parliamentary group for international freedom of religion or belief . I thank the hon . member for his intervention . we have to name the report " in Broad Daylight " from Sheffield Hallam University , which find that all solar industry - relevant polysilicon producer in the Uyghur region be either use state - sponsor labour transfer of Uyghurs or be source from company that be . as we speak , 2 . 7 million Uyghurs be subject to force labour and political re - education camp . we can not allow our green future to be build on the back of enslave people . my constituent in South Cambridgeshire do not expect their solar panel to be make by child labourer in the Democratic Republic of the Congo or enslave Uyghurs in Xinjiang , and I do not expect that minister do either — and they be right . I understand that the Government will not be support the amendment ( a ) to Lords amendment 2b , table by the hon . member for Rotherham , which be about definition . definition really matter . the definition of slavery and how it be interpret need to be clear . this amendment would make it clear that the definition of slavery include force labour , state - impose forced labour , exploitative child labour , abuse of worker ’ right and dangerous working condition . it would be good to hear from the Minister about how the work group that he be already work on will ensure that there be no loophole , no grey area and no convenient ignorance . the amendment would incorporate and put into practice the International Labour Organisation ' s definition . how will that ILO standard be put into practice ? we have progress , but it be not the end ; it be the beginning . Lord Alton say : " the Joint Committee on Human Rights be close to complete an inquiry which be likely to call for a comprehensive overhaul of the Modern Slavery Act 2015 . " — [ Official Report , House of Lords , 30 April 2025 ; Vol . 845 , c . 1238 . ] this be the opportunity to look seriously at the model set by the United States ' Uyghur Forced Labour Prevention Act , which introduce a rebuttable presumption that good link to Xinjiang be the product of force labour , unless clear and convincing evidence can be show to the contrary . embed a similar presumption into UK law would shift the burden of proof away from vulnerable victim and place it firmly on those who profit . it would close those loophole that have allow exploitation to flourish unchecked . as my colleague Earl Russell in the other House rightly note , we also need international co - ordination . I urge the Minister to update this House on effort to work with like - minded partner in Europe and elsewhere to eliminate slavery from all our supply chain — those not just of GB Energy , but of all energy company . great British Energy , as the Minister say , have a chance to lead by example not just on innovation and independence , but on moral integrity . lord amendment 2b result from the work of the Inter - Parliamentary Alliance on China , which include cross - party membership from this House . I see some of its member in the Chamber now . Lord Alton and other member of the alliance , include I , who have be sanction by the Chinese Government have work tirelessly on the amendment , and other have do likewise on other amendment . let I say to the Minister that the problem we face at present be that we seem to be attack this issue piecemeal . when the Conservatives , my own party , be in government , I have a big fight with they to secure a ban on slave - labour - make product in the national health service , and it sit there , in the health service , thank to cross - party involvement . now we have a provision in the great british Energy Bill to block modern slavery , but the Modern Slavery Act 2015 , which we help to enact when I be in the Government , need to be massively update in this area because it have no tooth . unless it be beef up , what we will have be piecemeal work from official . if we be to embrace this idea — I know that the Government be tentative about it , but frankly all government do this , and the reality be that it have go through — our objective should be , " how do we make this the case for every single product that be introduce , so that all of Government , include local government , be not allow to involve themselves in modern - day slavery ? " a huge amount of this apply to China , but some of it apply to other country . let I also say to the Minister that this be the beginning , not the end . we must ensure that the lesson that be learn be that we must be paragon of virtue when it come to modern - day slavery and that we will stand up for those who have no voice . if we go about buy product make through modern slavery , which undercut the free market dramatically because no salary be pay , we not only destroy the concept of the free market but cause people to be imprison by make our casual purchase . there be solar array all over the country today that contain a modern slavery element — namely , the polysilicon . what be the Government go to do about that ? what be they go to do about something that be already in existence in the UK ? it be a big question . the Government have only just open this door , and I think that if they want to stand by moral purpose , which be exactly what a Labour Government would claim to do , they must take this forward . they must say , " do you know what ? we be go to table amendment in all those area that get rid of this and amend the Modern Slavery Act . " if they do that , they will be right , because this really be the issue of our time . the issue of the cost of product should not outweigh that of the cost of life . we have turn a blind eye for far too long , and we must now face up to our responsibility . America have give we a lead , turn the balance of proof on its head by ensure that company make the correct declaration , because they be assume to have slave labour element in their product — and those product be not just array . company have to prove to the Government that their supply chain be clear , and those supply chain be test use a New Zealand company call Oritain . I suggest its service to the last Government , who be not keen to take they up at that stage , but I offer they to this Government now , because they have to do those test and force company to tell the truth , rather than casually say , " this be what we be tell . " if the Government do that , they will begin to stand up for this one . the Opposition , I be sure , stand ready to assist they in all this , as do all the other party . this be a real moment , when we , as a Parliament , can say , " that be it . no more backsliding ; no more pretence . we will fight modern slavery wherever it exist , because it be a tool of oppression and a tool to break the free market . " well , this be a red - letter day : we be in the Chamber to discuss something positive that be happen with GB Energy . I commend the Minister and his colleague for that , although it be consistent with the function of a significant u - turn in Government policy . I thank Members of both Houses for their work in bring Lords amendment 2b to fruition . the amendment would ensure that no material or equipment produce as a function of slave labour be use in GB Energy ' s enterprise , but I hear the Minister talk about " expectation " and " strive " , which be much less unequivocal than " ensure " , so I would be very grateful if he could reassure the House that " ensure " mean ensure . consistent with comment from other hon . and right hon . member , there be a very straightforward way to do that . it be maybe not legislatively or bureaucratically light , but this be an extremely important issue . if it do not attract a burden of administration to ensure that our collective conscience be clear , what will ? as an engineer , I know that many product that we purchase come with a certificate of conformity . in pursuance of ensure that there be no slave labour in any enterprise of GB Energy , it would be very straightforward for the Government to mandate that a certificate of conformity must be produce for all equipment , which would explicitly guarantee that the supply chain be free of slave labour . that do not seem to be an especially demanding expectation . I will make a final point . can the Minister explain something to I ? I be genuinely not see this with the clarity that I suspect he be — or maybe he be not . in what enterprise will GB Energy be involve as the decider , rather than the provider , in deliver generation , transmission or storage capacity on the ground and in a meaningful way ? how will GB Energy scrutinise or mandate bill for material to say whether they be provide from this provider or that provider ? that be not my understanding of the nature of GB Energy . as have be explain in this House and elsewhere , GB Energy be a derisking device that will inject capital into the market and clear the blockage — it will not introduce purchase order from this company or that company . I would be genuinely grateful if the Minister could clarify that . I thank all hon . and right hon . member for their contribution to this important debate . I will start with the intervention make by the hon . member for North Dorset ( Simon Hoare ) , which set the tone . he say that there be an important cross - party consensus on this issue , and I think that that have come through in all the contribution we have hear . hopefully , that give we a mandate to push far on this issue than any of our party have do until this point . that be my genuine intent , and the hon . Gentleman ' s point be very helpful . I always welcome my exchange with the shadow Minister , as he well know . I think for a moment that there be an opportunity at this very late stage for he to change his way and support investment in his own constituency through great British Energy , but he have once again decide to use this opportunity to say to his constituent that he do not want investment and job . we will of course remind his constituent of that . bring it down to Cornwall ! Cornwall be ever present in these debate . nevertheless , however much the shadow Minister ' s tooth be grit , I do welcome his support for the approach we be take today . we be debate Lords amendment 2b , which , combine with the previous commitment that I have make from the Dispatch Box and that my noble Friend Lord Hunt have make in the other place , demonstrate that this Government be commit to use great British Energy as a vehicle for take this issue seriously . as come through in a number of the contribution , though , this be not solely the preserve of great British Energy ; it be much broad , both in the energy system and in the wide economy . I have commit to do some thing already . I have commit to appoint a senior leader in great British Energy who will have oversight of tackle force labour in the supply chain ; we have confirm that Baroness o ' Grady will take on that role . many member will know that she have significant experience in this space , and she will bring much effort to important deliberation at GB Energy . I have commit to cross - government departmental meeting , which take place on 7 May as a starting point . I have commit to include an overarching expectation in the statement of strategic priority , and that will be deliver within six month . we have demonstrate our unwavering commitment to tackle force labour in supply chain , and we be resolute in our determination to go far . the question , however , be this : at the end of it all , how will we know that the supply chain have be correctly declare ? if they have not be , it will become a matter of avoidance . America check , test and sanction company that have lie about their supply chain , and that have force wholesale change to its supply chain process . I ask the Government to learn from America and get company such as Oritain to use forensic science to test the company supply chain about which they be suspicious . I thank the right hon . Gentleman . I be go to come to his substantive contribution shortly , but I will do so now . the first point he make in his speech be important , which be that there be a real danger with the piecemeal approach he mention . that be partly why I have resist the idea that great British Energy will solve all of these issue in isolation ; it clearly be not go to do so . we think it have a really important role in lead the conversation and lead the effort , and certainly in demonstrate that by its own action , but we have to look at these issue right across Government . the meeting I have convene be a starting point in look seriously at where the Modern Slavery Act fall short . we be committed to do that , and it sound as though there be consensus across the House about look seriously at that . that be not only for my Department , and I want to be careful about overstepping , because to avoid the work be piecemeal , it need to be do right across Government . however , the point the right hon . Gentleman make specifically on track supply chain be very helpful , and I will take they away . the hon . member for South Cambridgeshire ( Pippa Heylings ) make a point about the International Labour Organisation ' s principle . great British Energy will consider the 11 indicator of force labour , include abuse of working and living condition , as part of its effort . I do not think that this Bill be the right place to get into a conversation about define slavery . we may need to look at that , and I be not against do so , but this Bill be about create great British Energy , and we need to be careful to keep these thing separate . we be already a signatory to a number of convention , which highlight the Government ' s broad support for tackle force and compulsory labour , and we will continue to take that forward . the Home Office have produce a modern slavery action plan , which set out the first step in its departmental responsibility for tackle modern slavery at its root . the plan , which will be publish shortly , confirm that the Government be consider legislative vehicle for strengthen section 54 of the Modern Slavery Act . these be clearly important issue , and I do not for a second seek to say that the Lords amendment or great British Energy itself will solve all of they , but I think this be an important step , and I welcome all the contribution make across the House . I basically want to thank the Minister . this have be quite a robust and rough journey , but he have listen to comment from across the House , analyse the argument we have make and listen to the other place . I think this be now go to be a very strong Act that will help enormously to shift our global supply chain and get the transparency I think everybody in this House want , so I thank he . I thank my hon . friend for that intervention , but more broadly , as I have say before , for her significant contribution in this space and for the way she have influence I and other over the past few week on these important issue . I also thank other across the House , because it have be a real cross - party effort , and I think we be in the same place . we want to take this forward , and there be much more work to do . I want the message to be that , while this be progress , it be — as the right hon . member for Chingford and Woodford Green ( Sir Iain Duncan Smith ) put it very well — the beginning , and certainly not the end , of further work . without want to tempt fate , this be the last opportunity to speak about the Bill in this place , so I close by thank everyone who have play a role in get it to this stage . in particular , I thank my noble Friend Lord Hunt in the other place . I thank all the member from all party in this place who contribute to the Bill Committee , and the witness who give evidence . I also thank the parliamentary staff who play such an important role in shepherd Bills through this place and the House of Lords . I especially thank the fantastic team of official in the Department for Energy Security and Net Zero , who move at incredible speed to develop the legislation , but always with good humour , which I have personally appreciate . great British Energy be at the heart of what the Government be set out to achieve : deliver clean power , but deliver job and investment as we do it ; and deliver energy security and climate leadership , own by and for the people of this country , and headquarter in the energy capital of Europe , Aberdeen . with investment have already be make , include in community energy in Scotland today , which member from Scotland might welcome , and investment in supply chain and much , much more , this be the big idea of our time . it will deliver on our energy objective , but with the public own a stake in their energy future . I be pleased that Parliament will — I hope , without tempt fate — back it today , so that it can receive Royal Assent and get on with do what we need it to do . on a point of order , Madam Deputy Speaker . I just want to remind the House that the Deputy Speaker in the Chair today be also sanction by the Chinese Government for her bravery . that be note , and no doubt on the record again , as it have be previously . thank you . I will continue with the business . lord amendment 2B agree to . datum ( Use and Access ) Bill [ Lords ] ( Programme ) ( no . 2 ) Motion make , and question put forthwith ( Standing Order no . 83A ( 7 ) ) , that the follow provision shall apply to the Data ( Use and Access ) Bill [ Lords ] for the purpose of supplement the order of 12 February 2025 ( datum ( Use and Access ) Bill [ Lords ] : Programme ) : consideration of Lords Message ( 1 ) proceeding on the Lords Message shall ( so far as not previously conclude ) be bring to a conclusion two hour after their commencement . subsequent stage ( 2 ) any further message from the Lords may be consider forthwith without any question be put . ( 3 ) the proceeding on any further message from the Lords shall ( so far as not previously conclude ) be bring to a conclusion one hour after their commencement . — ( Kate Dearden . ) question agree to . datum ( Use and Access ) Bill [ Lords ] consideration of Lords message I must draw the House ' s attention to the fact that Lords amendment 49b , the Lords disagreement with the Commons in Commons amendment 52 and Lords amendment 52b and 52C engage Commons financial privilege . if any of those Lords amendment be agree to , I will cause the customary entry waive Commons financial privilege to be enter in the Journal . clause 28 - dvs trust framework I beg to move , that this House insist on Commons Amendment 32 to which the Lords have disagree and disagree with the Lords in their amendment 32b and 32c propose to the word restore to the Bill by the Lords disagreement . with this it will be convenient to discuss the follow Government motion : that this House agree with the Lords in their amendment 34B and 34C propose instead of the word leave out of the Bill by Commons Amendment 34 . that this House disagree with the Lords in their Amendment 43b . that this House disagree with the Lords in their Amendment 49b . that this House insist on Commons Amendment 52 to which the Lords have disagree and disagree with the Lords in their amendment 52b and 52C propose to the word restore to the Bill by the Lords disagreement . that this House do not insist on Commons Amendment 55 to which the Lords have disagree and agree with the Lords in their amendment 55d and 55e propose in lieu of Commons Amendment 55 . that this House agree with the Lords in their Amendment 56b notwithstanding the view of the Chinese Government , it be a delight to see you in your place , Madam Deputy Speaker . I be only sadden that I have not be sanction , which feel a shame — nor by Russia , for that matter . there be still time . I be delighted to be here today to discuss the Bill , which we last discuss in depth a week ago today . first , I would like to express how pleased I be that the other place have agree to the Government ' s amendment relate the national underground asset register and intimate image abuse . I pay tribute to all those member of the House of Lords who take part in get that part of the legislation to the place where it be now . I be glad we have be able to work with they . I will start by encourage the House to agree to those amendment , before I move on to discuss the amendment relate to AI and intellectual property , scientific research , and sex and gender — in that order . lord amendment 55d , 55e and 56b , which be introduce to the Bill in the other place by the noble Baroness Owen of Alderley Edge , place a duty on the face of the Bill that require the Government to : review the operation of the " reasonable excuse " defence in the offence of create and request intimate image deepfake without consent , or reasonable belief in consent ; publish the outcome of the review in a report ; and lie that report before Parliament . the Government be pleased to support the amendment in the other place , as we share the desire to ensure that the criminal law , and these offence in particular , work as the Government intend . I think we all appreciate the amendment , because we want to protect vulnerable woman , child and anybody who be at risk of this sort of harm . could we not look at do something similar to the amendment , and the carve - out we have create with it , for our creative industry ? if we can protect our vulnerable people , can we not also protect our creative industry from copyright infringement by have territorial exemption similar to what we have with deepfake ? my hon . friend be jump the gun slightly — I will come on to those issue . I want to praise Baroness Owen with regard to this part of the legislation . if it have not be for she , I do not think it would have end up in the Bill . there be a bit of to - ing and fro - ing between she and the Ministry of Justice to ensure that we get the legislation in the right place . as I say in last week ' s discussion , one of the issue be whether Baroness Owen ' s original version of the second offence really work in law ; I think she agree that our version , which we table in Committee , be well . we have be able to tidy up the question of the reasonable excuse . it be perfectly legitimate to ask how on earth there could be a legitimate or reasonable excuse for create one of these image or ask for one to be create , and we go through those debate previously . I be glad that the Government have come to a settle position with Baroness Owen , and that be what I urge everybody to support here today . the Government make a manifesto commitment to ban sexually explicit deepfake , and the Bill deliver on that promise . for the first time , there will be punishment for perpetrator who create or ask other to create intimate deepfake of adult without consent . secondly , I turn to the national underground asset register , which it do feel have be a long time come . of course , that be partly because the Bill be in its third iteration . amendment 34 relate to the national underground asset register . an amendment be previously table in the House of Lords require the Secretary of State to provide guidance on cyber - security measure , which be reject by this House . last week , the Government table amendment 34B and 34C in lieu on this topic , which be draft with the support of the security service . these amendment expand the scope from cyber - security only to general security measure , clarify the audience for the guidance and extend its reach to Northern Ireland , alongside England and Wales . on all the amendment I have speak to thus far , I thank our noble colleague in the other place for their work and support to reach agreement in these area . I urge colleague here today to support these amendment , too ; otherwise , we be never go to get the Bill through . will the Minister give way ? on the subject of never get the Bill through , I will , of course , give way to the right hon . Gentleman . one reason for get the Bill through , one would hope , be to deliver on thing like content credential , which firm like Adobe have champion , to show who have produce a file , where the ownership sit and whether artificial intelligence have be use to edit it . can the Minister confirm whether the Bill will deliver on that commitment on content credential , and if not , why not ? well , it be because the Bill be never intend to deal with copyright and artificial intelligence at all . the Government have not introduce any provision relate to AI or copyright , and I think that specific issue would probably be rule out of scope if it be to be table . there be very serious issue in relation to AI and copyright , which I be about to come on to , and I know the point the right hon . Gentleman be make on technical standard . [ interruption . ] he keep on talk at I — I be happy to give way to he again if he want , but I can not hear what he be say . my point be about AI be use to change photograph , and have the ability to see that through content credential or the digital fingerprint . the point I be raise be that the Government themselves have still not adopt that , in term of their official communication . will the Bill deliver on that , and if not , why will the Government not adopt that good practice ? I be honestly fail to understand the point the right hon . Gentleman be make . the Bill be not and have never be intend to deal with the kind of issue he be refer to . as I say , I think that if somebody be to table amendment to that effect , they would be rule out of order . the Bill do not deal with copyright or artificial intelligence ; the only measure in the Bill on AI and copyright be those introduce in the House of Lords , which I be about to speak to . although I be not able to listen to the whole of the debate in the House of Lords the other day , the Secretary of State and I stand at the Bar of the House to listen carefully to considerable part of the debate . I want to make two separate but interconnected point on AI and intellectual property in relation to the Bill . first , there be an urgent issue that must be address — namely , what be happen today , and , for that matter , one could argue what happen yesterday , last week , last year and two year ago . to be absolutely clear , I will reiterate that copyright law in the UK be unchanged . work be protect unless one of the exist exception , which have exist for some time , such as exception for teaching and research , apply , or the right holder have grant permission for their work to be use . that be the law . that be the law now , and it will be the law tomorrow if the House agree with the Government and reject the amendment table by Baroness Kidron and support in the House of Lords . as I have say previously , I be glad that several creative industry have be able to secure licensing agreement with AI company , include publisher , music label and other , under the exist law . I want to see more of that — more licensing and more remuneration of creative right holder . it be wonderful to hear my hon . friend talk about the importance of copyright and the fact that we have exist law that we can use , but I wonder whether he be aware of the grow concern in industry about the risk of expansive US - style fair use principle creep into UK practice and what we might do to secure our safeguard . we must not allow foreign interpretation of fair use to erode our copyright law . as I be sure my hon . friend be aware , the US system of fair use be different from the UK ' s — our go back to 1709 , with the first of our copyright act , and it have be very solid . when we introduce this Bill , I say that this country should be proud of the fact that a succession of different generation have ensure that right holder can protect their copyright . interestingly , one of Charles Dickens ' big battle be be able to protect his copyright not only in the UK but in the United States of America , where he feel he have few protection . it be for we to develop our own copyright law in our own country , and I say to my hon . friend that the law as it be will not change one jot as a result of what we be intend to do in the Bill . rise — rise — I probably ought to give way first to the Chair of the Culture , Media and Sport Committee , and then to the hon . gentleman . yesterday the Minister appear before our Select Committee and say , " the good kind of AI be the kind of AI that be build on premium content , and you can ' t get premium content without pay for premium content . " now , as well as be concern about the overuse of the expression " premium content " in that sentence , I be also concerned about the fact that , as we speak , there be copyright work out there be scrape underhandedly by AI developer , some of whom be feign licensing negotiation with the very right holder whose work they be scrape . surely now be the time to require developer to tell we what copyright work be be use to train their model and what their web - scrape bot be up to . surely he agree that Lords amendment 49 be a very good way to move this forward to see what work be be use to train AI model . the first thing to say to the right hon . Lady be that I completely stand by everything I say to the Select Committee yesterday . I do believe that the good form of AI will be intelligent artificial intelligence . and just like any pipe , what come out of it depend on what go into it . if we have high - quality datum go into AI , then it will produce high - quality datum at the other end . I have speak to quite a lot of publishing house in the UK , include Taylor & Francis in particular — rise — let I finish my point and then I will give way first to the hon . member for Perth and Kinross - shire ( Pete Wishart ) , who get very cross if people queue - barge . I be aware that there be quite a lot of publishing house in the UK that be determined to secure licensing deal with AI company , both in the UK and overseas . first , they want to ensure that those AI company remunerate they and , secondly , they want to ensure that they have very high - quality , up - to - date information and datum go into they , so that if somebody search for immunotherapy , for instance , they will have the late information on immunotherapy , not stuff that be five , six or seven year out of date , or that may have come from a dodgy source . the second point I want to make be this . the right hon . Lady say that this amendment would sort the problem today , but it would not . it would do nothing today , or indeed for a considerable number of month . therefore , there be an issue about what we do today — what we as a government do , and what we as the creative industry and everybody work together do , to ensure that we protect copyright under the exist law as it be today . the Minister keep say that we have exist copyright law that be there to protect the creative industry and our artist , but practically our whole creative heritage be be scrape . there be probably song in the top 40 that have be totally design by AI , and there will be book in the top 30 or 40 bestseller that will be base on AI — probably fully AI . this be happen right now . surely artist and creator should know when their work be be use . that be why Lords amendment 49b be so important for transparency . the hon . Gentleman be absolutely right that there be work out there that have be create with the use of AI . as I have say several time , I have never think that the creative industry be in any sense luddite ; I have always think that they be at the forefront of innovation in so many area — at the Select Committee yesterday I refer to Fra Angelico . this be true of every creative industry : they have to innovate in order to succeed . a video game company would say that it be use AI all the time , not necessarily to save money but to improve the product and be at the cutting edge of what they be do . even Bj ö rn from ABBA have say that he have be use AI because it enhance his work . one area that be in our consultation but be yet to be address by anybody in any of the debate I have hear in this House or the other place be this : what we do about the copyright status of work that be solely or largely create by AI , because it be a moot point what we should do about it under exist law ? my point be simply that we need to address all these issue in the round rather than piecemeal , and I will come on to that in more substance in a moment . the Minister be be very generous with his time . central to what he be say be transparency . do he agree that enforceable transparency obligation would reduce legal uncertainty , deter infringement by increase the legal risk to AI developer , and enable fast redress by allow the court to establish precedent where copyright be breach ? yes . I do not think that people should breach copyright law . I have say that in several debate , and it be the settled view of the Government . we believe that people should not breach copyright law — they should not break the law . some of the issue my hon . friend raise have be or be be test in the court , and they will be contest more in the court in future month . a point I make right at the beginning , when we introduce the consultation , be that there be a fair use system in the United States of America , while we have our system in the UK , and then there be a slightly different system in the EU , which have largely rely on the napoleonic code understanding of what an author be and what a work be . all those system be slightly different and have be implement in different country in different way , and they may lead to different conclusion in individual court case . that be why we have want to look at every single element of this issue , from transparency to technical datum , access to high - quality datum , issue of enforcement and personality right . there be a whole series of issue , many of which be yet to be address in debate in either Chamber . that take I back to my point that I do not think this be the Bill in which to do this piece of work , and I do not think that the amendment we be debate will secure what people hope from it . the Minister mention the consultation . could he confirm that the Government no long consider an opt - out model to be their preferred approach to copyright and AI , and if so , what alternative approach be now be actively pursue or develop with the sector ? I will say two thing . first , we have always say that we be consult on a package , and part of that package be a technical solution so that right holder would be able to protect their right well , in a way that — will the Minister give way ? I will in a moment , but I be still answer the intervention . I have two point to make , and I will now probably forget the second one . as I be say , it be always go to be a package of measure , and we always say that we would not introduce that package unless we be secure in the belief that we could deliver for the creative industry a technical solution that make it simple for they to enforce their right and seek remuneration and that would lead to more licensing . that be a whole package . when we last debate this , I say two thing : first , that we be open - minded about where we be in relation to the consultation , and secondly — perhaps just as importantly — that our amendment 16 would require we to undertake an economic impact assessment of all the different option include in the consultation . I hope that answer my hon . friend ' s question . somebody else want to ask another question . rise — rise — I think it be my hon . friend the Member for Knowsley ( Anneliese Midgley ) and then I will probably go over to my hon . friend the Member for Na h - Eileanan an Iar ( Torcuil Crichton ) . the other week , an Observer article report that a source close to the Secretary of State for Science , Innovation and Technology say that " proposal to introduce an opt - out system of copyright rule be no long his preferred option but one of several be give consideration . " that be a very welcome change of heart , potentially , but it do not mean anything unless minister be prepared to repeat it in Parliament . will my hon . friend the Minister confirm that that be an accurate representation of the Government ' s position ? I be afraid that I will repeat what I just say . first , in the consultation we introduce a package of measure and it hinge on the issue of whether we can deliver not only for AI company but for the creative industry , to protect their right more effectively than they presently can . secondly , as I think I have now say twice at the Dispatch Box , we be open - minded about the response to the consultation . we have have 11 , 500 response to the consultation and we be make our way through all that . a lot of different issue have be address . the issue of the economic impact assessment be a serious one . it be one thing to say that the AI sector in the UK , which be the third large in the world , be worth x billion pound to the UK economy , and that the creative industry be worth £ 124 billion — that be a number that a lot of people have use — to the economy . it be quite a different matter to draw up a proper economic impact assessment on the basis of the various different option . will the Minister give way ? I be afraid the hon . Gentleman be in a queue . it be quite a long queue , and it seem to be get long . I thank the Minister for — no , no . I think my hon . friend the Member for South Derbyshire ( Samantha Niblett ) be next . on the point of find a solution in the round , if no credible technical solution be in sight , will the Minister confirm what non - technical legislative or regulatory measure the Government be consider to protect right holder in the interim ? that be precisely why we need to do this in the round , rather than just piecemeal . I understand the attraction of what be on the amendment paper today , but I do not think it would deliver the answer that the people need now to the issue that the creative industry be face now . in another debate we refer to the issue — will my hon . friend give way ? hang on ! Madam Deputy Speaker , we will have to set up a queue system . the Minister be very popular . I be not sure that it be popularity , Madam Deputy Speaker . the important point be that we need to look at this in the round , rather than piecemeal . I do not think that what be on the amendment paper today would deliver anything now . indeed , it do not purport to ; it instead purport to give something in six , nine or 12 month ' time , or sometime in the future . we can assure the Minister that he remain popular , as well as generous with his time . he mention the Government consultation . it have cause deep and sustain anxiety across the sector . when can we expect a substantive response to the consultation ? I wish I could give my hon . friend a timeline . the main thing I want to say about the timeline , as somebody who I think all hon . member know care passionately not just about the anxiety that have be create in this sphere because of the consultation but about the anxiety for many creative people about their future career , be that I get that anxiety — 100 % . that be the big point . frankly , I would like to stop do the Data Bill and start go out and engage with the Minister for AI and Digital Government , my hon . friend the Member for Enfield North ( Feryal Clark ) , to have as many session with creative industry and different part of the sector and with the AI company — in particular UK - base AI company — to work out how we can get to proper solution to all of this . however , until I get the Data Bill out of the way , I will struggle to do that . on another point , I think of my hon . friend the Member for Knowsley as a musician , because she be still a member of the Musicians ' Union . there be a really important part here for the different sector within the creative industry . word , image , music and sound will all probably need different technical solution . that be the kind of nitty - gritty that we need to get into , which we can only really do when we consider the whole issue in the round , rather than just one specific aspect of it . now , I think Margate call . I thank the Minister for give way ; he be be extremely generous with his time . the Minister be talk about the possibility that the amendment put forward would not do anything today , but there be an urgency in the creative industry because the stuff that they create be be scrape now . will he prioritise transparency by commit at the Dispatch Box to introduce enforceable obligation , if not through a statutory instrument then at least through a clear public commitment , so that transparency will be central to the Government ' s approach to AI and copyright ? first , I completely get the urgency of this . in many way , I wish we have be address this two or three year ago , because we be some way behind other country in relation to this . secondly , we will prioritise the issue of transparency in all the work we do as we go forward . I have say that from the very beginning . transparency be essential to the issue of licensing ; licensing be essential to the question of remuneration ; and remuneration be essential to the process of AI be high - quality , effective and able to be deploy in the UK . all these thing have to be address in the round and together , but my hon . friend be absolutely right to say that without transparency , it be worth nothing . the AI Minister — the Under - Secretary of State for Science , Innovation and Technology , my hon . friend the Member for Enfield North — be chuntere in my left ear , which be helpful because she make the point that this be the very first thing we discuss when come into office . with both of we in the Department for Science , Innovation and Technology , we discuss how we could get to a resolute piece of legislation that enable great licensing , great deployment of artificial intelligence in the UK , in particular UK company , and great transparency . so I completely agree on that — rise — I will give way , but I have the hon . member for Tunbridge Wells ( Mike Martin ) wait . again , my hon . friend be extremely generous with his time . will he therefore consider interim measure or guidance that would deliver similar outcome while legislative option be be explore ? that be what the creative industry be look for . I do not know what interim measure would look like . all three of we on the team , include the Secretary of State , have often say that we be open - minded about anybody come through the door with a good solution . we be in the business of good idea , and if anybody have any good idea , we be happy to look at they , but I honestly can not make the guarantee that my hon . friend ask for because I do not know what interim measure that be not legislative would look like . it be not our intention — I would urge people to abide by this — to legislate piecemeal in this Bill , which be not about artificial intelligence and copyright . rise — of course I will give way to the hon . Gentleman . I be sorry he have be wait so long . I be grateful to the Minister for give way ; he be be very generous , although I might suggest that he work on his queue system a little bit . I understand that the timetable issue be a difficult one , and most thing seem to be arrive in the spring with this government , but could we talk about the format ? be we go to have the consultation , then a White Paper and then a Bill ? be that what it be go to look like ? will that perhaps be in the next king ' s Speech ? if I be unable to suggest what interim measure would look like , I be not sure I will be able to please the hon . gentleman by suggest what will be in the next king ' s Speech . I do not even know when the next King ' s Speech will be . as the Minister for the creative industry and for datum , I want , along with my colleague in Government , to be able to get on with the business of try to get together the work party I have refer to . I want to get people from the AI company and the creative industry sit around the same table to work out what a proportionate and effective system of transparency would look like and what the technical solution might be . other country have struggle with draw this up ; the EU be struggle with it at the moment . that be the next stage . at the same time , we be consider what our response to the consultation should be . we have hear what many people in this House and in the House of Lords have say on this issue , and of course we will bear all that in mind . we be keep an open mind in relation to that . I can not give the hon . Gentleman a date for when we will publish that consultation , but we be work on it as fast as we possibly can . my hon . Friend tell our Select Committee yesterday that it be not for we to give away the labour of other people to third party for free . give that the Government have now say they be open - minded , and if open - minded mean there be no technical solution , be the Minister open - minded to the idea of legislative solution to protect copyright and enhance it for all our great creative ? it be not just ABBA ' s Bj ö rn ; it be people in Rochdale and low - pay creative across the whole north - west and country . one of the special and unique aspect of the creative industry as a sector , which have grow fast than the rest of the UK economy and for whom we hope to lay out our plan in the next few week in the creative industry industrial strategy , be that they exist in nearly every part of our land . often , the job be not well remunerated , and we want to change that . that be a key part of what we seek to do . we also want to ensure that more people can come into the creative industry and realise their ambition in those area , and they will not be able to do that if they be not remunerate . that be why I have make the point from the beginning that we want to get to a technical solution , which be not far distant . it be a possibility — I would not deride it . it do not exist at the moment , but there be those who want to work on it . frankly , somebody might earn a decent penny if they be to come up with a solution so that all right holder would be able easily , simply and without great expense to protect their right across all AI platform deploy in the UK . rise — rise — oh my Lord — I be almost as keen to get on to the next bit of my speech as I be to get the datum Bill through to Royal Assent , but I probably ought to give way to the right hon . Lady and then I will come back to my hon . friend . I be so grateful to the hon . gentleman for give way . I get the sense that he be perhaps need to go long , and that might be why he be take so many intervention — I be happy to assist he in that process . I want to give he an opportunity . I know he well enough and know how much he value this place , but I have be slightly concern by his comment throughout that he be keen to get on with it . would he like to put on the record that he be first and foremost a parliamentarian and that be in this place be the bit of the job that he value most ? well , the right hon . Lady be at my 60th birthday — I know it be difficult to believe . a long time ago ! " a long time ago ! " say the rather ungenerous member sit at the back . honestly , I have not be ask to go long . I be simply , because I do believe in parliamentary scrutiny , try to answer all the question and engage in a proper debate . I know that colleague want to press I on a series of issue . there be some issue come up that they might want to press I on that be completely different from this , and I be happy to be press , include by the right hon . Lady , as many time as she want . but I do not think there be a question in her point . she think she be try to help I go long , but I be try to go slightly short . to help the Minister for a moment , because colleague be look bewilder : I do not know who be or be not invite to the Minister ' s 60th birthday party , in case they be feel a little leave out . I know it be out of order to say that an hon . member be not tell the truth , but , Madam Deputy Speaker , you be there ! [ laughter . ] and I accept your apology . the hon . Gentleman have be generous with his time today and in the process to date , and I thank he for that . I understand the Government have long maintain that this Bill be not the right place for these amendment . give the Government ' s anticipate removal of the Lords amendment and the use of financial privilege , what definitive action will the Minister take to address the ongoing serious concern of our world - lead creative industry , particularly on copyright and transparency ? what do he advise those of we seek strong commitment to do next ? would he point to any specific timeline , mechanism or legislative tool that will be use to offer the certainty that the sector be cry out for ? notwithstanding the hilarity , this be obviously a very important matter to a large number of people . for many people in the creative industry , it feel like a kind of apocalyptic moment — they think that their career be disappear in front of their face . I fully recognise that . the moment that the Bill be out of the way , I and the two Departments I sit in — the Departments for Culture , Media and Sport and for Science , Innovation and Technology — would like to get people back in to work on two work party . one would work on transparency and precisely what it look like in granular detail — very high - level stuff do not really meet the moment . the second would work on technical standard and solution that might deliver great access to datum for the AI company , and on the ability for the creative industry to protect their work . I do have some sympathy with Lords amendment 49b . there be one element that I would like to explore , which have be raise by the hon . member for Perth and Kinross - shire ( Pete Wishart ) . it be one thing for Getty Images , for example , to go to court and protect its right under the exist law , because it have deep pocket and can engage lawyer . it be quite a different matter for individual artist , who may want to promote their work by put it on the internet and do not want it to disappear from the internet , but also do not want it to be scrape and turn into another version of their work create by AI . will the Minister give way ? I will in a second . then I probably ought to move on to the next subject , Madam Deputy Speaker . will the Minister give way ? oh dear . I take very seriously the point that this be not just about people with deep pocket ; it be also about individual artist . we want to ensure that they be protect . I give way to the hon . Gentleman . there be little doubt that the Minister take the issue seriously — I think the House accept that — but do he acknowledge that what he have say in answer to question from the opposition and from his hon . friend will offer the sector rather cold comfort ? he recognise that this be an issue , as the Government do , and argue that the Bill be not the place to resolve it , but he do not give strong leadership by set out a clear timetable and a clear direction of travel or share with the House his thinking on how the issue could be solve . many people be face this problem today , and he be ask they to take comfort from his intention to do something at an unspecified time , with the exception of convene two work party . it be not quite enough to meet the magnitude of the concern from that vibrant and grow sector , which , as he rightly say , be represent in all constituency across the country . of course , I would like to be able to move fast , but as the hon . Gentleman say to I last week in Committee and in various different place , this be not an easy knot to untie . it will require a great deal of goodwill from a large number of people to secure a settled outcome that work for everybody . I still believe that there could be a win - win situation , but that will happen only if we can gather everybody around the same table in order to deliver it . I be perfectly happy to provide leadership , and to be punch in the nose for provide that leadership if people think that I have get it wrong , but I do not think that be the problem at this particular moment . let I give the hon . member for North Dorset ( Simon Hoare ) one reason why I think Lords amendment 49b do not really work . yes , we all agree that we should introduce transparency measure — although it be difficult to work out precisely how they would be proportionate and effective and work equally for big and small company — but there be no point in have transparency measure unless we have an enforcement measure . an element of the propose new clause refer to enforcement , but it basically ask the Secretary of State to draw up that enforcement . one would not expect to be able to do that in any other area without a full Bill devote solely to that purpose . I wish that I could move fast , but I do not want to move fast than be require to secure an outcome . rise — rise — I will take only one more intervention , I be afraid , because I have take so many . I probably ought to give way to the Chair of the Science , Innovation and Technology Committee . I thank the Minister for his generosity in give way , which have make this a real debate . I commend he for his determination to bring together the tech sector and creative to develop a solution — I know that many creative be technical , and many technical people be creative . may I urge the Minister to ensure that he work with a wide range of tech company ? as I have say to he , I do not believe that large tech platform have the right incentive to develop an appropriate tech solution to this , and I urge he to be transparent about how he engage with they . finally , the tech platform refuse to appear at a joint sitting of the Science , Innovation and Technology Committee and the Culture , Media and Sport Committee , but it be through transparency that we can ensure competition to identify the good technical solution . yes , I completely agree . my hon . friend make the good point that in the UK , many of the creative industry — roughly 40 % — be tech . they be fast - grow , and part of what we want to incentivise . she make the good point that we need to talk to lot of different kind of artificial intelligence company , just as we need to talk to lot of different kind of creative industry . all those point be well make , and what she refer to be precisely the work that I and the team will want to take forward as soon as we can . this will be my last intervention for now . will the Minister make it his policy to include representative of the creative industry on the technical committee that be work on AI and copyright reform ? we arrive at this point because there be a sense that one Department speak to some people , and another Department speak to other , whereas there be implication for both sector . we should have both sector in the room , talk about each other with the Minister and his Department . I completely agree with everything my hon . Friend say , and I can give that guarantee . interestingly , when we start this process after the general election , the first consultation meeting that the Under - Secretary of State for Science , Innovation and Technology , my hon . friend the Member for Enfield North ( Feryal Clark ) , and I have be with the creative industry in one room and the AI company in another . perhaps it would have be well to mix they up in the way my hon . friend have suggest , and that be precisely the job of work that I want to get on with . we be determined that wherever we can , we will take creative industry with we , and we will be transparent about the work that we do . I want to lay to rest the idea that there be two Departments at war with one another . that simply be not the case . the two Departments be try to work together to achieve good outcome for everybody . the Minister be be unbelievably generous in take intervention , but before he move on , I want to say that it be really important to have those involve in AI and in the creative industry in the same room at the same time . he must not forget that the reason the creative industry be in such a state of panic and despair about this be because a hare be set run a few month ago by the Department for Science , Innovation and Technology , when it publish an AI strategy that say that the copyright opt - out be a way to grow the AI industry . the Government then publish their consultation , in which they indicate that the opt - out be their preferred mechanism , despite the fact that the document also mention prioritise transparency . I understand that , but the Minister must understand that panic have set in . word matter ; what we say matter . he need to do everything that he can to bring this issue to a close . as the hon . Lady know , I be sympathetic to the direction of travel that she be try to take I in . some people will think that I be split hair , and that be not my intention , but I have be keen to avoid the term " opt - out " . as I say , we have bring forward a package of measure . they be reliant on our be able to deliver great control , through technical measure , for the creative industry and other who have right to protect . that be why we refer to " right reservation " , rather than " opt - out " . I take her point , and I be sure that we will be debate it for some considerable time . she be a Select Committee Chair , as be my hon . friend the Member for Newcastle upon Tyne Central and West ( Chi Onwurah ) . I should have say early that when I be Chair of the Committee of Privileges , we produce a report , which have yet to be implement or even discuss in the House , about how we could ensure that witness appear before Parliament when Select Committee Chairs want they to . if it be all right with the rest of the House , I will move on to further subject . the issue around scientific research — I can never work out where the emphasis lie when I say the word " research " — be embody in Lords amendment 43b . some people have suggest that the Bill will somehow create a wild west for research , but that be simply not true . the Bill do not change the threshold for what constitute scientific research ; we be stick with what have be and be a fair , clear and proportionate measure , use the " reasonableness test " that be common in other legislation and well know by the court . as Lord Vallance say in the House of Lords early this week , this amendment would go against the good work do by the previous Government on avoid unnecessary red tape for researcher . we have a world - class research sector in the UK . we want to empower it , not tie it up in red tape . we believe that document such as the Frascati manual , which be useful and interesting in other setting , be not design to contain legally bind requirement , so the amendment be misplace . if the amendment be carry forward , researcher would need to be able to demonstrate their work ' s creativity to a legal standard . if someone ' s work be aim at test or reproduce another researcher ' s result , be it truly creative ? that be a legitimate question , but it take on a whole new meaning , and bring a whole new layer of bureaucracy , when enforce to a new legal standard , as the Bill insist , back up by the potential for huge regulatory fine . similar issue arise in relation to requirement for research to be " systematic " and " ethical " . those word be not necessarily well know in the court when it come to this legislation . as Lord Winston argue powerfully on Monday , if the amendment have be law 50 year ago , we may never have have in vitro fertilisation and the benefit spin off from that , include valuable cancer research . those be the issue cause by put such a test in a legally bind setting that it be never design for . on the point that Lord Winston make in the other place , will the Minister explain how set a test for scientific research , so that datum could be reuse , would have prevent in vitro fertilisation ? Lord Winston ' s point be that by introduce a requirement that research be systematic , ethical and creative , we be create a whole new idea of what constitute research . when he want to start his IVF work , it be generally think that it would be unethical to explore that territory . today , we would consider that view to be misplace . we believe that the task of decide what count as scientific research be well approach by draw on guidance and the opinion of expert . that be what the reasonableness test allow . it be a concept that be well understand by the court . while I sympathise with the intention , express in the other place , of guard against misuse , and while I understand the issue that my hon . friend the Member for Newcastle upon Tyne Central and West and I have discuss on several occasion , the Government believe that the amendment be unnecessary as the Bill already contain sufficient and , I would argue , considerable safeguard . a controller who wish to change the purpose of datum processing to scientific research must first ensure that they comply with clause 71 ' s rule on purpose limitation . scientific research be not list as ground for exemption where datum be collect on the basis of consent . secondly , the controller would have to ensure that they pass a " reasonableness " test ; thirdly , they would have to ensure that they have lawful basis ; fourthly , they would have to ensure that they meet the requirement of the safeguard in clause 86 ; and fifthly , they would have to ensure that the new processing be fair and comply with the wide datum protection principle in UK GDPR . that be a very substantial set of safeguard . the Government can not see how the Lords amendment would add value , on top of all those requirement against misuse , but it would have an effect on genuine researcher , as I have set out , burden they with red tape and uncertainty and potentially exclude important research . will the Minister give way ? if my hon . friend do not mind , I will not give way again . I will sum up at the end of the debate , so if she want to raise issue again , I will take intervention then . [ interruption . ] I think you would like I to get a move on , Madam Deputy Speaker . I turn finally to the issue of sex and gender , particularly in the context of the measure on digital verification service . I have table amendment to remove the measure that be vote for in the House of Lords on Monday , for reason that Lord Vallance and I have note in previous debate . for clarity , the data accuracy principle require personal datum to be accurate and not mislead for the purpose for which it be be use . that safeguard should ensure that personal datum share by public authority with digital verification service for the purpose of verify a particular attribute appropriately confirm the specific attribute in question . public authority and digital verification service provider be legally require to comply with that principle at different stage of the digital verification process . as I say last week , although it be very unlikely that digital verification service will be use in the kind of case raise by Opposition Members , the provision mean that if an organisation request verification of a person ' s sex at birth , the public authority must not share datum that record gender more widely for the purpose of that check . likewise , digital verification service provider must not rely on datum that record gender more widely as part of the verification process in that scenario . this Government recognise that there be instance where sex and gender datum appear in the same field in public authority datum set . exist legislation require personal datum to be accurate for the purpose for which it be be use , which mean that personal datum process as part of digital verification check must reflect the specific requirement of that check . I assure the House that if the Government be to identify an instance in which a public authority be share with digital verification service gender datum that be mislabelle as biological sex datum , we would respond appropriately . to reiterate , this Government consider the issue of datum accuracy to be of importance , and accept the Supreme Court ruling . that judgment and its effect must be work through holistically , with sensitivity and in line with the law . the Government be already undertake extensive work on data standard and datum accuracy that will consider upcoming update guidance from the equality regulator . I do not think it would be appropriate to legislate in the way propose without have take those step , particularly give the sensitive nature of this matter and the potential impact on people ' s privacy and human right . I finish by note your opinion , Madam Deputy Speaker , that Lords amendment 49b , 52B and 52C engage the financial privilege of this House , which the Government do not believe it be appropriate for this House to waive . I be sure that the other place will reflect on that carefully during its further consideration of the Bill . I be grateful to all those member who intervene , and I hope that I have not manage to cut off anybody before their prime . that be a substantial opening speech . on a point of order , Madam Deputy Speaker . you will recall that on Monday , Mr Speaker take to task those on the Treasury Bench for make a very important announcement about major policy change on immigration to the medium before it be make to this House . the hon . member for Aberdeen North ( Kirsty Blackman ) have an urgent question on that issue just this afternoon , and at the heart of the matter be the ministerial code . it have be bring to my attention that this afternoon , the Ministry of Justice have announce some fairly major change : a limit to the length of time for which some offender can be return to prison , under plan to ease prison overcrowding , and a major shake - up of offender . it seem that the Government be persistent offender themselves on this matter . it strike I as arrogantly cavalier that , give the very strong stricture from the Chair and on a day on which a UQ have be grant , another offence have be add to the charge sheet . this be something that affect , and should concern , all member of this House who do not sit on the Front Bench . Parliament hear important announcement as they affect our constituent , and public safety and the removal of people from our street through the prison system and so on be of concern to all our constituent , irrespective of where we represent . I also understand that no indication have be give of a write ministerial statement on this important issue . as such , I rise to reinforce the point that have be make over the past several day on this significant breach of the ministerial code , and to inquire of you , Madam Deputy Speaker , whether — even at this late - ish stage on a sit day — the Chair have have any indication at all of a statement from the Ministry of Justice , so that a relevant Minister can be question on what this policy mean for our constituent . I thank the hon . gentleman for give notice of his point of order . he be entirely correct to say that the House take an urgent question early today on the provision of the ministerial code . those provision make clear that when the House of Commons be sit , major Government announcement should be make to the House first . that point have be make repeatedly from the Chair , include on multiple recent occasion . minister be accountable to this House , and should make every effort to inform this House of policy development via statement wherever it be possible to do so . while I have be in the Chair , I have have no warning that a statement be due today . the Government and , no doubt , those on the Treasury Bench will have hear both the point of order and my response , and I trust they will act accordingly and with some urgency . I call the shadow Minister . it be a pleasure to rise to speak on Lords amendment to the Data ( Use and Access ) Bill . over the course of debate the Bill , it have become customary to thank those in the other place for the work they have do , particularly Baroness Owen for her work on deepfake and other who have campaign boldly in that area . I will begin by speak to Lords amendment 49b . we have be clear that support the creative and AI sector be not a zero - sum game ; we need to support both sector . through their ham - fiste consultation on copyright and AI , the Government have raise great concern throughout the creative sector , and the result attempt to amend this Bill have be in response to the mess they have create . in Committee and on Report , we set out a series of amendment that focus on the outcome — not the process — for a solution in this area . those amendment focus on ensure that the position in law of copyright in this area be clear , on the need for proportionate and effective transparency , on remove barrier to start - up , and on facilitate technological solution via digital watermarking . in one of the many intervention on the Minister , my right hon . friend the Member for North East Cambridgeshire ( Steve Barclay ) mention the importance of implement digital watermarking . he refer to it as a response to deepfake , but it also have relevance to technical solution , and it strike I as quite odd that the Minister go on to cover broadly the same topic in his opening remark , despite point out to my right hon . friend that those topic be not relevant to the ongoing debate . that indicate how confused the treatment of this area in the Bill have become , and the need for clarity . I pay tribute to Viscount Camrose , Lord Parkinson , my hon . friend the Member for Gosport ( Dame Caroline Dinenage ) , my right hon . friend the Member for Maldon ( Sir John Whittingdale ) , Baroness Kidron , and other in this House and in the other place , for their work on amendment to reach a resolution in this area . we have sympathy with early version of those amendment , but also concern about their workability and prescriptiveness . we have work with Baroness Kidron to get to a position that we can now support ; we believe that solution need to incorporate the principle of transparency and proportionality . the amendment be not a perfect solution , but it be more reasonable than do nothing . I find it astounding that the main criticism that the Minister have make of Lords amendment 49b be that it have a run - in period prior to implementation and that people be call for thing to happen now . that be an odd way of approach legislating . as the opposition , we be work with other party , among other , to try to find a solution to get the Minister out of a hole . I hope that member across the House support the amendment . move on to digital verification service , I welcome the Lords ' disagreement with amendment 32 and 52 , and support their amendment 32b , 32c , 52b and 52C on sex datum accuracy , which receive the support of member in the other place . as my noble Friend Viscount Camrose say in his speech , it be necessary to re - table amend version of the clause on datum accuracy previously secure in the other place because our new clause 21 be not in scope for debate in the Lords . the Lords amendment be technical and complex , so if you will forgive I , Madam Deputy Speaker , I will speak briefly to new clause 21 to explain for the benefit of Members how thing have evolve over time . our new clause 21 would have compel public authority to correct the dataset they hold in relation to sex and to collect datum on the protect characteristic of sex in accordance with the legal definition set out in the Supreme Court ' s judgment : biological sex . it would also have allow public authority to collect datum on acquire sex as record on a gender recognition certificate where that be relevant and lawful . it would have impose no new obligation on the correction of datum hold by public authority — the obligation already exist under article 5 ( 1 ) ( d ) of the UK General Data Protection Regulation — but would simply have put in place a timescale for correct datum on sex . we know from the finding of the Sullivan review that that correction be much need and long overdue . to address a misconception , new clause 21 be silent on how sex be record in physical and digital form of identity for those hold a gender recognition certificate . that be a sensitive issue for the 8 , 500 holder of grc in the UK , and we hope that much - need clarity in this area will be give by the Equality and Human Rights Commission in its guidance due to be lay before Parliament next month . it will be up to the Secretary of State to make rule as to how that guidance be implement in digital verification service . however , that issue , while important , do not affect the clear obligation that already exist in law to record datum on sex accurately . lord amendment 32c and 32b , and disagreement with amendment 32 , would compel the Secretary of State to examine whether the public authority that will act as datum source for the digital verification service system ascertain sex datum reliably in accordance with biological sex and , where lawful and relevant , with sex as record on a gender recognition certificate . that would prevent inaccurate sex datum from be entrench and proliferate in the digital verification service system . lord amendment 52b and 52C , and disagreement with amendment 52 , would give the Secretary of State the power to define in a data dictionary sex datum as biological sex and , where relevant , sex as record on a gender recognition certificate . that could then be apply across the digital verification service system , the register of birth and death , and other circumstance where public authority record personal datum . the amendment be critical for correct our compromise dataset on sex and would ensure that poor - quality and inaccurate datum do not undermine digital verification service . to be clear , if our amendment do not make it into the Bill , self - ID will be bring forward through the back door , risk the protection that single - sex space offer to everyone . self - ID be not and never have be the position in UK law . I do not understand why the Government be resist these measure . digital verification system need to be trustworthy to deliver the benefit intend by the Bill . if they be not trustworthy , the system will fail . I therefore commend these vital and much - need amendment to the House . let I join other in express my gratitude for the work of many member , especially in the other place — in particular , Baroness Owen and Baroness Kidron — but also across this House . there have be a great deal of cross - party work , include much constructive discussion on many element of the Bill with the Minister . today , though , I will refer specifically to Lords amendment 49b . I be lucky enough to represent a part of Hertfordshire that be weave into british creativity , from Graham Greene of Berkhamsted , whose masterpiece " Brighton Rock " shape our cultural consciousness , to Eric Morecambe of Harpenden , whose partnership in Morecambe and Wise bring joy to million , while the music of the Devines from Berkhamsted get we up and dance , and local artist such as Mary Casserley and Andrew Keenleyside paint our daily life in way that bring perspective , colour and joy in a way that only artist can achieve . our landscape in Ashridge and Aldbury have inspire film - maker from Disney to the producer of the Harry Potter film , and our pub have be feature in film include " Bridget Jones " . today , this creative legacy face an unprecedented threat . the current situation be more than just alarming ; it be threaten the essence of our national identity and our creative economy . we hear concern about resource for protect our creative sector , but those argument miss a crucial point : our creative industry , combine , contribute £ 126 billion to our economy , employ 2 . 4 million people , and be grow significantly fast than the wide economy . the question be not whether we can afford to protect these industry , but whether we can afford not to . when we invest in enforce copyright protection , we be also invest in safeguard one of Britain ' s great economic asset and our competitive advantage on the world stage . the transparency provision in Lords amendment 49b be essential and proportionate . they apply proportionately to business of different size , while ensure that our creative powerhouse can continue to thrive and , indeed , work hand in hand with technology . true leadership in AI mean build on respect for creativity , not exploitation . let I make it clear that this be not about resist technology , but about recognise value and safeguard innovation — and that bring I back home to Berkhamsted . in the heart of my constituency sit the British Film Institute National Archive , one of the large and more significant film collection in the world , comprise over 275 , 000 title and 20 , 000 silent film date back to 1894 . it be a live memory of our national story , tell on screen . would we allow anyone to walk into the BFI and take whatever they like ? would we let they scan , copy and republish those work without permission or compensation ? of course not . so I ask the Minister , why would we allow the same thing to happen in the digital world ? this be a defining moment . we can build an AI - power future that respect and reward creativity , or we can allow short - term interest to strip - mine the work of generation . the question before we today be simple : will we stand for a future when technology and creativity flourish together , or will we allow the foundation of our cultural life and economic prosperity to be hollow out for short - term gain ? I urge the Government to stand up for our creator , stand up for transparency , and stand up for the principle that , in the age of AI , human creativity still matter . I rise to speak to Lords amendment 43b , which deal with the safeguarding of scientific research and ensure that the exemption in the Bill be use for the purpose of such research alone . on Second Reading , the Minister be unable to address the point that I raise ; he run out of time because of the length of the debate on AI and copyright , and I rather feel that the same have happen today . in the meantime , however , he write to I extensively to address my concern . although I do not think all of they be fully address , I be convince that the Minister and , indeed , the Government do not intend this measure to widen the circumstance in which datum could be reuse for scientific research without consent . I be think of circumstance in which datum would be reuse for the training of AI model which be in themselves not contribute to new , creative scientific research . I believe — let I emphasise this — that all scientific research be creative , and that even if it be simply reproduce exist finding , it be create confidence in the stock of scientific knowledge . I understand that the Minister do not intend to create a wild west , and I hope that he can confirm specifically that it be not the policy , intention or effect of the provision to enable the reuse of personal datum for AI . indicate assent . the Minister make a hand signal , but I be of the view that hand signal be not reflect in Hansard . the Minister have far great knowledge of proceeding in this House than I do , so I suspect he know that too . if he would like to intervene on I , I would be very happy for he to do so . I be be very badly behave . I do not want to take up more time , but I will respond at the end . I think my hon . friend will be happy . I thank the Minister for his inadvertent intervention , and I look forward to my future happiness . give his reassurance , I think the Science , Innovation and Technology Committee can work with the Government to ensure that the Bill enable scientific research through the use of the fantastic dataset that the UK be proud to have , without expose the public to the reuse of their datum for the purpose of train AI model or for other commercial purpose that be not within the remit of scientific research . I will be pleased to accept the Minister ' s reassurance , and on that basis I do not wish to engage in further ping - pong between the Houses . in reference to the early exchange , it seem that if you remember the Minister ' s 60th birthday , you be not really there — but I really be not there . [ interruption . ] do I ? I know there must have be some very good reason . why I be not there be now in Hansard . there be profound disappointment within the creative sector today . everyone in the sector really believe and hope that the Minister would appear today with something in his back pocket that he would be able to bring out to give reassurance to the many artist and creator right across the country who be extremely anxious and concerned about the direction of the debate and conversation about the use of their work . they be really concerned that some of their precious work , into which they have put so much time , effort , blood , sweat and tear , will be scrape up , trawl through by a bot and ingest by one of the large american tech company , and then reappear as some minor mirror of itself . no one have be satisfied with what have be say today , and the Minister have one last chance . I really hope that he can give something to the creative industry , or at least give they some sort of hope as we go forward into the next few month and year , because they be go into the next few month and year unprotected . they will have nothing that they can rely on , other than what be in the amendment , and I know for a fact that the Minister will ensure that they be vote down . today have be a curious day , too , because financial privilege have be invoke for a particular amendment . in my almost quarter of a century in this House , I have never see that before . I think I know why it have be do : it be to ensure that the House of Lords do not get another opportunity to bring this measure back . I say to the Minister and the Secretary of State , who be shake his head , that the Lords be already design it . after it go back to the House of Lords , it will come back once again . I be sure it do not invoke any financial privilege , but it be ultimately disappointing that the Lords will not be able to present the same motion again , which be their intention . that amendment have receive overwhelming support from everybody across the creative sector , and I have really hope that the Government would support it today . the only reason we be here be the effort of the Members of the House of Lords . I usually do not pay they much of a tribute or respect what they do , but they have play a blinder . in particular , Beeban Kidron — Baroness Kidron — have stick to this agenda to ensure that these Lords amendment have be reinserte into the Bill . they have have to do it because the Government have not do so . the Government have do nothing to ensure that our creative sector be protect . the Government say that there should be more time for this , but we do not have time . we have to act now to protect the livelihood of 2 . 4 million creator in the UK against exploitation by some of the rich company in the world . as I have say countless time throughout this Bill ' s passage , if we continue at this rate there will soon be nothing leave to protect . the thing be that the Government should have act early . they should have take step to protect creator ’ right as a matter of urgency . instead , it have be leave to other to scramble to find a way to ensure that we have these vital Lords amendment to a Bill that , as the Minister have say on several occasion , be not design for they . the Government ' s motion will in effect set a timeline of several year before any resolution be reach on copyright transparency . I listen very carefully , as I always do , to what the Minister have to say about transparency , but I still do not understand why this can not be do immediately . all the Government have to do be tell inventor , creator and copyright holder that their work be go to be use or ingest by one of the web crawler that be in operation . that be all they would have to do , and it could be do very easily . there be no great technical problem in introduce transparency as a priority , and it could possibly happen within a few week . the hon . member be make some important point . as Lord Brennan say recently , this Bill be an opportunity to regulate AI : " this Bill , this bus , be an opportunity that the Government should be get on rather than wait for another bus several year down the road " . — [ Official Report , House of Lords , 12 May 2025 ; Vol . 845 , c . 1932 . ] this bus be leave now , along with the opportunity to protect our creative right . do the hon . member agree with I and share my concern that the Government be go to miss the bus ? I would always agree with the noble Lord Brennan . as somebody who play with he for many year in a parliamentary rock band , I think we all miss he in this House . he be spot - on when he say that : we have to act now . even if the Government want to change copyright law — I still do not know whether that be their intention , and the creative sector strongly oppose that — it will be year before creator have the slight hope of protect their work against creative theft . this sector have see its work take , use and exploit by tech company . they come into this process hope that they would finally get some protection , but instead of be hear , their hope have be set aside again . lord amendment 49b do exactly what the sector have be call for over many year . the fact that it have be table be a credit to the sustained campaign from our artist in the creative sector , who have organise themselves so efficiently and put such a compelling case . they have put so compelling and knowledgeable a case that our constituent have start to understand the complexity of copyright law , and they now realise its value in ensure that the work of the artist they love , respect and like to listen to are recognise and that they will be compensate for their wonderful work . despite what the Government say , merely enforce the exist law will not be burdensome for AI firm , particularly as Lords amendment 49b allow the transparency requirement to be modify for small AI developer and for all UK - register developer so that they be proportionate . this will prevent start - up from be burden with overly onerous regulation . in fact , all this proposal do be put UK start - up on a level playing field with US tech giant that gain an unfair competitive advantage by ignore copyright law . transparency will make the legal risk of copyright infringement too great for AI firm to break the law . it will allow court to hear case quickly , establish precedent and kill any argument that there be uncertainty in UK law . if we can see what have be steal , it be easy to stop its be steal and to get redress when it continue to be steal . it be now up to the Government to fix this . if they be serious about protect our creative industry — they should be , and I accept that that be what they intend to do — then they can not stop at work group and economic impact assessment . that be the bare minimum ; it be not , by any measure , enough . if this be the last opportunity we have to put the case , it be a black day for our creative sector . they have hope that this would be the day the Government appear with something that satisfied at least some of their concern . they deserve to have their work protect fairly . they be look for anything from the Government to see that they be clearly on their side and be prepared to do something . I think we already know exactly what they will decide , but the Government now have a choice : remove Lords amendment 49b and turn their back on the creative industry , or find an actual way to protect our creative sector and make sure that they back it . I be anticipate more contribution from other member , but it be a delight to see you in the Chair , Madam Deputy Speaker , and to follow on from the hon . member for Perth and Kinross - shire ( Pete Wishart ) . I will not speak at great length , member will be delighted to hear . first , I want to refer to the matter of financial privilege , because the hon . Member refer to it just now . it be not the Government who decide whether financial privilege be engage . it be a simple matter decide on advice from the Clerks to the Chair , which be determine from two motion , from 1671 and 1678 . where there be any financial implication of a Bill , or in this case an amendment that come from the House of Lords , it be a simple matter as to whether or not the financial privilege of the House of Commons be engage . anything that obviously require a system of enforcement be likely to require expenditure . that be why we would not choose to waive our financial privilege in relation to these amendment today . a money resolution to the Bill be pass with Second Reading . I look at it and there be nothing that say there be any financial limit on any measure include in the Bill , so I be a bit confused about why financial privilege have to be invoke on that basis . it be not the Government who invoke financial privilege . it be the House that do it , via the Speaker ' s Chair . I be afraid that that be a debate we will have to have at another point . much as I love debate motion from 1671 and 1678 , I think we might move forward . the only point I will make to the hon . Gentleman about his contribution on the creative industry — he know that on many of these issue we completely and utterly agree — be that if there be a simple way of be able to enforce those right today , I would seize it . if he want to write to I with a suggestion on what that actually look like and what we would do today to be able to enforce the right under the exist law today , then of course I would be happy to look at it . I also say that I would respond to the point from the Chair of the Science , Innovation and Technology Committee , my hon . friend the Member for Newcastle upon Tyne Central and West ( Chi Onwurah ) . the Bill create no new permission to reuse datum for scientific research . it be not the effect of the provision to provide blanket approval of the reuse of personal datum for AI training under the banner of scientific research . I hope that that meet some of her understandable concern . Madam Deputy Speaker , I know that it be completely not in order , but I be go to say it anyway and end on this point . we have discuss some very serious point , but I do just wish that remember Monday will win the eurovision song contest on Saturday evening , with their song , " what the Hell just happen ? " I wish Lauren , Holly - Anne and Charlotte all the good of British . question put . diane Abbott Jack Abbott Debbie Abrahams Zubir Ahmed Luke Akehurst Sadik Al - Hassan Rushanara Ali Tahir Ali Gideon Amos Callum Anderson Fleur Anderson Steffan Aquarone Scott Arthur Jessica Asato James Asser Jas Athwal Catherine Atkinson Josh Babarinde Calvin Bailey Alex Baker Richard Baker Antonia Bance Paula Barker Alex Barros - Curtis Johanna Baxter Danny Beales Lorraine Beavers Apsana Begum Si â n Berry Clive Betts Polly Billington Kirsty Blackman Olivia Blake Rachel Blake Christopher Bloore Jade Botterill Sureena Brackenridge Jonathan Brash Alex Brewer Jessica Brown - Fuller Chris Bryant Richard Burgon Maureen Burke David Burton - Sampson Ian Byrne Liam Byrne Ruth Cadbury Nesil Caliskan Alan Campbell Irene Campbell Juliet Campbell Charlotte Cane Dan Carden Sam Carling Alistair Carmichael David Chadwick Wendy Chamberlain Danny Chambers Sarah Champion Bambos Charalambous Luke Charters Ellie chown Feryal Clark Chris Coghlan Ben Coleman Jacob Collier Lizzi Collinge Tom Collins Victoria Collins Liam Conlon Sarah coombe Andrew Cooper Beccy Cooper Daisy Cooper Deirdre Costigan Pam Cox Jennifer Craft Mary Creagh Stella Creasy Torcuil Crichton Chris Curtis Nicholas Dakin Ashley Dalton Adam Dance Emily Darlington Ann Davies Jonathan Davies Paul Davies Shaun Davies Alex Davies - Jones Bobby Dean Josh Dean Carla Denyer Tan Dhesi Jim Dickson Anna Dixon Samantha Dixon Helena Dollimore Dave Doogan Stephen Doughty Peter Dowd Graeme Downie Neil Duncan - Jordan Maria Eagle Cat Eccles Lauren Edwards Sarah Edwards Damien Egan Maya Ellis Chris Elmore Kirith Entwistle Florence Eshalomi Bill Esterson Chris Evans Hamish Falconer Linsey Farnsworth Josh Fenton - Glynn Mark Ferguson Patricia Ferguson Natalie Fleet Emma Foody Catherine Fookes will Forster Mary Foy Daniel Francis Z ö e Franklin James Frith Gill Furniss Anna Gelderd Alan Gemmell Gill german Stephen Gethins Sarah Gibson Becky Gittins Mary Glindon Olly Glover Marie Goldman Ben Goldsborough Tom Gordon Jodie Gosling Georgia Gould John Grady Sarah Green Lilian Greenwood Nia Griffith Andrew Gwynne Amanda Hack Louise Haigh Sarah Hall Paulette Hamilton Monica Harding Carolyn Harris Lloyd Hatton Tom Hayes Claire Hazelgrove Mark Hendrick Pippa heyling Meg Hillier Chris Hinchliff Sharon Hodgson Rachel Hopkins Claire Hughes rupa Huq Patrick Hurley Adnan Hussain Imran Hussain Natasha Irons Sally Jameson Christine Jardine Liz Jarvis Terry Jermy Kim Johnson Ruth Jones Gurinder Josan Sojan Joseph Warinder Juss Chris Kane Mike Kane Satvir Kaur Afzal Khan Ayoub Khan Naushabah Khan Stephen Kinnock Jayne Kirkham Gen Kitchen Paul Kohler Sonia Kumar Uma Kumaran Peter Kyle Laura Kyrke - Smith Ben Lake Peter Lamb Ian Lavery Noah Law Kim Leadbeater Brian Leishman Emma Lewell - Buck Andrew Lewin Rebecca Long - Bailey Josh MacAlister James MacCleary Alice Macdonald Andy MacNae Justin Madders Ben Maguire Helen Maguire Seema Malhotra Amanda Martin Mike Martin Rachael Maskell Keir Mather Brian Mathew Alex Mayer Charlie Maynard Siobhain McDonagh Andy McDonald Chris McDonald John Martin McDonnell Blair McDougall Lola McEvoy Alison McGovern Alex McIntyre Kevin McKenna Jim McMahon Anna McMorrin Frank McNally Llinos Medi Anneliese Midgley Freddie Van Mierlo Calum Miller John Milne Julie Minns Navendu Mishra Abtisam Mohamed Iqbal Mohamed Perran Moon Layla Moran Jessica Morden Edward Morello Helen Morgan Grahame Morris Joe Morris Tom Morrison Margaret Mullane Tessa Munt Luke Murphy Ian Murray Susan Murray Luke Myer James Naish Connor Naismith Kanishka Narayan Pamela Nash Josh Newbury Samantha Niblett Charlotte Nichols Alex Norris Brendan O ' Hara Melanie Onn Chi Onwurah Simon Opher Abena Oppong - Asare Kate Osborne Tristan Osborne Sarah Owen Darren Paffey Andrew Pakes Matthew Patrick Michael Payne Jonathan Pearce Matthew Pennycook Toby Perkins Manuela Perteghella Jess Phillips David Pinto - Duschinsky Lee Pitcher Jo Platt Lucy Powell Gregor Poynton Peter Prinsley Richard Quigley Yasmin Qureshi Andrew Ranger Mike Reader Joani Reid Martin Rhodes Bell Ribeiro - Addy Jake Richards Jenny Riddell - Carpenter Lucy Rigby Marie Rimmer Dave Robertson Tim Roca Ian Roome Sam Rushworth Sarah Russell Tom Rutland Oliver Ryan Anna Sabine Sarah Sackman Jeevun Sandher Roz Savage Liz Saville - Roberts Michelle Scrogham Mark Sewards Naseem Shah Baggy Shanker Michael Shanks Tulip Siddiq Vikki Slade Andrew Slaughter John Slinger Lisa Smart Cat Smith David Smith Nick Smith Ian Sollom Euan Stainbank Kenneth Stevenson will Stone Graham Stringer Kirsteen Sullivan Lauren Sullivan Zarah Sultana Peter Swallow Mark Tami Mike Tapp David Taylor Luke Taylor Rachel Taylor Fred Thomas Gareth Thomas Adam Thompson Marie Tidball Stephen Timms Jon Trickett Henry Tufnell Anna Turley Matt Turmaine Karl Turner Laurence Turner Liz Twist Harpreet Uppal Tony Vaughan Valerie Vaz Christopher Vince Caroline Voaden Christian Wakeford Chris Ward Paul Waugh Michelle Welsh Catherine West Andrew Western Matt Western Michael Wheeler John Whitby Katie White Max Wilkinson Pete Wishart Steve Witherden Sean Woodcock Rosie wrighte Martin Wrigley Mohammad Yasin Steve Yemm Claire Young Daniel Zeichner Gerald Jones Kate Dearden Lee Anderson Edward Argar Victoria Atkins Gareth Bacon Harriett Baldwin Steve Barclay Bob Blackman Andrew Bowie Karen Bradley Aphra Brandreth Alex Burghart James Cartlidge Christopher Chope James Cleverly Geoffrey Clifton - Brown John Cooper Alberto Costa Claire Coutinho Geoffrey Cox Harriet Cross Gareth Davies Mims davy caroline Dinenage Rosie Duffield Iain Duncan Smith Luke Evans Nigel Farage Peter Fortune Ashley Fox Mark Francois George Freeman Louie French Mark Garnier John Glen Helen Grant Alison Griffiths Rebecca Harris John Hayes Damian Hinds Simon Hoare Richard Holden Kevin Hollinrake Paul Holmes Nigel Huddleston Neil Hudson Jeremy Hunt Bernard Jenkin Robert Jenrick Dr Caroline Johnson Lincoln Jopp Alicia Kearns Danny Kruger Katie Lam John Lamont Edward Leigh Julian Lewis Julia Lopez Alan Mak Kit Malthouse Jerome Mayhew James McMurdock Esther McVey Gagan Mohindra Robbie Moore Joy Morrissey Wendy Morton Kieran Mullan Andrew Murrison Jesse Norman Ben Obese - Jecty Rebecca Paul Sarah Pochin Mark Pritchard Shivani Raja Jack Rankin David Reed Joe Robertson Andrew Rosindell Jim Shannon Neil Shastri - Hurst David Simmonds Greg Smith Julian Smith Rebecca Smith Andrew Snowden Ben Spencer Mel Stride Graham Stuart Desmond Swayne Bradley Thomas Richard Tice Nick Timothy Laura Trott Thomas Tugendhat Martin Vickers Matt Vickers Gavin Williamson Mike Wood James Wild Gregory Stafford the House divide : Ayes 371 , Noes 98 . question accordingly agree to . resolve , that this House insist on Commons Amendment 32 to which the Lords have disagree and disagree with the Lords in their amendment 32b and 32c propose to the word restore to the Bill by the Lords disagreement . clause 56 - National Underground Asset Register : England and Wales Motion make , and question put , that this House agree with the Lords in their amendment 34B and 34C propose instead of the word leave out of the Bill by Commons Amendment 34 . — ( Chris Bryant . ) a Division be call . division off . question agree to . clause 67 - meaning of research and statistical purpose Motion make , and question put , that this House disagree with the Lords in their Amendment 43B . — ( Chris Bryant . ) diane Abbott Jack Abbott Debbie Abrahams Zubir Ahmed Luke Akehurst Sadik Al - Hassan Rushanara Ali Tahir Ali Callum Anderson Fleur Anderson Scott Arthur Jessica Asato James Asser Jas Athwal Catherine Atkinson Lewis Atkinson Calvin Bailey Alex Baker Richard Baker Antonia Bance Paula Barker Alex Barros - Curtis Johanna Baxter Danny Beales Lorraine Beavers Clive Betts Polly Billington Olivia Blake Rachel Blake Christopher Bloore Jade Botterill Sureena Brackenridge Jonathan Brash Chris Bryant Julia Buckley Richard Burgon Maureen Burke David Burton - Sampson Ian Byrne Liam Byrne Ruth Cadbury Nesil Caliskan Alan Campbell Irene Campbell Juliet Campbell Markus Campbell - Savours Dan Carden Sam Carling Sarah Champion Bambos Charalambous Luke Charters Feryal Clark Ben Coleman Jacob Collier Lizzi Collinge Tom Collins Liam Conlon Sarah coombe Andrew Cooper Beccy Cooper Deirdre Costigan Pam Cox Jennifer Craft Mary Creagh Stella Creasy Torcuil Crichton Chris Curtis Nicholas Dakin Ashley Dalton Emily Darlington Jonathan Davies Paul Davies Shaun Davies Alex Davies - Jones Josh Dean Tan Dhesi Jim Dickson Anna Dixon Samantha Dixon Helena Dollimore Stephen Doughty Peter Dowd Graeme Downie Neil Duncan - Jordan Angela Eagle Maria Eagle Cat Eccles Lauren Edwards Sarah Edwards Damien Egan Maya Ellis Chris Elmore Kirith Entwistle Florence Eshalomi Bill Esterson Chris Evans Hamish Falconer Linsey Farnsworth Josh Fenton - Glynn Mark Ferguson Patricia Ferguson Natalie Fleet Emma Foody Catherine Fookes Mary Foy Daniel Francis James Frith Gill Furniss Anna Gelderd Alan Gemmell Gill german Becky Gittins Mary Glindon Ben Goldsborough Jodie Gosling Georgia Gould John Grady Lilian Greenwood Nia Griffith Andrew Gwynne Amanda Hack Louise Haigh Sarah Hall Paulette Hamilton Carolyn Harris Lloyd Hatton Tom Hayes Claire Hazelgrove Mark Hendrick Meg Hillier Chris Hinchliff Sharon Hodgson Rachel Hopkins Claire Hughes rupa Huq Patrick Hurley Adnan Hussain Imran Hussain Natasha Irons Sally Jameson Terry Jermy Kim Johnson Ruth Jones Gurinder Josan Sojan Joseph Warinder Juss Chris Kane Mike Kane Satvir Kaur Afzal Khan Ayoub Khan Naushabah Khan Stephen Kinnock Jayne Kirkham Gen Kitchen Sonia Kumar Peter Kyle Laura Kyrke - Smith Ian Lavery Noah Law Kim Leadbeater Brian Leishman Emma Lewell - Buck Andrew Lewin Rebecca Long - Bailey Josh MacAlister Alice Macdonald Andy MacNae Justin Madders Seema Malhotra Amanda Martin Rachael Maskell Keir Mather Alex Mayer Siobhain McDonagh Andy McDonald Chris McDonald John Martin McDonnell Blair McDougall Lola McEvoy Alison McGovern Alex McIntyre Kevin McKenna Jim McMahon Anna McMorrin Frank McNally Anneliese Midgley Julie Minns Navendu Mishra Abtisam Mohamed Iqbal Mohamed Perran Moon Jessica Morden Grahame Morris Joe Morris Margaret Mullane Luke Murphy Ian Murray James Murray Luke Myer James Naish Connor Naismith Kanishka Narayan Pamela Nash Josh Newbury Samantha Niblett Charlotte Nichols Alex Norris Melanie Onn Simon Opher Abena Oppong - Asare Kate Osamor Kate Osborne Tristan Osborne Sarah Owen Darren Paffey Andrew Pakes Matthew Patrick Michael Payne Jonathan Pearce Matthew Pennycook Toby Perkins Jess Phillips David Pinto - Duschinsky Lee Pitcher Jo Platt Lucy Powell Gregor Poynton Peter Prinsley Richard Quigley Yasmin Qureshi Andrew Ranger Mike Reader Joani Reid Martin Rhodes Bell Ribeiro - Addy Jake Richards Jenny Riddell - Carpenter Marie Rimmer Dave Robertson Tim Roca Sam Rushworth Sarah Russell Tom Rutland Oliver Ryan Sarah Sackman Jeevun Sandher Michelle Scrogham Mark Sewards Naseem Shah Baggy Shanker Michael Shanks Tulip Siddiq Andrew Slaughter John Slinger Cat Smith David Smith Nick Smith Karin Smyth Euan Stainbank Kenneth Stevenson will Stone Graham Stringer Kirsteen Sullivan Lauren Sullivan Peter Swallow Mark Tami Mike Tapp David Taylor Rachel Taylor Fred Thomas Gareth Thomas Adam Thompson Marie Tidball Stephen Timms Jon Trickett Henry Tufnell Anna Turley Matt Turmaine Karl Turner Laurence Turner Liz Twist Harpreet Uppal Tony Vaughan Valerie Vaz Christopher Vince Christian Wakeford Chris Ward Paul Waugh Michelle Welsh Andrew Western Matt Western Michael Wheeler John Whitby Katie White Steve Witherden Sean Woodcock Rosie Wrighting Mohammad Yasin Steve Yemm Daniel Zeichner Gerald Jones Kate Dearden Gideon Amos Steffan Aquarone Josh Babarinde Apsana Begum Si â n Berry Kirsty Blackman Alex Brewer Jessica Brown - Fuller Charlotte Cane Alistair Carmichael David Chadwick Wendy Chamberlain Danny Chambers Ellie Chowns Chris Coghlan Victoria Collins Daisy Cooper Adam Dance Ann Davies Dave Doogan Sarah Dyke will Forster Z ö e Franklin Stephen Gethins Sarah Gibson Olly Glover Marie Goldman Tom Gordon Sarah Green Monica Harding Pippa Heylings Adnan Hussain Christine Jardine Liz Jarvis Paul Kohler Ben Lake James MacCleary Ben Maguire Helen Maguire Mike Martin Brian Mathew Charlie Maynard Llinos Medi Freddie Van Mierlo Calum Miller John Milne Layla Moran Edward Morello Helen Morgan Susan Murray Brendan O ' Hara Manuela Perteghella Ian Roome Anna Sabine Roz Savage Liz Saville - Roberts Vikki Slade Lisa Smart Ian Sollom Zarah Sultana Luke Taylor Caroline Voaden Max Wilkinson Pete Wishart Martin Wrigley Claire Young Bobby Dean Tom Morrison the House divide : Ayes 304 , Noes 68 . question accordingly agree to . before Clause 138 - Requirement to make provision in relation to transparency of business datum use in relation to AI model Motion make , and question put , that this House disagree with the Lords in their Amendment 49b . — ( Chris Bryant . ) diane Abbott Jack Abbott Debbie Abrahams Zubir Ahmed Luke Akehurst Sadik Al - Hassan Rushanara Ali Tahir Ali Callum Anderson Scott Arthur Jessica Asato James Asser Jas Athwal Catherine Atkinson Lewis Atkinson Calvin Bailey Alex Baker Richard Baker Antonia Bance Paula Barker Alex Barros - Curtis Johanna Baxter Danny Beales Lorraine Beavers Clive Betts Olivia Blake Rachel Blake Christopher Bloore Jade Botterill Sureena Brackenridge Jonathan Brash Chris Bryant Richard Burgon Maureen Burke David Burton - Sampson Ian Byrne Liam Byrne Ruth Cadbury Nesil Caliskan Alan Campbell Irene Campbell Juliet Campbell Markus Campbell - Savours Dan Carden Sam Carling Sarah Champion Bambos Charalambous Luke Charters Feryal Clark Ben Coleman Jacob Collier Lizzi Collinge Tom Collins Liam Conlon Sarah coombe Andrew Cooper Beccy Cooper Deirdre Costigan Pam Cox Jennifer Craft Mary Creagh Torcuil Crichton Chris Curtis Nicholas Dakin Ashley Dalton Emily Darlington Jonathan Davies Paul Davies Shaun Davies Alex Davies - Jones Josh Dean Tan Dhesi Jim Dickson Anna Dixon Samantha Dixon Helena Dollimore Stephen Doughty Peter Dowd Graeme Downie Neil Duncan - Jordan Angela Eagle Maria Eagle Cat Eccles Lauren Edwards Sarah Edwards Damien Egan Maya Ellis Chris Elmore Kirith Entwistle Florence Eshalomi Bill Esterson Chris Evans Hamish Falconer Linsey Farnsworth Josh Fenton - Glynn Mark Ferguson Patricia Ferguson Natalie Fleet Emma Foody Catherine Fookes Vicky Foxcroft Mary Foy Daniel Francis James Frith Gill Furniss Anna Gelderd Alan Gemmell Gill german Becky Gittins Mary Glindon Ben Goldsborough Jodie Gosling Georgia Gould John Grady Lilian Greenwood Nia Griffith Andrew Gwynne Amanda Hack Louise Haigh Sarah Hall Paulette Hamilton Carolyn Harris Lloyd Hatton Tom Hayes Claire Hazelgrove Mark Hendrick Meg Hillier Chris Hinchliff Sharon Hodgson Rachel Hopkins Claire Hughes rupa Huq Patrick Hurley Imran Hussain Natasha Irons Sally Jameson Terry Jermy Kim Johnson Ruth Jones Gurinder Josan Sojan Joseph Warinder Juss Chris Kane Mike Kane Satvir Kaur Afzal Khan Naushabah Khan Stephen Kinnock Jayne Kirkham Gen Kitchen Sonia Kumar Uma Kumaran Peter Kyle Laura Kyrke - Smith Peter Lamb Ian Lavery Noah Law Kim Leadbeater Brian Leishman Emma Lewell - Buck Andrew Lewin Rebecca Long - Bailey Josh MacAlister Alice Macdonald Andy MacNae Justin Madders Seema Malhotra Amanda Martin Rachael Maskell Keir Mather Alex Mayer Siobhain McDonagh Andy McDonald Chris McDonald John Martin McDonnell Blair McDougall Lola McEvoy Alison McGovern Alex McIntyre Kevin McKenna Jim McMahon Anna McMorrin Frank McNally Anneliese Midgley Julie Minns Navendu Mishra Abtisam Mohamed Perran Moon Jessica Morden Grahame Morris Joe Morris Margaret Mullane Luke Murphy Ian Murray James Murray Luke Myer James Naish Connor Naismith Pamela Nash Josh Newbury Charlotte Nichols Alex Norris Melanie Onn Abena Oppong - Asare Kate Osamor Kate Osborne Tristan Osborne Sarah Owen Darren Paffey Andrew Pakes Matthew Patrick Michael Payne Jonathan Pearce Matthew Pennycook Toby Perkins Jess Phillips David Pinto - Duschinsky Lee Pitcher Jo Platt Lucy Powell Gregor Poynton Peter Prinsley Richard Quigley Yasmin Qureshi Andrew Ranger Mike Reader Joani Reid Martin Rhodes Bell Ribeiro - Addy Jake Richards Jenny Riddell - Carpenter Marie Rimmer Dave Robertson Tim Roca Sam Rushworth Sarah Russell Tom Rutland Oliver Ryan Sarah Sackman Jeevun Sandher Michelle Scrogham Mark Sewards Naseem Shah Baggy Shanker Michael Shanks Tulip Siddiq Andrew Slaughter John Slinger Cat Smith David Smith Nick Smith Karin Smyth Euan Stainbank Kenneth Stevenson will Stone Graham Stringer Kirsteen Sullivan Lauren Sullivan Peter Swallow Mark Tami Mike Tapp David Taylor Rachel Taylor Fred Thomas Gareth Thomas Adam Thompson Marie Tidball Stephen Timms Jon Trickett Henry Tufnell Anna Turley Matt Turmaine Karl Turner Laurence Turner Liz Twist Harpreet Uppal Tony Vaughan Valerie Vaz Christopher Vince Christian Wakeford Chris Ward Paul Waugh Michelle Welsh Andrew Western Matt Western Michael Wheeler John Whitby Katie White Steve Witherden Sean Woodcock Rosie Wrighting Mohammad Yasin Steve Yemm Daniel Zeichner Kate Dearden Gerald Jones Gideon Amos Lee Anderson Stuart Andrew Steffan Aquarone Edward Argar Victoria Atkins Josh Babarinde Gareth Bacon Harriett Baldwin Steve Barclay Apsana Begum Si â n Berry Bob Blackman Kirsty Blackman Andrew Bowie Karen Bradley Aphra Brandreth Alex Brewer Jessica Brown - Fuller Alex Burghart Charlotte Cane Alistair Carmichael James Cartlidge David Chadwick Wendy Chamberlain Danny Chambers Christopher Chope Ellie chown James Cleverly Geoffrey Clifton - Brown Chris Coghlan Victoria Collins Daisy Cooper John Cooper Alberto Costa Claire Coutinho Geoffrey Cox Harriet Cross Adam Dance Ann davy Gareth davy Mims davy Carla Denyer Caroline Dinenage Dave Doogan Rosie Duffield Iain Duncan Smith Sarah Dyke Luke Evans Nigel Farage will Forster Peter Fortune Ashley Fox Z ö e Franklin George Freeman Louie French Mark Garnier Stephen Gethins Sarah Gibson John Glen Olly Glover Marie Goldman Tom Gordon Helen Grant Sarah Green Alison Griffiths Monica Harding Rebecca Harris John Hayes Pippa Heylings Damian Hinds Simon Hoare Richard Holden Kevin Hollinrake Paul Holmes Nigel Huddleston Neil Hudson Jeremy Hunt Adnan Hussain Christine Jardine Liz Jarvis Bernard Jenkin Robert Jenrick Dr Caroline Johnson Lincoln Jopp Alicia Kearns Ayoub Khan Paul Kohler Danny Kruger Ben Lake Katie Lam John Lamont Edward Leigh Julian Lewis Julia Lopez James MacCleary Ben Maguire Helen Maguire Alan Mak Kit Malthouse Mike Martin Brian Mathew Jerome Mayhew Charlie Maynard James McMurdock Esther McVey Llinos Medi Freddie Van Mierlo Calum Miller John Milne Iqbal Mohamed Gagan Mohindra Robbie Moore Layla Moran Helen Morgan Joy Morrissey Wendy Morton Kieran Mullan Tessa Munt Susan Murray Andrew Murrison Jesse Norman Ben Obese - Jecty Brendan O ' Hara Rebecca Paul Manuela Perteghella Sarah Pochin Mark Pritchard Shivani Raja Jack Rankin David Reed Joe Robertson Ian Roome Andrew Rosindell Anna Sabine Liz Saville - Roberts Jim Shannon Neil Shastri - Hurst David Simmonds Vikki Slade Lisa Smart Greg Smith Julian Smith Rebecca Smith Andrew Snowden Ian Sollom Ben Spencer Gregory Stafford Mel Stride Graham Stuart Zarah Sultana Desmond Swayne Luke Taylor Bradley Thomas Richard Tice Nick Timothy Laura Trott Thomas Tugendhat Martin Vickers Matt Vickers Caroline Voaden James Wild Max Wilkinson Gavin Williamson Pete Wishart Mike Wood Martin Wrigley Claire Young Bobby Dean Tom Morrison the House divide : Ayes 297 , Noes 168 . question accordingly agree to . More than two hour have elapse since the commencement of proceeding on the Lords message , the proceeding be interrupt ( Programme Order , this day ) . the Deputy Speaker put forthwith the Questions necessary for the disposal of the business to be conclude at that time ( Standing Order no . 83 g ) . clause 140 - Data Dictionary Motion make , and question put , that this House insist on Commons Amendment 52 to which the Lords have disagree and disagree with the Lords in their amendment 52b and 52C propose to the word restore to the Bill by the Lords disagreement . — ( Chris Bryant . ) diane Abbott Jack Abbott Debbie Abrahams Zubir Ahmed Luke Akehurst Sadik Al - Hassan Rushanara Ali Tahir Ali Gideon Amos Callum Anderson Steffan Aquarone Scott Arthur Jessica Asato James Asser Jas Athwal Catherine Atkinson Lewis Atkinson Josh Babarinde Calvin Bailey Alex Baker Richard Baker Antonia Bance Paula Barker Alex Barros - Curtis Johanna Baxter Danny Beales Lorraine Beavers Apsana Begum Si â n Berry Clive Betts Polly Billington Kirsty Blackman Olivia Blake Rachel Blake Christopher Bloore Jade Botterill Sureena Brackenridge Jonathan Brash Alex Brewer Jessica Brown - Fuller Chris Bryant Julia Buckley Richard Burgon Maureen Burke David Burton - Sampson Ian Byrne Liam Byrne Ruth Cadbury Nesil Caliskan Alan Campbell Irene Campbell Juliet Campbell Markus Campbell - Savours Charlotte Cane Dan Carden Sam Carling Alistair Carmichael David Chadwick Wendy Chamberlain Danny Chambers Sarah Champion Bambos Charalambous Luke Charters Ellie chown Feryal Clark Chris Coghlan Ben Coleman Jacob Collier Lizzi Collinge Tom Collins Victoria Collins Liam Conlon Sarah coombe Andrew Cooper Beccy Cooper Daisy Cooper Deirdre Costigan Pam Cox Jennifer Craft Mary Creagh Stella Creasy Torcuil Crichton Chris Curtis Nicholas Dakin Ashley Dalton Adam Dance Emily Darlington Ann Davies Jonathan Davies Paul Davies Shaun Davies Alex Davies - Jones Bobby Dean Josh Dean Carla Denyer Tan Dhesi Jim Dickson Anna Dixon Samantha Dixon Helena Dollimore Dave Doogan Stephen Doughty Peter Dowd Graeme Downie Neil Duncan - Jordan Sarah Dyke Angela Eagle Maria Eagle Cat Eccles Lauren Edwards Sarah Edwards Damien Egan Maya Ellis Chris Elmore Kirith Entwistle Florence Eshalomi Bill Esterson Chris Evans Miatta Fahnbulleh Hamish Falconer Linsey Farnsworth Josh Fenton - Glynn Mark Ferguson Patricia Ferguson Natalie Fleet Emma Foody Catherine Fookes will Forster Vicky Foxcroft Daniel Francis Z ö e Franklin James Frith Gill Furniss Anna Gelderd Alan Gemmell Gill german Stephen Gethins Sarah Gibson Becky Gittins Mary Glindon Olly Glover Marie Goldman Ben Goldsborough Tom Gordon Jodie Gosling Georgia Gould John Grady Sarah Green Lilian Greenwood Nia Griffith Andrew Gwynne Amanda Hack Sarah Hall Paulette Hamilton Monica Harding Carolyn Harris Lloyd Hatton Tom Hayes Claire Hazelgrove Mark Hendrick Pippa heyling Meg Hillier Chris Hinchliff Sharon Hodgson Rachel Hopkins Claire Hughes rupa Huq Patrick Hurley Imran Hussain Natasha Irons Sally Jameson Christine Jardine Liz Jarvis Terry Jermy Kim Johnson Ruth Jones Gurinder Josan Sojan Joseph Warinder Juss Chris Kane Mike Kane Satvir Kaur Afzal Khan Naushabah Khan Stephen Kinnock Jayne Kirkham Gen Kitchen Sonia Kumar Uma Kumaran Peter Kyle Laura Kyrke - Smith Ben Lake Peter Lamb Ian Lavery Noah Law Kim Leadbeater Brian Leishman Emma Lewell - Buck Andrew Lewin Simon Lightwood Rebecca Long - Bailey Josh MacAlister James MacCleary Alice Macdonald Andy MacNae Justin Madders Ben Maguire Seema Malhotra Amanda Martin Mike Martin Rachael Maskell Keir Mather Alex Mayer Charlie Maynard Siobhain McDonagh Andy McDonald Chris McDonald John Martin McDonnell Blair McDougall Lola McEvoy Alison McGovern Alex McIntyre Kevin McKenna Jim McMahon Anna McMorrin Frank McNally Llinos Medi Freddie Van Mierlo Calum Miller John Milne Julie Minns Navendu Mishra Abtisam Mohamed Perran Moon Layla Moran Jessica Morden Helen Morgan Grahame Morris Joe Morris Tom Morrison Margaret Mullane Tessa Munt Luke Murphy Ian Murray James Murray Susan Murray Luke Myer James Naish Connor Naismith Kanishka Narayan Pamela Nash Josh Newbury Samantha Niblett Charlotte Nichols Alex Norris Brendan O ' Hara Melanie onn Simon Opher Abena Oppong - Asare Kate Osamor Kate Osborne Tristan Osborne Sarah Owen Darren Paffey Andrew Pakes Matthew Patrick Michael Payne Jonathan Pearce Matthew Pennycook Toby Perkins Manuela Perteghella Jess Phillips David Pinto - Duschinsky Lee Pitcher Jo Platt Lucy Powell Gregor Poynton Peter Prinsley Richard Quigley Yasmin Qureshi Andrew Ranger Mike Reader Joani Reid Martin Rhodes Bell Ribeiro - Addy Jake Richards Jenny Riddell - Carpenter Marie Rimmer Dave Robertson Tim Roca Ian Roome Sam Rushworth Sarah Russell Tom Rutland Oliver Ryan Anna Sabine Sarah Sackman Jeevun Sandher Michelle Scrogham Mark Sewards Naseem Shah Baggy Shanker Michael Shanks Tulip Siddiq Vikki Slade Andrew Slaughter John Slinger Lisa Smart Cat Smith David Smith Nick Smith Karin Smyth Ian Sollom Euan Stainbank Kenneth Stevenson will Stone Graham Stringer Kirsteen Sullivan Lauren Sullivan Zarah Sultana Peter Swallow Mark Tami Mike Tapp David Taylor Luke Taylor Rachel Taylor Fred Thomas Gareth Thomas Adam Thompson Stephen Timms Jon Trickett Henry Tufnell Anna Turley Matt Turmaine Karl Turner Laurence Turner Liz Twist Harpreet Uppal Tony Vaughan Valerie Vaz Christopher Vince Caroline Voaden Christian Wakeford Chris Ward Paul Waugh Michelle Welsh Andrew Western Matt Western Michael Wheeler John Whitby Katie White Max Wilkinson Pete Wishart Steve Witherden Sean Woodcock Rosie wrighte Martin Wrigley Mohammad Yasin Steve Yemm Claire Young Daniel Zeichner Kate Dearden Gerald Jones Lee Anderson Stuart Andrew Edward Argar Victoria Atkins Gareth Bacon Harriett Baldwin Steve Barclay Bob Blackman Andrew Bowie Karen Bradley Aphra Brandreth Alex Burghart James Cartlidge James Cleverly Geoffrey Clifton - Brown John Cooper Alberto Costa Claire Coutinho Geoffrey Cox Harriet Cross mim davy Caroline Dinenage Rosie Duffield Iain Duncan Smith Luke Evans Nigel Farage Peter Fortune Ashley Fox George Freeman Louie French Mark Garnier John Glen Helen Grant Alison Griffiths Rebecca Harris John Hayes Damian Hinds Simon Hoare Kevin Hollinrake Paul Holmes Nigel Huddleston Neil Hudson Jeremy Hunt Bernard Jenkin Robert Jenrick Dr Caroline Johnson Lincoln Jopp Alicia Kearns Danny Kruger John Lamont Edward Leigh Julian Lewis Julia Lopez Alan Mak Kit Malthouse Jerome Mayhew James McMurdock Esther McVey Gagan Mohindra Robbie Moore Joy Morrissey Wendy Morton Kieran Mullan David Mundell Andrew Murrison Jesse Norman Ben Obese - Jecty Rebecca Paul Sarah Pochin Mark Pritchard Shivani Raja Jack Rankin David Reed Joe Robertson Andrew Rosindell Jim Shannon Neil Shastri - Hurst David Simmonds Greg Smith Julian Smith Rebecca Smith Andrew Snowden Ben Spencer Gregory Stafford Mel Stride Graham Stuart Desmond Swayne Bradley Thomas Richard Tice Nick Timothy Laura Trott Thomas Tugendhat Martin Vickers Matt Vickers James Wild Gavin Williamson Mike Wood Katie Lam Richard Holden the House divide : Ayes 366 , Noes 98 . question accordingly agree to . clause 141 - create or solicit the creation of purport intimate image of adult Resolved , that this House do not insist on Commons Amendment 55 to which the Lords have disagree and agree with the Lords in their amendment 55d and 55e propose in lieu of Commons Amendment 55 . — ( Chris Bryant . ) resolve , that this House agree with the Lords in their Amendment 56b . — ( Chris Bryant . ) Motion make , and question put forthwith ( Standing Order No . 83H ( 2 ) ) , that a Committee be appoint to draw up reason to be assign to the Lords for insist on Commons Amendment 32 , disagree with the Lords in their amendment 32b and 32c , disagree with the Lords in their Amendments 43B and 49b , insist on Commons Amendment 52 and disagree with the Lords in their amendment 52b and 52C . that Chris Bryant , Anna Turley , Callum Anderson , Rachel Hopkins , Katie White , Dr Ben Spencer and Victoria Collins be member of the Committee ; that Chris Bryant be the Chair of the Committee . that three be the quorum of the Committee . that the Committee do withdraw immediately . — ( Keir Mather . ) question agree to . committee to withdraw immediately ; reason to be report and communicate to the Lords . sanction I beg to move , that the Russia ( Sanctions ) ( EU Exit ) ( Amendment ) Regulations 2025 ( SI , 2025 , no . 504 ) , date 22 April 2025 , a copy of which be lay before this House on 23 April , be approve . this instrument amend the Russia ( Sanctions ) ( EU Exit ) Regulations 2019 . it be lay before Parliament on 23 April under power in the Sanctions and Anti - Money Laundering Act 2018 , and the measure in the regulation , which subject to the affirmative procedure , enter into force on 24 April . sanction be a powerful tool in our armoury . they play an important part in promote peace and security abroad , uphold international norm and rule , and protect our citizen at home . since come into power , this Government have ramp up action with our partner , and that include lead the way on target Russia ' s revenue , bear down on its military industrial complex , and deter and disrupt Iran ' s support for Russia . just last Friday , the Prime Minister announce a major package of sanction to target the decrepit and dangerous shadow fleet carry russian oil . it be the large package of sanction against the shadow fleet , with 110 target . accord to some estimate , sanction have cripple 200 ship , almost half of Putin ' s dedicated fleet . the Government ' s support for Ukraine remain steadfast . our total support for Ukraine now stand at £ 18 billion , include £ 3 billion a year of military aid and our £ 2 . 26 billion contribution to the G7 extraordinary revenue acceleration loan scheme . first , I commend the Minister on bring the measure forward . I do not think there be anybody in this House who would not be encourage by what the Minister and Government be do in bring in the sanction . the one thing that always concern everybody — the Minister know this — be the £ 22 . 7 billion of frozen russian asset . we all wish to know whether the Government can pursue those asset with a vengeance and an evangelical zest . that would be a well z than any other . if we put a squeeze on the frozen russian asset , we can use they for the benefit of Ukraine , and strengthen everyone who support Ukraine . I thank the hon . Gentleman again for his steadfast support for Ukraine , and for raise this important issue . as I say , we have already ensure that important resource get to Ukraine . thank to the speedy passage of measure through this House , and support from all part of the House , we make sure that happen , and it be make a tangible difference . two third of the ERA loan scheme funding that I mention have be disburse and be immediately support Ukraine in obtain vital military equipment . he rightly ask about frozen russian sovereign asset more widely . as the Foreign Secretary say yesterday , we be work apace with international partner to look at all lawful mean of ensure that Russia pay for the horrific damage and destruction that it have do in Ukraine . I can assure the hon . gentleman on that point . we will of course come back to the House in due course to update member . the Minister refer to the attempt to cripple the ghost ship and fleet . do that have any effect on the shipment of oil to third party , such as India , that refine the oil and then sell it on to country that , like we , be try to sanction Russia directly ? the right hon . Gentleman ask an important question . we take up all possible avenue of limit Putin ' s war machine and the energy revenue that go towards it . we keep all option under consideration , and we look at they carefully . as he know , I will not comment on any future action or designation for obvious reason , but I can tell he that this action on the shadow fleet have have a significant real - time impact on Putin ' s ability to wage war . I have give this figure on a number of occasion , but our sanction programme overall have deny Russia $ 450 billion , which would have be enough to keep this war go for many more year . the action have have a tangible impact . action take under the last government , and the action take by this Government , which have be accelerate , be have a real impact on Putin ' s war machine . again , I thank the right hon . gentleman for his consistent support for Ukraine , and his support for these measure . we be absolutely committed to secure a just and last peace in Ukraine . maximise economic pressure on Russia be key to that , which be why we be continue to introduce sanction . we have now sanction more than 2 , 400 entity and individual under the Russia regime . UK sanction have also frustrate russian trade : russian import to the UK have fall by more than 98 % since the invasion , and UK export to Russia be down by more than 80 % . we will maintain the relentless pressure on Putin , alongside our ally , to force he to the table and ensure that he engage seriously in negotiation . we reiterate our call on Russia to accept a full , unconditional ceasefire in Ukraine in order to create the space for talk on a just and last peace , and we commend President Zelensky for make his own commitment to peace by express his openness to engage in direct talk with Putin . on Monday , the Foreign Secretary host Foreign Ministers from the Weimar + group of key european ally to discuss our joint effort to strengthen european security and secure a just and last peace in Ukraine . the House can be assure that these conversation form part of all our engagement with partner and ally across the world ; indeed , I have such conversation today . now be the time for Putin to come to the table , and for Russia to show that it be serious about end this war or else face the consequence . the UK stand ready to ratchet up the pressure on Russia , so that it end its brutal war of aggression . as I have say , we will continue to explore all measure through which we can ratchet up economic pressure . the statutory instrument allow we to go even far in our effort to target Russia ' s revenue stream and prevent the Kremlin build its military and industrial capability . it introduce a package of more than 150 new trade sanction , include new , innovative measure that will prevent UK expertise from be use in Russia ' s defence and energy sector . it will deny Russia sophisticated UK technology and software , and will expand our prohibition , with the aim of far constrain Russia ' s economic growth and ability to fuel its war machine . let I deal with each of the measure in the instrument . first , it introduce new export prohibition that apply to a wide range of good , include chemical , plastic , metal , machinery and electronic . these prohibition will deny Russia the mean of procure product that have military and industrial use . secondly , we be extend our prohibition on the transfer of technology , apply they to a broad set of technology relate to good that be important for Russia ' s military - industrial sector , and for its economic development . through these measure , we be remove UK expertise — whether in intellectual property , blueprint or industrial know - how — from Putin ' s critical supply chain . thirdly , the instrument will ban the transfer of software relate to business enterprise , industrial design , and oil and gas exploration and production . as have be say , Putin rely on energy production and export to fuel his war economy , so the aim of these sanction be to make key sector of the russian economy less productive and therefore less able to fuel this illegal and barbarous war against Ukraine . fourthly , we be ban the import of russian synthetic diamond that have be process in third country , and helium . this target future funding source that Russia be develop , as well as potential circumvention route . finally , the instrument clarify the enforcement responsibility for a small number of trade sanction on Russia . this will enable the office of trade sanction implementation in the Department for Business and Trade to enforce certain trade sanction offence , and to refer serious offence to his Majesty ' s Revenue and Customs for criminal enforcement consideration . this Government remain committed to european security , and to our steadfast support for Ukraine . we be commit to stand up for the value of democracy and the rule of law , value that continue to be attack so brutally by Russia . sanction , include this important package , be a key part of our effort , and I commend the regulation to the House . I call the shadow Minister . we on the Opposition Benches support this statutory instrument and all measure that bear down on Putin ' s regime and undermine his ability to prosecute the barbaric , illegal invasion of Ukraine . we support the further measure on technology transfer and software , and on diamond and chemical , and the other measure to tighten the import and export regime . of course , all of those be build on the critical mass of sanction introduce by the Conservative Government . work with ally , we impose the large and most severe set of sanction that Russia have ever see , in order to cripple Putin ' s war machine . we sanction around 2 , 000 individual , company and group . all of we should be in no doubt that the economic pressure that we and our ally have be exert mean that Russia can not afford to sustain the cost of this illegal invasion . indeed , russian interest rate be at level not see for decade , and welfare payment be be cut . the international community ' s sanction have deprive Putin of $ 400 billion since February 2022 — money that Russia could otherwise have spend on the war in Ukraine . on that note , I want to push the Government on four point , because we must strive ceaselessly to constrain Putin ' s war machine and never see our action as an end state . first , we recognise that some measure in today ' s SI will deal with specific issue relate to third country , but can the Minister confirm whether his Department be currently look into wide secondary sanction ? if so , what be the scope ? what kind of diplomatic engagement be he have with country whose economy be be use to circumnavigate the international sanction response , and what measure be he consider on the big - ticket issue that be well understand in this House ? secondly , when be the Minister ' s internal deadline for get the proceed from the sale of Chelsea football club out the door , and how exactly do he envisage the money be spend ? can he update we on the Foreign Secretary ' s engagement with the trustee , the Government of Portugal and the European Commission on this issue ? we need to act with urgency , because we be talk about more than £ 2 billion . it go without say that this money could be a huge boost to the humanitarian effort support those affect by the invasion . thirdly , can the Minister explain why the £ 2 . 26 billion loan to Ukraine , back by the profit of sanctioned russian asset , will be pay by the Treasury over three year rather than in one immediate instalment , especially give that it be earmark for military equipment ? can he confirm , with a simple yes or no , whether work be actively ongoing in the FCDO and the Treasury to find additional legal solution to allow for the mobilisation of sanctioned asset ? finally , there have be much commentary in recent week about initiative to secure peace , but we urge the government — in the strong term — to leverage Britain ' s influence in every way that they can to help ensure that peace be secure on Ukraine ' s term . as have be the case from the outset , it remain ultimately for Ukraine , as a proud and sovereign nation that have sacrifice so much to defend itself and the fundamental freedom that we all hold dear , to decide its own future . of course , we want this terrible war to be bring to an end . like President Zelensky , we hope for a last , reliable peace , but the Euro - Atlantic community must continue to be robust in the face of Putin ' s aggression . the lesson of the past 20 year be clear : he only come back for more . today we have the add threat that the axis of authoritarian state be collaborate to wreak destruction on our continent , with Iran provide weapon and North Korea provide troop to support Putin . we even understand that a number of chinese civilian be support Russia ' s campaign . the stake could not be high , but there remain nothing inevitable about a victory for Russia , which think it could capture Kyiv and subjugate Ukraine within day . three year on , the cost to Russia have be enormous and unsustainable . we acknowledge that the UK Government be now proactively seek to end the war through negotiation and that this take UK policy on Ukraine in a new direction , but we must also remember that we and our NATO ally have a collective gdp that be 20 time great than Russia ' s , and a collective defence inventory that be many time large than Putin ' s . the Ukrainians be fight valiantly , and we must ensure that they have the capability they need in their hand and the diplomatic support they require . the Government need to bring ally with we in support Ukraine to achieve a just and fair peace on its term . I call the liberal Democrat spokesperson . I congratulate the Minister and the Government on their work to date on sanction Russia . the UK must continue to stand shoulder to shoulder with our ally and the brave ukrainian people in resist Putin ' s aggression . the support for Ukraine across this House send a really strong message to the Kremlin , so we welcome this late statutory instrument , which rightly tighten the screw on Russia ' s ability to wage its illegal war . these amendment expand our sanction regime in three important way . first , by extend export ban on a wide range of product — chemical , electronic , plastic , metal and machinery — we be far disrupt the industrial base that fuel Putin ' s war machine . secondly , by ban the transfer of associate software and technical knowledge , include cloud - base solution , we will prevent the back - door flow of intellectual capital into the Kremlin ' s hand . thirdly , by introduce import ban on russian synthetic diamond and helium product , even when process in third country , we will cut off future revenue stream to help fund this war . these measure respond to the real - world attempt by Russia to sidestep sanction by use complex supply chain and third - country network . they align the UK with our ally — the EU , the United States and the G7 — make our collective response far more powerful than go it alone . however , while I support these measure , I hope that Ministers will consider go far . if the Government be serious about hold Putin to account , sanction must be not only enforce but escalate . the Liberal Democrats have be say this for month : the UK should begin the seizure , not just the freezing , of russian state asset . I be grateful to my hon . friend for what he be lay out , and I absolutely agree with he that the support for these measure across this House be really powerful . I be most recently in Kyiv two week ago , and the look on the face of the people subject to war crime by the russian army will stay with I for a very long time . that underline to I the importance of UK effort to support they , and I completely agree with his point about move from freeze to seize russian asset . the Minister today and the Foreign Secretary early this week talk about work on a multilateral basis . do my hon . friend agree that if such an agreement can not be find , we should consider move on a unilateral basis in a leadership role for the United Kingdom ? I absolutely agree with my hon . friend . there be an estimate £ 22 billion in frozen asset from russian central bank reserve hold and lock up in the UK at the moment . that money could and should be use to help rebuild Ukraine , provide humanitarian assistance and purchase the mat é riel that the Ukrainians need to defend themselves , and the UK should certainly be take a leadership role in seize those asset as soon as we can . the United States be already move in that direction , as be EU member state . the United Kingdom , as we have say , should be lead , not lag behind . we must also close the loophole that have allow russian oligarch to continue launder their dirty money in London . that mean properly resource the National Crime Agency , strengthen the economic crime legislation , and demand the use of Magnitsky sanction not just for individual but for their family member when wealth be transfer in an attempt to dodge accountability . as a member of the UK ' s parliamentary delegation to the Council of Europe , I strongly support the register that the Council of Europe have establish , on which the UK be take a lead role , to record the damage that Russia have do to Ukraine . I know that the Government be back that work , but I hope that Ministers will promote the register , which do not have a very high profile at the moment , to ensure that victim ' claim be properly document and Russia be hold meaningfully to account for its action . let we not forget that Putin ' s ambition do not end with Ukraine . he be actively work to destabilise other sovereign state , include Georgia , Moldova , Romania , Bosnia and Herzegovina , and other in a wide attempt to erode european stability and democratic resilience . let I be clear : the Liberal Democrats believe in the rule of law , the sovereignty of nation and the right of people to choose peace over tyranny , and Putin ' s war be a grotesque assault on all those principle . this legislation be a necessary step , but it must be the beginning , not the end , of our effort to hold Putin and the russian state to account . we support the motion , but we will keep push this government to be bold , fast and more determined in their support for Ukraine and its defence of the value we all hold dear . I thank all right hon . and hon . member who have contribute to this debate . the measure introduce by this statutory instrument show how the UK continue to use its power to apply further pressure on Putin , which , crucially , be to help secure an endure peace and show that we remain fully behind Ukraine . I really welcome the strong support there always be across this House , from almost everybody — I note that one party be absent again . we have strong support , and although we may have disagreement with the Official Opposition across the Dispatch Boxes , but on Ukraine there have be absolute unity . I be glad that that have continue , and I thank they for that , and indeed the Liberal Democrats and other party , too . on the regulation , do the Minister agree that work also need to be do on the shadow oil fleet , which be out there supply money and support to Putin ? the hon . Gentleman might have miss it early on , but I outline the significant work that we have do on that , include target hundred of vessel , which be have a real impact . I will come to that impact in a moment . the shadow Minister , the right hon . member for Aldridge - Brownhills ( Wendy Morton ) , ask a number of specific question . she ask about third - country circumvention and the measure we be take diplomatically — order . we must now take the motion relate to defer division . deferred DIVISIONS Motion make , and question put forthwith ( Standing Order No . 41a ( 3 ) ) , that , at this day ' s sit , Standing Order No . 41a ( defer division ) shall not apply to the Motionin the name of Stephen Doughty relate to Sanctions . — ( Kate Dearden . ) question agree to . thank you , Madam Deputy Speaker . I have forget about that particular procedural aspect of talk past 7 o ' clock . thank you for give I the eye to remind I that that be come ; I appreciate it . as I be say , on third - country circumvention , the shadow Minister ask I what measure we be take . I can assure she and the House that this have be an extremely high priority for I and the Foreign Secretary . I regularly raise issue and we have a number of country that we be particularly focus on . we have the common high priority list of item that be of most value to Russia ' s military industrial complex . I assure she that we have also take robust action against entity and individual who have be involve in those matter . we have set out a number of those measure in past sanction package . I raise they on an almost weekly basis to try to bear down on that . the right hon . Lady ask about the proceed from Chelsea football club . we be determined for the proceed to reach humanitarian cause in Ukraine as soon as possible , and we be do everything we can to bring that about quickly . the shadow Minister will understand that this be a complex legal issue , but we be work with our international partner . we have engage with Abramovich ' s team and we be explore all option to ensure that the proceed reach vulnerable people in Ukraine who be most in need . the right hon . Lady ask about the tranche of the ERA funding . I can assure she that two of the tranche , over two third of that funding , be already out the door . I speak to Ukrainian Ministers about that and its availability , and they confirm that they have access to it . she ask a detailed question about why it be be do in three tranche . I have just write to the shadow Foreign Secretary to set that out in more detail . we can make sure that she get a copy of that letter . there be technical and other reason for that , but we be ensure that Ukraine get what it need right now , and be able to plan and deliver in its own defence . the right hon . Lady ask , as other do — it be raise by the Liberal Democrat spokesperson , the hon . member for Lewes ( James MacCleary ) — about russian sovereign asset . I repeat what I say to my friend the hon . member for Strangford ( Jim Shannon ) , which be that we be work at pace on that with other . we be explore all lawful option to ensure that Russia pay . we have be lead ; we have not be lag . indeed , the ERA loan be very much a testament to our leadership on this issue and I can assure the Liberal Democrat spokesperson that we be engage very closely with international partner on that , as the Foreign Secretary say yesterday . the right hon . member for Aldridge - Brownhills ( Wendy Morton ) rightly talk about the importance of continued and absolute support for Ukraine . I can assure she that that be the case , particularly at this time . the leadership show by President Zelensky , President Trump and other in seek an unconditional ceasefire and a just and last peace be crucial . we will continue to work with they on that and we will continue to support Ukraine in its endeavour . she rightly draw attention to the activity of other — North Korea , Iran and other — in support Russia ' s barbarous action . we have take action on many of those thing . the hon . member for Lewes raise a couple of other point . on enforcement , I hope to have more news imminently and to be able to update the House on those matter . I promise that we would undertake an important review on the enforcement of sanction across Government . it have be a crucial piece of work , which be rightly raise by many people . I hope we will have more to say on that very soon . I would also point he to the illicit finance and kleptocracy campaign lead by the Foreign Secretary and I . we be take a series of measure , work with Departments across Government , to ensure that London , our country and our wide british family be not use to support kleptocrat and those contrary to our national interest , or indeed Ukraine ' s interest in this specific case . the hon . Gentleman raise the important role of the Council of Europe . I completely agree with he . my ministerial colleague the noble Lord Collins be currently attend a meeting of the Council of Europe ' s Committee of Ministers . we have take important work there — not only on the register of loss and damage , but on crucial issue such as the special tribunal against russian aggression , as the Foreign Secretary speak about yesterday . there be , rightly , a number of question about the impact that these sanction be have . the impact be substantial : the russian Government have be force to take their first major tax hike in more than 20 year , and , follow a loss of $ 7 . 6 billion in 2023 — its first loss in 25 year — Gazprom , one of Putin ' s main source of income , lose $ 12 . 9 billion in 2024 . russian oil delivery now take significantly long due to sanction , show how they and the work on the shadow fleet have disrupt and impede russian trade . the Minister be speak of the way in which we be disrupt the russian regime , but could he say a few word about those who be resist the regime within Russia ? we often speak about pressure be put on Russia to stop Putin ' s aggression , but we sometimes forget about those within Russia who be put themselves at huge risk to resist the action of the russian President . will the Minister mention how we look to support those who bravely stand up and resist the regime within Russia ? the hon . Gentleman raise an important point . of course , our opposition here be to Putin ' s regime and what it be do in Ukraine . we do not have a quarrel with the russian people or with Russia ; our quarrel be with Putin ' s regime , what it be do and what he have bring his country to . it be hugely humble to meet a number of lead figure in the past few week , include Vladimir Kara - Murza , who be brutally imprison by Putin ' s regime , and Yulia Navalnaya , whose husband , Alexei Navalny , die in prison . we continue to call for the release of russian political prisoner ; their imprisonment be absolutely abhorrent . these measure be hugely important and be have an impact , and I welcome the unified support across the House for they . I commend these regulation to the House . question put and agree to . Speaker ' s Committee for the Independent Parliamentary Standards Authority Resolved , that , in pursuance of paragraph 2A of schedule 3 to the Parliamentary Standards Act 2009 , Mary Curnock Cook CBE be appoint as a lay member of the Speaker ' s Committee for the Independent Parliamentary Standards Authority for a period of five year from 2 June 2025 to 31 May 2030 . — ( Lucy Powell . ) Petition - Repairs to Marsh Lock Horsebridge for three year , the Marsh lock horsebridge in Henley have be close . the bridge connect Henley to Shiplake and be an integral part of the Thames path national trail . the petition I present today , which have more than 6 , 000 signatory and be start by nine - year - old Claudia Fennell , who be in the Gallery today , call for the bridge to be reopen . I welcome news from the Environment Agency that money have be identify to begin design work , but it be only partial funding , and the future be still uncertain . I take this opportunity to also put on the record my regret at the closure of event organiser Henley Swim due to the sewage crisis , and to express my concern about the pende strike action by lock keeper . the EA must be give the resource need to keep our river thrive economically and safe for all user . the petitioner therefore request that " the House of Commons urge the Government to take immediate action to encourage the Environment Agency to repair and reopen Marsh Lock Horsebridge . " follow be the full text of the petition : [ the petition of resident of the United Kingdom , declare that Marsh Lock Horsebridge should be repair and reopen ; note that an online petition on the issue be start by Claudia Fennell ; note the online petition on this issue have receive over 6 , 000 signature ; note the petition be support by the former Mayor and the Deputy Mayor of Henley ; further note that the bridge have be close since May 2022 ; note that the bridge be an important part of the constituency community and impact the mental and physical health of resident ; note that resident be currently unable to access the Thames path to Shiplake and numerous swimming spot ; and further note that local business reliant on the footfall from walker and river - goer have be badly affect . the petitioner therefore request that the House of Commons urge the Government to take immediate action to encourage the Environment Agency to repair and reopen Marsh Lock Horsebridge . and the petitioner remain , etc . ] [ p003067 ] petition - Permanent Post Office in Fakenham Fakenham be the large town in my constituency , and yet it have not have a permanent post office for more than five year . the town ' s high street bank be also close one after the other , leave no access to cash deposit for local business . this paper petition for a permanent post office for Fakenham , together with an online similar version , have collect 1 , 223 signature in order to resolve those problem . it declare that " resident of Fakenham and the surround village need access to a permanent Post Office to service the need of the community " , and ask that the chief executive and the Government work with the bank to provide a long - term solution for access to cash and postal service through a permanent post office in the heart of Fakenham . the petitioner therefore request that " the House of Commons urge the Government to take into account the concern of the petitioner and take immediate action to ensure that a permanent Post Office be deliver to serve the need of the Fakenham and the surround village . " follow be the full text of the petition : [ the petition of resident of the constituency of Broadland and Fakenham , declare that resident of Fakenham and the surround village need access to a permanent Post Office to service the need of our community ; ask that the Chief Executive and the Government listen to our voice and work with the bank to provide a long term solution to access to cash and postal service through a Post Office in the heart of our town ; and note that an online petition on the same issue have collect 1 , 223 signature . the petitioner therefore request that the House of Commons urge the Government to take into account the concern of the petitioner and take immediate action to ensure that a permanent Post Office be deliver to serve the need of the Fakenham and the surround village . and the petitioner remain , etc . ] [ P003068 ] plastic Recycling in Leamington : Environmental Impact Motion make , and question propose , that this House do now adjourn . — ( Kate Dearden . ) I will , if I may , start by encourage you , Madam Deputy Speaker , to imagine be in your own home and unable to eat with your family , unable to leave food for even a minute without your kitchen be swarm with fly , and unable to sleep in your own bed without fly land on your face . imagine fly everywhere , in every room of your house , in business premise , in pub , in restaurant and in takeaway , and vile odour permeate your life whether at home , walk the street or drive your car . that be the reality for hundred of family in one part my constituency . if that be not sufficiently real for those present , let I try to bring alive just how awful this be with the experience of one resident , who write to I say : " the day my son ask when mummy be go to stop the fly so he could eat his dinner without fly crawl into his mouth . . . be when I realise how terrible it have get . " imagine child be unable to eat without fly crawl into their mouth . at a time when so many voter feel disillusioned with politic , it be more important than ever that Government — national and local — as well as their agency address the everyday problem that impact on people ' s life . and the issue of fly and odour blight family and whole community be one such a problem . I estimate that as many as 10 , 000 — if not more — of my constituent in south Warwick , South Leamington and Whitnash be impact by this . they have face swarm of fly and foul odour for three year run . their house be infest with fly . they be unable to open their window for fear of swarm enter their home . they be unable to prepare food in their kitchen without the constant cleaning of their work surface to clean off the fly excrement , which also adhere to their wall . would any Member of this House be satisfied with their family live like that ? this be not just a minor inconvenience ; this be ruin people ' s life . People be get ill , and some resident be actually sell up . then there be the all - pervasive foul - smell odour . constituent describe the smell as be like " raw sewage " . they say it be " sulphuric " and " toxic " . many have tell I that the smell be " utterly unbearable " . I have smell it myself on many occasion . again , this be substantially harm people and their life . two constituent have tell I that their asthma have significantly worsen due to the smell , and , as a result , they have have to increase their medication . this be clearly a public health risk and it should be treat as such . I hope that I have spell out — albeit briefly — just how awful this be for my constituent , and it should not have be allow to continue for three month let alone three year . some may be think that this this sound not too dissimilar to the plague of fly in the Book of Exodus , but , no , God be not to blame for this . the resident be clear : they believe , and I agree with they , that the source of this problem be the Berry Circular Polymers recycle plant , locate less than 200 metre from a significant volume of local housing . let I be very clear : I be by no mean against recycling . we know that recycle plant have a crucial role to play in sustainability . the issue here be not recycle but how business be hold to account — and authority demand that they take seriously their commitment to their neighbour and their impact on the local environment . I commend the hon . gentleman for secure this debate on behalf of his constituent . I be almost flabbergast that the local council have not take action to address this issue . what have it do and what be it go to do to take away this enormous fly problem ? the Book of Exodus do talk about the plague of fly , but I know that the council have be blame for this one . I thank the hon . member — I will call he my hon . friend — for his intervention . the council do have a role , and I will come on to that in more depth . it have try to get involve and understand the nature of the problem , and to exercise certain power , but this be where national Government , particularly the Environment Agency , have a role to play , as I will discuss . the council really do not have the power that it need to tackle local environmental health , which be its responsibility . this be a case of desperately poor planning legislation — approve by the last Conservative Government and locally by a conservative council — with a new light industrial estate build off a road that be one of the main artery of south Leamington . the planning issue be not so much in the approval of the building of light industrial shed — we see they all over the place — but in the failure to realise that a commercial use of the site , such as for recycle food packaging , would have a significant impact on a residential area . no approval be give by the local planning committee for what the actual use of the site would be ; it be purely for the building of the shed . the local geography could not be bad . hundred of home be on this road and thousand be off it . to have allow a recycling plant that receive plastic cover in food waste on a daily basis to be build across the road from thousand of resident be absurd . the plant receive food and drink carton , which we all discard daily and put into our recycling bin , where they can often sit for a couple of week . then they be collect and take to central processing depot such as the one in my constituency . they be perfect environment for fly to breed in . it should not have take a situation like this to make issue with the planning system so clear , but should anyone be in any doubt about the scale of the problem , let I be categorical : I have have ream of complaint and evidence send to my office . there be a parallel between this site and the dreadful Walleys Quarry in Newcastle - under - Lyme , which many of we will have hear about over many year . last Friday evening I inform resident that I have secure this debate , and by Monday morning my office have receive over 100 complaint , with over 80 % blame the site that we believe to be the source of the problem : Berry Polymers . when I hold a public meeting , over 100 people attend , but hundred more want to be there . that show the strength of feeling on this issue and hopefully highlight to the Minister how badly it be affect people ' s life . to far understand the effect on people , I conduct a survey , ask on a scale of one to 10 how badly the fly and smell have impact people ' s live over the previous two year , with 10 be that it have completely impact they . the average response be eight out of 10 . to exemplify how awful the situation be for resident , I will read some particularly distressing quote . one resident say : " I have to have fly net over my foster baby ' cot and bouncer " . another say : " it be apocalyptic , the fly affect every minute of your day , from wake , to washing , prepare food , working , clean , try to sleep . " another say : " I ' ve have to come away from various activity around town include pay my respect in the local cemetery because of the smell . twice it ' s be so bad I ' ve vomit while drive my car along Heathcote Road , which could cause an accident " . I hope that highlight for the Minister and those listen the severity of the problem and the urgent need for action . for clarity , I reiterate that those complaint have come in only in the past three day . my constituent can not sleep . their child can not play outside . they can not eat without be swarm by fly and engulf in disgusting smell . to avoid any doubt over who the culprit be , I will bring to the Minister ' s attention some additional evidence . there be ten of household who say that the problem only begin after the plant open . one family have live there for 30 year before the plant open , and they never complain about a smell or fly , but now they say that it be unbearable . it be not only resident who be complain but former employee of the site . my office speak to one former employee , who will remain anonymous . they say : " condition be so poor nobody should have be work there . " they comment that when staff be walk around on site there be fly all over they , on their clothe , and bite they . staff be expect to spend their break in a room cover in fly , and any food they try to eat in there end up with fly all over it . I have see their evidence , and I have share it with the Environment Agency and the Government . I have be to the site and see the pile of thousand of fly lie around in the work area . that can not be right ; it be a health and safety issue for the people who have to work there . there be also fly fly around in the washroom of that business . I can not understand why it be still allow to operate . the employee be in no doubt about the cause . they say that " Berry be absolutely at fault and clearly the cause of the issue impact the community . " local resident , former employee and I all believe that the Berry Circular Polymers recycling plant be responsible for these issue . yet here we be , two year on , with no respite other than in the winter month , when the fly abate but the odour persist . we may ask , have the resident follow the correct complaint process and , likewise , have I ? absolutely . first , I have raise it many time with the Environment Agency on behalf of resident . I have repeatedly convey the severity of the situation and the horrific impact on people ' s life . after no success with the Environment Agency , I turn to the Minister under the last government . after month of correspondence , I finally secure a meeting with that Minister in May 2024 , but with the general election , it lead to nothing . follow the election , I have twice meet the new Minister , who I know fully understand the severity of the issue . the Minister swiftly set up a meeting with the Environment Agency to ensure the good available technique be be use . I appreciate the pace with which the Department work , but my constituent need answer now . they can not be keep wait . I again follow up with the Environment Agency just a few week ago in April , to which it reply that it have only receive two complaint . yet we have receive over a hundred in three day and hundred over the course of three year , and we hear from resident on an almost daily basis that the problem persist . the Environment Agency be ignore the complaint it have receive over the past couple of year . the resident be busy people who lead busy life ; they can not keep repeat the same complaint about the same company . they have be report these issue for year and have get nowhere , so they can be forgive for not want to spend time every day report into a system that they do not believe work for they . they be feed up , and rightly so . the Environment Agency have write to I to say that it " do substantiate a strong odour on site " , and that it be now " investigate this far and take appropriate step to ensure that they ( berry ) comply with all requirement to mitigate any potential impact on the local community " . by coincidence , the Environment Agency come back to I just yesterday — perhaps because I have an Adjournment debate tonight . I have be chase it for action on this issue for 18 month because my community and its resident ' life be blight by it . the EA have say it be happy to meet I and be in the process of set up a shiny new engagement website — but it miss the point . we have already meet on several occasion . in previous meeting , we agree on the need for officer on the ground to determine the origin of the fly and the source of the odour , and experience how awful the situation be . it now believe we on the source of the odour . where be we now ? it should not be up to resident to go around with fly swatter and fly trap , which be one of the suggestion , to prove to the Environment Agency how severe the problem be . we do not agree on the need for a new website , as that represent more time - waste and more faffe around while constituent go into a third summer , face horrendous condition at home , in their garden and on their street . the Minister may be new to this topic , but I have hear this all before and yet nothing have change . Berry Polymers have now declare that it will require advance notice of any unannounced visit by I for " health and safety reason " . previously , I visit the site and that visit be unannounced , so I do not understand it . why should I be prevent from try to hold business like that to account when they cause an environmental hazard to many hundred , if not thousand , of my constituent ? I take their health and safety concern very seriously , and if I smell foul smell and see swarm of fly blight my constituent ' live , I want to see action . I know that the Minister take the issue incredibly seriously . I must therefore insist that the Government now take action . under current legislation , the Secretary of State hold the power " to agree the Environment Agency ' s overall priority and objective " and " to allocate resource " accordingly . the Department have the capability to fix the issue . now be the time for action . what be I ask for ? I be call for an urgent review of the Environment Agency ' s initial decision ; an immediate unannounced visit to the site , as well as repeat visit , with a team of Environment Agency officer to test the odour and count the thousand of fly ; and a visit to neighbouring home to see what my resident have to cope with and to take their concern seriously . when the Environment Agency write to I in April , it say that it would take appropriate step after its previous visit , but what exactly have be do ? I would appreciate it if the Minister outline what the EA have do since the last visit to the site on 1 April . I would like to request an urgent meeting with the chief executive of the EA , because it have now get to that level , and I would like the Minister ' s support in secure such a meeting . a directive from the Minister and the Government to the EA be need to get it to act , and to act with authority . finally , if the Berry Polymers recycling plant be find to have breach regulation , it should be shut down as a matter of urgency . I be not against recycling — as I say , I be absolutely pro recycling — but I can not believe this plant be allow to be site so close to thousand of home . I will conclude my speech by make it crystal clear to the Minister , the Environment Agency and Berry Polymers that I will not allow resident to suffer more of this and I will not stop fight for my constituent until this be resolve . I congratulate my hon . friend and neighbour , the Member for Warwick and Leamington ( Matt Western ) . I know his area well and he have make a powerful and compelling speech on behalf of his constituent . we have a commitment to transition to a circular economy and to try to prevent waste from occur in the first place , but where it do occur we need to manage it in the most resource - efficient way possible . that be really important for the management of plastic waste . we want to minimise the use of plastic , and it be clear that we need to recycle they to prevent they from be landfille or incinerate . my hon . friend have describe a litany of distressing incident , include the failure around planning permission be give for this light industrial estate so close to resident ' house and the dreadful example of child ask their parent , " how can I eat my dinner without fly fly into my mouth ? " that be something we would not wish on our bad enemy , and I be truly sorry that his constituent have have to put up with this terrible situation . plastic for recycle come from a wide range of source across household and industry , and they need to be clean before recycle . that be a note to all of we when we chuck our dirty , unrinsed yoghurt pot into the recycling . someone have to deal with they later on . there be no such place as " away " . if we want the material to be suitable for remanufacture , we have to clean up our own mess before we hand it on for material reprocess . it be clear that , in this case , this activity have impact on my hon . friend ' s constituent . we have regulation in place to protect community . recycle plant be holder of environmental permit . those permit be issue by the Environment Agency and they impose condition on operator about waste handling , in order to mitigate — that is , reduce — environmental risk such as odour and noise , as well as other pollution risk . the Environment Agency regulate the holder of those permit by make periodic visit to inspect activity , to ensure that they be in line with the condition of the permit . I be pleased to hear that my hon . friend have be conduct his own unannounced visit and I do hope he find a way to continue they , or find other people to do they for he in the event that he be bar . the EA work with the operator of facility to ensure compliance , issue through guidance and advice and , when necessary , serve notice on an operator to mandate action to improve compliance , such as change to how they carry out the work or how risk be manage . I be really sorry that resident be experience odour and fly in South Leamington , Warwick Gates , Heathcote and Whitnash . the Environment Agency and Warwick district council have be work together to investigate these issue , but have hear what my hon . friend have say tonight , I would advise he — I will do my good with this through my private office — to ensure that the Health and Safety Executive be also make aware of the unhygienic working practice that worker at that site be clearly experience . if it be bad in the neighbouring house , I be keen to hear what it be like for people take their break and eat their pack lunch on that site , because I can not imagine that it meet modern working condition standard . I understand that the Berry Polymers plant in Leamington Spa source its material largely from municipal waste , which it clean on site before recycle into material to go back into manufacturing . the site permit require an odour management plan , which control the treatment for the washing of plastic , as well as several other potentially odorous — that is , smelly — process . as these activity be include in the permit , appropriate enforcement action can be take should odour be assess as contravene the plan . the odour management plan include detail about the storage and handling of incoming material that be recognise as potentially odorous . the current permit condition in relation to the open water treatment plant to treat water use from the washing of plastic be be review by the Environment Agency to ensure that all require condition be in place to regulate the activity . I have a regular Environment Agency update and will be ask for regular update on this plant and for it to be add to my risk update reporting . the Environment Agency be first make aware of resident ' fly issue in July 2023 , as my hon . Friend say , with a volume of odour report also be report in August . it visit two site in the area regularly , include the Berry Polymers site , and require action to be take to prevent risk of odour and fly . the action be to implement fly monitoring , provide evidence of p management training for staff , and consistently improve pest and odour management plan . as my hon . Friend say , this have be go on for nearly two year . in January 2024 , an external entomologist — an insect specialist — be contract to conduct a site inspection . follow their recommendation , an improvement plan be produce with further action . fly control board be instal at the plant to kill fly , and fly trap be also instal inside and out to kill fly and allow specie of fly to be monitor . the Environment Agency also ask for volunteer in the local community to conduct fly monitoring in their home . I sort of agree with my hon . friend when he ask , " whose job be it ? " I understand resident ' reluctance ; only one person respond . data collection and evidence be an important part of compliance and permit regulatory activity , so if we want action to be take , we have to have the proof , so I recommend that he re - engage . in August and September 2024 , the monitoring record that number of fly be not at level likely to cause distress . however , the Environment Agency continue to investigate all odour report receive and have undertake 26 unannounced site inspection where odour have be assess . an additional 11 odour assessment have be conduct in the local area , where sustain odour at level likely to cause offence have not be identify . however , I take on board what my hon . Friend say about constituent vomit in their car as they drive past — he have give a graphic description of the impact . an odour assessment be carry out on Saturday 1 March . multiple location within the locality be visit . faint and sporadic odour be identify . however , these be not detect at the site boundary . since March , odour report have increase — again , it be a hot weather issue . there be 31 report in March and 32 in April . in April , the operator notify the Environment Agency of an issue with an on - site sedimentation tank and maintenance be carry out on 25 April to address it . on 15 April , the EA require the operator to provide further information regard maintenance of the waste water treatment plant , staff training and odour monitoring . a response have be receive and be be assess . officer carry out far off - site amenity check on 25 April . no odour or notably elevated fly number be note . a further site visit be conduct last week on 7 May , and no breach be identify . there be no off - site amenity issue . the EA be commit , as be I , to ensure compliance at the facility that it regulate and that all appropriate measure be in place . I think my hon . friend will agree — he be very generous in his speech — that we have take very swift action to tackle waste issue across the country . the EA will continue to respond to report of odour and fly , and to proactively inspect Berry Polymers and any other permit or exempt site in the area that it consider a potential source of fly or odour . the local environment team and the local council have work together to ensure that resident be keep up to date with investigation and finding through an online community page and monthly briefing note , but I understand that resident might feel helpless and hopeless . I encourage they to continue take action and to report fly , odour or noise issue link to permit site , include Berry Polymers , through the 24 - hour Environment Agency hotline on 0800 80 70 60 . those report help the Environment Agency and partner to investigate and assess the impact of all issue . I thank my hon . friend for her comprehensive response . the frustration be that , after two year , there be real fatigue among the community about the district council , the Environment Agency and environmental health not listen and take this problem seriously , so I do not think that we can just complete online form and rely on they to respond . if Berry Polymers do not change , this be the last chance for it . we have see video evidence of its washroom , with fly fly around . the place need shut down if there be one more example of its failing to maintain proper condition in the workplace or the wide environment . I can not , as a Minister , pass judgment on any permit operator , as do so could be prejudicial to any ongoing or potential enforcement action . my hon . friend have have a letter from the Environment Agency — I have see that letter . we must move from a world in which regulatory activity be focus on activity rather than on progress . I be very keen that the Environment Agency should make progress with the fly and odour issue that he have speak about so eloquently . I will , as I say , keep a close eye on this matter . I will push official for clear and unambiguous action to ensure that , if we have another warm summer , my hon . friend ' s constituent be not suffer in what can only be describe as utterly horrible and unacceptable living condition . question put and agree to . House adjourn .