Oral Answers to Questions Transport the Secretary of State be ask — passenger Rail Performance what step she be take to improve passenger rail performance . the previous Government ' s neglect of the railway see a decade of decline in passenger performance , but we be start to see performance stabilise . passenger be respond to these improvement , and passenger number be up 7 % last year . we be now work with the rail industry on a performance restoration framework with five clear focus area , include timetable resilience , staff and keep train safely move during disruptive event , to help restore the performance that passenger deserve . I be sure I speak for all fellow mp on the west coast main line who be regular commuter on Avanti when I say that have to plan our week around its appalling service and regular last - minute delay and cancellation be among the bad part of the job . my constituent — both those travel north to Wigan and Cumbria and those travel south to London — be feed up with the service , which affect their ability to work , visit family and travel for leisure . what consideration have the Secretary of State give to review whether Avanti have breach the term of its franchise contract , and accelerate the process by which it can be bring into public ownership ? I be obviously sorry to hear about the issue that my hon . friend and her constituent experience when attempt to travel on Avanti West Coast . I know how frustrating these issue can be , but let I reassure she that while performance have improve , official continue to hold regular meeting with Avanti and Network Rail to try to resolve matter . we have always be clear that we will transfer operation to public ownership when contract end , rather than spend money on break contract early . we expect the transfer to have complete by the end of 2027 . last week , London North Eastern Railway announce huge cut to rail service from Berwick - upon - tweed station , which serve not only the town of Berwick but my constituent in the Scottish Borders and North Northumberland . the Government promise more train , but this be the opposite . LNER be now own by the Government , so will the Secretary of State meet I and local resident , so that we can explain the impact that the cut will have on local community ? passenger on LNER will benefit from the new December timetable , which will bring an overall improvement in reliability and capacity , but I would be very happy to ask the Rail Minister to speak to the hon . Gentleman about the particular issue at Berwick - upon - Tweed . I call the shadow Minister . before I ask my question , I would like to take a moment to reflect on the fact that last night , a man lose his life , a wife lose her husband , and child lose their father because of political intolerance . it be a personal tragedy , but also a tragedy for the body politic . I want to take a moment to recognise the importance of free speech in our democracy . the Secretary of State quite rightly talk about improve rail performance , yet we be in a city paralyse by strike action from the RMT . the Government claim that nationalise the railway under Great British Railways will bring untold improvement . they be " untold " ; Lord Hendy tell we that there will be rigorous performance standard , but he have repeatedly refuse to set out what they will be . when will the Secretary of State set out the standard by which the Government ' s nationalisation experiment should be judge — or be they still discuss they with the RMT ? I associate myself with the hon . Gentleman ' s remark about the importance of free speech , but I disagree with his assertion about improvement under great British Railways . conservative Members know the value of bring train operating company into public ownership ; they do it themselves when they be in government . back in 2023 , they bring TransPennine Express into public control , follow year of poor performance . it be no surprise to I and Labour Members that since then , TransPennine Express have have a 75 % reduction in cancellation and 42 % growth in passenger number . Bus Services what step she be take to help improve local bus service . what step she be take to help improve local bus service . this Government ' s landmark Bus Services ( no . 2 ) Bill will deliver a step change in local bus service around the country , put power over bus back in the hand of local leader and enable the delivery of more reliable , safe and inclusive route . we be also invest £ 1 billion to support and improve local bus service and keep they affordable ; confirm multi - year funding to allow local authority to plan and invest ahead ; and extend the £ 3 bus fare cap to March 2027 . worcester have be let down on transport . our evening and weekend bus have be decimate , leave our road congest , our air pollute and our city centre cut off . I thank the Secretary of State and the Minister for Labour ' s early work , which have already restore some of our local service , but Worcester need more . our city centre business , our night - time economy and our commuter need and deserve a modern system of shuttle bus run all day long and at weekend . we be the Government of partnership , so will the Minister assure I that the Department be ready to do what it take , work dynamically and creatively with a range of public and private partner to see this vision deliver locally in Worcester ? I commend my hon . friend for his commitment to improve local bus service in Worcester . we want well bus throughout the country , and I can assure he that the Government will continue to work with local leader to give they the power need to deliver bus service that meet the need of local community . my constituent be sick of be ignore when it come to vital bus route be withdraw . More than 600 of they recently sign a petition after the unexpected and rapid withdrawal of the well use no . 17 . give more power to local council do not always equate to community have more of a say . can the Minister please explain what check and balance be in place to ensure that , as we devolve power , resident really be listen to ? I know the bus service in South Shields very well indeed , have be bear there , and I know intimately from conversation with my family the struggle that my hon . friend ' s constituent be have with bus service . our landmark Bus Services ( no . 2 ) Bill will allow local leader to take back control of bus service , and I be sure that Kim McGuinness , the Mayor of the North East , will be able to do just that . Eastbourne district general hospital , where I be bear , and the Hastings Conquest hospital be quite far apart . on a good day , it take 45 minute to drive from one to the other , and two hour by bus . More and more service be move to the Hastings hospital , but we need well transport link , such as a shuttle bus , to make thing seamless for patient . can the Minister meet I and local representative to discuss how we could secure a shuttle bus service to Hastings hospital for our town ? this be why it be so important that the Government be hand local area the power to design bus service around local need . I encourage the hon . Gentleman to continue discussion with his local transport authority on do just that . the SNP in government have introduce free bus travel for under - 22 , and last week , it scrap peak rail fare . those measure support access to employment opportunity , put more money in people ' s pocket , and support local economy , especially in suburban and rural area . will the Minister acknowledge those excellent measure for consumer in Scotland and consider their benefit for the rest of the UK ? we have the £ 3 bus fare cap in England , and we have commit to continue that up to March next year . we will continue to keep our support for bus fare under review for the future . I call the liberal Democrat spokesperson . as I be sure the Minister know and agree , improve bus service must include make they safe for woman and girl . concerningly , sexual offence on the UK bus network have increase in recent year ; for example , they increase by 13 % on London bus in the first six month of this year . what be his Department do to ensure that woman and girl feel safe use the bus network , and can he share with the House any more information on the work be lead by the Confederation of Passenger Transport , which he allude to in yesterday ' s debate on the Bus Services ( no . 2 ) bill ? as I intimate in last night ' s debate , the Bill require local transport authority and bus provider to give training to their staff . they will also have the power to introduce byelaw in order to clamp down on antisocial behaviour , and violence against woman and girl in particular . on police officer be able to use bus for free across the country , I share the hon . Gentleman ' s ambition . I have already commission work with the Confederation of Passenger Transport to explore how we could deliver that . transport : economic Growth what step she be take to ensure that the transport system support economic growth . what step she be take to ensure that the transport system support economic growth . what step she be take to ensure that the transport system support economic growth . what step she be take to ensure that the transport system support economic growth . what step she be take to ensure that the transport system support economic growth . what step she be take to ensure that the transport system support economic growth . the Government confirm over £ 92 billion of capital investment in transport infrastructure at the spending review to drive economic growth and put more money in people ' s pocket . that include £ 24 billion to improve road , £ 15 billion in long - term funding for our large city region and £ 2 billion for local transport , boost growth in town , city and region across the country . Taxis be an essential part of Blackpool ' s transport network , yet the licensing scheme be fail both passenger and our local economy . vehicle license outside the area continue to operate in Blackpool , undermine passenger safety , cost our publicly own bus company nearly £ 1 . 5 million , and hold back wide economic growth . will the Minister commit to urgently reform the licensing scheme , so that vehicle and driver license locally can operate in Blackpool , ensure that public safety be protect and that vital taxi revenue support our local economy ? follow the sobering recommendation of Baroness Louise Casey in her review on child sexual exploitation , this Government be more committed than ever to tackle this issue . we have commit to legislate to address inconsistency in driver licensing , and we be consider all option , include on out - of - area work , national standard and well enforcement , to ensure the good overall outcome for passenger safety . I be a member of a parliamentary group on the Gatwick diamond growth area , and it be clear that expand Gatwick airport give huge potential for economic growth across the south - east and Croydon . plan to upgrade Norwood junction station , in my constituency , with a lift be shelve when plan to make wide improvement to capacity on the Brighton main line be scrap by the previous Government . what consideration have the Secretary of State give to ensure that there be enough capacity on our railway to support the project growth of Gatwick , and how will she ensure that station like Norwood Junction receive the investment that they need , so that community like mine can feel the tangible benefit of growth ? I be pleased to meet my hon . friend in the summer to discuss this issue , and she be right to say that the previous Government cancel plan to upgrade the Brighton main line . I can assure she that my official be in regular discussion with Network Rail on opportunity to improve service and ease congestion in the Croydon area . I can also report that the recently complete upgrade to the station at Gatwick airport , and to track configuration in the Gatwick area , have significantly improve performance and journey time on the Brighton main line . pembrokeshire be a beautiful county with huge potential for growth . improve rail connectivity and more frequent service would bring significant benefit to our local economy , include by boost tourism and expand employment opportunity . how be the Secretary of State work with our Welsh Labour Government to enhance rail link for rural community like mine in Mid and South Pembrokeshire ? my hon . friend be a great champion of the community he represent , and I can assure he that the Government be invest in Wales ' s future to drive economic growth . we continue to work with the Welsh Government , through the Wales Rail Board , to ensure that the benefit of our £ 445 million investment in rail , announce at the spending review , be deliver right across the nation , include in Pembrokeshire . there be an exciting proposal for a Universal Studios resort in Bedford . the resort be project to attract 8 million people every year , and the development be a golden opportunity for modern transport planning . what assurance can the Secretary of State give that in the infrastructure planning , public transport will be prioritise over road traffic , and that electric rail , bus , and walk and cycling solution will be integral from the outset ? the scale and significance of the propose Universal Studios development in Bedfordshire be huge , and its success will undoubtedly be dependent on modern , sustainable transport option . we be commit to work very closely with Universal and the relevant local authority as the development progress to ensure that infrastructure planning prioritise public transport and active travel . we be really determined to make the most of this fantastic growth opportunity . this week , I visit Schneider Electric ' s brand - new manufacturing facility in Scarborough , which will create 200 new job . however , those opportunity be out of reach for so many of my constituent who rely on public transport . what be my right hon . friend do to ensure that poor transport in coastal community like Scarborough and Whitby , which be untouched by city transport region funding , do not strangle economic growth ? I assure my hon . friend that we be commit to drive economic growth in all area , not only the large city region . York and North Yorkshire combine authority will receive £ 94 million in local transport grant capital funding over the next four year , allow local leader to support scheme , include public transport scheme , that be in line with local priority . give the scale of the disruption that Gravesham face during the construction of the low Thames crossing , what step will the Secretary of State take to ensure that a new transport system there support real job for local people and have wide economic benefit ? for example , reinstate the Tilbury - Gravesend ferry would strengthen business connection across the Thames . my hon . friend will know that ferry service run on a private sector basis to meet local demand , and fund for local ferry service be a matter for local partner , include Thurrock council and Kent county council . however , my official be work with they to ensure that the public transport opportunity that the low Thames crossing may create be exploit . economic growth be , of course , one of the state aim of the High Speed 2 project , but the Secretary of State know well that it have adverse effect on community along the line of construction . she know also that those community need to make plan for land that will be make available to they when construction be over and HS2 no long need it . at Transport question on 27 March , I ask she about the land disposal strategy , which be by then long overdue . six month later , we still have not see it . can she tell we when we will ? we have make some progress on the propose eastern leg of HS2 , which have be due to run up to Sheffield , but the previous Government cancel it . during the summer , I make announcement about site on that part of the line . I be aware that there be further issue in the Birmingham area , and with the section between Birmingham and Manchester . I be keen to make progress , but we also need to make sure that we have site available for the necessary development and construction . my first priority be to get hs2 build at the low reasonable cost . the A483 be critical to economic prosperity in mid - Wales and North Shropshire — it run between Welshpool and Oswestry — but it have a huge accident blackspot at Llynclys in my constituency , which really hold up the traffic , and local people positively avoid the area . Highways England have say that it be keen to improve that road . will the Secretary of State tell we the timetable for those work ? I understand the point that the hon . Lady be make . if I may , I will write to she with detail about that junction on the A483 . the announcement by the Secretary of State of the investment in the M54 - M6 link road be very much welcome , but a number of local business , include Hollies farm shop and Cate ' s Cakes , will potentially be impact , as people may not be able to access they during construction . will the Secretary of State arrange for one of her senior official to meet I and a number of local business to discuss how these issue can well be mitigate ? I be very pleased that the Chancellor announce in the spending review that we would move ahead with the M54 - M6 link road . as the then Roads Minister , my hon . friend the Member for Nottingham South ( Lilian Greenwood ) , have say , that be a " no - brainer " . I would be very happy to ask my official to meet the right hon . Gentleman to discuss support for local business during construction . junction 10 of the m5 on the edge of my constituency be a key piece of transport infrastructure that can unlock growth , thousand of new job — it be adjacent to GCHQ , and so can support national cyber - security and intelligence work — and housing growth , which the Government have make a key priority . as a result of delay , there be a huge funding gap , amount to about £ 70 million . can Ministers have a word with their colleague at Homes England and the Ministry of Housing , Communities and Local Government to work out how that gap can be fix , so that we can deliver those new home , which be much need , and the job too ? I would be very happy to have those discussion across Government . I believe the local authority meet recently to consider whether it could provide any support to fill the funding gap and , potentially , secure developer contribution towards that scheme . previous conservative Governments be commit to repair the railway line at Dawlish , which be vital to Devon and Cornwall ' s economic growth , yet this Labour Government have say that they will complete the rail resilience programme only if and when survey work show that it be need . give the likelihood that the Treasury ' s emergency fund will have be spend on public sector pay increase , can the Secretary of State guarantee that funding will be find for resilience work , if they have not be plan and commit to as part of a fiscal event , should an unexpected incident or landslip take out the line at Dawlish ? we be still fund drainage work and survey work on the dawlish line . four phase of work have already be complete . the cliff be much more resilient than they be a number of year ago , when we experience catastrophic failure . we have pause funding , but we will continue to keep under review the information that come back from the survey so that we can continue to provide a reliable and resilient service for people in the south - west . on Friday , I have the privilege of meet Lawrence Bowman , the new chief executive of South Western Railway , who bring with he over 20 year of experience in the industry . we travel from Salisbury to Tisbury . he say that he have to write a five - year plan . I be keen to ensure that that have the maximum impact and deal with the Tisbury loop . Salisbury be on the gateway to the south - west . I would be grateful if the Secretary of State delegate an official or a Minister to meet I so that , as the five - year plan be construct , there be no unreasonable constraint or misunderstanding over what be necessary to ensure that the railway be at the centre of economic growth in the south - west . I be pleased to hear that the right hon . Gentleman have a constructive meeting with the new south western leadership . I be clear with Lawrence Bowman when he take up the job that I want he to meet local mp along the route to talk about quick win to improve service . I be very happy to ask official from the Department for Transport to meet the right hon . Gentleman to have the conversation he seek . Shadow Secretary of State , I welcome you to your new position . thank you very much indeed , Mr Speaker . I also thank the Secretary of State for her welcome last night , and welcome the Under - Secretary of State for Transport , the hon . member for Selby ( Keir Mather ) to his new role . I associate myself with the comment make by my hon . friend the Member for Broadland and Fakenham ( Jerome Mayhew ) regard the assassination of Charlie Kirk yesterday . he be a champion of freedom of speech and open debate , and I know hon . friend and Members from across the House all want to see politician disagree well . on the subject of disagree well , I will come to my question . fundamental to economic growth be a function transport system , but face with tax hike and inflation - bust fare rise people will find the Secretary of State ' s comment difficult to believe — ASLEF strike on CrossCountry , our capital city hammer with tube strike and bus driver strike tomorrow . next weekend , Manchester will see the big strike in year , follow closely by strike in Luton , Milton Keynes , Stevenage , Hemel Hempstead , Preston and even , Mr Speaker , Chorley . Sir Sadiq Khan say that strike in London be nothing to do with he . the Department for Transport , Downing Street and the whole Labour Government say that they be nothing to do with they , despite many of the union on strike be labour ' s multimillion pound funder . so I ask the Transport Secretary , will anyone , anywhere in the Labour Government stand up for passenger face an autumn of discontent ? before the Secretary of State answer , I say to the right hon . Gentleman that welcome the shadow Secretary of State do not mean that he can then have an essay to portray one question ! [ laughter . ] let I congratulate the right hon . gentleman on his appointment . I know he have experience as a Transport Minister . and , of course , he have extensive experience of travel the length and breadth of the country before the last election search for that rarest thing , a Tory safe seat . [ laughter . ] on the substantive point , I of course recognise the frustration of the travel public about strike . the Mayor of London be completely right to have call for the RMT — the National Union of Rail , Maritime and Transport Workers — to get back around the table with Transport for London to find a resolution to the dispute . may I caution the right hon . Gentleman , though ? he might wish not to adopt such an indignant tone , because when he be at the dft there be a rail strike one day in every 10 . in fact , under the Tory Government , we see the high number of total strike day for any 19 - month period since the 1980 . forgive I , I will not be take any lecture from he on industrial relation . I have obviously follow the Secretary of State ' s lead ; I believe she have a constituency once upon a time in south London , but now represent Swindon . it be great to have that leadership there . growth require investment , which Labour be cut as it give billion in no - string - attach pay rise to train driver . we have already see a 50 % increase in the bus fare cap , and just last week we see the draft road programme publish , with investment down 13 % in real term on the past five year . labour be delay scheme and cancel vital upgrade like the a303 entirely , with hundred of million of pound waste . as ever , 90 % of journey take place on road . can the Secretary of State name one thing this government have do for the million of motorist who drive petrol or diesel car ? we have freeze fuel duty — that be what we have do . we have also invest £ 1 . 5 billion this year to fix pothole — a record amount of money — which will fix the equivalent of 7 million extra pothole . I also say gently to the right hon . Gentleman that I be a very proud representative of my home town in Swindon . search around the country for a safe seat be not something that I indulge in . right , with all those pleasantry do , we now come to the Liberal Democrat spokesperson . a transport system can support economic growth only if it provide a reliable service on which business and passenger can depend . accord to the Evening Standard , there have be 149 incident of industrial action on TfL since Sadiq Khan become Mayor , with million of people inconvenience and business disrupt again this week in yet another tube strike . can the Secretary of State tell we what step she be take , as a senior labour politician , to sort out the mess cause by the Labour Mayor of London ' s failure to reach an agreement with his labour friend in the RMT , a union that have give hundred of thousand of pound to their comrade on the Government Benches in recent year ? I understand everyone ' s frustration with the tube strike ; I use public transport in London every week , and I know that when the tube be down , not only be there queue for bus , but there be gridlock on our road . it be right that the Mayor of London have call for the RMT to get back around the table with TfL . that be what this Government want , and it be what the travel public want . I will be talk to the director of operation at Transport for London , Claire Mann , this afternoon , to understand what the next step be in resolve this dispute . integrated Public Transport strategy : ferry what step she be take to include ferry service in the integrate public transport strategy . I call the Minister — welcome . thank you very much , Mr Speaker . this year , our Department will publish the integrate national transport strategy outline our long - term vision for transport in England . it will set out how the transport sector , Government and local leader should work together to improve people ' s everyday journey however they choose to travel , include how people access port and airport . we look forward to provide more information in due course . I welcome the new maritime Minister to his place — it come to something when Isle of Wight ferry company Red Funnel be operate ferry that be old than the new Minister . will he speak to his new colleague in the Ministry of Housing , Communities and Local Government , the Minister responsible for english devolution , to ensure that the new Mayor for Hampshire and the Solent actually have regulatory or license power over transport across the Solent ? if the Government create a new local leader without any power over integrate the island that I represent , as the Member for Isle of Wight East , into the mainland , they will have fail to deliver any form of genuine integrated local transport for my constituent . the hon . Member speak with passion about the state of ferry service in his constituency . it be an issue that I be keen to engage with he on far ; I know the former maritime Minister , my hon . friend the Member for Wythenshawe and Sale East ( Mike Kane ) , be very engaged in this work , too . I be look to meet the hon . gentleman next week , alongside my hon . friend the Member for Isle of Wight West ( Mr Quigley ) , to take this conversation forward . on stakeholder engagement with the ferry operator itself , that local engagement be something I will be take part in through the Department . I look forward to engage with the hon . Gentleman as I take that process forward . bus sector Support what step she be take to support the bus sector . this Government recognise the vital role the bus sector play in keep community connect and able to access key service . that be why we be provide significant multiyear funding to local authority , include more than £ 1 billion this financial year to support and improve local bus service and keep fare affordable , alongside the £ 15 . 6 billion we be provide for transport investment in our city region across England . this investment will support british manufacturing , include in my hon . friend ' s constituency . the consultation on 400 job at Alexander Dennis close tomorrow . it have be a time of deep anxiety for the local worker . the SNP ' s ScotZEB2 scheme initially send over three time as many bus to China as to Scotland ' s sole manufacturer . although £ 40 million have now be make available by Transport Scotland , it must be spend correct this SNP industrial failure . what engagement have Ministers have with the Scottish Government regard recently consult - on procurement reform and their potential benefit to the scottish bus manufacturing and operation sector in the long term ? I convene an extraordinary meeting of the UK bus manufacturing expert panel on 28 July , attend by the Scottish Cabinet Secretary for Transport , metro mayor and mayoral combined authority , to accelerate the panel ' s key priority of establish a bus order pipeline and strengthen local value within public sector procurement . I will continue to work closely with the Scottish Government on the issue . I know my hon . friend have work absolutely tirelessly for his constituent in this area . I thank the Minister for his answer . the Bus Services ( no . 2 ) Bill pass yesterday , with many of the good thing that we all wish to see happen here in the mainland , especially improve the frequency of bus service and address social inclusion for those who can not get bus . will the Minister share the good thing that the Government be do here with the relevant Minister in Northern Ireland , so that we in Northern Ireland can get some of the advantage that people have here ? I will continue to have active engagement through the interministerial group and will be delighted to share the excellent work this government be do to re - empower local area and their bus service . drive test Availability what step she be take to increase the availability of drive test . we be work hard to ensure that young people can book drive test so that they can access opportunity in their local area . we be recruit and train more driving examiner , double examiner training capacity and offer overtime payment incentive . this be produce good result , with over 10 , 000 more test a month now available than there would have be without the Secretary of State ' s plan . there be more work to do , and we be commit to get it right . learner driver in Sunderland be feed up of wait of around 22 week for a driving test . in that time , they be often face high cost and barrier in access job opportunity . can the Minister tell the House what step he be take to reduce driving test waiting time in Sunderland , and when he expect those wait to fall ? obviously , there be some issue with the close of the South Shields drive test centre , but no capacity be lose as a result of that . we recognise the impact that high waiting time be have on learner driver across the country , include in the constituency of Sunderland Central , and the importance of help learner driver pass quickly . on 8 September , the Driver and Vehicle Standards Agency launch its late recruitment campaign , which aim to recruit additional drive examiner resource to provide much - need test capacity in Sunderland , Gateshead , Gosforth and Blythe . one of my constituent write to I this week about the difficulty she be face rebooke her driving test . the near slot that she could find be in Swansea , two hour away from Bath . when she try the 6 am rush , she face a queue of 22 , 000 , and when she finally reach the front , the site fail . alongside test availability , will the Government review the quality and reliability of the booking system ? we be absolutely committed to drive down the delay in these booking . I would be delighted to chat far with the hon . member to discuss the specific problem within her area . when drive test come up at Transport question in May , it be reveal that the wait time for a drive test on average be up , from 17 week in July 2024 to 22 week now . it have since be reveal that many test centre around the country have reach the maximum legal limit of a 24 - week wait . will the Minister acknowledge that for thousand of people up and down the country wait for a drive test — wait for that step on the ladder to get their first job or to college through the freedom of drive — it be simply not good enough for the Secretary of State to have push back the Government ' s new target to fix this to 2026 ? real people need real answer now , so will he redouble the effort to get the wait time at least back down to the point it be at when the last Government leave office ? we inherit a broken system in which many learner driver find themselves stick in a frustrating limbo , unable to ditch their l - plate . we instruct the DVSA to take further measure this year , and we be begin to see early sign of improvement . we promise more test and we have deliver more test . the dvsa carry out over 20 , 000 more test between June and August this year , and the pass rate remain at the high it have be since May 2021 . there be still more to be do and we will do just that . the Minister be right that there be still more to be do — there be a lot more to be do . he inherit a broken system from his own predecessor in the Department for Transport , under whom the problem get significantly bad over the last year . I do not think the Minister be listen to the country . I can not be alone in have an inbox full of email from constituent complain about the wait time to get themselves or , indeed , their child a drive test . my constituent Sarah write : " young people ' s work opportunity be significantly reduce by not be able to drive , " particularly in rural England , in this case Steeple Claydon in my constituency . Sarah set her alarm for 5 . 45 every day to try to secure a test , and the good she have manage be next February . will the Minister apologise to everybody up and down the land who set their alarm early because the Government be make the situation a lot bad ? I hope the hon . Gentleman explain to his constituent the broken system that his party leave for this country . we be absolutely determined to drive down waiting time . thank to the proactive measure take by the Secretary of State we have , as I say , increase test by 10 , 000 a month . aviation Sector Support what step she be take to support the aviation sector . our airport be gateway to the world for the british people and for investment into the UK from across the globe . the Government be commit to support the aviation sector as a central part of our growth mission . we be progress airport planning decision and modernise airspace ; we invite and receive proposal for Heathrow expansion , encourage billion in investment ; and to support sustainable growth we have introduce the sustainable aviation fuel mandate and the Bill on revenue certainty . I congratulate my hon . friend the Minister on his new position . I spend the weekend in the bonny town of Ayr for the Ayr show , celebrate the aviation sector ' s contribution to my constituency and the wide west of Scotland economy . that contribution include company such as BAE , Collins Aerospace , GE Caledonian , NATS , Spirit AeroSystems and Woodward , the turnaround of Prestwick airport , and the commitment of defence scale - up Aeralis to build the first British - build jet in 50 year at Prestwick . do the Minister agree that we need to continue to support our aviation sector to create well - pay job at Prestwick and across the UK ? my hon . friend have champion Prestwick airport and the aviation sector in his constituency , and I agree with he that aviation be vital to the UK ' s industrial and regional prosperity . in 2022 , air transport and aerospace support around 240 , 000 job nationwide . the Government remain committed to back the sector to deliver high - quality , well - pay job from Prestwick to community across the length and breadth of the United Kingdom . Pavement Parking what recent progress she have make on the development of policy on pavement parking . the previous Government consult on pavement parking rule back in 2020 but fail to take any action . we have have to pick up the issue from scratch since we come into office last year . a lot have change in the UK political landscape in the past five year , and this Government ' s genuine commitment to devolution have shape our thinking on pavement parking . we will be able to say more about that , and finally publish a response to the consultation , soon . will the Minister assure we that any enforcement power will be extend to local authority , not just the police , in order to make any regulation effective ? alongside that , will he reassure we that local authority will have the power to make exception in area where such restriction would be impractical , as be the case in many street in my Horsham constituency ? we of course continue to engage actively with local authority in the development of this policy . local authority already have the power to restrict pavement parking wherever there be a need by introduce traffic regulation order , and we be explore additional measure to help they to tackle the issue . on Sunnyside Avenue in Tunstall in my Stoke - on - Trent North and Kidsgrove constituency , a particular issue with pavement parking occur outside Mill Hill primary academy , where car dangerously mount kerb . will the Minister please outline what more can be do to keep our kid safe around our school ? I encourage my hon . friend to engage with his local authority to explore whether a tro , as I mention in response to the previous question , would be appropriate in that instance . Major Transport Schemes : Local Authority Support what step her Department be take to support local authority to implement major transport scheme . the Government be invest an unprecedented £ 15 . 6 billion in local transport across our city region , include £ 1 . 5 billion for South Yorkshire and £ 2 . 1 billion for West Yorkshire , to support the delivery of transport scheme across the region . we have also confirm £ 2 . 3 billion for the local transport grant over the spending review period for improvement in place outside major city region , include to support more zero emission bus , cycleway and congestion improvement measure . I welcome the Department ' s recognition of the positive impact that the Penistone line rail upgrade will have , boost economic growth , improve connectivity and support ambition for half - hourly service between Huddersfield and Sheffield . this be a clear example of what can be achieve when Labour lead at every level — council , mayor and MP . what further support can the Secretary of State ' s Department offer when it come to secure the next phase of this vital project to ensure a frequent and reliable service across the entirety of the Penistone line ? I have a meeting soon to discuss the matter with my hon . friend ' s constituency neighbour , my hon . friend the Member for Penistone and Stocksbridge ( Dr Tidball ) . I would be happy for he to join that meeting . electric Vehicles what step she be take with Cabinet colleague to help support people to use electric vehicle . the Government be commit to make Britain a clean energy superpower , which be why we be invest £ 4 . 5 billion to support the transition to electric vehicle . that include £ 1 . 4 billion to support the continued uptake of EVs through target grant , with 35 model now eligible for discount of up to £ 3 , 750 through our electric car grant . to make charge up an electric car as easy as fill up at the petrol station , we be also support the roll - out of 100 , 000 more public charging point , build on the 84 , 000 already available . I call Perran Moon . Meur ras ha myttin da , Mr Speaker . I declare an interest as chair of the electric vehicle all - party parliamentary group . in the year to date , one in five new car registration have be an electric vehicle , with the sale of new EVs up 27 % . demand be rise thank in part to the Government ' s proactive commitment to reduce transport emission . will the Secretary of State meet I to discuss how we can make even more progress by provide that vital certainty to industry transition away from a fossil fuel - base transport system and ultimately save driver across the UK thousand of pound ? I would be happy to meet my hon . friend , who — as chair of the all - party parliamentary group on electric vehicle — have great expertise in this area . it be right to acknowledge that the motor industry have face unprecedented challenge in the last 12 month , so it be right that we respond proportionately by extend the flexibility in the zero emission vehicle mandate . but we have also give certainty back to the industry and consumer with the reinstatement of the 2030 phase - out date . micromobility Vehicles what step she be take with Cabinet colleague to update regulation on the use of micromobility vehicle . shared e - scooter scheme can provide a great way to get around , but the scooter can pose a nuisance for other people , so we need to ensure that their roll - out be both safe and properly regulate . we have extend e - scooter trial until May 2028 to allow local authority to test how the technology work . we have also commit to pursue legislation , when parliamentary time allow , for the full regulation of micromobility in order to create a safe share - use network where they work for all people . I declare an interest as chair of the all - party parliamentary group for wheelchair user . do the Minister accept that a wheelchair , whether manual or with power , be a medical device that enable disabled people to maximise their independence and live the life they choose ? do he therefore agree that the terminology of " invalid carriage " in the legislation be discriminatory and outdated and that the regulation on the use of micromobility vehicle require update urgently ? I share my hon . friend ' s view that the term " invalid carriage " in the exist legislation be outdate and no long reflect modern attitude or need . this Government be commit to ensure that disabled people have the same freedom to travel as everyone else and we recognise that mobility device be vital for many . that be why we be review the legal framework surround mobility device , include the outdated terminology , and we will consult on that in due course . what recent assessment she have make of the adequacy of passenger rail infrastructure . good rail infrastructure support reliable service and economic growth , and be a central part of this Government ' s growth mission . in July , I set out my priority for improvement to the rail network as part of give the green light to over 50 road and rail upgrade , support over 39 , 000 new home and 42 , 000 job . that include plan for station at Cullompton in the hon . member ' s constituency , and in Wellington . rail traveller be use to the excuse of leave on the line , but traveller on the railway between Exeter and London Waterloo have recently encounter a new one : soil moisture deficit . dualle the line on a three - mile section of the track near Whimple could give passenger travel on the west of England line two train per hour . will the Minister please look favourably at that modest investment , which would improve frequency , reliability and resilience for one of the two main rail route into the south - west ? I understand the frustration of the travel public . we experience a particularly dry summer this year and Network Rail have make preparation to deal with that , but I recognise that " dry soil " be as frustrating as " leave on the line " . I will certainly look into the specific scheme that the hon . Gentleman suggest and I be happy to write to he with more information on that . on 28 September , the historic Boulby line in my constituency will be reopen for passenger to celebrate 200 year of passenger rail . yet I believe the line ought to be open permanently so people can access job and opportunity . will the Secretary of State meet I to talk about that prospect and other transport proposal that I have for East Cleveland ? I would be very happy to meet my hon . friend . he be right that in some instance , reopen branch line on the rail network can be transformative for area . I visit the opening of the Northumberland line in the first week I be in this job . passenger number on that stretch of line have exceed expectation and be unlock opportunity for a whole range of community in the north - east . of course we want to replicate that across the country . that be why we have announce additional investment in the MetroWest scheme , down in the area surround Bristol . I be happy to talk to he about the situation in his constituency in Cleveland . sustainable Aviation Fuel Industry what step she be take to support the sustainable aviation fuel industry . the Government be support the UK ' s sustainable aviation fuel industry through the SAF mandate , the advanced fuel fund and new legislation introduce a revenue certainty mechanism . we be work with industry to cut emission , to boost UK production , to create high - quality green job and to attract investment while ensure value for money . I congratulate my parliamentary neighbour on his accession . it be good to see his talent recognise . much of the technology currently use in sustainable aviation fuel be of foreign origin . part of the reason for that be that no Government body directly support the development of core technology use for that , support only the development of production facility . the Aerospace Technology Institute , for example , should be able to invest in research and development programme to develop sustainable fuel , but be currently not permit to do so . will the Minister look at allow that , so we can accelerate the development of our own technology in this area ? the right hon . Gentleman will know that through the ATI programme , the Department for Business and Trade co - invest with industry in research and technology development in the UK to maintain and grow the UK ' s competitive position in civil aerospace . in addition , we fund the UK SAF Clearing House to help fuel producer navigate the testing and approval requirement for non - fossil fuel - base jet fuel . it co - ordinates testing and qualification of SAF , help to remove barrier to new fuel come to market . plus , the advanced fuel fund have allocate £ 198 million , with a core aim of overcome technological risk for early - stage project to support UK SAF production . if the right hon . member wish to discuss any other aspect of this policy , I will be very glad to meet he . on the subject of aviation , the beautiful Isle of Barra airport in my constituency have have to cancel 14 % of its flight in the last year on the beautiful beach runway . this be not , on the whole , due to bad weather or tide , but because the Brexiteering Tories withdraw we from the european satellite navigation system , which allow flight to land in low visibility and bad weather . will the new Minister celebrate his role by meet I on the beach to discuss rejoin — perhaps not the European Union but at least the european geostationary navigation overlay service , EGNOS ? what an attractive proposition from my hon . friend — and so early in my tenure in this position . he raise an incredibly important matter , and it would be remiss of I not to give it the full attention it deserve , and therefore I will respond to his specific question far in writing . topical Questions if she will make a statement on her departmental responsibility . can I start by welcome my hon . friend the Member for Selby ( Keir Mather ) to my ministerial team ? I be really pleased to have he on board , and I be sure he be equally pleased to be face oral question on day four . he be join a great team that have achieve a lot over the summer as part of the Government ' s plan for change . the new electric car grant be put money back in the pocket of driver ; 35 electric vehicle model , include from Ford , Nissan and Vauxhall , will see their price slash thank to £ 650 million of Government investment . since its launch , the grant have already help over 7 , 000 driver to choose an ev . we have announce a furth £ 100 million in transport funding for local transport outside major city in England , with uplift for the north - west , Yorkshire and the Humber , and the midland . public ownership be already improve our railway , with south Western more than double the number of new train in service , and there be much more to come in the next few month . we will publish the first road safety strategy in over a decade , as well as an integrated transport strategy for England , deliver well journey that put people first , grow our economy and improve our day - to - day life . if my constituent pay £ 2 for a bus ticket one day , then £ 3 for a bus ticket the next , their fare have increase by 50 % , not go down , have it not ? the hon . Gentleman seem to be suffer a case of amnesia because his party allocate absolutely zero money to fund the bus fare cap beyond December of last year . I know how important affordable bus travel be to the british people , and this Government be determined to deliver it . the Queensway Gateway roadwork have unleashed chaos on my constituent in Hastings and the surround area . the project be originally plan to last one month , but have drag on for more than a year because of the failure of East Sussex county council to plan for the relocation of a major water main . do the Minister share my concern about the mismanagement of this taxpayer - fund project , and agree that serious question must now be answer by the conservative council ? I know that my hon . friend have raise this issue time and again with East Sussex county council . the delay to the Queensway Gateway project have wreak havoc for her constituent . give that the project be fund with Government money , serious question must now be ask of East Sussex county council about these issue and the delay that have come about . I call the shadow Secretary of State . when we next have transport question , the Budget will be just day away , so can the Transport Secretary rule out any of the follow — increase duty on fuel or flight , vat on private hire , increase the insurance premium tax or raise rail fare above inflation ? if she will not , have she at least speak against any of these measure in Cabinet or to the Chancellor since she take up her role ? I know the importance of affordable public transport to people in Britain . I know the importance of the fuel duty freeze that we bring in last year . I assure the right hon . Gentleman that I will have conversation across Government to protect business and the travel public . the cost of car insurance have go through the roof in recent year , with quote price rise on average 82 % since 2021 . car insurance be an essential , not a luxury , so I welcome the Government ' s commitment to tackle the spiral cost for driver in Derby and across the UK . will the Secretary of State provide an update on what progress her taskforce be make to get a fair deal for driver when it come to car insurance ? this Government commit in our manifesto to tackle the high cost of motor insurance , and I be pleased to see recent datum suggest that average premium be fall . the Government ' s taskforce , chair by the Department for Transport and his Majesty ' s Treasury , continue to work to identify short and long - term policy action that may contribute to stabilise or reduce premium . rail commuter in St Neots face a rise of nearly £ 400 for an annual season ticket to London next year , pay over £ 7 , 000 for the first time for service plague by delay and cancellation . how do the Secretary of State justify that policy to my constituent ? I know that affordability be a top concern for people when it come to rail . no decision have be make on next year ' s rail fare , but our aim be that price will balance affordability for traveller with what be fair for taxpayer . Penrith and the surround village have endure a summer of gridlock , with junction 40 on the m6 repeatedly grind to a halt , particularly when peak holiday traffic be head to Cumbria and the lake . while we await the vital A66 trans - Pennine upgrade , for which we be all grateful , will the Minister agree to meet I to discuss urgent short - term intervention that National Highways can implement to ease the pressure for my constituent ? I sympathise with those suffer in congestion at junction 40 of the M6 , which I be tell be due to various issue . I know my hon . friend and my hon . friend the Member for Carlisle ( Ms Minns ) have be work hard to resolve those issue for their constituent . I be happy to arrange a meeting to discuss any future short - term intervention that could ease congestion with either I or my team or with National Highways . with increase e - scooter usage , a small number of people be increasingly conduct antisocial behaviour while ride around on these micromobility vehicle . that be of great concern to my constituent , and I be particularly concerned that there be no minimum age requirement for the purchase of an e - scooter and no national registration scheme that could help track those use they for nefarious activity . have the Government get any plan to introduce a national registration scheme for e - scooter ? as I mention early , the Government be determined to bring , and have every intention of bringing , about legislation on e - scooter . all that will be take into account in the development of the policy . the £ 1 billion regeneration scheme at Station Hill in Reading be bring large number of job and new housing to read town centre , and that be due to the Elizabeth line . will the Minister update the House on the benefit of this wonderful railway line , both to Berkshire and across the country ? like my hon . friend , I be a big fan of the Elizabeth line , and I commend he for his dogged support of the scheme on his constituent ' behalf . it be a significant addition to the transport network in London and the south - east , and it have have tangible positive impact on the supply chain around the country , as well as provide fast journey into and across London from read . I be proud to have personally help deliver this new railway in my previous role in London , and to see that it have now support around 55 , 000 full - time job , as well as create over 1 , 000 apprenticeship opportunity . far to the early comment about drive test centre , the problem be serious in my constituency . all five of the close centre have wait time of 24 week — six month — and people be now look to other part of Scotland for test . I appreciate what the Minister say about employ extra people , but can I ask that specific interest and special attention be give to Scotland , where this be a particular problem in rural area ? I will meet the hon . member . do the Minister agree that extend the Dunstable - Luton busway on to Leighton Buzzard and then Bletchley would be a real boon to more fully link the area into the Oxford - Cambridge growth area ? responsibility for local transport be devolve to local authority , which be responsible for the operation of their network , include the extension of busway . the Government be commit to the Ox - Cam growth corridor . Lord Vallance have be task with explore option on how good to deliver economic growth in that area . a workshop take place in Bath this morning bring together key stakeholder from the rail industry and local authority . it focus on the development of rail service in Wiltshire , and will include the case for build a Devizes gateway station and increase service in Melksham . follow Network Rail ' s Wiltshire rail strategic study , will the Secretary of State or Rail Minister meet I and key stakeholder to discuss take those key project forward ? I can assure the hon . Gentleman that I be aware of the Bath and Wiltshire metro scheme and the Devizes gateway project . although we do not have any plan to take forward those scheme , I encourage local authority , Great Western Rail and Network rail to continue work together to develop those plan and explore funding opportunity . my constituent who use the A259 coast road be be deprive the choice of safe and sustainable travel to Brighton , as Conservative - run West Sussex county council have drag its foot for more than three decade on deliver a cycle path . what can the Government do to help I and Shoreham - by - cycle to push for that much - need infrastructure , which West Sussex county council have long promise but fail to deliver ? I would be happy to meet the hon . Gentleman . I wonder whether the Secretary of State might have a word with her friend the Mayor of London about the appalling mismanagement of the Gallows Corner junction , where a flyover be be construct . the gridlock , chaos and delay be affect the whole Romford side of Essex , and east London . it really be chaos . will she get it sort out ? I be sure that the Mayor of London and Transport for London will want to do all they can to minimise disruption during any construction of the type that the hon . Gentleman describe . I be sorry but I do not hear his question in full — do he say it be Gallows Corner ? indicate assent . if he wish to write to I with the specific detail of those local issue , I will come back to he . my constituent have be very vocal about their opposition to the LNER timetable change from December , include the removal of the 8 . 22 be commuter service from Durham to Newcastle on weekday . LNER assure I that it would replace it with a similar service , but report this week suggest that the service will now take an extra 10 minute , arrive at 8 . 44 . that be not an equivalent service . will the Minister meet I and LNER to ensure that commuter leave Durham be provide with an equivalent service ? my hon . friend be a great champion for her constituent . I review her correspondence with the Rail Minister over the summer and be aware that the 8 . 22 service have be reinstate , but I be not aware of the long journey time . I would be happy to meet she to discuss that far . in response to a recent write parliamentary question , the Department confirm that it be shelve improvement to Skelton junction outside York . that will have an impact on the propose improvement to rail service for commuter in Harrogate and Knaresborough . how do that align with the Government ' s vision for growth ? we be committed to improve rail connectivity and capacity in the north of England . I would be happy to have a further conversation with the hon . gentleman about that scheme . I call the Chair of the Transport Committee . I , too , look forward to work with the Under - Secretary of State for Transport , my hon . friend the Member for Selby ( Keir Mather ) , in his new role . last week , the Transport Committee hear that car club , peer - to - peer ride - sharing and car - share scheme align with Government objective on transport integration , reduce congestion , increase electric vehicle use and support resident in rural area where public transport be poor . unlike France and other country , the sector in the UK operate in a policy vacuum , particularly since the Government withdraw the car club toolkit guidance in May . be the Minister plan to address that policy vacuum ? my hon . friend be completely right , and I thank the Transport Committee for raise that important point . I have commission official to consider how we can support and promote the use of car club and car - share scheme , start with a roundtable of industry stakeholder . I would be delighted if she could attend . I will ensure that that guidance be reinstate . Hammersmith bridge close six year , four month and 22 day ago , cut off the bus route and cause congestion in Putney . I welcome the Under - Secretary of State for Transport , my hon . friend the Member for Wakefield and Rothwell ( Simon Lightwood ) , hold the first Hammersmith bridge taskforce meeting . when will the next one be hold ? I be very aware of the problem relate to Hammersmith bridge , and I know the Minister host that first meeting of the resurrect Hammersmith bridge taskforce . I do have some good news for my hon . friend : we announce in the spending review a structure fund , to assist local authority with repair to bridge and tunnel that be beyond their financial capacity to fund . we will set out the criterion for access to that fund in due course . half the bus sector ' s funding now come from public source , but during the summer , National Express announce change to bus service in my constituency with just two week ' public notice , which will have a really negative effect on resident in New Frankley , Allens Cross and Bournville Gardens Village retirement home . do the Minister agree that when regulation be bring in — which be welcome — consultation must be include ? I agree wholeheartedly . it be really important that local people be engage when design a network and make change to it . the Liverpool city region Mayor , Steve Rotheram , have submit a new town bid with Liverpool and Sefton council , to regenerate the most deprived area of the country . do the Minister agree that for new town to succeed , there need to be proper funding for integrated transport , and will he commit to work and meet with the mayor and the politician to make that happen ? I can assure my hon . friend that I have regular meeting with the Mayor of Liverpool city region . I be completely cognisant of the fact that for new town to be successful , thriving community , they need public transport build in from the start . indeed , there be capacity to almost create new town in exist town where public transport be already available . those be the sort of conversation I be have with our regional mayor . the A12 be a major transport route into Colchester and a vital part of economic growth in the region . will the Minister meet I to discuss the urgent need for upgrade to its western end ? I would be delighted . Luton station be the gateway to Luton town centre , and thank to this Labour Government , it will soon be get lift to all its platform . however , the roof still leak . will the Minister meet I and representative of Luton council to see what can be do with regard to the state of the station ? I will talk to the Rail Minister and ask he to meet my hon . friend . we can not have a leak roof in Luton station . the Padiham Greenway bridge have be close since 2021 . in December last year , this Government give £ 280 , 000 to Sustrans to get the work finish , but there be a shortfall . the Government have give £ 19 million to Lancashire county council through the active travel fund and the capability fund to get this project online . do the Minister agree that Lancashire county council should prioritise this and get it do ? I thank he for his extensive correspondence with I on this topic . I know my hon . friend be a very active campaigner in this area . I would be delighted to meet he to discuss what further pressure we can apply to ensure this project be deliver . point of order on a point of order , Mr Speaker . you will be aware of the mistake make during the counting of vote yesterday . be you able to give some guidance to those on the Treasury Bench on the importance of the work of the Whips ? division be a core part of our business in the Chamber , and the accurate recording of vote be integral to parliamentary decision making . I appreciate that there have be major change in the Whips Office , and thing have to be deliver in these new role . I know the House team will work with the whip to make sure we get accurate result . I meet the Chief Whip this morning and explain the concern that be raise with I follow last night , through the Deputy Speakers . we do take this seriously . my door remain open for the Chief Whip , and I hope he will use that avenue as a way for we to work together . it be unfortunate that I have not have that conversation until this morning . I will leave it at that . UK Ambassador to the US : Appointment Process ( Urgent Question ) : to ask the Foreign Secretary if she will make a statement on the process for the appointment of the United Kingdom ' s ambassador to the United States . before I respond to the question , it be important that as a House we all recognise that today be the anniversary of the 11 September attack . many of we will attend commemoration later , and our thought be with all the thousand of people who lose their life in that despicable terrorist attack , include many british and american citizen , as well as those from many other country . the whole House ' s condolence and thought will also be with the family and friend of Charlie Kirk — it be an absolutely appalling attack and murder yesterday . in this House , as we sit under the two shield commemorate our dear colleague from across the political spectrum , we know too well the terrible consequence of political violence . I know that the whole House will be think of Charlie ' s family , friend and other , and urge an end to that sort of political violence , which be absolutely appalling . in light of additional information in email write by Peter Mandelson , the Prime Minister have ask the Foreign Secretary to withdraw he as ambassador to the United States . the email show that the depth and extent of Lord Mandelson ' s relationship with Jeffrey Epstein be materially different from that know at the time of his appointment . in particular , Lord Mandelson ' s suggestion that Jeffrey Epstein ' s first conviction be wrongful and should be challenge be new information . in the light of that and mindful , as we all be , of the victim of Epstein ' s appal crime , Lord Mandelson have be withdraw as ambassador with immediate effect . Mr Speaker , I thank you for grant this urgent question , and I agree with the word of the Minister about 11 September and Charlie Kirk . this be yet another extraordinary error of judgment by this weak Prime Minister . I pay tribute to the Leader of the Opposition for yesterday secure justice for the victim of Epstein . this raise massive question . it be not just that Peter Mandelson be epstein ' s " good pal " and say that he love he , or that he broker a deal for he while he be Business Secretary , but that , as we now know , he be work for Epstein ' s early release after Epstein be convict . the simple question be this : be the Minister now say that the Prime Minister do not know about any of that at the point when Lord Mandelson be appoint ? the Minister should not say that the box be tick and the process follow — what do the Prime Minister know at the point of Lord Mandelson ' s appointment ? the Minister say this morning that his understanding be that all the information be present — be that correct ? do the Prime Minister know ? will the Government now publish all the document relate to Peter Mandelson ' s vet ? if the Minister say that the Prime Minister do not know at the time , when do he become aware of the revelation ? Peter Mandelson quietly stay at Epstein ' s house while Epstein be in prison . Mandelson now say that he be wrong to think that Epstein be innocent . that be his defence — but Epstein have plead guilty . there be huge question here . do the US State Department give any warning to our government ahead of this appointment ? do the Prime Minister ' s chief of staff , Sue Gray , give any warning ? have any employee of Global Counsel visit our Washington embassy since Peter Mandelson ' s appointment ? next week will be the state visit . this be huge turmoil ahead of that , and I can not believe that the Government have put our monarch in this terrible position . I be glad that Peter Mandelson have now go . the Foreign Secretary have say that protect woman , girl and victim be her priority ; how on earth do that square with the behaviour of the Government over recent day , squirm and twisting to try to protect Peter Mandelson , rather than the victim ? to be clear , this be a Government in which we have a corruption Minister have to resign over link to corruption ; a former police officer have to resign over have not be clear with the police ; a housing Minister have to resign over not pay tax on a house ; and now we have our ambassador to Washington in the middle of the big scandal in Washington . this be a weak Prime Minister , with error after error of judgment . the first thing that we all need to be clear on across this House be that the victim of Epstein be at the forefront of all our mind — I be sure the hon . Gentleman will not disagree with that . Epstein be a despicable criminal who commit the most heinous crime and destroy the life of so many woman and girl . obviously the hon . Gentleman write his remark before the event in the last few hour , but I reiterate what I say to he . the email show that the depth and extent of Lord Mandelson ' s relationship with Jeffrey Epstein be materially different from that know at the time of his appointment ; in particular , the suggestion that Jeffrey Epstein ' s first conviction be wrongful and should be challenge be new information . Lord Mandelson have resign and that decision have be take . that be a very clear answer to the hon . Gentleman ' s question . I be sure I speak for the whole House in send our good wish to my hon . friend the Member for Washington and Gateshead South ( Mrs Hodgson ) on the appalling fire at her office overnight . we send our very good wish to she and her staff . may I thank the Minister for his statement ? the Prime Minister have make exactly the right decision , and I think that have to be acknowledge . he have move at pace to put it right — [ interruption . ] Don ' t be ridiculous . treat this seriously . order . please — this be very important . a lot of people will be listen to what be go on in this Chamber , so let we give some courtesy to each other . clearly the appointment process do not pick up these issue ; that be self - evident . can we have an assurance that there will be an inquiry into why that be not the case and that this House will be keep inform ? first , I be not aware of the terrible incident that my hon . friend refer to ; I have just be inform of that this morning . I be sure the thought of the whole House will be with my hon . friend the Member for Washington and Gateshead South ( Mrs Hodgson ) . I know how seriously you take the safety and security of member of this House , Mr Speaker , particularly in the light of international event and the tragic loss of colleague . that underline all the more why we must be able to go about democratic debate in this country , whatever our view , in a safe and secure way . I thank my hon . friend the Member for Middlesbrough and Thornaby East ( Andy McDonald ) for his comment on the decision . as I say , the decision have be take by the Prime Minister and the Foreign Secretary , and Lord Mandelson have resign . my hon . Friend ask about the process . any candidate for ambassador position be subject to routine , extensive vetting and background check as a matter of course ; I point he to the formal process outline in the diplomatic service code , which highlight the robust security clearance and vetting process that all member of the diplomatic service undergo . I call the liberal Democrat spokesperson . our thought be with the friend and family of the victim of 9 / 11 . I also express my regret and sadness at the murder of Charlie Kirk , and I hope that the hon . member for Washington and Gateshead South ( Mrs Hodgson ) and her staff be all okay follow the incident at her office . political violence should have absolutely no place in society . Lord Mandelson be task with oversee the UK ' s relationship with Trump , and the accusation surround he cast a damn shadow , so it be right that the Prime Minister have withdraw his support for Lord Mandelson . yesterday the Prime Minister stand by Lord Mandelson ' s appointment and confirm that rigorous background check have take place . what have change since then ? question remain over what the Government know and when about Lord Mandelson ' s relationship with the sex offender , whom he have previously describe as his " good pal " . do he resign , or be he sack ? it be vital that the Civil Service Commission now investigate whether the ambassador break the diplomatic service code by fail to come clean over these revelation soon . be the vetting process push through too fast ? will the Minister confirm that an investigation will take place so that no such incident can happen again ? report have surface that the Cabinet Office suppress the release of a memo about Mandelson ' s relationship because it could compromise relation with the US . will the Minister confirm whether that be the case ? I thank the hon . member for her remark regard my hon . friend the Member for Washington and Gateshead South . again , I underline the importance of we all be able to go about our role in a safe and secure way , whatever our political view and belief . in the light of international event , particularly in the United States , that should be at the forefront of our mind today . in the light of the additional information in the email write by Lord Mandelson , I have be very clear that the Prime Minister ask the Foreign Secretary to withdraw he as ambassador . that be very clear ; the decision be take by the Prime Minister and the Foreign Secretary . those email show that the depth and extent of the relationship be materially different from that know at the time of his appointment . I associate myself with hon . member ' condolence and concern about my hon . friend the Member for Washington and Gateshead South ( Mrs Hodgson ) . I thank the Minister for his statement . I too be disgusted and appal by Epstein ' s action , and my thought be with the victim of his crime . will the Minister confirm that we have an excellent deputy ambassador in Washington , who will ensure that our mission continue and that next week ' s visit will go ahead ? we have an excellent team overall in british embassy Washington . indeed , I pay tribute to the work of all our diplomatic service colleague across the world , who do an excellent job in represent this country and ensure that our security and prosperity be at the forefront of their work . of course , our special relationship and unique security partnership with the United Staes be crucially important . I will be at the United States embassy later today . it be our close and most important relationship . I agree with my hon . friend that there be an excellent team in british embassy Washington . I call the Father of the House . obviously this be a very sad day for the United States , with 9 / 11 and the assassination last night . our relationship with the United States be crucial , and there be a dark cloud over the upcoming state visit , so will the Minister forgive I if I give he some gentle advice ? in my experience of such scandal , the cover - up , the lack of due process and allegation of cronyism be much more serious than any original offence , or allege offence . will he ensure that every single document about the process be release post haste , include about the meeting that Mandelson request with Prime Minister Blair over Epstein ? we need everything release straightaway , and we need to move on and get a new ambassador . the right hon . Gentleman be absolutely right about the importance of our relationship with the United States . the upcoming state visit be very important , and we have an extensive team work on it . his Majesty the King be obviously very much look forward to welcome President Trump , and many , many official be work diligently day and night to ensure the visit be a success . I will not get into the individual issue and claim that the right hon . Gentleman make , but what I will say be that this be a decisive action . in the light of the additional information in email write by Lord Mandelson , the Prime Minister have ask the Foreign Secretary to withdraw he as ambassador . I would also like to offer my support to my hon . friend the Member for Washington and Gateshead South ( Mrs Hodgson ) . that incident follow a number of other that she have experience this week . it be out of order . I thank the Minister for his statement , and I be really pleased that Lord Mandelson have be sack , but I would like to know what due diligence be undertake prior to his appointment . everybody know about his relationship with Epstein before it . as I have make very clear , it be in the light of additional information and email write by Lord Mandelson that the Prime Minister ask the Foreign Secretary to withdraw he as ambassador . in particular , Lord Mandelson ' s suggestion that Jeffrey Epstein ' s first conviction be wrongful and should be challenge be new information . I know my hon . friend well , and I know that her thought and the thought of we all will be with the victim of Epstein ' s appal crime . the House need to understand the sheer size of the failure of the vetting process here . it be in the public domain that Peter Mandelson have to resign for not tell the truth about an interest - free loan , and that he have to resign on a second occasion because he have help a business friend to get a passport . beyond that , there be still unresolved doubt about his behaviour as the European Trade Commissioner , when he give concession to the Russians , which help his other dubious close friend , Mr Deripaska . on the positive vetting process for when Peter Mandelson come to be a Minister again in 2010 , section 3 . 1 of the ministerial code say : " Ministers … must ensure that no conflict arise , or could reasonably be perceive to arise , between their public duty and their private interest , financial or otherwise . " secretary of State do not have private diary . he spend time in Mr Epstein flat , it seem quietly meet other people involve in the Sempra deal . that can not be see as follow his proper duty as Secretary of State . it be in the Government document — it do not have to be a private email . be that investigate , and be a judgment make on it ? the right hon . Gentleman ask specifically about vetting . as I have say , all candidate for ambassador position be subject to routine , extensive vetting and background check as a matter of course . I point he to the formal process outline in the diplomatic service code , which highlight the robust security clearance and vetting process that all member of the diplomatic service undergo . again , I point out that , in the light of additional information in email write by Lord Mandelson , the Prime Minister have ask the Foreign Secretary to withdraw Lord Mandelson as ambassador to the United States . I agree with the Minister ' s utter condemnation of all the horrendous crime of Jeffrey Epstein . do he agree that as soon as this new information come to light , the Government take decisive action very swiftly , which be different from the Conservatives ? when they be in government and there be serious misgiving , it be actually the independent ethic adviser who end up resign . I agree that this be decisive action . the Prime Minister have act in the light of that additional information , the Foreign Secretary have act , and Lord Mandelson have be withdraw as ambassador to Washington . I be sure that the Minister be delighted that he have not have to shred his own reputation like his ministerial and Cabinet colleague have have to do on the broadcast round over the course of recent day , include this morning , in try to defend Lord Mandelson and the lack of judgment show by the Prime Minister . I do not know what it be about the decade of scandal and be good friend with a notorious child trafficker and paedophile , which should have ring some alarm bell in no . 10 before this decision be take . if I listen correctly , the Minister do not confirm to the Father of the House that all relevant material will be publish . do the Prime Minister know about these email prior to stand up at the Dispatch Box just yesterday to say he have confidence in Mr Mandelson , and do he retain the Labour Whip in the House of Lords ? what I can commit to be that we will keep the House update on these matter . a decisive decision have be make . as I have make very clear , all candidate be subject to routine , extensive vetting and background check as a matter of course . the Prime Minister , in the light of the additional information , have ask the Foreign Secretary to withdraw Lord Mandelson as ambassador to Washington . in particular , the email show that the depth and extent of Lord Mandelson ' s relationship with Jeffrey Epstein be materially different from that know at the time of his appointment . but I agree , of course , with the right hon . gentleman on the appalling crime commit by Jeffrey Epstein , and the thought of all of we be with his victim , as they be every day . I associate myself with the comment that other have make about the disgusting crime of Jeffrey Epstein . twenty - four year ago today , on 9 / 11 , I be sit in the TUC Congress as a delegate when we be make aware of what have happen . may I put on the record my tribute to the first responder and public service worker in New York who come to the aid of people ? many of they be still pay the price today . a lot have change in politic in the past 24 year . one of the motivation that get I into public life be about the lack of accountability that we see from senior Ministers when the conservative party be in government , their failure to resign when scandal come up and the failure of Front Benchers to take action , so I welcome the swift action that this Government have take now that new information have come to light . can the Minister assure we that lesson will be learn and that , if these thing arise again , this Government will uphold the high standard and take the action need to protect public life ? I can absolutely assure my hon . friend of that , and this be decisive action . he refer to the 11 September attack , and I think we all remember where we be on that fateful and tragic day . that be why we remember the victim , particularly on the anniversary today . may I just point out that it be as plain as day , after the exchange between the Prime Minister and my right hon . friend the Leader of the Opposition yesterday , that Lord Mandelson could not possibly carry on in his role ? why do the Prime Minister delay — or do he have to wait to be tell what to do by Morgan McSweeney ? who be go to be the new ambassador , and how quickly will the new ambassador be appoint at this absolutely critical time , when Russia be test the defence of NATO country and we be show such a weak response ? the hon . Gentleman , who I be sure have visit our embassy in Washington on many occasion , will know that we have an excellent and dedicated team there , as well of course in the Foreign Office in King Charles Street in London . they be work on many aspect of that crucial security , defence and economic relationship . we be work diligently in preparation for the state visit , and I commend they for that work . the hon . Gentleman ask about new information . I have be very clear : in the light of the additional information and email write by Lord Mandelson , the Prime Minister have ask the Foreign Secretary to withdraw he as ambassador . I have go into the particular item , and in the light of that , and mindful of the victim of Epstein ' s crime , Lord Mandelson have be withdraw as ambassador with immediate effect . the Prime Minister have act swiftly and decisively . what a contrast with the conservative party . I note that the shadow Foreign Secretary be not in her place today . what happen when she break the ministerial code ? the Conservatives promote she . do the Minister agree that we will not take lecture on ethic from they ? I have be very clear that the Prime Minister have act decisively on this matter and , in the light of that additional information , the Prime Minister ask the Foreign Secretary to withdraw Lord Mandelson as ambassador to Washington . that be decisive action and that be respond to that information , and I have explain the reason for it . rise — order . the hon . member for Camborne and Redruth ( Perran Moon ) have just mention another Member . I presume that he have contact she to let she know that he be go to do so . be that the case ? no , Mr Speaker . please do not do that again . we be mean to treat each other with respect . this message be for all member : if you be go to mention another member , do they the courtesy of ensure that they be first make aware of the fact . on the Foreign Affairs Committee , we have see the high calibre of career diplomat who usually take up the most senior ambassadorial appointment , so it be not obvious to I why the british ambassador to the United States be a former MP . in the email that have leak overnight , it appear that Lord Mandelson think that to govern be to schmooze . he famously declare in an election victory speech that he be a fighter , not a quitter , yet he urge the convict paedophile , Jeffrey Epstein , that to fight for early release be the right thing . and Lord Mandelson do not do the decent thing and quit . do the Minister regret the original appointment ? the hon . Gentleman ask about precedent . he will know that there be precedent , and we do have excellent ambassador and high commissioner around the world — he and I have meet many of they directly as they represent this country diligently . I have be clear : in the light of the additional information and email write by Lord Mandelson , the Prime Minister have ask the Foreign Secretary to withdraw he as ambassador . in particular , Lord Mandelson ' s suggestion that Jeffrey Epstein ' s first conviction be wrongful and should be challenge be new information , and the email show that the depth and extent of Lord Mandelson ' s relationship with Jeffrey Epstein be materially different from that know at the time of his appointment . the Minister be a decent man , and the House know that the business of the House be delay while he hurriedly have to rewrite the statement that he be expect to make , but he be stretch the bound of credibility too far . yesterday , the Prime Minister tell the House that he have full confidence in a man who befriend the vilest of convict paedophile . he should not have be appoint in the first place — that be a gross error of judgment and everybody in this House know it — and the Prime Minister have to take responsibility . now that Lord Mandelson have go , will there be a Cabinet Office inquiry into the manner in which Mandelson be negotiate with a convict paedophile while he be a Minister ? the right hon . Gentleman will understand why I will not comment from the Dispatch Box on his last remark . what I will say be that the Prime Minister have act decisively in the light of the new information , and he have take the decision to ask the Foreign Secretary to withdraw Lord Mandelson as ambassador . again , for the House ' s information , the suggestion that Jeffrey Epstein ' s first conviction be wrongful and should be challenge be new information . the email show the depth and extent of the relationship be materially different from that know at the time of Lord Mandelson ' s appointment . again , in the light of that , and mindful of the victim of Epstein ' s crime , he have be withdraw as ambassador with immediate effect . the idea that our country should be represent in America or on the world stage by somebody who try to get a paedophile out of prison early will fill we all with revulsion . can the Minister be clear ? he have say that the Prime Minister ask the Foreign Secretary to withdraw the ambassador . he say the Prime Minister make the decision , but he also say in his statement that Mandelson resign . do he resign or be he sack ? I have be very clear : the Prime Minister ask the Foreign Secretary to withdraw Lord Mandelson as ambassador . that be the process , and he be no long in his position . I agree with the hon . member about our absolute revulsion across this House at Jeffrey Epstein ' s crime . I concur with the comment about Charlie Kirk that the Minister make at the beginning . it show that anybody who be brave enough to put themselves up for public service and try to change the world for the well face such danger and risk . may I ask the Minister , first , to reassure we that we will have total transparency about the process that be follow in this ambassadorial appointment ? secondly , assume we get over that hurdle , can he please explain to the House why the appointment of a man who describe President Trump as a " danger to the world " , whom the Americans describe as an " absolute moron " , who have close link with China and who have a history of misfeasance in public office be the right appointment for the relationship with the most important and powerful country in the world , and one that be essential to this country ? on the hon . member ' s first comment , he and I fundamentally disagree on many issue , but we know that we conduct our robust debate in this House , in our medium and in our political society , and we do not engage in any form of political violence . what have happen in the United States over the past 24 hour be simply appalling , and our thought be with all of Charlie Kirk ' s family and friend . as somebody who work very closely with our late colleague Jo Cox and David Amess , it have shock I to the core . I think it have shock all of we to the core , and it can never be acceptable . the hon . Member ask about the process , and I have be very clear . all candidate for ambassador position be subject to extensive vetting and background check as a matter of course , and I refer he to the formal process outline in the diplomatic service code . I assure he that we will keep the House update on these matter . while the whole House welcome the withdrawal of Lord Mandelson as head of mission , can the Minister confirm whether he be still be pay as a civil servant ? my understanding be that Lord Mandelson be still an employee , and proper employment process will take place , but I will write to the hon . member to confirm my answer to that question . Lord Mandelson have recently be ask to withdraw as ambassador , and I will come back to the hon . member with a detailed answer , but I do not want in any way to inadvertently mislead the House on an important matter . it seem that there be a broad consensus across the whole House that this feel as though it be a question of when , not if . so during the extended vetting procedure , be there ever any interference or pressure from either no . 10 or the Prime Minister ? as the hon . Member will know , I simply be not go to go into the vetting procedure , which be conduct independently . he can certainly look at the detail of how vetting process be under - take in the diplomatic service code , which outline the process . the diplomatic service code state that diplomat ' " behaviour , action or inaction must not significantly disrupt or damage the performance or reputation of the Diplomatic Service . " it also state that diplomat " must … set out the fact and relevant issue truthfully , and correct any error as soon as possible " . in the light of that , do Lord Mandelson set out how many payment he have receive from the sanctioned russian oligarch Oleg Deripaska to account in this country , Switzerland or other area , and have there be one set of rule for civil servant and another set of rule for friend of the Prime Minister and Jeffrey Epstein ? the right hon . Gentleman ' s question get to the essence of the decision that have be take . in the light of additional information in email write by Lord Mandelson , the Prime Minister have ask the Foreign Secretary to withdraw he as ambassador to the United States . the email show that the depth and extent of the relationship with Jeffrey Epstein be materially different from that know at the time of his appointment . in particular , Lord Mandelson ' s suggestion that Jeffrey Epstein ' s first conviction be wrongful and should be challenge be new information . the right hon . Gentleman be well aware of the procedure , and he know that I do not have the document relate to the vetting process in front of I . on behalf of my party , may I convey my support to the hon . member for Washington and Gateshead South ( Mrs Hodgson ) ? I be in her company yesterday and she be very much in our thought . I also , on behalf of my party , express deep sadness at the assassination of Charlie Kirk , a 31 - year - old conservative influencer who engage with young people across the United States of America . I know he be in heaven . I pray for his wife and child ; I think we should all do that . at time like this , it be essential that we have an ambassador in place to convey our sincere sympathy with our ally . the removal of Peter Mandelson be to be welcome . in my humble opinion , he should never have be in the post in the first place . do the Minister believe that it be imperative that we have an ambassador in place , and that they must have adequate history and qualification , rather than our have a job - for - the - boy mentality ? what change will the Minister make to the appointment process to restore confidence in the role ? the hon . member be rightly know as one of the kind and most generous member of this House . I thank he for his comment about my hon . friend the Member for Washington and Gateshead South ( Mrs Hodgson ) and the attack that she endure this morning . I wholeheartedly agree with his comment on Charlie Kirk . he can be assure that we be already convey our condolence to the United States . I expect to be with the United States ambassador in London later today , where I will be able to do that in person . from a practical point of view , as the hon . Member will know , many ambassador or high commissioner post be vacant for a time . we have excellent team who then do that job . of course , when ambassador or high commissioner be travel , there be a team in post who be able to represent this country and ensure our that interest be pursue . that be exactly what will happen in this case . this be about the Prime Minister ' s judgment . by Mandelson ' s own admission , there be more very embarrassing information come , so the Prime Minister could have say to the House yesterday , " I will suspend he , pende further investigation , " but he do not ; he back he . can the Prime Minister be 100 % sure that , in make any trade deal , or in any negotiation , Mr Mandelson have not be compromise by the information that have now come forward , and will he commit to investigate that ? I bring the hon . member back to the fundamental point , which be that in the light of the additional information and email write by Lord Mandelson , the Prime Minister ask the Foreign Secretary to withdraw he as ambassador . I associate myself with the Minister ' s word about 9 / 11 and the untimely and tragic death of Charlie Kirk . yesterday , it be report that in 2008 Lord Mandelson email Epstein and say that his conviction in the United States " could not happen in Britain " , and encourage he to go for early release . the whole House can see that the Prime Minister have an issue when it come to judgment , act only when he be push to by event in this House . will there be an investigation of Lord Mandelson ' s meeting while he be ambassador , to see if there be any conflict with his current business interest ? will the Government remove the Whip from he in the House of Lords , yes or no ? and will Lord Mandelson be entitle to severance pay after this sack ? on the question about the Whip , as an employee of the Foreign , Commonwealth and Development Office , Lord Mandelson be on a leave of absence from the other place , so that be very clear . as I say , the email show that the depth and the extent of Lord Mandelson ' s relationship with Jeffrey Epstein be materially different from what be know about it at the time he be employ . in particular , his suggestion that Jeffrey Epstein ' s first conviction be wrongful and should be challenge be new information , and that be why the Prime Minister have ask the Foreign Secretary to withdraw he as ambassador to Washington . the Prime Minister be hide behind process yesterday , and be do the same today . do the Prime Minister know about these message before Prime Minister ' s question yesterday ? I be update the House in real time on action and decision that have be take . I have be very clear about the new information that have come to light , and the decision that the Prime Minister have take as a result . the Minister claim that new information have come to light , which have result in the ambassador be sack . can he confirm that this be the only new information , and that all the other information be in the Prime Minister ' s knowledge ? I refer the hon . gentleman to the comment I have already make . on a point of order , Mr Speaker . the Minister say that the only reason why Peter Mandelson have to resign be the additional information that he have campaign for the early release of Epstein . the Government be not say exactly what they do or do not know at the point of appointment . the only way for this House to know exactly what they know be for the Government to publish the document relate to his vetting . if the Government will not publish those document , as the Minister say they will not , would it be possible for this House to attain those document use the Humble Address mechanism ? that be not a decision for I . the Treasury have hear , and if the Minister wish to respond , I be more than happy to let he . he be not go to . rise — I be not go to continue the debate , but I will take a point of order . on a point of order , Mr Speaker . I would welcome clarity far on point just make . the Minister be ask on numerous occasion when the Prime Minister be make aware of the additional email information that lead to Mr Mandelson ' s sack . he have not provide the House with that information . what avenue be available to we Members to find out when the Prime Minister know this additional information ? the right hon . member and party leader know very well the mechanism that he can use . I do not think that today be the end of the matter . I think this will be return to at some point . in fairness to the Minister , he say that the House would be update as and when the Government have the information . the point have be take , and I expect the question to be answer at some time . there be a long weekend before we get to Monday . let we leave it there ; I do not want to continue the debate . on a point of order , Mr Speaker . this relate to the issue we have be discuss , but be about the House procedure . what I take from the Minister ' s answer be that Lord Mandelson , a Member of the House of Lords , have not give a full account of his past action while go through vetting process . what disciplinary mechanism can be use by the Lords to make he accountable for that , if true ? I have enough to do , deal with the House of Commons . responsibility for the House of Lords be not for I , and I will certainly not take it . Life Sciences Investment ( Urgent Question ) : to ask the Secretary of State for Science , Innovation and Technology if she will make a statement on the cancellation of life science investment . I start by welcome the hon . member to her new role . I want to do that yesterday , but time run away from we during question . I be answer this question on behalf of the Secretary of State . as a significant life science company that employ more than 1 , 600 people and play a lead role in deliver new treatment for disease such as cancer , Merck — know as MSD in the UK — be a value partner to this Government , and a key player in the life science ecosystem . MSD ' s decision to not progress its investment in King ' s Cross — a commercial decision for MSD — be therefore deeply disappointing . King ' s Cross be a shine example of the strength of UK life science cluster . it be one of the big in Europe , employ more than 60 , 000 people in the area . it have have investment from major life science company , include Novo Nordisk , GlaxoSmithKline and AstraZeneca . it house world - lead institution , such as the Francis Crick Institute and the Wellcome Trust , as well as some of the country ' s lead biomedical research centre . University College London hospital , Great Ormond Street hospital and Moorfields eye hospital be also base there . we be proud of this industry ; it have deliver great thing for our country in the past , do so today and will continue to do so in the future . that be why life science be one of the eight priority sector in the industrial strategy , and be back by £ 2 billion of public investment to enable it to grow , lead the world and make great discovery , such as personalised cancer vaccine and the new test for Alzheimer ' s disease . MSD ' s investment in the area would have enhance the sector ' s status far , and the fundamental of the UK market be actually more advantageous today than when it make the decision to invest in this project . what have change be the US and international fundamental . the UK have become the most attractive place to invest in the world , but of course , there be still a lot more for this Government to do . the academic environment in the UK continue to produce innovative idea , and the talent to run with those idea , which attract foreign investment . the environment for research be outstanding ; we have great academic ; and the NHS provide a research platform that be second to none . the decision be in part due to a broad effort by MSD to ensure that the company be optimise its investment and focus its resource on its key driver of growth . as such , it be not continue its job discovery operation in the UK . the company have recently announce in its quarterly report that it be to cut $ 3 billion a year from its operating cost , result in a significant impact on its share price . that be compound by an ever more challenging and uncertain global economic situation as regard trade and tariff . the problem with NHS medicine go back 15 year — I wonder who be in charge over that period . spend on NHS medicine have fall from 15 % to 9 % in that time , and the last joint agreement on medicine price by the sector and the previous Government be in 2023 . we be live with the consequence of under - investment by the previous Government , who take their eye off the ball when it come to NHS medicine investment . my right hon . friend the Health and Social Care Secretary make a £ 1 billion offer to the sector in the summer . however , the Government also recognise that we need to do more to support and grow our life science sector . we have already start deliver on the work of invest £ 600 million in the health datum research service alongside the Wellcome Trust , and be commit up to £ 520 million for life science innovation and manufacturing , unlock billion of pound . we continue to work closely with the sector to unlock growth and ensure life - change treatment and technology for this innovative sector . MSD will continue to be a key investor in the UK . I welcome its continued investment in clinical trial , and its significant partnership with our institution , such as our Future Health . MSD will continue to employ 1 , 600 people . we remain closely engage with MSD as we take forward the life science sector plan and the 10 - year NHS plan . order . I say this gently , as Ministers be in new position , but you be only allow three minute in an urgent question , not the five minute you get for a statement . I be sure that you be come to the end now , Minister . thank you for your advice , Mr Speaker . I be on my last sentence . we will continue to explore opportunity to partner with MSD far and build on our long - stand relationship . I hope you will give I the same flexibility if I go a little over my time , Mr Speaker . Don ' t count on it . last night , US pharmaceutical giant Merck cancel the construction of a £ 1 billion drug research centre in the Prime Minister ' s constituency . eight hundred job that be go to be provide have now evaporate ; 125 scientist be to be employ — no long . the message from Merck executive be unspare : simply put , the UK be not internationally competitive . the Government must wake up now . if AstraZeneca ' s announcement on investment be the canary in the mine for UK life science , last night ' s announcement should be a klaxon sound across Whitehall . will the Minister assure we that he be arrange urgent meeting with Health , Business and Treasury Ministers today ? the facility be go to specialise in disease like Alzheimer ' s , Parkinson ' s and multiple sclerosis . it be go to feed into the work of a cluster of life science body , such as the Francis Crick Institute . do the Government engage with Merck before its decision ? what damage will this cause to research and medicine access for our constituent who be affect by those condition ? the Government tell UK taxpayer that their devastating national insurance hike would boost the NHS , but NHS leader admit that the money have go on national insurance , wage deal and drug price inflation , not well service , and there be no money leave for negotiation with life science company . in fact , life science have face a £ 1 . 6 billion tax bill and a real - term cut to research and development . what be Ministers in the Department for Science , Innovation and Technology do to push the Health Secretary for progress on health datum , advanced therapy , price negotiation and regulatory reform of the kind that will improve our life science offer ? for the last year , Labour have dine out on deal secure by the last Conservative Government . we be promise that a US - UK trade deal would open door for business . instead , american firm be cancel project , and our ambassador , who should have be bat for Britain , be battle for survival . now that Lord Mandelson have slink away — again — who be speak to the Americans about this collapse deal ? what will the Prime Minister be do ahead of President Trump ' s state visit to help UK life science ? I welcome the Minister to his place , but where be the Secretary of State ? in her very first week , she have oversee a £ 1 billion investment collapse . if she do not understand that this be the most important thing in her brief right now , and if the government do not change course , it will not be the last deal to collapse . I be grateful to the shadow Secretary of State for bring the urgent question to the Chamber , as this be an incredibly important issue . let I answer some of the question — I think there be some question in there . the shadow Secretary of State ask what message America have give to the Government , but the message be from Merck in its quarterly report just a few month ago , when it have to cut $ 3 billion a year from its operation . that be a significant amount of money , and the company ' s share price reflect the significance of that announcement . there be no doubt that MSD make the world ' s most profitable and popular cancer drug , which go out of patent in 2028 . it say in the quarterly report that that be cause some pressure with its share - holder . the US trade deal , which the shadow Secretary of State mention , say that we would use good endeavour to improve the condition for US pharmaceutical company in the UK , and the tariff for pharmaceutical company to the US remain at 0 % . the EU have a 15 % blanket tariff . in term of NHS medicine , it be a common theme that shadow Secretaries of State come to this Chamber and bemoan the state of the economy and what have happen in the NHS . waiting list be fall from the record level they be at . satisfaction with the NHS when we leave government in 2010 be at its high level ever . it be now at its low — rise — order . we can not have point of order in the middle of the Minister ' s response ; they come at the end . there be no doubt that spending on NHS medicine have fall from 15 % to 9 % , which be part of the problem in the pharmaceutical industry . my right hon . friend the Secretary of State for Health and Social Care make a £ 1 billion offer to the pharmaceutical industry over the summer , but it choose not to vote on that , so he withdraw from negotiation . we be try to clear up the mess that have be leave after 14 year of conservative government . the shadow Secretary of State should realise that that mess be deep and wide , and it will cause problem in the sector , but as the Health Secretary have state a number of time , include when he make that £ 1 billion offer , he be try to resolve some of these underlying issue . I call the Chair of the Select Committee . I welcome the Minister to his place , but I wish it be under well circumstance . the loss of Merck ' s investment , follow the loss of AstraZeneca ' s investment in January , will certainly be perceive as a blow to the UK ' s life science sector , though we must not forget the amazing work that business , start - up and researcher do in constituency across the country , include my own . we also must not forget the importance of value for money in nhs spending . the Select Committee will hold an urgent session on Tuesday to examine the issue in the life science sector , include tariff , investment incentive from the US , access to capital and the relationship with NHS pricing . in the meantime , it be clear that the life science sector plan , publish in July , do not reflect market condition . could the Minister update we on how , and how quickly , he plan to revise that plan ? I thank the Chair of the Select Committee for that constructive approach , and I look forward to the session on Tuesday to examine this really important issue . she mention the life science sector plan , which be really important . it come with significant investment in research and development , improve clinical trial performance , and move money and support from other key sector into the sector that be in the industrial strategy . life science benefit from that . there be £ 2 . 5 billion a year go into life science from this Government , and that contribute to the £ 9 billion that the private sector invest every year . as the Chair of the Select Committee will know , the Chancellor give the most generous settlement for research and development ever in the spending review last year , with £ 86 billion over the spending review period . that be to support the industrial strategy , of which life science be a key sector . I know from company in my constituency that the sector be grow and need more support , and we be determined to deliver that . I call the liberal Democrat spokesperson . I welcome the Minister to his place . it be incredibly disappointing that MSD have pull out of this billion - pound investment in the UK , include the loss of more than 100 job in important life science infrastructure . however , this have be on the card for some time , and the warning to Government have fall on deaf ear . early this year , AstraZeneca also cancel plan upgrade to its production , and Novartis have describe the UK as " largely uninvestable " . one pharmaceutical company reduce its UK operation be a problem , but there be a worrying trend that threaten a crisis in the sector . the UK be become less and less attractive to the life science industry , and with good reason . first , the Budget see huge rise in cost to all business , include through Labour ' s job tax . secondly , there have be a notable lack of investment across the life science sector , include in job creation , critical skill and create a commercial environment that can compete internationally . the Lib Dems continue to call for the Government to make research and development investment 3 . 5 % of gdp , and the life science would be a key focus . that would be couple with extra support for academic institution to commercialise research . how do the Government plan to restore confidence among pharmaceutical company that the UK be a competitive place for research and development and manufacturing ? I be grateful to the hon . gentleman for raise those point . it be important to lay out to the public and to the House that MSD will continue to employ 1 , 600 people and be a key part of the life science sector . there be many company that be invest in this country — Moderna , biontech , Isomorphic Labs — and in my own constituency , Roslin CT be expand at such a great pace that it can not keep up with the amount of space and the wet lab facility it require . those be all the challenge that we have to try and deal with . I gently say to the hon . gentleman : the second sentence of his contribution be about the national insurance increase for employer and the fourth be about spend more money on R & D and life science . they can not both be true . if we want to spend money on our priority — political party will have different priority — we have to raise that money . we can not have it both way . the message to the industry be : this be the good place in the world to invest . bring your investment here and this government back you through an industrial strategy and a life science sector plan . I welcome the Minister to his place . exeter have a very strong life science and R & D sector and just recently the University of Exeter be award £ 10 . 5 million from UK Research and Innovation to set up the metamaterial hub — that be real cutting - edge science — which also leverage extra private sector investment of another £ 10 million . do the Minister agree that that sort of investment and commitment to research and development will enable city such as Exeter to thrive and grow in future ? I pay tribute to my hon . friend for his work with the university in his constituency in a whole number of area . all who represent university town — I do as well — know that there be significant investment go into research and development and the life science , because that be the future for this country . this country be commit to growth , and I assure my hon . friend that I will do everything I can in this role to ensure that we invest in that . I gently remind the House again that the spending review see the large ever settlement for research and development in this country at £ 86 billion . that say to the industry : we be open for business ; come and invest here and put life science at the top of that investment . Discovery Park in my constituency at Sandwich be the phoenix that rise from the ashe of Pfizer . it be now a cluster of over 100 enterprising and successful small company in the life science field . the loss of cornerstone such as AstraZeneca and MSD could have a devastating effect upon the architecture of the pharmaceutical industry in this country . what be the Government go to do , practically , to reverse the decline in confidence in that industry ? I say to the right hon . Gentleman , for whom I have the utmost respect , that in the first part of his question he quite rightly promote the wonderful work that be go on in his constituency at the Discovery Park and then say that everything be doom and gloom . that be not the case . this government be invest in research and development to the tune of £ 86 billion , we be invest in the life science — it be one of the eight key sector in the industrial strategy — and I hope that the business park in his constituency benefit fundamentally from that . I merely repeat that MSD be not leave the UK . it will still employ 1 , 600 people here and be the cornerstone of research in this country . I welcome the Minister to his place . this be devastating news for the research scientist and the fantastic work they do on neuroscience , inflammation and immunology . some of that be be carry out at the Francis Crick Institute , where I declare I be unpaid visit research scientist . do the Minister agree that the UK have so much expertise to offer and that he need to look at the whole life science ecosystem , from bench discovery to dispense at the bedside ? will he join we at the Science , Innovation and Technology Committee on Tuesday afternoon when we can go into those issue in depth ? I pay tribute to my hon . friend for her work , unpaid , at the research institute . it will be good to hear from she about what she see from inside the sector . she raise , I think , the most important point in any debate about science , research and development and life science in particular in this country : we have world - class institution and company and they be make so by the world - class scientist and academic that work within they . we should cherish that , we should grow it and we should have more at Porton down in my constituency , there be a hub of life science business . I have listen carefully to what the right hon . Gentleman have say , and I recognise the difficult dilemma that all government have in where to focus investment . however , the Minister must surely recognise that the additional cost of employ people , with the additional right and burden that that put on employer — particularly small employer — plus 11 week of speculation about further tax increase will not make any sector feel more comfortable about where to invest in this country . the right hon . Gentleman be a Treasury Minister , so he understand some of the issue involve here . I would merely point he to the report MSD release to its shareholder for the first quarter , in which it say that it have to divest from $ 3 billion a year in operating cost — that be a huge part of its operating agenda . it be a geopolitical issue as well as a commercial decision . the Minister will know that the part of London where MSD be go to invest have receive significant investment for medical research , particularly research of brain - relate disease . this decision cast doubt on the future of the great King ' s Cross area . what be the implication of the decision to disinvest on that particular proposal , which have cross - party support ? at this stage , I be not aware that there will be any downside to the entirety of the ecosystem that revolve around the King ' s Cross area of London . this decision have obviously come very late to the Government , and we will work with MSD on the future . however , as we have hear from my hon . friend the Member for Gravesham ( Dr Sullivan ) , there be a very bright future for this particular cluster , and for all the other cluster we have hear about from other member across the Chamber this morning . for transparency , I should declare that I be the director of the Knowledge Quarter partnership in King ' s Cross and cabinet member responsible for negotiate the MSD headquarters deal . it be disappointing news today . turn to my current constituency , I hear from a number of life science and pharmaceutical company that they have concern about the previous Government ' s levy under VPAG — the voluntary scheme for brand medicine pricing , access and growth — and how it be work in practice , in particular that it be focus on revenue , not profit , and do not take into account the differential level of R & D need . celltrion , a south korean company in my constituency , highlight that biosimilar medication require a lot more investment than other form of pharmaceutical . will the Minister or his counterpart meet I and Celltrion to discuss the biosimilar sector and how we can support it to grow ? I be grateful to my hon . friend and would be happy to take he up on that meeting to hear about his experience directly . he raise the big issue around the legacy leave by the previous Government after 15 year of underinvestment in medical pricing . the Health Secretary make a £ 1 billion offer to the pharmaceutical industry over the summer , which the pharmaceutical industry decide not to vote on , so it be withdraw , which be disappointing . the last deal be do in 2023 under the previous Government . this be a long - term issue that must be resolve . life science play a significant role in the economy and public health initiative across the Liverpool city region . it be a blow early this year when AstraZeneca pull out of the £ 450 million deal to expand its plant in Speke . how be the Department support the Liverpool City Mayor and the life sciences investment zone to build confidence and secure great investment for the sector ? very simply , the life science sector plan have be set out to give the industry certainty over the long term that this Government be serious about the investment that both we and the industry will make in the sector , with £ 2 . 5 billion a year from this Government and , at £ 86 billion , the large settlement for R & D ever in the spending review . I hope that give reassurance to my hon . friend ' s constituent and to the life science company in her constituency and around the region that this Government be serious about back they . I welcome the right hon . member to his new role , although admittedly I be surprised that Labour have adopt the fire and rehire strategy . Scotland have one of the high concentration of life science hub , and in the past five year have create six innovation centre directly align to life science . what assessment have the Minister make of the impact of this announcement on Scotland ' s research and development sector , and what support do he plan to put in place ? I visit RoslinCT in my own constituency last Friday . the life science sector in Scotland be indeed buoyant and flourish . there be lot of opportunity for it to expand . it be probably a dividend of the Union . I be very pleased that the Minister have confirm and reiterate that the life science remain a priority in the industrial strategy . Keele University in Newcastle - under - Lyme be at the heart of our life science sector , which be particularly important for job and opportunity in the industrial heartland in community like mine , so will the Minister find time to meet I to talk about how we can support the work at Keele — or , even well , will he get on the train to come and see we ? I be very happy to do so . I think that be my third invite already this morning . the question and the invite to Newcastle - under - Lyme demonstrate the thrive life science sector all across the country . I can give my hon . friend an assurance that we intend to back the life science sector . although the decision from MSD in relation to their new building at King ' s Cross be incredibly disappointing , the sector be a thriving one , and many company be invest and grow very quickly . this be just the late in a series of blow to UK life science . company have be pull towards the US with incentive and tariff , while we have no detailed industrial strategy , an uncompetitive tax regime from the Treasury , and a Department of Health and Social Care that undervalue drug access . when the Government announce their life science plan , it fall short of what the industry and the sector expect , so will the Government commit to an update cross - party refresh and give business the stability they need to invest in Britain ? the hon . member talk about yet more spending but with no idea of how the revenue would be increase . this Government have to make some incredibly difficult decision in order to balance the book to give that stability in the economy so that we could invest in R & D , include in the life science . the NHS 10 - year plan be move from treatment to prevention , which require medicine ; move from hospital to community , which will require medicine ; and move from analogue to digital , which will enhance and well target medicine for patient . that be just one example of what we be do in the NHS to improve our life science sector . it be a key part of the industrial strategy — one of the eight key sector — and we intend to back it through the strategy . I welcome my right hon . friend to his place . I also welcome my hon . friend the Member for Glasgow South West ( Dr Ahmed ) to his place as life science Minister in the Department of Health and Social Care . I be incredibly ambitious for the life science in my constituency of Bracknell and across Berkshire ; it be a key industry for we . will my right hon . friend share my ambition and agree to meet I , or set up a meeting with the life sciences Minister , to discuss what more we can do to support the sector in Bracknell ? in the interest of time : yes . medical isotope be critical for the treatment of cancer , for diagnosis and for other medical application , yet there have long be concern about security of supply . through Project arthur — advanced radioisotope technology for health utility reactor — the Welsh Government be work with the nuclear - license site at Trawsfynydd in my constituency to develop the mean of produce medical isotope for security of supply here in the UK . what be the Minister ' s Department do to work with the Department of Health and Social Care to find a way of bring that forward ? I have just be work with the Department of Health and Social Care to try to bring that forward . I do not know the exact answer to the right hon . Lady ' s question . if I know the answer , I would give it . I do not , so I will write to she . I welcome the Minister to his place . the life science sector be help to regenerate part of south Birmingham ' s economy , from the new Waters pharmaceutical factory on the old Longbridge MG Rover site in my constituency to the University of Birmingham ' s life science incubator . the Minister have be extremely generous in agree to meet Members today , so continue in that spirit , would he be willing to meet south Birmingham mps to discuss what more can be do to support this very important part of our local economy ? I be tempt to say no , just to see what reaction that get ! but of course I will meet any hon . or right hon . member across the House to discuss the life science sector . whether we be talk about the north , south , east or west , include in my own constituency , the life science play a key role and will continue to do so . I must declare that my wife work in the pharmaceutical and life science industry . the Minister and the Chancellor claim to want to boost growth , yet investment be flee the very sector that he claim be a priority . be it not the case that the vague aspiration of the Government do not meet the real - world test and that the people who be go to suffer from this be his constituent and , unfortunately , mine ? I congratulate the hon . Gentleman ' s wife on what she do in the sector — she be the only one in the family with a real job . that show the depth and breadth of the sector across the country ; everyone will know someone who work in it . we have £ 86 billion from the spending review go into research and development , and £ 2 . 5 billion back the life science sector plan . economic and geopolitical issue be of course affect the pharmaceutical industry at the moment . as I say in my opening remark , MSD ' s quarterly report say that it have to take $ 3 billion out of operating cost over the next few year ; unfortunately and regrettably , this decision be part of that plan . I represent people who work at the excellent Living Systems Institute at the University of Exeter . the purpose - build institute be launch in 2017 to bring together physicist , mathematician , biologist and biomedical scientist , with the expectation that the life science sector be go to enjoy substantial foreign direct investment in the year to come . what effect do the Government anticipate the withdrawal of private investment for life science will have on research student , include those at Exeter ? I would say to life science student in the fledgling part of their career that it be a career they should be in for the long term . life science be the future , which be why it be one of the eight key sector in our industrial strategy . the news the Government have have today on MSD ' s commercial decision be incredibly disappointing , but lot of wonderful stuff be go on in the sector , so we should not talk it down . Moderna be invest more , BioNTech be invest more , Isomorphic Labs be invest more , and roslinct in my constituency be invest more . right across the Chamber today we have hear about the company that be invest more in life science . it be a grow industry , so I say to fledgling academic and people who want to get involve in the industry : get in there . I thank the Minister for his answer . I think we be all seek reassurance in relation to the sector . the news that MSD have withdraw its plan for a research centre in the United Kingdom , with the loss of 125 potential job and staff , be devastating for our science plan . it show a lack of faith in long - term planning by the investor we be so reliant on . how will the Minister seek to reassure global partner that science investment be a priority for this Government ? will we see a swift return of investment to the United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland ? our workforce be the very good in the world , and our world - class institution be make world class because of that world - class workforce . this be the good place in the world to invest at the moment . we be in discussion with the US in respect of the pharmaceutical industry and the tariff in the EU - US economic deal . lot of positive stuff be go on in the industry , and if we be to send out one message to the industry from the House today , it be that the industry be thrive . it be one of the eight key sector in our industrial strategy and this government back it . we be back it with money , with our strategy , and as a whole government . business of the House will the new Leader of the House give we the forthcoming business ? I welcome the new Leader of the House and thank the previous Leader of the House . I be look forward to this session ! probably more than I be , Mr Speaker . [ Laughter . ] the business for next week be as follow : Monday 15 September — consideration of Lords amendment to the Employment Rights Bill . Tuesday 16 September — second reading of the Sentencing Bill . the House will rise for the conference recess at the conclusion of business on Tuesday 16 September and return on Monday 13 October . the business for the week commence 13 October include : Monday 13 October — general debate on baby loss . the subject for this debate be determine by the Backbench Business Committee . Tuesday 14 October — remain stage of the Mental Health Bill [ Lords ] . Wednesday 15 October — remain stage of the sustainable Aviation Fuel Bill . Thursday 16 October — Second reading of the Biodiversity Beyond National Jurisdiction Bill . Friday 17 October — the House will not be sit . the provisional business for the week commence 20 October include : Monday 20 October — Committee of the whole House and remain stage of the Diego Garcia Military Base and British Indian Ocean Territory Bill . I thank the Leader of the House for the business . on this 24th anniversary of 9 / 11 , I know the whole House will want to join I and , I be sure , the Leader of the House in send our good wish to the family and the friend of the victim of those horrendous terrorist attack . so , too , our good wish go to those grieve the murder of Charlie Kirk in the USA , and to our own great colleague , the hon . member for Washington and Gateshead South ( Mrs Hodgson ) , for the terrible news she have have this morning . I thank the recently depart Leader of the House , the right hon . member for Manchester Central ( Lucy Powell ) . she and I have our disagreement ; I do not think there be much doubt about that . she support the wrong football team , and I struggle to get she to answer my question , but she be diligent and effective in respond to member across the House , as well as in Committee . without get too teary about it , I will even miss her appalling pun . but it be an ill wind that blow nobody any good . hurricane tax dodge blow away the Deputy Prime Minister and destroy the Prime Minister ' s much - vaunted phase two , but it have bring we the former Labour Chief Whip ! he be a history teacher , and there can not be many well form of public service than that . after his distinguished career channelling industriously away in the usual channel , I warmly welcome he blink into the bright light of the Dispatch Box . I have somehow think that , have plumb the depth of incompetence over the summer , the Government would now settle down a bit . how na ï ve — how desperately foolish — I be . the no . 10 team be obviously take the mickey . they be laugh at we . " you think this be incompetent ? " , they say , " we have hardly get go . we can do vastly well than that . reset be for wimp — let ' s have a full - blow crash reshuffle . let ' s have a new Foreign Secretary and Home Secretary , as well as a new Deputy Prime Minister . and let ' s undermine the Chancellor of the Exchequer by ostentatiously line up the former Chief Secretary to replace she . the market will really welcome that . even well — let ' s have an election for deputy leader of the party . People be already scared to death about all the taxis come in the Budget , but they will be completely reassure if we run a Labour leadership election at the same time . ideally , we can make the deputy leader a former Cabinet Minister whom the Prime Minister have just abruptly fire . that ' ll be good for stability . oh , and we can go far ! we can actively undermine relation with our close ally if we throw in a major scandal over the Prime Minister ' s personal choice as ambassador to the USA . " if only this be a joke — instead , it be a tragedy . it be like we be trap in an unending episode of " the Office " , with the Prime Minister as David Brent . the union be ratchet up their pay demand . the RMT be hold seven day of roll walk - out . the tube have come to a standstill . the only people who probably will not be affect be junior doctor in London , who have vote to have strike until the new year , so they will be stay at home anyway . as the former director of the Institute for Fiscal Studies remark , it all show how " staggeringly unprepared " Labour be for government , and it be we across this House and all our constituent who be pay the price for their arrogance and negligence . the Leader of the House will only just be come up to speed now , of course — one perfectly understand that — but , if I may , I would make one early request of he , with the utmost seriousness . he will know that many thousand of veteran , include hundred in my constituency and in his , have have their life throw into uncertainty and bad — desperate , in some case — anxiety by the Government ' s decision to repeal the Northern Ireland veteran legislation , the Northern Ireland ( Legacy and Reconciliation ) Act 2023 . that be more than a year ago now . the Government promise a legally sound and effective legislative solution to the problem they have create , so could the Leader of the House let we know — now or in a write update before the recess — when the Northern Ireland Secretary will come to the House and publish that solution ? first , may I add my tribute to my predecessor , my right hon . friend the Member for Manchester Central ( Lucy Powell ) , for her excellent work as Leader of the House over the last year ? she spearhead the revival of the Modernisation Committee , which be a manifesto commitment , and oversee the pack legislative programme that form the basis of this Government ' s first King ' s Speech . I know that I be among many mp across the House who want to thank she for her diligence and hard work . I would also like to express my thank to Colin Lee , the Clerk of Legislation , who retire this week , have join the House service in 1988 . mp from across the House have value his wise counsel over many year , and I know the whole House will wish he well . I know that the House will also share my sadness about the death of Sir Roger Sands , who be Clerk of the House from 2003 to 2006 . Sir Roger be a distinguished servant of the House for 41 year , and the House will want to convey our condolence to Lady Sands and Sir Roger ' s family . I thank the shadow Leader of the House for welcome I to my place . before I turn to his remark , I should caution he , and indeed the House , that the last time I answer a question at the Dispatch Box be in the same year that the iPad be release . both you and I , Mr Speaker , have a little more hair and of a dark hue . at the time the average price of a pint of beer be £ 2 . 91 — there be people sit behind I who be not even old enough to buy alcohol then . I be look forward to these session with the shadow Leader of the House . we have be in the House together for a decade , but I can not claim to know he particularly well , so I also go to Wikipedia to find out a bit more . he be a philosopher , a historian and an author of note . it be clear that he be a think conservative , which be an increasingly rare commodity . I associate myself with the right hon . Gentleman ' s comment about the anniversary of 9 / 11 , and about the death of Charlie Kirk . let we remember that , in these circumstance , Mr Kirk ' s family have be rob of a father and a husband . there be no justification at all for political violence , whatever the view of the person involve . I know that there will inevitably be a degree of knockabout about the state of the Government , and indeed of the Opposition , at business question . I be happy , any day , to have a debate on the comparison between this Government ' s 14 month and the right hon . Gentleman ' s disastrous government of 14 year . the only thing that we be unprepared for be the scale of the state that this country be in . on the right hon . Gentleman ' s substantive point about Northern Ireland , he know that those be difficult matter and that the Government have give a commitment to bring forward legislation . it be important that reassurance be in place , and I can tell he that the Government will be say something shortly . let I finish with this . the shadow Leader of the House and I both have a deep respect for Parliament . I can give he and the House the reassurance that I take my responsibility , both as the Government ' s representative in Parliament and as the House ' s representative in Government , very seriously indeed . rise — Order . I expect this to run for around an hour , so member can help each other with short and punchy question . I call Elsie Blundell to set a good example . I welcome the Leader of the House to his place . I applaud the Government for the bold action that they be take to reform the criminal justice system , but more must be do to safeguard community from violent reoffender . in Middleton , I have be in touch with the courageous family of Michael Hoolickin . Michael be tragically kill in 2016 by a prolific offender who , despite supposedly be under the supervision of the local probation service , be not prevent from commit that appalling act , which have devastate the life of Michael ' s family and friend . will the Leader of the House allow a debate in Government time so that member may consider how to mitigate reoffende by violent perpetrator , and to give voice to the countless bereaved family out there , who deserve our compassion and focus ? that be without doubt an appalling tragedy , and my thought be with Michael ' s family . it be important that we address reoffende — that be critical to public safety . on Tuesday we have the second reading of the Sentencing Bill . it aim to reduce offending , which have a devastating effect on victim . I encourage my hon . friend to consider speak in that debate . I call the liberal Democrat spokesperson . I welcome the new Leader of the House to his place . I join he and the shadow Leader of the House in thank the previous Leader of the House , the right hon . member for Manchester Central ( Lucy Powell ) , for her sterling effort , especially with so many people bob to ask question every Thursday morning . I look forward to work with the Leader of the House in the various Committees on which we serve . I hope that he will follow the Government ' s mantra to go far and fast , especially in modernisation . today be a big day for news . in particular , I echo the word condemn the appalling attack on the office of the hon . member for Washington and Gateshead South ( Mrs Hodgson ) — [ hon . member : " hear , hear . " ] — for whom I have a huge amount of respect . I also join other colleague in recognise that today be the 24th anniversary of 9 / 11 . I be sure that the whole House agree with the importance of remember the victim , include british citizen , their family and those who continue to be affect physically and mentally by the attack and its aftermath . this week , I again meet victim and family member who have be subject to ongoing injustice in our health system , in particular woman and their child who be affect by shocking failure of medical device or by the prescription of drug that have devastating and life - change consequence . while pregnant , my constituent Mary be prescribe the anti - epilepsy medication , sodium valproate . very sadly , Mary join so many other parent whose child be consequently bear with significant birth defect . like any parent of a disabled child , Mary be incredibly worried about their future and what support will be in place to look after they when she be no long able to . victim and their family be exhausted . they have campaign for many year to draw political attention to such matter , but it seem that successive government be not listen . indeed , the Government have yet to respond to the Hughes report on the sodium valproate and pelvic mesh scandal that be publish more than 18 month ago . will the Leader of the House ask the Health Secretary to make a statement to this House to provide an update urgently ? I thank the hon . Lady for the tone of her question . I , too , look forward to work with she on the Commission and the Modernisation Committee . I commend she for campaign on these important matter . our sympathy be with those affect , and we be fully focused on how good to support patient and to prevent future harm . the Government will continue to listen to those affect in this complex area , and I will ensure that Ministers in the Department of Health and Social Care and in the Cabinet Office have hear her concern . if my hon . friend wish to meet they , I will seek a meeting . I have the pleasure of meet Fergus , Freddie and Michael , member of the band Jam Tub , on a recent visit to framwellgate school in Durham . these musician be passionate about contribute to Durham ' s cultural vibrancy , perform at event such as the much - love Durham fringe festival . they contact I after they notice a distinct lack of venue across the whole of County Durham for young band to perform and practice in , limit their opportunity to grow as musician . will the Leader of the House agree to a debate in Government time on the importance of address regional cultural inequality that be have an impact on the opportunity available to talented youngster not just in Durham , but across the country ? as a Durham lad , I concur with my hon . friend . it be a question not just of venue in Durham , but of venue across the country . the Government and , in particular , the Department for Culture , Media and Sport be cognisant of that . we will be do everything that we can to support they . such issue affect a lot of constituency . therefore , should she choose to seek a Backbench Business debate or even an Adjournment debate , I be sure that she would receive support from across the House . I call the Chair of the Backbench Business Committee . I welcome the Leader of the House to his position . I hope that we can have an early meeting to ensure that Back Benchers can have their voice hear in this Chamber , as before . I thank the Leader of the House for give we the business for 13 October , when we return from the conference recess . give past experience of when we return from recess , with the likelihood of statement and possibly urgent question , and give that 78 people want to speak on the baby loss debate , I ask he to consider give it protect time , so that they be able to relay their story . in addition , the business in Westminster Hall on Tuesday 16 September will be a debate on the International Day of Democracy . on 16 October , there will be a debate on World Menopause Day , follow by a debate on Ada Lovelace Day and Government support for woman in science , technology , engineering and mathematic . on 23 October , there will be a debate on histological testing of excise mole , follow by a debate on the impact of NHS workforce level on cancer patient . I be very tempt to ask a question about the legalisation that happen in an employment tribunal early this week that mean it be now possible to discriminate against people because of the football team they support . however , there be a much more serious issue : the situation in Nepal . follow the death of 20 protester , the Prime Minister of Nepal have resign , the Parliament building have be set on fire and there be the threat of a military coup . I have many constituent with relative in Nepal , and they be worried about the situation for their family . will the Leader of the House arrange for a Foreign Office Minister to give a statement next week on what we be do , as the United Kingdom , to protect those family and support the family in the United Kingdom ? I thank the hon . gentleman for his work as Chair of the Backbench Business Committee , and I look forward to work with he . I will commit to an early meeting with he and also to regular meeting . he will know I have long take the view that we need to take care on Mondays , whether it be with Backbench business or Government business , when we return from recess . I will give some thought to protect time , but the reality be that we can often manage the business of that day . the Government can manage the number of statement that go on ; there be an issue around manage urgent question , which be not the Government ' s decision , but it nevertheless can be manage . I will return to that issue if need be . on the really important matter of the situation in Nepal , let I say the recent loss of life and violence in Nepal be appal . we support fundamental freedom and respect for human right , include the right to protest and peaceful assembly , but violence be not the way forward . I expect that the Foreign , Commonwealth and Development Office will be across this matter , but I will draw his remark to its attention . school holiday be great , but they can be a really tough time for some family . programme such as the holiday activity and food programme help to bridge the gap by provide not only meal , but opportunity to build social skill and confidence with age - appropriate activity and a side serve of fun . this year I attend a HAF plus event host by Northumbria University , at which young people age 13 to 16 could do just that by take part in activity from bake to gaming and martial art , which be design by young people themselves . I be delighted that the Government have invest to extend the scheme for another three year . can we have a debate in Government time on how we can build on the success of HAF ? I be delighted to hear about the success of the programme ; as an alumnus , I be not surprised that Northumbria University be help to deliver such successful programme . it be a fantastic thing for our region . we recently announce that £ 600 million be be invest to extend the holiday activity and food programme for another three year , and it have already reach more than half a million child in the past year . I will ensure that the Secretary of State have hear my hon . friend ' s question this morning . I welcome the Leader of the House to his place and pay tribute to his predecessor , the right hon . member for Manchester Central ( Lucy Powell ) — I have to say to my hon . friend the Member for Harrow East ( Bob Blackman ) that she support exactly the right football team . People in Staffordshire Moorlands be very concerned that they should have their say about what happen in devolution plan . I be sure the Leader of the House will share my astonishment that the Reform - lead Staffordshire county council have put forward a proposal for an east Staffordshire unitary authority , which would see not just Staffordshire Moorlands , but Burton , Uttoxeter , Tamworth and Lichfield draw into a great Stoke - on - Trent . can the Leader of the House find time for a debate on the importance of local people have their own say on what happen in their local area ? I have to say to the right hon . member — I be go to say my right hon . friend , which she be in many way — that I do not share she astonishment about that at all , because that be not unique in place where Reform have councillor and be run council . nevertheless , it be an absolute shame that reform councillor appear to have go back on their word in this case . one of the theme that must run through the work we do in local government be listen to local people . I have no doubt that she will continue to make that case , and I urge she to do so by organise a debate on the matter . the Sikh Helpline be a fantastic charity in my constituency that support Sikhs and people from all background with abuse , addiction and mental health issue . over the summer , it do a 350 - mile bike ride from Scotland to West Brom to raise money . will the Leader of the House congratulate all the rider who take part and make time for a debate on the importance of such civil society organisation ? I first want to recognise the fantastic work that my hon . friend do as my predecessor ' s parliamentary private Secretary . I thank she for what I assume , therefore , be her first business question . a 350 - mile bike ride be a terrific achievement , and I join she in recognise the importance of the work that the Sikh Helpline do for its local community . that be the sort of matter that could perhaps be raise in an Adjournment debate . I too welcome the new Leader of the House to his position . I suspect he will have rather more fun at the Dispatch Box than his successor in the Government Whips Office will . I associate myself with his kind remark about Colin Lee , whose service as one of the Clerks of the House have be exemplary . as one of the long - serve member of the Speaker ' s Panel of Chairs , I have have the pleasure of work with Colin over very many year . he will be sorely miss , and the House owe he a huge debt of gratitude . charity in the United Kingdom work in Africa tell I that as a result of the withdrawal of the United States Agency for International Development , woman and child be die in drove . the House will not be sit when President Trump visit the United Kingdom , so we will not have an opportunity to send a clear message from this House at that time , but the Prime Minister will have an opportunity . will the Leader of the House ask the Prime Minister to place on the agenda for discussion in the margin the withdrawal of USAID from Africa , which be have such a devastating effect ? I will commit to make the Prime Minister aware of what the right hon . Gentleman have ask , and I hope that will be hear when the President visit . give the right hon . Gentleman ' s experience and voice , I be pretty sure that message will be hear loud and clear . one of the concern that my constituent in Lowestoft raise be the closure of our public toilet due to the local council ' s redevelopment of our old Wilko site . I be concerned that old and disabled resident in particular be be dissuade from spend their time and money in our town centre ' s shop due to fear of be catch short . I recently meet the British Toilet Association , and I learn that in the US there be a national standard of one toilet for every 10 , 000 people . I therefore ask the Leader of the House whether we can have a debate in Government time on the need for more toilet on our high street . I could not agree more about the importance of the availability of toilet in our town centre . I be sure that issue come to mps ' attention very often . for many people — particularly those with complex need or health condition — the lack of a toilet can be the decide factor in whether they leave the house . as the issue be clearly one for so many colleague across the House , I think it would be a great topic for a Westminster Hall debate . I too welcome the Leader of the House to his place . just three day ago , the BBC reveal how effortlessly an illegal vape lace with Spice can be purchase through Snapchat . one in six confiscate vape in school now contain Spice , which be describe as a zombie drug — a prison drug . that be potentially condemn young people to a lifelong addiction and a criminal life , yet this week Ofcom write that such evidence do not meet the bar for enforcement action , even under the new Online Safety Act 2023 . can we have a statement from the Department for Science , Innovation and Technology to explain why Ofcom be refuse to hold social medium company accountable for drug deal on their platform , which put thousand of young people at risk ? as a former drug Minister , I absolutely share the hon . Lady ' s concern . I have always think that a strong line should be take , and of course social medium play a role in that . I thank she for raise that really important issue , which be important for many people , not least parent . I will draw her concern to the attention of the new Science , Innovation and Technology Secretary . our high street in Leigh and Atherton be be undermine by illicit shop that be use for money laundering , illegal working and counterfeit good . raid on shop have take place this week , lead to the seizure of over £ 10 , 000 - worth of illicit good , but the shop reopen within hour . criminal be exploit loophole in the Licensing Act 2003 , and council be struggle to act . will the Leader of the House confirm that restore town centre be a Government priority , and will he allow time in Parliament to debate strengthen licensing law and close these damaging loophole ? I congratulate my hon . friend on her recent marriage . she raise a very important matter , and she be a doughty campaigner for her local community . high street be a cornerstone of our local community , and we be deliver 13 , 000 more officer in neighbourhood policing role to tackle these matter . I will draw her comment to the attention of the relevant Department , but I encourage she to attend the next Home Office question next week in order to raise this issue with Ministers directly . I welcome the right hon . gentleman to his new role . may I echo the hon . member for Chelmsford ( Marie Goldman ) in draw his attention to the reply that his predecessor give to I on 27 February concern the Government ' s response to the report on valproate ? it really be necessary that we get a response . Janet Williams and Emma Murphy from the Independent Foetal Anti - Convulsant Trust come to see I this week . they be grateful for the opportunity to meet a Minister in the Department for Work and Pensions , but they really need a formal response to the commissioner ' s report of 19 month ago . the right hon . Gentleman will appreciate that I be new to this role , but I give he a commitment that I will follow that up after this session . hopefully , I will be able to arrange a meeting with the Minister and get a response , which sound overdue . I have be support constituent live in ex - military housing on Embry Road in Wittering , in my constituency . the Ministry of Defence sell the home year ago , but my constituent have be leave in limbo because their property remain wrongly classified under MOD commercial energy contract . despite repeat attempt , many have be unable to set up domestic account and be now suddenly face backdate gas and electricity bill of up to £ 6 , 000 . do the Leader of the House agree that the issue of billing error deserve a debate in Parliament ? will he ensure that Ministry of Defence official contact I so that we can get those home reclassify , which would allow my constituent to access fair tariff and avoid further financial distress ? I thank my hon . friend for raise that issue , and recognise that his constituent who have be affect will have go through a great deal of stress in try to deal with it . I will ask colleague in the Ministry of Defence to reach out to he , in the hope that these matter can be resolve as soon as possible . may I , too , welcome the new Leader of the House to his place ? the Trussell Trust ' s " hunger in Wales " report , which be publish this week , show that family with three or more child be far more likely to be force to turn to food bank . the two - child limit be at the root of this injustice . it deliberately punish child because of the number of brother and sister they have , and it be drive thousand of family into needless hardship . will Labour in Westminster and Labour in Cardiff work together to grant debate in Government time on the urgent need for this impoverish policy to be scrap ? the right hon . Lady know that we be already take action to help work parent . for example , free breakfast club will put £ 450 in the pocket of work parent . we have double the amount of free childcare for eligible work parent , we be expand free school meal and we be extend the household support fund . I mention early in my remark the holiday activity and food programme . we be do a great deal . I know that there be discussion and debate about what other action can be take . the Government have a child poverty taskforce , which report from time to time and will be report soon , regardless of whether it have something to say about this issue . I have no doubt that these will be hot topic in the run - up to the Budget , and there will be ample time to debate they . I welcome my right hon . friend the Leader of the House to his place . I recently have the privilege of visit Lambley reed pond . will my right hon . friend join I in thank and pay tribute to Bonnie Bramwell and all those on the Lambley reed pond committee , who have work tirelessly to protect and enhance one of the most beautiful hide gem in my constituency ? yes , I will . environmental matter be so important in constituency , and the work of community group be so important , because they be the heart of what make a true community . I pay tribute not just to that group , but to my hon . friend for his tireless work on their behalf . two night ago , a man in his 30 be stab in the centre of Bognor Regis , and that follow a fatal stabbing early this year . will the Government bring forward a debate to consider how to make high street safe and tackle the increase prevalence of knife crime in small seaside town such as Bognor Regis ? we be take action to tackle knife crime . in fact , we have give a commitment to halve it over the next decade and , I hope , go even far . the hon . Member say two thing that be particularly relevant to I . one be that , as a former Home Office Minister , I be acutely aware of the importance of level of knife crime . the other be that , as an MP for a seaside town , I know how important it be that they be safe place not just for people to visit , but for people to live . the Government be absolutely determined to bear down on violent knife crime , and I be sure there will be opportunity to discuss that in future legislation or should she choose to seek a debate on the matter . many right hon . and hon . member will know the name Armitage shank as the company that have be make basin and toilet for over 200 year . however , few people will know that it take its name from the village of Armitage in my constituency . sadly , Armitage Shanks be plan to scale down its operation there , shut one of its kiln and threaten up to 100 job . I be work closely with the GMB union to make sure that those affect can find other opportunity and to safeguard as many livelihood as we can , but the impact of those job loss on the community will be serious . can the Leader of the House arrange for a debate in Government time on how the Government can help protect historic brand such as Armitage shank ? the news of job loss that my hon . friend bring to the House be disappointing . it be always disappointing when job be lose , and I know the whole House will share his concern , particularly as it be a well - know name employ a large number of people . we be commit to support british industry , and Armitage Shanks be a name well know throughout the land . the Chancellor have announce the date of the next Budget , which will turn to the long - term reform that Britain need to unlock growth and ensure that the economy work for work people . I will of course bring forward time for a debate follow the Budget in the usual way . this be a truly sad and tragic day for our friend in the United States of America as they remember the event of 9 / 11 in 2001 , and give the tragic assassination last night of Charlie Kirk . I be privileged to welcome he to the Houses of Parliament in 2018 and take he to Speaker ' s House for a Christmas reception . he be a friend of the United Kingdom , he stand up for freedom and his christian faith , and we mourn his loss and send our condolence to his family and friend . talk about someone of principle who stand up for freedom , 13 October — the day the House return after the conference recess — will be the 100th anniversary of the birth of our fine post - war Prime Minister , Margaret Thatcher . will the Leader of the House allow a debate on the legacy of Margaret Thatcher , which be to restore the british economy , stand up for Britain around the world , defend freedom and not give away british island but protect , defend and restore they , as she do for the Falkland Islands in 1982 ? I echo the remark I make early about Charlie Kirk . whether we share view or not , political violence be never acceptable . should the hon . Member wish to seek a debate on the anniversary of Mrs Thatcher ' s birth , I can assure he that it would be well attend . I can also assure he that there would not be the unanimous approval of her legacy and record that he perhaps think there would be . I come from a community that be devastate by the loss of heavy industry , and to be honest , many of those community be still suffer . the difference between those day and today be that when there be industrial change , this Government stand with work people to lessen the impact and ensure that new growth bring new job . I think I be the only MP who can say they have two amazing football stadium and two majestic cathedral in their constituency . Liverpool Riverside be in the top 10 area nationally for job , economic income and economic value . however , the hospitality sector be still struggle to recover from covid and the rise in national insurance contribution . will the Leader of the House allow for a debate in Government time to discuss how we can bring the UK close to EU competitor by reduce vat and provide the maximum discount for hospitality site with a rateable value of under £ 500 , 000 , to stimulate demand , boost competitiveness and keep venue open ? my hon . friend be a doughty campaigner not just for her constituency , but for her city . the Government be always concerned about the state of hospitality and make sure that we encourage investment in hospitality , which be at the centre of many of our constituency , not least mine . we must ensure that there be not just decent pay and condition , but respect for the people who work in the sector . I gently say to my hon . friend that I know the importance of get the tax situation right , but we need to raise national insurance contribution in order to fill a financial hole . these be not easy decision , but they be make , and people can not have it both way — they can not have more spending on public service or hospitality support unless we actually raise the money in the first place . I would like to request a debate on rural broadband and rural 4 g . Broadband coverage in much of Devon be poor , in spite of the last Government say that they would spend £ 5 billion on it . these 4 g notspot be widespread , but the Government scheme to get rid of they bear absolutely no relation to the broadband scheme . will this Government please get a map of those area without proper broadband , plot the 4 g notspot on it and at least get everyone I represent one or the other ? I will draw these issue to the attention of the relevant Department , but we be invest £ 500 million this year to deliver Project Gigabit and the share rural network , to drive the roll - out of digital infrastructure in part of the UK that be currently underserved . that will improve full nationwide connectivity by 2030 , with more than £ 2 . 3 billion of contract sign to connect over 1 million home in some of Britain ' s most remote location . I welcome the new Leader of the House to his place and thank he for all the help and support he give those of we who be newly elect to this place 12 month ago in his previous role . last Friday , Cumbria ' s first community county flag be unveil at a special service at Carlisle cathedral . Cumbria county flag be the result of a county - wide competition and public vote , win by cumbrian artist Ben Walker and present to the lord lieutenant by the 1st Wetheral Brownies . will the Leader of the House join I in congratulate Mr Walker on his excellent design and thank Cumbria ' s lord lieutenant for organise such a fantastic initiative that celebrate community cohesion and pride ? I be happy to send my congratulation to Mr Walker and the lord lieutenant . we be proud of our flag , both national and regional . I know that Mr Speaker like to mark historic county day by fly flag from Parliament ' s flagpole , so we may see Cumbria ' s new community flag fly in Parliament Square in the future . may I ask the new Leader of the House for some help ? I have be work with the Hinckley school to try and get its science and technology building project sort . that have be go on for a couple of year and we be at a crucial point with contractor . with the reshuffle , the Minister in charge of that portfolio have be move on , and we be therefore in a pende position . I have already send the information to the Leader of the House and I would be grateful if he would contact the Department for Education on my behalf to put pressure on to ensure that we get a decision make on this , so that the development can get start before the winter set in . I know that the hon . Gentleman have raise this issue with Ministers before , and I also understand that official from the Department for Education reach out to discuss the matter on Monday . I pay tribute to he for campaign on the matter as an assiduous constituency MP on behalf of child , predominantly , but also parent and staff of the school . he will appreciate , as he have acknowledge , that new Ministers be in post after the reshuffle , and there be indeed a new Minister in this role . I will ensure that this be raise with the Minister at the early opportunity , in the hope that the hon . Gentleman get the early response possible . I warmly welcome the Leader of the House to his new role and associate myself with the support across the House for my hon . friend the Member for Washington and Gateshead South ( Mrs Hodgson ) . member have raise many time the unacceptable level of threat that we face . increasingly , abuse and threat be be drive and whip up by one platform in particular , X , previously know as Twitter , which have become a sewer of antisemitism , racism , misogyny and dangerous conspiracy theory . its owner have specifically target member of this House . with a new director of communication in no . 10 and a refresh Front Bench , may we have a debate in Government time on whether it be appropriate for that platform to continue to be use for official Government communication ? what my hon . Friend say about x be truly shocking . we be very much in favour of free speech , but we be also against incitement to violence . we have deliver the Online Safety Act 2025 to seek to strike the balance between user protection and freedom of speech . on the matter of the Government ' s use of x , it be right that the public be keep up to date with information and a number of people still use x , although of course many be move to other platform . I be sure that the Government will take that into account in our deliberation in future , and we also keep our wide social medium practice under review . my new political movement , Restore Britain , be currently run a membership poll on support for deport all illegal migrant . the response , from thousand of people , be almost unanimously in favour . will the Leader of the House make time for a debate on mass deportation , give the extraordinary level of public support , and ensure that the House have the opportunity to debate not just the moral imperative but the legal and operational reform require , include secure detention facility , bilateral return agreement , foreign aid suspension , remittance taxis , visa cancellation , the introduction of a true hostile environment and plenty more , in order to deliver the mass deportation of every last illegal migrant at scale and pace ? I be tempt to give the answer that one of my predecessor , Ted Short , give , which be to say , " no " . however , I will not do that because these be important matter . I make it very clear in my opening remark that I regard my role in this House as respect the view of Members and make opportunity for member to debate those , even if they be — I have to say — abhorrent . the hon . Gentleman have be here long enough to know that there be many way in which these matter can be raise — he have just do so now . I be resist the temptation to recite the very important work that the Government be do , but if he seek a debate on these matter in the usual way , perhaps he will be successful . I welcome the Leader of the House to his new role and hope to see he be as generous with Government time as he be with his own time in his previous role . as he know well , this month our country will celebrate 200 year since the world ' s first passenger railway journey take place on the Stockton to Darlington railway . this momentous innovation change the world and lead to a huge industrial boom for our region . hundred of thousand of skilled worker have be employ in manufacturing and engineering role over the past 200 year , but those job have decline recently due to the last government ' s neglect of british industry and manufacturing . give how vital the ambition of our region be for the industrial strategy , will he grant Government time to debate how this Government will back british worker , back british industry and get our region boom again ? I commend my hon . friend for the way she speak for her constituency . it be important that we remember the 200th anniversary of the Stockton to Darlington railway , as it allow those of we from the north - east to claim that we be the cradle of the industrial revolution . as she allude to , these thing change over time . the Government be absolutely committed to bring growth to every part of our country , include our north - east . that mean work through our elect mayor as well as make sure that the skill we have in those engineering industry be keep — even though they be change skill — and reskille take place . we must also have the support in place for company who seek to invest in our region . rise — order . about 20 member be still on their foot and I be aim to finish question to the Leader of the House at 1 o ' clock , so please keep your question very brief . I welcome the new Leader of the House to his place . grave breach of international humanitarian law continue in Gaza , include the unlawful blockade of aid and illegal settlement . accord to an aid worker I meet recently , sanitary product be be withhold from woman and girl . meanwhile , our Prime Minister roll out the red carpet for the israeli President , a man who have say on the record that the entire palestinian nation be responsible for the 7 October attack . will the Leader of the House please commit to a debate in Government time on the UK ' s duty to ensure that international law be always uphold and on how we must work with law - abide international partner to guarantee that carry real weight on the world stage ? the Government have be clear in their condemnation of many of the thing that have be happen over the last time in Gaza . they have make it clear that it be important that aid get into the area and that we move towards a ceasefire to resolve this . but when the hon . member talk about whom we might talk to about that , I say gently that most conflict end with some kind of diplomacy , and that require people to talk to each other , even though they may not agree . that allow the UK Government and the Prime Minister to put view across , which be really important . international law be at the heart of everything that the Government seek to do . as for an opportunity to raise that , there have be many statement and debate in this place about this important matter , and my intention be that that will continue . I have enjoy many Bournemouth air festival , so its cancellation have leave a huge gap . I recently meet an event organiser who have a plan , and I be open to meet more organiser . the BH Area Hospitality Association , under the leadership of Rosie Radwell , have launch " check in – Chill out " , which be a campaign to showcase how great Bournemouth be . do the Leader of the House agree in the strong possible term that Bournemouth be the good seaside town ? will he congratulate the campaign ? will he grant a debate on tourism , particularly for coastal and seaside town ? I very much congratulate Bournemouth on how it be promote its town , as well as my hon . friend on how he be promote it . I have to say he be stretch it a bit by ask I to say it be the good seaside town since I have Whitley Bay in my constituency , but it should not be a competition . what we need to do be promote seaside and coastal town . they be fantastic place to live and to visit . last weekend , I meet resident of New Park , alongside local Liberal Democrat councillor , Monika Slater . resident be frustrate about the new Tesco that have be build and its impact on local business , with contractor regularly flout the planning rule to work outside permit hour . will the Leader of the House allow for a debate in Government time on local authority enforcement power and , perhaps , how we can get tory - run North Yorkshire council to use they ? I be not sure of the detail of this case , but it be not unfamiliar to many of we to see the stress that big development sometimes cause to resident . again , this be the sort of thing the hon . Gentleman should seek an Adjournment debate on . I recently have the pleasure of attend this year ' s switch - on of the iconic Blackpool illumination , light up our promenade and attract million and million of visitor each year since 1879 . will the Leader of the House join I in congratulate Kate Shane , Richard Williams and all the people at Visit Blackpool , Blackpool council and Lightworks for deliver such an impressive event this year , and join I in encourage more people , far and wide , to join we in Blackpool for the illumination this year ? I absolutely join my hon . friend in congratulate Kate Shane and everyone at Visit Blackpool on their hard work . I also congratulate he , because he be a champion not just for Blackpool ' s cause , but for seaside and coastal town in general . I have very fond memory of holiday in Blackpool — I have to say some time ago — and trip to see the illumination . from the illumination , the tower , the pier and the Pleasure Beach , my hon . friend ' s constituency really have something for everyone . I encourage people to visit the illumination , not least because they ensure the town have attraction all year round and it be not just seasonal — that be very important . one of my constituent have raise their concern with I about the SEEMiS software use in the scottish school system and the ability of staff to alter case with no record of change be make . transparency in our public body be vital to the public trust both our institution and we . in these time when public trust in body be so low , will the Leader of the House grant time for a debate on uphold the nolan principle across all public body , so that taxpayer can have confidence that decision be make with integrity and transparency ? again , I have to admit that I be not across this issue . we would be very supportive on the general principle of transparency . as I be not sure where responsibility lie for such decision , I suggest that the hon . Lady write to I , and she might seek a debate on the issue . I be aware that you , Madam Deputy Speaker , be a strong champion of animal welfare , so you might be pleased to know that tomorrow , for the end of our lido season , be a " bring your dog to come and swim " day . you might also be pleased , alongside the Leader of the House , to know that this year over 37 , 000 people have visit Peterborough lido since it open its door in May . that be an incredible turnaround since we face the risk of it close early this year . I pay tribute to Clare Marshall , the friend of the Lido and the staff of the lido for that amazing work . we can now look forward to the Year of the Lido in 2026 , as the lido celebrate its 90th anniversary . I be not ambitious enough to invite the Leader of the House to come for a swim with I in the lido , but will he join I in congratulate everyone who support our lido in Peterborough , and may we have a debate in Government time about the vital role that lido play in so many of our community ? I be not sure that would be a particularly attractive sight , I have to say , because my memory suggest that my costume have a hole in the knee . [ laughter . ] but I do want to join my hon . friend in pay tribute to Clare Marshall , the Friends of Peterborough Lido and of course its staff . a number of mp have similar concern — particularly seaside and coastal mp , but also in other place around the country — and this be exactly the sort of topic that would be good for a Westminster Hall debate or a Backbench Business debate . I urge he to apply . I welcome the right hon . member to his new role . there be less pressure as Leader of the House in contrast to the onerous duty of Chief Whip . he refer to the colour of his hair , but he still have his hair whereas mine have be disappear for many year . concern report have emerge that the indian Government be increase effort to forcibly return Rohingya refugee to Burma , follow the deportation of 40 individual in May . Rohingya refugee face the risk of severe human right violation and persecution upon their return . give the UK ' s longstanding obligation to the principle of non - refoulement and the special relationship with India , will the Leader of the House urge the Foreign Secretary to provide a statement outline what action the Government will take to address this deeply concern development and to ensure that the right and safety of Rohingya refugee remain a priority ? perhaps this job be less pressured than my last one , but I confess that this morning it do not feel that way . as ever , the hon . Gentleman raise a very serious issue . this Government be commit to defend human right abuse , and regularly engage with the Government of India on a range of human right matter . I will ensure that the Foreign Office have hear the concern he raise , and I be sure that at the next Foreign Office question he will also seek to raise the matter . rise — while I will not be able to get everybody in , I will get more in if member can keep their question to about two sentence . to provide a good example , I call Matt Rodda . thank you , Madam Deputy Speaker — no pressure . early this week , I be notify that Southern Gas Networks want to dig up a major road in read for 18 week . this be the late in a series of sudden and abrupt intervention by utility company . can we have a debate in Government time on the behaviour of utility company and how well to regulate their activity dig up road ? again , these be issue that affect constituent across the country . I be sure that if my hon . Friend seek a debate on these matter , either in Westminster Hall or a Backbench Business debate , he would find that it be well attend . sadly , last week in my constituency there be yet more flooding . this follow on from a very dry period and the hot summer on record . clearly , the weather be change . would the Leader of the House consider bring forward a debate on build resilience to more extreme weather event , as he make the political weather ? my hon . friend raise an important matter . I be sure there will be a lot of people across the country , particularly those who be hard hit by the very fine and dry weather , concern about what might happen go forward , in both the short and long term . our flood resilience taskforce be focus on the long - term delivery of our flood resilience strategy and investment . should she seek a debate , it would allow Ministers to set out our plan . in recent day I have be contact by many resident concern about increase hate crime , racist graffiti , vandalism and even violence against police at protest . will the Leader of the House join with I in the view that there be no place for hate in Hillingdon or anywhere in the UK , that our diversity be our strength , and that those come to our community to work in our hospital , in social care and to set up business be very welcome ? will he also make time in this place for a debate about a national cohesion strategy , and local strategy to follow ? I absolutely join with my hon . friend in his remark . I be proud to say that this country be overwhelmingly inclusive , but it would be wrong to say that we do not face challenge in some community . the Government be commit to develop a long - term , more strategic approach to social cohesion . housing , Communities and Local Government question will take place once we return from recess . the subject would also make a timely Westminster Hall debate . the woman ' s rugby world cup be provide a fantastic sporting showcase , include the seven match host by Sandy Park in Exeter to sell - out crowd . will the Leader of the House join I in congratulate the organiser , include the staff at Exeter city council and the team for an excellent tournament so far , and send the good of luck from this place to all the home nation team as they enter the knock - out stage this weekend ? with record - break crowd at the rugby world cup and ten of thousand of fan pack out the Mall for the Lionesses ' victory parade after their amazing success in the Euros , we be show ourselves to be true world leader in woman ' s sport . I join my hon . friend in pay tribute to the organiser , but also in wish success for the home nation . as he know , there be a game this weekend between England and Scotland — both home nation — so it be a case of which side to pick . this week , 6 town Radio , a community radio station broadcast to the six town of Stoke - on - Trent and Newcastle - under - Lyme celebrate its 15th birthday . will the Leader of the House join I in congratulate Dan Townley , Terry Bossons and all the volunteer at 6 town Radio as it celebrate its milestone ? do he agree that community radio have play , and will continue to play , an important role in connect our community ? I certainly join my hon . friend in congratulate 6 town Radio on its 15th anniversary and community radio right across our country . the Government recognise the importance of community radio and continue to support the sector as part of a diverse medium landscape . he may wish to go far than just seek congratulation for what be happen in his area and consider a Backbench Business debate on the matter , because I be sure that many colleague would wish to speak in such a debate about their own community radio station . last Saturday , the Linlithgow Union Canal Society celebrate its 50th anniversary with a flotilla from Winchburgh to Linlithgow , mark five decade of volunteer - lead preservation and promotion of Scotland ' s inland waterway . will the Leader of the House join I in congratulate the society and its volunteer on that milestone and wish they all the very good for the next 50 year ? I do not have any canal in my constituency for pretty obvious reason , but I love they and I think they be fantastic . local waterway be so important ; they do not just link community but bring they together . I be pleased to offer my congratulation and again point to the fact that community organisation be the absolute backbone of our constituency and I wish they well go forward . I congratulate Cornwall on be in wave one of the Government ' s innovative roll - out of the neighbourhood health service . we be one of 43 area make that shift and we have provide service locally , such as community health and wellbeing worker , which have be very well receive and which make a difference . may we have a debate in Government time on that shift to community care , with the recognition that urgent and emergency care be an area where Cornwall , like other , have struggle , so alternative service should always be in place as we make that switch ? my hon . friend will know that the NHS be one of our priority . she will also know that we be begin to invest more and to turn the NHS round , but that it be a considerable challenge give the state that we find it in 15 month ago . I urge she to seek a debate on these matter , so that local community can raise their own specific concern , which be real and tangible . the Government have very optimistic plan for what can happen with regard to service . it be important that people be treat close to home and indeed , in some case , at home . that be a considerable challenge , but it be one that we intend to meet . I welcome the Leader of the House to his place . last weekend , I have the pleasure of attend the 100 - year anniversary of the Midland Red Coalville bus garage , which showcase some fantastic bus through history for people to enjoy . will the Leader of the House join I in thank Leicester Transport Heritage Trust , the vehicle owner , Coalville Heritage Society , Snibston Heritage Trust and the district and local council for their hard work in showcase their bus and put on this amazing event ? will he also recognise the work of local volunteer and their contribution to our local community ? as yesterday ' s debate highlight , the whole House care deeply about bus service and their role in our local community . this sound like a fantastic event to celebrate an impressive anniversary and a great deal of hard work to organise it . I be happy to pay tribute to everyone concerned and delight to hear about the event ' s success . it might have be for the anniversary of the Midland Red Coalville bus garage , but it be about celebrate bus and volunteer as well . the forced adoption scandal have outraged people in Newcastle - under - Lyme , and up and down the country . this week I hear from Karen Constantine , who give birth aged 15 in the late 1970 . she be force out of education in north Staffordshire and into a mother and baby home in Birmingham , and be push to give up her child . although she do not give up her child and fight really hard against other who try to force who to , other woman be not so fortunate . will the Leader of the House join I in call on local authority to preserve and protect all adoption record , so that mother be able to get the justice they deserve and find their child ? can I also urge he to do all he can to get a formal apology from the Dispatch Box to those woman , who so desperately deserve justice ? I thank my hon . friend for raise this matter and for raise Karen ' s case . as he point out , other be less fortunate than Karen . however , these be remarkably distressing and life - change situation . such abhorrent practice should never have take place , and our deep sympathy be with those affect . we take these matter extremely seriously and continue to engage with those impact to provide support . we be also improve access to adoption record , include by ask adoption agency to preserve record for at least 100 year , and I will ensure that the Education Secretary hear about my hon . friend ' s concern . that conclude business question . I thank the Leader of the House for his time . point of order on a point of order , Madam Deputy Speaker . you rightly expect the Executive to provide timely information to this House . on 13 August I write to the Secretaries of State for Defence , for Foreign , Commonwealth and Development Affairs and for Business and Trade to ask for important information about the legality of F - 35 export . we want that information ahead of a ministerial appearance before the Business and Trade Sub - Committee on Economic Security , Arms and Export Controls on Monday . this be important , because the Al - Haq judgment hand down by the court on 30 June make it very clear that under our constitution , the acutely sensitive and political issue of the legality of export be a matter for the Executive — who be democratically accountable to Parliament and ultimately the electorate — and not for the court . we have not have that information yet , and the hearing be on Monday . what step can you advise I to take to get the information that the Committee need ? I be grateful to the right hon . member for give I notice of his point of order . the Chair be not responsible for Ministers ' reply to correspondence , but all hon . member should be entitle to expect a timely reply when they write to any member of the Government , particularly when they be ask for information on behalf of a Select Committee on which the House have confer formal power to seek information and to hold the Government to account . I be sure that those on the Treasury Bench will have note the right hon . member ' s comment , and I hope that the Business and Trade Committee will be provide with all the information it require as soon as possible . on a point of order , Madam Deputy Speaker . follow the decision in February 2010 , our national flag — the Union flag or Union Jack — must fly from the Victoria Tower every day of the year , but in summer a much large flag be fly ; in winter only a small flag be fly . can you please ask Mr Speaker to raise with the House authority why the large summer flag have be remove and replace by the small flag ? when I last check , british summer time do not end until 26 October , so surely the large Union Jack should fly at least until that date . may I also say that 26 October be also Essex Day , so maybe we can fly the flag of Essex as well ? I thank the hon . gentleman for raise the issue of the flag fly from the Victoria Tower . I will ensure that his request be raise with both Mr Speaker and the House authority and that he receive a response . on a point of order , Madam Deputy Speaker . my mind be fill with the horrendous image of the assassination yesterday of Charlie Kirk : an American , a conservative , a Christian , a family man — gun down . he have attract the following of many million of young Americans and have a grow online presence in our country , especially after he speak at the Oxford Union last month . I absolutely believe in free speech , but we all understand that there be limit to free speech : incitement , constant personal vilification , the use of horrendous historical image . this be not a left / right issue . it be not a left / right debate . I think it be incumbent upon all of we — whichever side of the divide we be on , however passionately we feel — to behave with personal responsibility , and I mourn the loss of my friend . I thank the hon . member for give notice of his point of order . it serve as a timely reminder of the need for respect in this place and in our politic . while it be not a matter for the Chair , he give the House an important opportunity to offer our condolence and to express our horror at the event in the USA yesterday . biosecurity at the Border : Britain ' s Illegal Meat Crisis Environment , Food and Rural Affairs Committee Select Committee statement we now come to the Select Committee statement on behalf of the Environment , Food and Rural Affairs Committee . Mr Alistair Carmichael will speak for up to 10 minute , during which time no intervention may be take . at the conclusion of the statement , I will call member to ask question on the subject of the statement . these should be brief question , not full speech , and question should be direct to the Select Committee Chair , not to the relevant Government Minister . front Benchers , however , may take part in questioning . I thank the Backbench Business Committee for allocate time for I to make the statement , which mark the publication of the third report by our Committee in this Parliament . our report be title " biosecurity at the Border : Britain ' s Illegal Meat Crisis " , and it really be a crisis . it be a crisis that have be brew for year , if not decade . it be also a crisis that matter not just on the national level but on the individual and personal level . we should never underestimate the impact that animal disease outbreak have on the mental health of farmer , veterinary professional and other in our rural community when biosecurity break down . in 2001 , over 6 million animal be slaughter across the United Kingdom follow the outbreak of foot and mouth disease . rural community be devastate . the cost of the outbreak to our economy would be £ 13 . 8 billion in today ' s price . expert at the time conclude that the infected meat that precipitate the outbreak have be import illegally . in January this year , foot and mouth disease be again report , this time in Germany . expert there tell the Committee that it be likely cause by illegally import food . that single outbreak of foot and mouth disease cost the german economy € 1 billion , and it require the culling of 336 animal and the testing of thousand more . in response , the UK Government announce import restriction , but still , at - risk commercial consignment bypass border control post for six day , despite the ban on affected product . we will address that matter in our next report . we have no idea how much unchecked produce be able to enter through personal import . we do know that , although border official be now make far few seizure of animal product than in the year follow the 2001 outbreak , they be seize unprecedentedly high volume . last year , 235 tonne of illegal animal product be seize at the UK border . give the low level of check take place , that must be just the tip of the iceberg . port health worker tell we that they have see a huge deterioration in the hygiene presentation of illegal meat , and say that shipment be increase in size . that meat be head to our high street , our farm and our kitchen table . frontline worker be anxious that a disease outbreak be imminent , and we should share their anxiety . in her evidence to the Committee , the chief vet describe port health authority as our eye and ear at the border . in that , she be quite correct , but still , Dover be the only port health authority in Britain be fund to support the work of Border Force in seize illegal meat and dairy product . even Dover ' s funding have be under threat . this year ' s funding be secure at the last minute and only after the intervention of stakeholder , include our Committee . we visit Dover and see the entirely unsuitable facility in which port health worker be be require to work . we see van stuff with room temperature meat product package in plastic bag , newspaper and cardboard box . this meat have travel across Europe , unrefrigerated , from country where african swine fever be widespread . the Minister responsible for biosecurity commit to visit the Port of Dover to see the situation for herself . at the time of our report ' s publication , she still have not do so . I find that regrettable and very much hope it will be attend to in early course . the relationship between DEFRA and the Dover Port Health Authority be poor . that serve no one ' s interest and require immediate ministerial attention . we know that when commercial import from certain country have be ban , criminal have find a new way to make money and be bring in product undeclared , under the guise of personal import . DEFRA have reassure we that Border Force be deliver " intelligence - lead check " ; we be concerned that this language hide the reality on the ground . the reality be a limited and incomplete intelligence network , strained enforcement capability , and port facility unsuitable for seize significant volume of potentially contaminate meat . at the very least , farmer and the public deserve great transparency about the risk we face . we have call on the Government to start publish quarterly datum relate to seizure of illegally import animal product . we have also ask the Government to model the amount of animal product enter Britain , and the risk this pose to our livestock . meat smuggling be describe to our Committee as " the big threat to food security we have have for a long time " . we do not know how these animal be rear and slaughter , or how the meat have be handle or store . it carry increase risk of virus , bacteria and parasite that can make people sick , and fall far below the strict standard that we require of british producer and legitimate importer , and that consumer expect . illegally import meat and dairy product be be sell online and via door - to - door sale to household and business . illicit product can be find in market , shop , takeaway and hospitality venue , where consumer trust that the food they be buy be safe and meet high welfare standard . in some case , meat be misrepresent as be of british origin . we hear that the cost of living crisis be fuel the market for cheap , illegally import meat , as be demand for culturally prefer product , like pork from eastern Europe . other meat and dairy product be illegally bring into Great Britain for personal consumption because individual be unaware of the prohibition or because they be willing to take the risk . DEFRA ban import of most animal product from the EU in April this year , but many traveller do not know what the rule be or why they be in place . we think travel operator should be legally compel to inform traveller of food prohibition rule for EU country , as they be for other country . there be currently no ownership in Government of the issue of illegal import of animal product . responsibility be so fragmented across agency that outdate , inefficient way of work have be allow to persist , and the scale of the crisis have escalate to an intolerable tolerable degree . we have call on DEFRA to establish a taskforce to bridge the divide . it should lead on the design and delivery of a strategy for tackle meat smuggling . we also find that Border Force be not adequately fulfil its responsibility to enforce rule at the border . it have too many compete priority , and officer lack understanding of the risk and rule associate with product of animal origin . port health authority be willing to step up and support Border Force , but be needlessly inhibit by a lack of power and funding . such authority should be give stop , search and seize power in relation to animal product , and funding for enforcement presence at the border . there be currently no deterrent to meat smuggling , so smuggler be operate with impunity . DEFRA must immediately deliver a plan to start to fine and prosecute repeat offender and those who be attempt to smuggle significant amount of animal product . successive government have be aware of the scale and risk of illegal meat import and have fail to deliver a response proportionate to the challenge . we have identify the risk and some of the solution . it be essential that DEFRA take those risk seriously and act to mitigate they with urgency . the stake be too high for further inaction . I be grateful to the right hon . gentleman for his comment and to member of the Committee for look at this important issue . I be very proud of the farmer in Newcastle - under - Lyme , whom I meet as often as I can — I be particularly proud of the high - quality meat and milk that they produce in very difficult circumstance . just yesterday I meet Howard to talk through some of his thought and challenge , and one of the key thing that come through be the mental health impact on some of our farmer and those in our farming community . I note from the report and the evidence from the Farming Community Network that there be call for real action . can the Chair of the Committee say what think the Committee will give to unpick some of the real challenge face farmer up and down the country ? even as thing currently stand , we have a mental health crisis in the farming industry . we know from our own personal community experience from 2001 that that be a moment of genuinely acute mental health crisis from which many people have not yet recover . the truth of the matter be that one of the big challenge face the livestock sector be maintain a critical mass of livestock number . if we be to go through the same sort of cull that we go through in 2001 , start from where we be today , I think we would risk lose that critical mass , and that could have a catastrophic impact on farmer right across the country . I should say to my right hon . friend that I think it be an excellent report — I be amazed to hear that 235 tonne of illegal meat be detain at the border . on 18 August , the Government announce they will pause the plan introduction of physical check on live animal at the border with the EU to support business ahead of some sort of deal on sanitary and phytosanitary product . what effect do he think that deal , if it take place , might have on illegal meat trade ? obviously , the question of legal commercial import be slightly different in its operation from what we be bring to the House ' s attention today , but I think we have to look at the whole thing in the round . there be opportunity if we be able to get that SPS deal , and the Committee will be look at that in the near future . we will be visit Brussels and speak to Commission official about where the deal have get to . we all know it be easy to agree that we need to agree , but actually reach the agreement will always be the difficult part . whatever we have by way of an SPS agreement , there will have to be rigorous check at the border , but it may be that the SPS agreement would make some of that an awful lot easy than it be at the moment , and for everyone — importer , consumer and producer — that have to be good . as a member of the Committee , I attend the trip to Dover where we see just how much meat could have be come in in the white van that be flood in . Border Force be very busy and have numerous duty , and the power and hour for the Port Health Authority be far too limited ; it be obvious that it be not able to do as much as it would like . those poor facility and that capacity for check be thing that we really think should be improve and increase , yet Sevington and Bastion Point be sit underuse or empty nearby . do the Chair of the Committee think that they could and should be repurpose to help with this task ? first , I thank the hon . Lady and all other member of the Committee for their engagement in this report and for the way in which they approach the work of the Committee as a whole . I may be slightly biased , but I really think they be quite excellent in the way they go about their business — I could not ask for a well membership . what we see at Dover be truly shocking . we be still close enough to lunch that I be not go to give too many detail , but the photograph that be provide to the Committee be truly horrendous . the hon . Lady suggest that the control point at Sevington and Bastion Point could be repurpose , which be an obvious solution . the condition in which the Port Health Authority worker operate be disgraceful : work in big shed that we probably would not keep cattle in , with hole in the roof and pigeon fly around . meanwhile , just a few mile up the road , there be purpose - build facility where worker would at least be able to change into their personal protective equipment and have proper shower at the end of the day . I place on the record the Committee ' s gratitude to , and my personal admiration of , Lucy Manzano and her team at the Dover Port Health Authority , who have do a remarkable job and a significant public service in bring this to the attention of the wide population . on the Committee ' s visit to the Port of Dover , we hear that many seizure of illegal meat include scale and till — clear indication that the meat would be sell commercially . most worryingly , as the right hon . Gentleman say , some of those import be head straight for farm , so the potential for a devastating outbreak of foot and mouth disease , african swine fever or many other disease be huge . do he agree that , regardless of any potential SPS agreement with the EU , we certainly can not afford to scale back check if we be serious about protect british farming ? I thank the hon . gentleman for his contribution to the Committee ' s work , which be — I hope the whip be here to hear this — a textbook example of how a government back Bencher should go about his business in Committee . he be absolutely right that see scale be worry . it be obvious that that product be then go straight to the market and goodness know where after that . our real concern be that we be bring in pork product from eastern Europe and place where african swine fever be already present . a lot of that meat be , we suspect , destine for eastern european worker in our pig industry . one do not have to be Einstein to work out the scale and nature of the risk there . we hear two thing . one of the witness say that we be one carelessly discard ham sandwich away from disaster — that be absolutely right . the other thing that we be tell be that the possibility of an outbreak of african swine fever could be the death knell for the british pork industry as a whole . to my mind , that really illustrate just how high the scale of risk be here . I congratulate and thank the Committee for this valuable work . biosecurity be national security . the pork industry be worth £ 1 . 8 billion a year , and the sector be vital to Norfolk , particularly South Norfolk . as other have say , it be estimate that an outbreak of african swine fever would cost £ 100 million . do the right hon . Gentleman agree that , in our effort to protect UK biosecurity , we need also to focus on small port and airport as place of weakness ? the hon . Gentleman be absolutely right . we risk end up play a whole game of whack - a - mole , tighten the control at Dover and see the effort displace to other community and port . notwithstanding that , the priority be still the short strait , as the significant volume of import come through they . that all underline the view of the Committee that what be need be for somebody in Government to take control of this issue , with a strategy for deal with it , because there be no point in have the good national security at one port if all we do be displace the effort to other . Backbench Business Regional Transport Inequality I call Catherine Atkinson , who will speak for about 15 minute . I beg to move , that this House have consider regional transport inequality . I thank the Backbench Business Committee for grant this debate . it be originally due to take place on the first day back from the summer recess , but there be not time because so many people want to speak . I be grateful to those in attendance today . the importance of transport be completely understandable . whether for travel to work and to healthcare appointment , meet family and friend , or get good to the business that need they , transport keep our country run , keep life move and keep we all connect . this Labour Government be commit to open up opportunity across our country , so it be important to address the historic and long - stand inequality between region when it come to transport . those of we who have the chance to go on holiday in the UK during our hot summer , which already seem quite a long time ago , have return well acquaint with the transport infrastructure in each other ' s constituency — those who hear , " be we there yet ? " on repeat from the back seat be perhaps too acquainted . one of the benefit of be on the Transport Committee — as well as have esteemed colleague , a number of whom be here today — be that every trip can be an unofficial fact - find trip . we can compare , sometimes enviously , the new tram extension , charge network or bus lane . colleague across the country be advocate for transport project their constituency . when we be successful in secure transport investment , that change bring people together , cut cost for our business and allow people to access new opportunity , but when transport break down or get cut , constituent suffer the consequence , often daily . one example in my constituency be the Darley Abbey Mills bridge , which be find to be unsafe and be shut , leave people and business cut off and isolate . a temporary bridge be put in three year ago , but thank to the new East Midlands Mayor , Claire Ward , funding have be secure to progress towards a business case for build a permanent bridge . one of the reason that I be so keen to be on the Transport Committee be that transport be essential to economic growth and decarbonisation . the connectivity that transport bring be equally important up and down the country , but the amount of investment that region get for transport have historically be mile apart . transport be the most unequally distribute of area of spending , include education and health . there be many colleague here from the east midland , which have the low transport expenditure per head of all the region and nation in the United Kingdom . in 2023 - 24 , it be £ 368 per person — just a quarter of the amount for London , and about half the average for England . if the east midland have be allocate the UK average in the five year between 2019 and 2024 , we would have receive an additional £ 10 billion . to ensure prosperity reach all corner of our country , more equal investment be vital , so I welcome the direction of travel in the spending review , include the £ 15 . 6 billion of investment in local transport project for England ' s city region over the next five year — more than double the previous capital spending rate . that include £ 2 billion of funding secure by our excellent East Midlands Mayor , Claire Ward . for year , there have be concern that the UK Green Book — the Treasury ' s official guidance for appraise public investment — be skew how area of need be identify . there have be an over - concentration of investment in high - gdp area , neglect the potential of other region , which create a vicious cycle . I welcome the Chancellor ' s review , and I look forward to the new Green Book next year . to secure the transformational change that we need , this Labour Government be invest in area that have be neglect and forget . speak of neglect , when it come to pothole and the need to well maintain and improve our road , this Government have increase capital funding to £ 24 billion over three year . that be particularly important for Derbyshire , which , accord to the RAC , have the bad pothole in the country . with the well bus Bill , the Government have recognise the importance of bus travel . my hon . friend be make an excellent introductory speech on regional inequality in transport . bus be incredibly important in my constituency , and they need not only investment but support . Newcastle be yet to receive real - time bus information of the type that have be enjoy in London for more than a decade , which make transport more reliable and therefore more used . do she agree that we need to ensure that the technology that support these important service be also more equally distribute across the country ? I think we can all agree that the well the technology and the real - time information that be need , the more people will be encourage to use our bus . we absolutely need to encourage more people to use our bus . over the 15 year up to 2023 , we see a massive loss of bus service . where the cut hit have vary , but hard hit be the east midland region where we lose 60 % of our bus service . the Transport Committee highlight that decline in our report on bus that be publish over the summer . we must not forget on whom bus investment impact the most : the young , the elderly , those on low income and the disabled . hon . member will be shock that I have get this far into my speech without mention train , because I talk about rail quite a lot , which be entirely understandable as a Derby MP . Derby will be the home of great British Railways . it be the city at the centre of the large cluster of rail company in Europe , and arguably globally . it be the city that a few week ago host the Greatest Gathering — the world ' s large ever gathering of historical and modern rail vehicle , which be describe as a " Glastonbury for train " — to celebrate the 200th anniversary of the modern railway . however , despite this rich rail heritage in the region , there be just over 100 rail station for 5 million people . the region have the low proportion of people live within a 15 to 20 - minute walk of a rail station in England , and about three quarter of those station be serve by just one train or few per hour . the capital of rail will be the region with the low train station usage per head in England . our midland main line that run through the east midland be the only main line route in England that be not yet fully electrify . it be electrify to Wigston , south of Leicester . East Midlands Railway will be put on new bi - mode train by the end of the year , so those live alongside the route up to Wigston will benefit and the 9 million passenger who use the line will get that far use electrified track . after Wigston , however , the train will revert to diesel , and the rest of the densely populate line will continue to be expose to more noise and ten of thousand of tonne of co2 every year . hundred of people have write to I support the call for electrification . my hon . friend mention that constituent have write to she , but do she acknowledge that in addition more than 30 mp have be work together to advocate for electrification , because of the great benefit she have describe ? I be grateful for the support that my hon . friend , alongside many colleague , have show for electrification and the benefit that it can bring . it would be a fitting celebration of 200 year of the modern railway to continue the electrification of the midland main line , which would bring job , skill and hundred of million of pound in economic benefit particularly to the east midland . I love my region , and like so many in this Chamber I know my region ' s strength and can imagine the possibility if investment be genuinely equitably distribute around our country . if our regional transport be more equal , it would create more prosperity , economic growth , social equality , regional development and carbon reduction as well as well air quality . our transport infrastructure be the country ' s circulatory system : it connect and enrich wherever it reach . if someone ' s circulation be not great , they feel the cold a little more in their finger , as I well know . if it be restrict more , their arm and leg get fatigue , numbness and pain . in the extreme , it eventually lead to organ failure . that be where we have be head for far too long , but over the last year the Government have be get the blood pump again . will the hon . Lady give way ? I be just about to finish . if the UK be a body , Derby be geographically at its heart and be ask to have the same chance as everywhere else to be connect . we need to maintain our change of direction to reduce the inequality in the spend per person on transport , stay on track towards the reduction , and ultimately the elimination , of regional transport inequality , and deliver fair funding for transport . rise — order . there be an immediate four - minute time limit . in just one year , this Labour Government have already fail rural Britain on transport . they have scrap the £ 2 bus fare cap , push up cost for work people ; they have waste £ 250 million in the process of nationalise South Western Railway , while my commuter be still stick with cancel peak service ; and they continue to pour billion of pound into London , while community such as Farnham , Bordon , Haslemere and Liphook in my constituency be leave behind . my constituency be just 40 mile from London , yet the difference in connectivity be stark . London enjoy a world - class system — well , when it be not be hold to ransom by greedy tube driver union , as be the case this week — but Farnham , Haslemere , Bordon and Liphook be treat very differently . the contrast with London be outrageous . in the capital , there be a bus stop every 400 metre and service run every five to 10 minute throughout the night . in my constituency , bus be 30 to 90 minute apart , if they run at all , and many disappear entirely after 7 pm . student at the University for the Creative Arts in Farnham can not get to Guildford in the evening . meanwhile , londoner can choose from over 100 night bus route . whereas passenger in London pay a fixed £ 1 . 75 fare , people in rural Surrey and Hampshire pay much more , because Labour hike the cap . my constituent will remember that Labour put up their fare , which be why I take action . I convene the Bordon taskforce to bring Stagecoach , local council and local leader around the table , and the result speak for themselves . the newly revise no . 18 bus service now run every 30 minute on weekday and Saturdays , and hourly on Sundays , link Bordon , Whitehill , Farnham and Aldershot . the no . 13 service between Bordon , Alton and Basingstoke have also be strengthen , with six Sunday return journey . Stagecoach even trialle free travel this June after my push for well value . these be tangible improvement that make life easy for thousand of people , but gap still remain . it be extraordinary that there be no bus connection between Bordon and Petersfield — only 11 mile apart — except for a single school service . that be why I be in talk with East Hampshire district council to establish a new route , model on the Waverley " hospital hoppa " — a scheme for which I secure funding in Farnham . I agree with the point that my hon . friend ' s be make . the train to my constituency run through his constituency , and he have refer to it already . unfortunately , my constituency be reliant on entirely privatised ferry company in order for we to get there . do he agree that if this Government ' s outlook on transport be to be truly integrate , they need to connect all part of the United Kingdom and stop focus only on city ? my hon . friend make a powerful and important point . he be absolutely right : this Government be focus on metropolitan area , and constituency like his and mine , which be rural and semi - rural , be simply leave behind . his mention of rail neatly bring I to my point on rail . Rail tell the same story as bus . three of my four major town have train station , but Bordon , the third large one , have none , and the line that do exist be fragmented and unreliable . only this week , the 7 . 28 from Farnham to Waterloo be cancel . too often , peak - time train arrive at Haslemere or Liphook with just four coach . when I challenge south western Railway on that , I be tell that to avoid cancellation near London , it reassign carriage away from my area . I make it clear : my commuter be not second - class citizen , and that need to change . at south Western ' s Farnham depot this summer , I press the company directly on the £ 250 million Arterio fleet , which be mean to relieve overcrowding but be still sit idle for want of driver or because of fault . I secure assurance of change , and I will now hold the company to account . meanwhile , as I mention , the Government waste £ 250 million nationalise South Western Railway . that money could have deliver a permanent Bordon - to - liphook bus link for 1 , 000 year . instead , urban area get Crossrail and tram , while my constituent get cancellation and four - carriage train . that be clearly not acceptable . much more help be need for my constituent . rural community such as mine can not keep be treat as second class . level up , economic growth and net zero — all laudable aim — mean nothing if million of people in my constituency and the surround area can not get a bus on a Sunday , or a train with more than four carriage on a Monday morning . that be the reality of labour ' s transport policy : high fare , waste money and broken promise . that be unacceptable to my constituent and , I hope , unacceptable to the constituent of every single member of this House . I thank my hon . friend the Member for Derby North ( Catherine Atkinson ) for secure this crucial debate . high - quality , reliable and integrated public transport be often the difference between community get ahead or be leave behind . whether that be young people be able to realise their aspiration , old people receive the healthcare they need , or work people get home safely after a night shift , those issue not only have practical consequence if leave unaddresse but erode trust between our constituent and the government they elect . lack of transport connectivity impede the progress that people need and deserve to see in their community . if we do not fix that , we make it easy for those who turn to pessimistic narrative to talk our country down . our constituent deserve so much more . the disparity in transport investment between north and south be the result of a model that be build from the top down and the centre out , a model that have at its heart an orthodoxy that be ill - suited to the need of passenger today , and a model I be proud to say this Government , in partnership with our regional mayor , be begin to dismantle . from a much - need review of the Green Book to increase capital spending in Greater Manchester and other city region , from the introduction of integrate settlement for combined authority and a modern industrial strategy to the transformative english devolution Bill , those be all reason I be proud to be a Greater Manchester Labour parliamentarian . we have a pioneering transport network , where power devolve nationally be see and feel on the ground . my hon . friend talk about be a Greater Manchester MP , and Newcastle - under - Lyme and our part of Staffordshire be not too far away . I wonder whether she would support my call for a direct train line from Stoke - on - Trent station to Manchester airport , which would unlock growth and cut cost for family , in particular those seek to travel . more importantly , it would put our part of the world on the map . I be sure that be something the Transport Minister have listen to and be look at . Greater Manchester have set the agenda when it come to the promise and opportunity that devolution can galvanise . through the development and expansion of the Bee Network — an integrated transport system through low fare and simplify ticketing , and an enhanced bus and Metrolink network with plan to integrate heavy rail line in the future — the Bee Network ' s utility go far beyond get people from a to b ; it be a conduit for employment opportunity , house building and a thriving regional economy . indeed , Greater Manchester ' s productivity growth measure by gross value add in the past decade have outstrip that of every other region , include London . Transport have be central to make that happen . despite real success , however , we can not take future progress for grant . Greater Manchester and other city region remain just as deserve of our backing today , to ensure that we do not scupper economic growth in the region . we must ensure that the significant project be move forward swiftly and efficiently to give people hope for a more connected future , and that include the trans - Pennine route upgrade and the Manchester - to - Liverpool rail enhancement . get that right be integral to transform public transport and create network predicate finally on the need of local people , rather than on the paternalism of the centre . my constituent can speak with some experience on this . for decade , passenger live in Heywood and Middleton have be a mere afterthought , with no rail connectivity into Manchester city centre , despite be just a few mile away ; bus service that do not align with the life and aspiration of local people ; and an incredibly congest road network . in the one year that I have be the proud Member of Parliament for Heywood and Middleton North , with central Government work in lockstep with our combine authority , we have secure funding to ensure that the tram will now connect Heywood to Manchester city centre . that be thank to the £ 2 . 5 billion of funding allocate to Greater Manchester by our Labour Chancellor in the form of transport for city region funding , enable the mayor and his team to plan for the long term . it also mean that local leader , in concert with the combine authority , be work to deliver a mayoral development corporation in Middleton , with the strong possibility of a new Metrolink service there too . this be the difference that devolution can make , and in Greater Manchester we have show what we be capable of . but we can not be complacent . expertise in town and transport planning must be far develop in our region , and our bank of knowledge must deepen . funding cycle should become yet more assured across the country , enable our local and regional leader to have the confidence to innovate . fundamentally , we must formalise and codify engagement between the Department and mayoralty , and not just ahead of a fiscal event but consistently , so that we can build robust transport network that support the need of local people . regional transport inequality do not have to spell out a foregone conclusion ; we just need to find the political conviction to confront they . each town , city and village have within it people who be capable of reach the sum of their ambition . we just need to be unrelenting in build the transport system to get they there . I would like to highlight the deep inequality in transport spending across our country and to speak specifically about the railway in the south - west . per head of population , our region receive significantly less investment in transport than the average . in fact , the south - west region receive the second low funding in the country after the east midland , as we hear from the hon . member for Derby North ( Catherine Atkinson ) — only we do not have the prospect of electrification to look forward to on our main line , probably ever . accord to the House of Commons Library , transport spending in 2023 - 24 be £ 429 per person in the south - west , compare with £ 1 , 313 per person in London , £ 729 in the north - west and £ 706 in the west midland . that be not level up ; it be level down . this matter on a daily basis for my constituent in Newton Abbot and for community across Devon and the south - west . our transport link be essential to our economy , tourism , trade and everyday life , but all too often they be neglect . we all remember when storm tear through our sea wall at Dawlish in 2014 , cut the south - west off from the rest of the country . the cliff block the line for eight week , cost the south - west economy some £ 1 . 2 billion . the dawlish rail resilience programme be split into five phase , with the last be the most critical . that vital phase have not be fund . the Government have reject all solution put forward by Network Rail so far , and now we do not even have the funding to develop an acceptable alternative . every winter storm put our connection with the rest of the UK at risk , and the Government be not take this seriously . I urge the Government to give Network Rail the parameter they will accept and clear funding to design a solution . lack of a solution could cost another £ 1 . 2 billion if , or when , the cliff fail again . accessibility be another area where we be fall short . too many railway station in the south - west still lack step - free access . I would particularly like to see well access at Teignmouth station . disabled passenger be force to choose their journey base not on where they want to go but on which station they be able to use . that be not acceptable in this day and age . my hon . friend rightly draw attention to Teignmouth station . despite its large size , my constituency do not have a single mainline train station , but our close station , Bodmin Parkway , also have severe accessibility challenge . it have be put on the list for accessibility upgrade , but that could happen as late as 2032 . will he join I in call on the Minister to make those upgrade as quickly as possible , so that our constituent do not miss out ? I absolutely agree with my hon . friend . when we have the railway station defence rebuild at Dawlish , we do get the benefit of a lift . teignmouth still do not have that . before the lift be put in , disabled passenger be put on what be call a barrow crossing — they be literally put on a trolley and wheel across the railway line . that be just not acceptable . I say this clearly : the south - west deserve its fair share . we need fair transport spending , proper disabled access at every station and a full commitment to complete the resilience work that will protect our region ' s lifeline rail route . I will keep press the House and this government until the south - west get the fair share it deserve . I be incredibly grateful to my hon . friend the Member for Derby North ( Catherine Atkinson ) for bring forward this important debate . she speak with passion about the subject . the south - east can be describe as leafy and rich , with Kent be the garden of England , but part of that garden have be leave unnurture , untended and leave behind . transport inequality can be frame as a north - south divide . in my constituency , there be a north - south divide where people live in the north of the constituency have a low life expectancy of over a decade . but both the urban and rural community have be leave behind . when I speak with young people during the campaign and more recently , they tell I that transport be their no . 1 issue . it be about connectivity and get across Gravesham , because there be no bus on a Sunday that can take they to town to meet their friend , and there be no bus that can take they after school if they want to stay and do extracurricular activity . a mum recently contact I about her 16 - year - old who be excited to start at Northfleet technology college , which specialise in engineering . they choose that college because of the bus route , the 305 , but that have now be scrap . we see this up and down our country : bus route be there one day and scrap the next . the new bus route mean nearly an hour ' s journey with a 20 - minute walk . on top of that , a pass cost £ 640 for that privilege . the Kent freedom pass , which be run by Kent county council — previously Tory but now reform - lead — use to cost £ 50 . now it be over £ 550 a year and rise . family be be price out , and although I help to secure option to pay in monthly instalment , the cost remain out of reach for many . in urban area of my constituency , reliability be a major concern . the cliff collapse at Galley Hill in the neighbouring constituency be have a major impact on the reliability of bus . under the Tories ' Ebbsfleet Development Corporation , million of pound have go to shiny , fast - track route . however , they serve the new development while existing community have lose their service altogether . the people of Northfleet lose their bus route . they be promise a physical connection between Northfleet station and Ebbsfleet International — a place that have some of the high level of deprivation — but that have be place on hold indefinitely , mean that new housing development see that investment while those who really could do with that opportunity have be leave behind . that be a two - tier public transport system , and it be not fair . in Gravesham we see bus company compete in a relatively small area for similar route , undercut each other and make timetable choice base on profit , not where people actually want to go . I be incredibly confident that the new bus service Bill will enable local people to make the route well for themselves . I must mention the ferry — bring back the Tilbury - Gravesend ferry — because it be not only about get across the borough but get to Essex , support our business as a place for growth . the hon . member mention ferry . perhaps she will show a little sympathy to I and my constituent , because we be entirely reliant on ferry that be unregulated and privatised , so neither the local authority nor the Government have any say over those service , whereas her local authority do have a say over her ferry . she might want to reflect on the role of Government in all mode of transport across the UK . the hon . Member and I share a passion for ferry . my ferry no long run , so despite have a local government agency that could intervene and supply a ferry , it let go of that contract . I will continue to bang that drum , because ferry be an incredibly important mode of transport for so many people , especially his constituent on the Isle of Wight . the Government want to see transport as a gateway to opportunity , which I fully support , not the barrier that it be today and have be for many year . we must unleash community power and agency to bring voice to the people of Gravesham , especially the young people , who deserve the right to opportunity via bus and boat . I thank the hon . member for Derby North ( Catherine Atkinson ) for introduce this really important debate . in my maiden speech over a year ago , in a railway debate , I speak about the state of the railway in my constituency and the need to open a station — Devizes Gateway — to bring back a service to the town lose since the day of Beeching . despite effort in the name of level up , any progress make to tackle regional inequality in transport have be modest and inconsistent . I represent many small town and village that rarely benefit from national policy initiative and all too often have to rely on private car to travel long distance to service , school and job . a more equal distribution of transport fund could drastically improve the life of people in my constituency , and thousand of other up and down the country . one academic study find that a fifth of worker have turn down a job because of poor bus service . another find that 40 % of those look for a job say that the lack of personal transport or inadequate public transport be key barrier to their get a job . Wiltshire be in a challenging position when it come to rail travel . we have railway , but many do not benefit from the service , which all too often carry people and freight across the county but do not stop at the few station in the county . local service range from unreliable to non - existent . nowhere be that mismatch feel more strongly than in Devizes , a town at the geographical and cultural heart of Wiltshire , with its historic centre , independent business and nearby world heritage site . the town ' s marketplace stand just two and a half mile from a major railway line , but in order to access the network passenger must travel by road 12 mile to Chippenham or 23 mile to Swindon . Melksham , a fast - grow industrial town , fare little well . with only one train every two hour during most of the day , local can not rely on it for work and school and many be not even aware of it . major improvement to Wiltshire ' s rail service can be make with only minor infrastructure upgrade . Network Rail ' s 2024 Wiltshire rail strategy set out the compelling case for build the Devizes Gateway station , reconnecte 30 , 000 people live in and around the town to the railway and bring more visitor to that special part of Wiltshire . I be also delighted to be support the Bath and Wiltshire metro proposal , which would deliver many of the improvement we need locally , include for Melksham . a group of industry expert be meet in Bath as I speak , to discuss how we can leverage exist infrastructure to regenerate our community . where good transport lead , high - quality housing , job and economic opportunity will follow . the Secretary of State offer kind and encourage word in Transport question this morning . however , follow the meeting in Bath today , it would be enormously useful if the Rail Minister would agree to a meeting with I and the participant . for rural area such as South Norfolk , transport link be a lifeline . so I be delighted that this Government be do what previous government fail to do : invest in South Norfolk ' s infrastructure . already I have secure a £ 200 million investment to upgrade the thickthorn junction , shave valuable , lifesave minute off journey for ambulance to access the Norfolk and Norwich hospital , which will also benefit the constituency of the hon . member for Broadland and Fakenham ( Jerome Mayhew ) directly . I have also secure £ 2 . 6 million for key cycle and footpath access across Norfolk , include the Hethersett to Norwich research park cycle route . but there be more to do . today I want to touch on three point : first , rural road safety ; secondly , bus service in South Norfolk ; and thirdly — the Minister will not be surprised to hear I mention this again — Wymondham train station . on my first point , I be currently run a constituency - wide survey on rural road safety in South Norfolk . once the survey have conclude , I will share my finding with Norfolk county council , the police and crime commissioner for Norfolk and the Roads Minister . what be already clear , however , be that Norfolk road be simply not fit for purpose . they be unsafe and cover with pothole , despite our Labour Government increase Norfolk county council ' s budget for pothole repair to £ 56 million . on bus service , the situation be just as frustrating . for disabled and less mobile resident of estate like the Hampdens in Costessey , bus service be in effect non - existent . the whole of the Hampdens estate be without bus service — they deserve well than this enforce isolation . I now turn to Wymondham train station . as the Department already know from my many , many lobbying attempt , platform 2 southbound from Wymondham have no step - free access — it be a victorian train station that be celebrate its 180th birthday — so anyone with a mobility issue want to travel south from Wymondham must first travel all the way north to Norwich , then turn around and travel all the way back down . that be completely inefficient , isolate and unjust . once again , the primary victim of poor transport provision be elderly and disabled people . accessibility upgrade to Wymondham station be be consider by the Access for all scheme . I realise that the Minister will not be able to comment in any detail about Wymondham station , but I can think of no well way to prove the Government ' s dedication to tackle regional transport inequality than to make it accessible for all . viewer of the BBC ' s " Politics East " would expect all politician from East Anglia to want to talk about another aspect of rail use : the Ely and Haughley junction upgrade . I will continue to lobby on this cross - party issue across the whole of East Anglia . the upgrade would shave off valuable minute and increase freight haulage to Felixstowe , which would be a huge economic boost for our region , and I would get more service to Wymondham and Spooner Row , which would be a win for everyone . again , I put that on the Minister ' s to - do list . to sum up : we need to hold Norfolk county council to account for fail to fix our road , we need to continue make progress to improve access to bus service , and Wymondham station must finally be make accessible to all . as the co - chair of the all - party parliamentary group on heritage rail , I must start by note that we be celebrate Railway 200 on 27 September . the railway bring wealth , new idea and vitality to community across the UK . they be and be the vehicle of growth . our many heritage railway , include 10 in my constituency , continue to marry technology old and new , and to bring so much happiness to so many people , but the great little train of Wales be now charitable or private railway . Wales ' s public rail network have be the last stop on the line for investment : a legacy that continue to impact the life of people and community across our nation . the Network Rail Wales route , which account for 11 % of the UK ' s rail network , receive — wait for it — 1 % of the enhancement budget between 2011 and 2016 . the Welsh Government previously estimate that Wales could be miss out on up to £ 8 billion in rail investment between 2001 and 2029 ; hon . member will note that that span a number of government here in Westminster . the funding deficit lead to inadequate public transport infrastructure , which have far - reach consequence , particularly for those who have no access to car and those who live in post - industrial and rural area . it limit people ' s ability to connect with friend and family and create barrier to access education and employment opportunity . in Wales , we want to improve our productivity , and we want the mean to do it . the spring statement in June offer only a token gesture towards address the deep - root funding disparity that Wales face . for example , the Government ' s suggestion that the £ 445 million of rail investment — over 10 year — will compensate for the historical underfunding of the Welsh network or the multibillion - pound injustice of Wales ' s exclusion from HS2 funding be simply not credible . where be the reinforcement against climate change ? where be the electrification of our line ? let we not forget that the current Secretary of State for Wales acknowledge in opposition that Wales ' s fair share from HS2 should be at least £ 4 . 6 billion — so we have receive a tenth of what our own Welsh Secretary of State once feel be fair . the spring statement also include the Government ' s review of the Green Book , aim at improve investment outside London and the south - east of England . yet on examine its content , I be disappoint but not surprised to find no commitment to reform the way in which Welsh rail be fund . this inequality remain unaddressed . the Government ' s decision to classify the Oxford to Cambridge railway as a project that benefit Wales be a stark example of the kind of accounting manipulation — massage — that deprive Wales of rightful Barnett consequential funding , just as we see with hs2 under the Conservatives . indeed , early this year , the Secretary of State for Wales acknowledge in write that Welsh rail have suffer significant under - investment . yet there have be no pledge to bring spending in Wales in line with per capita investment level in England . I urge the Government to move beyond rhetoric and take decisive action . let we begin by devolve power over heavy rail to Wales , end the ability for the outdated Barnett funding formula to be manipulate to Wales ' s detriment while also grant Wales meaningful control over rail transport investment , just as Scotland and Northern Ireland already have . I be grateful to have the opportunity to speak in a really important debate on regional transport inequality . for too long , community in the north - east have suffer the effect of chronic underinvestment in transport and the flawed legacy of privatisation . what should be a public service have instead become a patchwork system that too often fail local people . on the railway , the propose LNER timetable risk cut vital stop at Durham . for many that would mean unnecessary change at York or Newcastle . for old people , disabled passenger and those travel with child , that create real barrier and make our railway less accessible at a time when they should be open up . bus tell a similar story . in Brandon , Ushaw Moor , Waterhouses and Newton Hall , people depend on service from Arriva and go North East , yet complaint reach my inbox every week . the X20 from Langley Park to Sunderland and the 43 from Esh win to Durham be both unreliable , and in some village bus simply do not run at all on Sundays or bank holiday . too often , our area be leave with the old bus , prone to break down , while the new vehicle serve the route in Newcastle and Sunderland . although funding for new bus stop be welcome , my constituent ask what good they be when the service to go with they be not reliable . there be workforce challenge too . a shortage of engineer cause delay , when our further education college could be support to provide apprenticeship and skill . locate a depot in Consett , where bad weather frequently disrupt operation , have only add to problem . another issue be that our driver in the region be pay less than colleague in the north - west by the exact same company — hardly a recipe for recruitment or retention . all that reflect the wide picture of year of underinvestment and inequality . have the north receive the same per person transport spending as London since 2009 , we would have have £ 140 billion more — enough to transform the system . instead , nearly a fifth of rural bus route have vanish in just five year , deepen isolation for many . do my hon . friend agree that there be nothing more isolating than not be able to get somewhere ? my constituent Elishia Ingham try to get her mobility scooter on to a bus service but be reject entry on to the bus because there be not enough space . do my hon . friend agree that even though bus company do not have to allow that by law , they might increasingly consider the need of disabled traveller ? I could not agree more . although we may improve our bus service and the type of modern bus we have , they be not accessible in all area , and that be a huge inequality . the Government ' s Bus Services ( no . 2 ) Bill be a chance to put this right . with franchising , fair pay and investment in modern vehicle , we can build a system that work for passenger , support job and meet our climate goal . reliable and affordable public transport should not be a luxury ; it be the foundation of a fair economy and connected community . my constituent in the City of Durham deserve no less . they deserve a transport service that serve local people , not profit , and Ministers must act to deliver it . I be listen to Radio 4 yesterday evening , and I be hear about transport problem in London . let ' s face it : when we hear about transport problem in London , we know exactly what they mean , but pity also the poor people in the province who rarely come to London but have to hear all about London ' s daily problem . in Devon , the struggle with our rail infrastructure be not just an occasional disruption ; it be an everyday reality . every year , there be around 50 million rail journey to , from or within the south - west of England , yet accord to the Office of Rail and Road , between January and March this year , only 67 % of South Western Railway service run on time , mean that one in three train arrive late . those figure be collect even before the disruption on South Western Railway over the summer , when speed be reduce because of the hot , dry weather cause by the " soil moisture deficit " . a journey from Honiton to London , which should take a little over three hour , be drag out to nearly four . service from Axminster , Whimple and Feniton to Exeter be reduce to just one every two hour . that be not a service that people can rely on for work , for get to college or for family life , and with hotter summer set to become more frequent , we need a lasting solution . even in normal time , the line be fragile . it depend on a long single - track section , which mean that if one train be late , other train be delay , too . train back up at pass point , delay ripple down the line , and at busy time South Western Railway have to cut — or it have be cut , at least — carriage number in half , leave people cram in . one solution would involve increase rail capacity along the line between Axminster and Exeter . at its heart , there would be a new 3 - mile section of dual track near Whimple and Cranbrook . that single improvement would make a huge difference . with the double track in place , South Western Railway could run an additional hourly shuttle service between Axminster and Exeter , which would give Honiton and Axminster two train every hour to Exeter and would mean that Whimple and Feniton would get a reliable hourly service . People would have well onward connection from Exeter St Davids to Plymouth , Barnstaple , Bristol , Birmingham and beyond . my hon . friend make a really interesting point about dualling of line . I have be campaign in my constituency of Harrogate and Knaresborough to dual the line between Knaresborough and York for the exact same reason and benefit that my hon . friend be describe . do he agree that , if this Government want to get on with the job of growth , go far and fast on invest in dualle line like ours would be a way to do it ? my hon . friend be absolutely right . he point to how it be much more affordable simply to dual a piece of track than it be to invest in new railway line , as we talk about a lot in the last Parliament . for student study at Exeter college , for worker head into Exeter and for business trade across the south - west , such a solution would be transformative . it would make the railway more resilient . when there be delay , whether they be because of flooding , autumn leave or dry clay embankment , train could pass more easily . with the Government plan around 20 , 000 new home along the line between Axminster and Exeter , demand on this stretch of railway will only increase . finally , we can not ignore the roll stock — the train themselves . the diesel fleet be nearly 40 year old . reliability be fail and spare part be run out . we need government decision on new train — battery , electric or hybrid — so that by the early 2030s we might have a modern , clean , reliable fleet . rural and coastal community such as Honiton and Sidmouth must not be leave behind . south Western Railway be do what it can . since I ask the Rail Minister a question this morning at Transport question , South Western Railway have announce replacement bus from Axminster to Exeter , and between Feniton , Whimple and Exeter . but that be a stick plaster . what we really need be investment that would allow it to run reliable train , not just replacement bus service . People in the south - west pay many of the same taxis as those in London , but face long delay , overcrowding and few train . it be time for the Government to demonstrate that attention to transport in the south - west be just as necessary as that in London . order . with an immediate three - minute limit , I call Andrew Cooper . thank you , Madam Deputy Speaker . I will do my good to indulge you on the fly . I thank my hon . friend the Member for Derby North ( Catherine Atkinson ) for secure this debate . transport be not just about go from one place to another ; it be about enable progress . it open door to education , employment and enterprise , while also keep we connect to the people and community that matter most . but for many community , particularly across the north , transport have not be a catalyst for opportunity , but a source of disadvantage . deep - root inequality in regional infrastructure have leave countless town and city disconnected , limit access to job , education and essential service . the consequence of this divide be tangible , affect life , livelihood and the ability of entire region to thrive . that be because transport investment in the UK have be starkly unequal for decade . while London and the south - east have benefit from sustained strategic funding , many town and city across the north have be leave behind , with age infrastructure , underfunded network and , crucially , miss opportunity for growth . the number speak for themselves . historically , per capita transport spending in London have dwarf that of the north . indeed , analysis show that have the north receive the same level of transport infrastructure investment per person as London between 2010 and 2020 , it would have gain an additional £ 66 billion , fund it have ultimately miss out on due to regional disparity in infrastructure investment . in my local area , inadequate transport infrastructure remain one of the most significant barrier to unlock the full potential of Northwich , Winsford and Middlewich . it be a major obstacle to attract new business , create job and drive investment . but I hope that change be come thank to this Labour Government . the recent reform to the Treasury ' s Green Book represent a turning point . the update Green Book place great emphasis on regional equity , and on the long - term social and economic benefit of investment . it recognise that value be not just measure in pound and penny , but measure in life improve , community connect and future transform . it be a chance to rebalance our economy , invest in the infrastructure that power productivity , and ensure that no matter where someone live — whether it be Middlewich or Manchester , Winsford or Warrington — they have access to the same opportunity as someone live in London or the south - east . the Government have begin this policy with action : with real , visible investment in northern transport , from rail upgrade and new bus route to road building scheme , such as the Middlewich eastern bypass in my constituency . I be proud to say it be this Labour Government who deliver the investment for this vital project — although I suspect the former Minister approve it just to stop I camp outside her office and badger she in the Tea Room . I be grateful for her support , but her successor should know that this now mean my lobby power be free to be direct to other noble cause , such as improvement to the Winnington bridge and step - free access at Northwich station I thank my hon . friend the Member for Derby North ( Catherine Atkinson ) for bring this really important debate to the House . growth go where growth be , but when transport be inefficient , access to opportunity be limited . Leigh and Atherton , once thrive industrial hub , now sit between Manchester and Liverpool , alongside town such as St Helens , Warrington , Wigan and Salford , yet we remain locked in outdated transport system . road build around our mill and factory be now clog with ever - increase traffic . this be not just a local issue . the gridlock we face be a share burden and a shared injustice . Leigh rank in the top 1 % nationally for transport relate social exclusion . in my constituency , over 40 , 000 people — 37 % of resident — face a high risk of exclusion due to poor transport ; that be twice the north - west average , and nearly five time that of Greater Manchester . poor connectivity and an over - reliance on car be isolate our most vulnerable old people , disabled resident and low - income family . People be be trap in cycle of poverty and miss opportunity . I have speak to resident who set off three hour early to make a hospital appointment . other turn down college place or job offer simply because they can not afford a car , and opportunity be out of reach without one . that should not be the case , and it do not have to be . we must invest in accessible , sustainable transport — walking , cycling , bus and train — across every region , not just where the growth be . Greater Manchester be a shine example of the first stage of the transformative impact that transport devolution can deliver . over £ 30 million be be invest in safe , clean transport through the Bee Network . service such as the V1 and V2 bus in Leigh and Atherton be vital , and the plan new railway station in Golborne be a huge step forward . but we must go far . without reliable and inclusive transport , access to job , education and healthcare remain a postcode lottery . I welcome the discussion to expand Metrolink to area such as Salford Crescent , Wigan and Leigh . those investment must continue . there be also the proposal to connect our two great region , spearhead by Greater Manchester Mayor , Andy Burnham , and Liverpool City Region Mayor , Steve Rotheram . with the Greater Manchester economy grow fast than the UK ' s as a whole , after their recent comment I say to the leadership of Reform , who be not in their seat , that we have prove what ambition back with investment can achieve for our region . it be transport infrastructure that be drive that success . we on this side of the House will not let short - sighted politic stall the north ' s momentum . I thank my constituency neighbour , my hon . friend the Member for Derby North ( Catherine Atkinson ) , for secure this vital debate . in Derby , like many other part of the country , transport be the glue that hold our community together , but Derby be also a city of maker . we have a unique transport manufacturing heritage to be proud of , and a future to be excited about . if we be talk about investment in our public transport , however , it be a totally different story . while Derby power our supply chain , the east midland have be leave lag behind when it come to fund our transport infrastructure . under successive government , our region have sit consistently at the back of the queue for investment . in 2023 - 24 , that mean that transport spending in the east midland be just 54 % of the UK average — shockingly , the low of any UK region or nation , as we hear early . that be not just a number . it be delay , lose opportunity and frustration for people just try to go about their day to day . ask anyone in our community and they will say that they have be stick on the same congested road for year , and they have watch vital bus service disappear , as our region have face the consequence of the deep bus cut in the country since 2008 . understandably , people be absolutely feed up . that be why I be proud that this Labour Government , along with our fantastic East Midlands Mayor , Claire Ward , be waste no time turn the page . with a record £ 2 billion secure early this year to tackle congestion and improve connectivity across the east midland , we be finally start to put thing right . that be not all . whether it be move forward on upgrade to the A38 to end Derby ' s traffic gridlock , or the introduction of the Bus Services ( no . 2 ) bill , protect thousand of mile of lifeline route across our region , progress be be make . there be still lot more to do to put decade of under - investment behind we . secure project such as the electrification of the midland main line would supercharge our region , create 5 , 000 job , reduce journey time and improve reliability , as well as unlock over £ 400 million worth of economic benefit for the region . to transform our transport infrastructure , we need sustained , long - term funding in our region that , at the very minimum , match the UK average . I look forward to see that deliver through action and investment from a Government who back Derby and the east midland . I would like to talk about the importance of the impact of both austerity and covid on entrench the regional transport inequality we have hear so much about today . I will also talk about the importance of our make the most of our exist infrastructure , which have end up crumble and neglect after the previous 14 year , and emphasise the importance of improve service and restore those batter by austerity and covid . this issue be particularly important in coastal community . I be proud to sit next to my co - chair of the all - party parliamentary group on coastal community , my hon . friend the Member for Scarborough and Whitby ( Alison Hume ) . despite the geographical difference between our two constituency , we share a concern about the connectivity challenge in our coastal community , and we know that many other place be experience the same problem because , as much as coastal community have many asset , they be fundamentally at the end of the line . they be therefore — I say this advisedly to those currently in the Chamber — most expose and vulnerable to the populism and dark force we have see around we recently . when we think about all that , we understand the need to connect people to opportunity for growth and to break down the barrier to opportunity — two of our key mission as a country . on that great strategic point , I urge anyone from Stagecoach and Kent county council who be listen to restore the no . 9 bus between Ramsgate and Canterbury for precisely that reason . one of our hospital be there , as be two of our university and the further education college . I know child , young people and adult whose opportunity have be limit and cut back because that no . 9 bus service no long exist . let I talk about the impact of covid , particularly in respect of the crumble and neglect infrastructure we have as a consequence . Ashford International train station have be international in name only since the covid pandemic , and Eurostar ' s expansion plan do not include the restoration of international rail service to Kent . cut the length of train journey from Kent to Paris and Brussels by two hour would greatly improve the opportunity for we as a community and , indeed , for growth . the Good Growth Foundation have point out that this would improve growth by £ 2 . 4 billion across five year . unlike other so - call affluent part of the south - east , place like mine really need that economic growth . on exist infrastructure , I have one last message for the Minister about Ramsgate port : it be important to restore passenger ferry , at least , to a place that be desperately in need of that kind of connectivity . I be pleased to follow my hon . friend the Member for East Thanet ( Ms Billington ) , who talk about the impact of covid on transport . many of my constituent across Lichfield , Burntwood and the village rely on the cross - city line to get to Birmingham for work , for social activity — to visit the theatre or go for a night out — and for many other reason . unfortunately , during the pandemic the service on the line be cut from four train an hour to just two . that be understandable at the time , give the circumstance , but year have pass and those train be still not back . the cross - city line be the busy commuter train line in the country outside of London . in the year before covid , a million journey start at Lichfield City , go towards Birmingham New Street . Lichfield be a city of 35 , 000 people and a million journey begin at that train station . it be a busy line — it be important infrastructure . this debate be about regional transport inequality ; the idea that on a line that busy that serve anywhere in the south - east or London the service would be halve and nothing do about it for year be absolutely laughable . but because it be in the west midland , the service have not come back . the villain in this piece be just how busy New Street be . it be over capacity ; we can not get any more train in or out . that be why I be so glad to have campaign to get the midland rail hub project fund and to have co - ordinate dozen of Back - Bench mps to support the campaign . that will improve the capacity at New Street , mean that we can get our train back on the city line . it also mean that 50 station across a number of region will get to see improvement in their service . that be a fantastic example of this Government invest in the project that we need to close some of the transport inequality gap , and I thank the Minister for that . as I have a minute left , and give that those improvement be come , let I say this . I have a line from Lichfield to Burton that pass by the National Memorial Arboretum in Staffordshire . it would make a brilliant place for a passenger service , so that everybody from around the country can get to the National Memorial Arboretum to enjoy the fantastic facility that it be and take part in remembrance all year round , not just in November . I strongly believe that a regional geography be the right scale to make substantial public transport improvement . that be why I back this Government ' s devolution agenda as the right approach to improve transport . the real inequality of the future will not be north versus south or urban versus rural , but between those area that have well - respect , ambitious mayor and those that do not . for the sake of passenger , I hope that the Government move swiftly to fill in the gap on the devo map , even if there be not complete consensus . inequality in transport be already link to some extent to governance . in the past , large area have passenger transport executive , and that give they a head start , as more power head to strategic authority . I still believe that the Government could go far to encourage the creation of more executive body to co - ordinate transport regionally . I also remain concerned about the highway - transport split . I very much welcome clause 25 of the English Devolution and Community Empowerment Bill , which will allow mayoral combined authority to take on civil enforcement of traffic contravention , but we could go far . fundamentally , the same organisation need to be responsible for the bus , the bus lane and the bus stop . we also need to think differently about geography . from the victorian radial rail network through to modern motorway , there have for too long be an assumption that all road and rail should lead to London , but we can not just think north to south ; it must be east to west too . that be why I warmly welcome the £ 2 . 5 billion commitment to East West Rail to rebalance decade of under - investment in cross - country link . I will continue to call for the expansion of the Luton - Dunstable busway to Leighton Buzzard and on to Bletchley , link it into East West Rail . the Minister will be delighted to know that my final question be a train question , rather than a bus question . I be keen to hear from he about plan for great British Railways within region . do he believe that the current Network Rail region be the right one to build on as we move to GBR , or do he believe there be other opportunity and shape other than triangle ? we must always see transport as a driver of growth . in order to build thriving network , we need a relentless focus on grow passenger number , which we can all do , as we know that September be Catch the Bus Month . we know that when it come to transport inequality , as we have just hear , the people who be leave behind most be young people , disabled people , people on low income and old people . Madam Deputy Speaker , I note that when you be the Chair of the Women and Equalities Committee , you call for an old people ' s commissioner . in this respect , that could provide real value . in the time available to I , I will major in as many transport form as possible . yesterday I speak about bus . in Bournemouth , we be cry out for a well no . 33 bus , the reinstatement of the bus route in and to Throop , and a bus to the airport that be well and go more frequently . we need a strong provision of electric vehicle charge infrastructure ; it be typically concentrate in more affluent area , and where it be concentrate in public area it do not work . when it come to train , I be campaign for an accessible Pokesdown station and fast train to London . I want to talk particularly about the problem that people experience locally with access drive test . the Labour Government have commit to 10 , 000 additional driving test , and we have four additional instructor in Poole , but people in Bournemouth East have to travel to Poole to take their test , because their centre be close in 2019 . operator be use bot to sweep up month - worth of test date and sell they to parent and learner at a high profit . that be not fair , and it be an example of inequality . I have write to the Driving and Vehicle Standards Agency , but it be nowhere to be see on this issue . I want this Government to be on the side of learner and to tackle the drive test backlog . I welcome the fact that we have £ 1 . 1 million in funding come to Bournemouth , Christchurch and Poole council for the improvement of transport infrastructure , and that we have an extra £ 2 million to invest on pothole . I particularly want to make the case , for the first time in this Chamber , for the resurrection of a tram network in Bournemouth , which I think be really important . [ interruption . ] I can hear murmur of assent from my hon . friend . everyone love a tram . Trams foster economic , social and cultural growth around they . in Bournemouth , which have join two other town to create a super - city region , we be fall behind in economic growth opportunity because we do not have the interconnectedness we need . I be go to say more , but I will just briefly say that if we can have fast train to London , accessible station , the pothole in our road fill , well bus service , more drive test and a tram network which , because of its permanence , attract business , organisation and people to move into our area — those area be already thrive , but could thrive so much more — Bournemouth would no long be leave behind ; Bournemouth would thrive . it be a fantastic , beautiful town , which I be so proud to represent , and with the elimination of our transport inequality , there would be no limit to the success we could achieve . the perception many people have of Kent be one of prosperity because of our close proximity to London , but the reality be more complicated . in my constituency , we have widespread inequality , and community feel overlooked and disconnected , as be all too evident in the way our transport network operate . nowhere have that be more evident than in the decision take by Eurostar in 2020 to stop the international rail service call at Ashford International . my hon . friend the Member for East Thanet ( Ms Billington ) highlight the importance of international connectivity to the south - east for its economic benefit . the decision have leave the international section of the station , which cost about £ 80 million of taxpayer ' money , sit idle , for over five year so far . this autumn , the Office of Rail and Road be due to make a decision about whether new provider of international rail will have access to the international depot at Temple Mills in east London . as the ORR come to its decision , I ask the Minister whether the Government will give a clear indication that they will favour operator who commit to return such service to Ashford . the London focus of our transport network mean that , while there be good service between Ashford and London , there be not the same provision of service for my constituent look to travel across Kent or make local journey that do not involve the capital . this disproportionately affect those who do not have access to a car such as young people , elderly resident , the disabled and low - income household . it limit their access to work opportunity , healthcare appointment and local amenity . in particular , I have be contact by many constituent since I be elect who have complain about the poor condition of local bus service . that especially affect the resident of Hawkinge and the small village , such as the constituent whose son be disabled and be unable to find a job because the bus from his village start too late in the morning , or the old constituent who be unable to visit theatre in Canterbury because the last bus run before the end of the performance . those be just a couple of the many example I could cite show why my constituency , and Kent as a whole , be cry out for properly support bus route . have these route be vital to break down barrier to opportunity and unlock economic growth in our community . I welcome the fact that , when Labour ' s Bus Services ( no . 2 ) Bill be pass into law , it will play a major role in reform our break bus system . I hope that the administration at Kent county council will take full advantage of the power the Bill will give it to deliver the improvement in bus service that my constituent deserve . I thank my hon . friend the Member for Derby North ( Catherine Atkinson ) for secure this debate . she know my constituency well , and will be familiar with many of the issue that I will raise . Erewash be at the geographic and , dare I say , emotional heart of the east midland — the halfway point between Derby and Nottingham . Long Eaton , which I represent , be scarcely on the map before the railway , and Ilkeston , like the constituency of my hon . friend the Member for Bournemouth East ( Tom Hayes ) , use to have its own tram . those place be define by industry and be inherently link to public transportation , but by the middle of the 20th century , that legacy have be whittle away as all focus move towards the car . for 50 year , Ilkeston do not have a train station at all , but after year of cross - party campaigning , its new station open in 2017 . however , lot of people in Ilkeston tell I that the station have be a miss opportunity . service be once per hour , mean that it be not as attractive to commuter as it could be . Ilkeston be in Derbyshire , but passenger can not even get a train to Derby from the station . I be pleased , though , to hear discussion about the Maid marian line again . that line would restore the link from Nottinghamshire to the Erewash valley line , perhaps enable those new service connect Mansfield and Derby to call at Ilkeston . at present , although the Erewash valley line bear my constituency ' s name , it do not carry any local passenger service . if it be bring into more frequent use , maybe we could one day reopen the Stapleford and Sandiacre station . if we be dream , perhaps one day we could even bring back Draycott and Breaston station , too . in many way , Long Eaton be fortunate to keep its train station after the 1960 . the station have frequent service to many destination , but there be still thing that it notably lack . the ramp up to the platform be very steep , and the lift work only when the station be staff , which present real difficulty for my disabled constituent . the platform be too short , which can cause havoc for long train as only some door can open . finally , let I address bus . the 21 bus use to link Ilkeston , Cotmanhay and Kirk Hallam directly with the Queen ' s medical centre in Nottingham , one of our local major hospital . before the covid pandemic , the service be slash to just once per hour , and afterwards it be slash altogether . now there be no direct bus from Ilkeston to the QMC , and for anyone try to reach the hospital from Kirk Hallam by bus , it be a two - hour trip with at least two change . it mean get a bus all the way into Derby before take another bus , in the opposite direction , to Nottingham . it be madness . I be very familiar with my hon . friend ' s constituency , and I know that he be campaign for good transport link way before he become an MP . on access to bus service , small village such as Egginton in my South Derbyshire constituency be not serve by a bus service at all . do he agree that that truly ensure regional inequality across our country ? I agree completely with my hon . friend . indeed , for year the east midland have languish , as my hon . friend the Member for Derby North say in her opening remark , on the bottom few rung of the table for regional transport funding . I be glad that time be change , however . the Treasury ' s £ 2 billion commitment to transport in the east midland early this year be big than I and colleague in the region could ever have dream . I be so excited to see what transformation that investment will bring , and I will fight every day to ensure that Erewash see the benefit of it . if we be to have long - term change , the east midland can not rely on one - off award , however . we need consistent investment , comprehensive planning reform , overhaul and empower local government , and , in particular , change to the Treasury rule to end the flat refusal to spend outside London and the great south - east . those be all positive prospect bring forward by this government , and I look forward to see they become law . rise — order . it might be helpful if I indicate that I will come to the Front Benchers at five minute past 3 . on a three - minute time limit , there be very little time for intervention . since I be elect last July , I have become closely acquaint with the long - distance London Paddington to Penzance line , which a number of my colleague have mention . there be a big storm in 2014 , and we be properly cut off for eight week ; we could not get in or out of Cornwall by rail , because there be only one way to do so . since then , an awful lot have be do to improve the resilience of the line , but phase 5 will be vital to strengthen the vulnerable coastal section and maintain connectivity for Cornwall . Cornwall see a huge population increase in the summer , with about 4 million visitor , but we lack reliable year - round connection , which constrain our economy and restrict growth , as well as create social isolation . many of our student must travel for over an hour on public transport to further education provider , and travel between their apprenticeship and college be often impossible , restrict their prospect . as a result of our 2015 devolution deal , Cornwall council obtain great transport power , such as franchising and partnership agreement with local bus provider , which have help and lead to an increase in bus patronage . Cornwall be the first rural area in England to introduce smart ticketing , but that come at a cost : the council subsidise 50 % of the public transport network , and it cost we an awful lot of money . under the previous Tory Government , the south - west have some of the low identifiable expenditure on public transport , at just £ 429 per head — the second low after the constituency of my hon . friend the Member for Derby North ( Catherine Atkinson ) . I welcome the Government ' s focus on long - term investment in transport infrastructure , include the fourfold increase in local transport grant . the funding for pothole will be hugely important in Cornwall , which have more than 4 , 600 mile of small road . the investment will be crucial for Cornwall ' s economic growth . Cornwall ' s chamber of commerce have say that transport connectivity be the top priority for the business it represent , because our transport link really hold we back . we use to receive EU funding of up to £ 1 billion , much of which be plough into transport because we do not have the funding from elsewhere . we have branch line that would not exist have it not be for that money , but the funding have dry up now that the share prosperity fund have finish , so we need the investment to continue . electrify the main line would really help . currently , there be a branch line passenger service that run from Truro to Falmouth . there be a freight rail line at the end of it , so just 150 yard would open up so much for new industry such as critical mineral and would enable aggregate to be move around . we have an airport that desperately need a new public service obligation . investment in transport infrastructure in Cornwall be essential for our economic growth and success in the future . I be glad to be speak in this debate , because far too many of my constituent be be hold back by our transport system . on rail , Rugeley Trent Valley , just over the border in the constituency of my hon . friend the Member for Lichfield ( Dave Robertson ) — he be no long in his place — be a striking example of what we be here to discuss . two of the station ' s three platform can be reach only by a steep footbridge , mean that wheelchair user , parent with pram and people with limited mobility be effectively bar from get to Birmingham and Stafford . one constituent tell I that his friend , who have mobility issue , literally have to crawl up and down the stair to reach their connect train . west Midlands Railway fully support instal lift , but such major upgrade fall under Network Rail ' s access for all programme , for which demand be huge and funding be heavily oversubscribed . with more than 2 , 500 station compete , Network Rail prioritise base on passenger number and the proximity of the next available accessible station . that mean Rugeley lose out to large hub nearby , such as Stafford . although Rugeley have be shortlist in the past , other station have score higher under the system . the reality be that the next allocation of Access for all funding be still a distant prospect . in the meantime , passenger be offer so - call mitigation , such as go forward to the next accessible station and be send back again , or be provide with road transport at the operator ' s discretion . for many , that be simply not a viable or dignified option . will my hon . friend give way for a very short intervention ? give your warning , Madam Deputy Speaker , I will not give way . accessibility upgrade such as lift , ramp and reliable step - free route must not be treat as optional extras in town such as mine . they be essential to dignity , inclusion and fairness . on bus , Cannock Chase show why change be long overdue . we be one of the most car - dependent part of the country , yet many still rely on bus . over the year we have lose route into Birmingham and the Black Country , and service after 7 pm and at weekend be rare . in my part of the world , we see stark evidence of a public service run for private profit and pay for in grow inequality . elderly resident tell I that they can not reach appointment , parent struggle to get child to school , and worker have to turn down shift . nationally , bus service in the most deprived area of England have be cut 10 time more than in the least deprived . some community have be cut off altogether , such as Slitting Mill , just outside Rugeley , which have no service at all , despite once have a direct bus all the way to Wolverhampton . the Government ' s Bus Services ( no . 2 ) bill — I be immensely proud to serve on the Bill Committee and to support it last night — will arrest and begin to reverse the long - term decline that we have see for far too long . whether it be the last bus that never come or the platform that can not be reach , my constituent know what regional transport inequality look like . I welcome the Labour Government ' s determination to put fairness and accessibility at the heart of transport policy . I will keep press to ensure that my constituent get the share of investment they deserve . to grow our economy , we need good connectivity . in coastal community such as Scarborough and Whitby , we be strike in the slow lane . Scarborough , with its heritage , culture and captivate coastline , be a popular tourist destination , attract 3 . 9 million visitor last year . the train from Scarborough to York be an essential transport link for visitor as well as commuter , but with only one service an hour , opportunity and growth be be choke off . we need a twice - hourly service . this proposal be back by York and North Yorkshire Mayor David Skaith , local business , my constituent and Lord Blunkett , who list the service increase as one of his rail priority in his report , " Yorkshire ' s Plan for Rail " , publish this year . Scarborough ' s wonderful Stephen Joseph theatre have support call for a twice - hourly service , state that audience member leave performance early to catch their train . rather like its late production , " Noises Off " , this be a farce . we have business in Scarborough and nearby Seamer that be look to attract more employee , but with such an irregular service , these opportunity be simply out of reach for many people . we have enough platform and enough demand for a more regular rail service . the operator , TransPennine Express , say that one of the barrier to provide a twice - hourly service be a shortage of driver . it insist that it must train its own driver on its own route . I would be grateful if the Minister could address the issue of train driver in his closing remark , and say whether he be explore new way to ensure that the local need for driver be meet . I welcome the news that York and North Yorkshire combine authority will receive £ 94 million in local transport grant capital funding over the next four year . however , the combine authority , which cover a huge geographical area , be not part of the transport for city region , so its settlement be not nearly as large as that of most combined authority . will the hon . Lady give way on that point ? no , I be afraid I have to carry on . unless we equip our first Labour rural metro mayor in York and North Yorkshire with the economic firepower to deliver well bus and train , we not only limit the opportunity for town like Scarborough to contribute to economic growth , but risk fail to break down barrier to opportunity in coastal community . when we talk about regional transport inequality , the east midland , where I be bear and have live most of my life , come to mind as one of the clear example of such inequality , as my hon . friend the Member for Derby North ( Catherine Atkinson ) have say . over the past five year , per - head transport spend in the east midland have fall to just 54 % of the UK average — the low of any region or nation . as have already be say , have we simply receive the english average , we would have have £ 7 billion more for our bus , road and railway . rail funding in the east midland be particularly unequal , at £ 175 per head in 2023 - 2024 — barely 40 % of the english average , and a third of what the west midland receive . these be not just abstract figure ; they affect daily life . they mean high car dependency , low level of bus usage , and a sparse and unreliable rail network . three quarter of our station be serve by only one train per hour or few . this be what chronic under - investment look like on the ground for my constituent . as have be mention , there have recently be positive commitment , which I welcome , include the £ 2 billion allocate to our East Midlands Mayor , Claire Ward . but we have to be honest : with huge sum be spend elsewhere on HS2 , the trans - Pennine upgrade , East West Rail and the low Thames crossing — to name but a few fantastic project — the money commit to the east midland will not address the long - stand imbalance . without purposeful intervention , I fear that the east midland ' relative position will simply worsen . so what need to change ? first , we need funding parity . I would like to see a transparent path towards bring transport spend in the east midland up to the english average , include on rail , where the gap be deep . secondly , we need certainty . we need a long - term , multi - year pipeline for road , rail , bus , station and active travel investment , rather than piecemeal one - off project , so that local authority and industry can plan properly . thirdly , I would like to see housing growth match by transport capacity . my constituency be deliver the housing that this Government want to see , and it be important that the transport be there as well . finally , I must mention midland main line electrification . the economic case be overwhelming : it would unlock £ 400 million - worth of benefit and 5 , 000 job . in contrast , keep the scheme under review risk £ 40 million to £ 70 million in additional cost . my ask today be therefore straightforward : please , Minister , look at that scheme again . Meur ras , Madam Deputy Speaker . I congratulate my hon . friend the Member for Derby North ( Catherine Atkinson ) on secure this important debate to highlight the disparity in the effectiveness and adequacy of transport between different region . I would like to speak about my constituency of Camborne , Redruth and Hayle and to consider how specific issue affect travel in remote coastal area such as Cornwall , as my hon . friend the Member for Truro and Falmouth ( Jayne Kirkham ) have mention , particularly in relation to home - to - school transport . because of Cornwall ' s geography , be at the end of a long peninsula , it be characterise by remote community , limited transport infrastructure and a high proportion of small settlement , which mean that deliver service be inherently more expensive . the recently close fair funding review consult on update the system of distribution , include assess local authority ’ experience of deliver multiple service , such as home - to - school transport . as my hon . friend the Member for Truro and Falmouth again highlight , the south - west rank in the bottom half of regional transport expenditure ranking in 2023 - 24 , yet cornwall face distinct geographical challenge . it cover a very large area with a dispersed population , which result in long school journey , as many pupil live far from their near school . there be also limit public transport option in rural area , necessitate dedicated school transport . these place - base characteristic be compound by pressure on the special educational need and disability system , with a rise number of pupil require specialist transport . yet the funding formula do not fully reflect the complexity and cost of provide the service . road in remote coastal and rural area be more vulnerable to weather - relate disruption , mean transport service require extra contingency planning and resilience funding . seasonal pressure exacerbate these challenge too , with visitor and seasonal worker increase congestion and wear on infrastructure , add to maintenance cost and planning complexity . when he get to his foot , I hope the Minister will be able to address some of the particular issue affect remote coastal area such as Cornwall , and I would appreciate a further discussion with he on this matter , particularly give Cornwall ' s distinct devolution complication . I be quite tempt to stand up this afternoon and just say the word " pothole " over and over again for three solid minute , as the peculiarity of such an approach might really bring home to the Minister , who I know have be do his good on these matter , quite how strongly my constituent feel about the state of their road . the Government do give Cheshire East several million pound more in this year ' s Budget to deal with road maintenance backlog than in recent year , which be very much appreciate by my constituent . however , the reality be that 14 year of chronic underfunding have leave my road in a catastrophic state . I can not emphasise enough how dark , dangerous and worrying rural road be — the number of young people who die on the road in my constituency be absolutely horrific . similarly , I can not emphasise enough that we need separate funding for significant safety upgrade , as well as a dramatic increase to the road maintenance pot as soon as the Government be able to do so . there be another matter concern road in my constituent that I want to draw attention to . grit might sound like a trivial thing to those live in an urban area , but grit in rural area be absolutely critical . our road get a low level of use , and the result be that they freeze and stay frozen for long period of time . one impact of my local authority have have so many financial challenge over the past 14 year have be reduction in gritting . there be school in my rural area that have no pavement outside they , and the road in front of they be completely and utterly ungritted . when those child be drop off at school , they be put into a road — alongside car — which have not be grit at all . headteacher do their good to mitigate the associate risk by not demand that parent bring their child in on time , so the lack of safety feature not only put child at risk , but undermine their education . let I contrast that with London , where automatic number plate recognition camera help to shut road off completely at specific time of day . I find it stagger that we have such a complete contrast in treatment . of course , I want child in London to be safe ; this be not about take thing away from London school , but it be very much about child in my constituency , as well as old people and other , have the same access and safety as everyone else . briefly , give that I have only 30 second leave , I want to touch on Northern Rail and the complete lack of Sunday service in my constituency . the strike have be go on for a year , and we desperately need the issue to be resolve . sandbach station rail accessibility , include the lack of an accessible lift at the station , be a huge issue . I echo point make by colleague about the importance of fund such thing properly . lastly , there have be a 67 % reduction in bus in my local area over the past 15 year . we must improve on that desperate situation . I will do my good to speak at high speed , Madam Deputy Speaker . I want to say a few word about my hon . friend the Member for Nottingham South ( Lilian Greenwood ) : she be an outstanding Minister and the Department ' s loss be the Whips Office ' s gain . she will be much miss on the Transport Front Bench . I be grateful , too , to my hon . friend the Member for Derby North ( Catherine Atkinson ) for secure this debate . she and I represent constituency in the squeeze midland — region home to 10 million people that have historically be deny a fair share of funding and political attention . as have be note already , the east midland receive the low transport funding per head of any region , although the west midland hold that unhappy status until recently . the rail line between Birmingham and Nottingham be slow , mile for mile , than that between Manchester and Leeds . the west midland have the low share of public transport journey of any english region , follow by the east midland . that fuel congestion , road safety problem and pothole . Birmingham ' s road be a special case . we have one of the last private finance initiative contract in the country . when originally issue , local government austerity and the high inflation of the early 2020 be not foresee . the previous Government try to withdraw support for the PFI contract without a clear plan , which be rule unlawful . I know that the new Minister will be look at that closely , and I look forward to work with he to get a fair deal for Birmingham . Most public transport journey be by bus and half the industry ' s income now come from public funding , yet public accountability lag behind . this summer , National Express announce major change to the X20 and 61 route . People in Allens Cross and part of the New Frankley estate lose their direct connection to Birmingham , and some old resident no long have direct bus access to the Queen Elizabeth hospital . I be grateful to the hundred of people who sign petition , include one that I organise . I have meet National Express and Transport for West Midlands , and I hope that we can find a way forward . significant investment have be announce for commuter rail . I have speak frequently in this House about rebuild king Norton station as part of a midland rail hub . in the interest of time , I will only say how grateful I be that minister listen ; I hope that we can make progress on restore that service ' s frequency . finally , we must be ambitious . Birmingham Corporation Tramways once run service to my constituency . the original 1984 vision for a revitalise metro include a loop serve Northfield , Longbridge , Frankley and Rubery . that vision be right , and I hope that we can find funding for a feasibility study for a south Birmingham extension . regional transport inequality hinder economic growth and deny opportunity to my constituent . I be glad that the House have have the chance to debate this issue . I think this be my stop , so I will . I commend the hon . gentleman for his timekeepe and the speed with which he include all that . that bring we to the Front Benchers , remember that we would like to leave some time for the Member who introduce the debate to wind up . I call the liberal Democrat spokesperson . I be all too conscious at Transport question this morning not only to ensure that I do not , after last night ' s scold , repeat the heresy of " you " or " yours " , Madam Deputy Speaker , but to keep my question brief . consequently , I do not have time to put on the record — for the third time in less than a year — a formal welcome on behalf of my party to the new shadow Transport Secretary . therefore , notwithstanding the fact that the right hon . member for Basildon and Billericay ( Mr Holden ) be no long in the Chamber , I formally congratulate he on his elevation . as former Transport Minister , the right hon . Gentleman know all about the transformative effect of transport , have only recently hop aboard the overnight shuttle from Durham to Basildon . on that tortuous journey from the north of England to the south - east , he would have glimpse the huge inequality in transport provision across our country . be it train or bus , road or air travel , where people live or their business be situate have a massive effect on their mobility . mobility — the ability to move from a to z and all point in between — be key to a modern economy and a cohesive society . the statistic paint a stark picture of , to coin a phrase , a two - tier system . last year , for example , transport spending in London be over £ 1 , 300 per head , compare with under £ 400 per head in the east midland . new research from Transport for the North reveal that over 11 million people in England face a high risk of social exclusion specifically because of inadequate transport system . that represent a 14 % increase — an extra 2 million people — since 2019 . in the north - east , well over 30 % of resident face a high risk of transport - relate social exclusion , compare with below 3 % in London . and who be the exclude ? it will come as no surprise that , as Transport for the North have highlight , it be disproportionately low - income household , unpaid carer , the old and the disabled . the very people our transport system should be help the most be the one face its great barrier . it be not just the north of England suffer from these inequality . Minehead in Somerset , for example , be virtually cut off . the railway station close in 1971 , and my hon . friend the Member for Tiverton and Minehead ( Rachel Gilmour ) tell I that the no . 28 bus appear to run on a whim . in Stratford - upon - Avon , Stagecoach have stop run bus in the evening and at weekend , and there be no direct train service between the home of Shakespeare and London , undermine the town ' s tourist and cultural economy . transport be , of course , key to our tourist industry . that be why in Cornwall , the new Lib Dem council have cancel the previous Tory administration ' s plan to sell off Newquay airport , but it now need more help than be currently be offer by the Government to make the critical investment the airport so badly need . investment in transport be key . even in London , where Transport for London be the envy of the rest of the country , more investment be need . repeat disruption on the District line be cause by some of the infrastructure be up to 130 year old , accord to TfL . it sound grim , but as my constituent be get tired of hear I say , we in Wimbledon and the rest of London do not know how lucky we be . just imagine live in a region where service be sparse or non - existent , bus route be cut , station have be close and the few train run be routinely delay . I be address my remark to the Minister , for whom I have high regard and no little sympathy , because the problem with regional transport inequality be clearly not of his making , nor his government ' s , but of the past Tory Administration ' s . take bus , for example , where deregulation allow private operator to cream off the profitable route and abandon the rest . between 2015 and 2023 , over 1 billion passenger journey be lose . in the north - west alone , bus route be reduce from nearly 3 , 500 in 2015 to half that number in 2024 . sadly , however , the problem still continue . my hon . friend the Member for Eastleigh ( Liz Jarvis ) in the south - east of England tell I that three bus service have be cancel since last summer . in the south - west and north - east , 56 % of small town be now identify as transport desert or at risk of become so . I do not doubt the Government ' s good intention , evidence by the Bus Services ( no . 2 ) Bill , but in some respect , thing be get bad . the Government ' s decision to increase the bus fare cap from £ 2 to £ 3 , for example , will only accelerate the decline in bus usage , hit those who be already struggle the most . the Minister will rightly point to the Bus Services ( no . 2 ) Bill and its many excellent provision but , as with the soon - to - be - publish rail Bill , no amount of legislation will solve the issue of regional transport inequality without the necessary investment . as we see with High Speed 2 and , more recently , the spending review , those money be not forthcoming . the electrification of the midland main line from London to Sheffield have now be cancel , while at Dawlish , the critical work to protect the vital Paddington to penzance main line from the sea have be put on hold despite the very real risk to regional connectivity . the same be true of our road network , where , for example , the promise widening of the A12 , which would have support the creation of 55 , 000 new home in the Chelmsford area , have be cancel . as the Minister be fond of tell I , there be no magic money tree , which be why the only way to address regional transport inequality be to grow the economy — a growth that be impede by the very inequality that growth would help to address . that be why the pump must be prime with more investment in our transport system and a far more ambitious approach to growth , which can be achieve not by wish on a star or by the PM tie himself in knot with his red line over Europe but by boldly re - engage with the EU and thereby complete the virtuous circle of an integrate transport system drive by and drive a dynamic and grow economy . I end by thank the hon . member for Derby North ( Catherine Atkinson ) for secure this important debate and all member for their excellent contribution . I call the shadow Minister . I join the liberal Democrat spokesperson in thank the hon . member for Derby North ( Catherine Atkinson ) for secure the debate . it give we an opportunity to talk about the chasm between the Government ' s grand promise and the grim reality for passenger , business and community , as have be ably demonstrate by many of the contribution from Back Benchers . I do not have time to do justice to all those who have make contribution : I will leave that task to the Minister . I will move quickly on to road and the Government ' s record on road , which have come in for some criticism today . the infrastructure spending review that the Conservatives be responsible for in the run - up to the last election be the road investment strategy 2 , which run from 2020 to 2025 . that be some £ 24 billion of investment , deliver major upgrade , unlock infrastructure to enable 186 , 000 new home for our constituent , improve freeport and airport link , and improve safety with 151 refuge area build on smart motorway . we now move to 2025 - 30 , with RIS3 , which be labour ' s opportunity to outshine we . have it do so ? absolutely not . RIS3 be mark by the killing of key enhancement , which I will come to , and instead of action we have target here and consultation there , but it be very light on delivery . we have a Government of review and policy paper , and that speak to a wide truth about the Government . it be lead by a lawyer Prime Minister who value process over political judgment — just think about his approach to sack our ambassador to Washington . the Prime Minister ' s original defence be that the process be follow : there be no political judgment . we can see that in the transport policy too . what we need be not process . we do not need further target here and consultation there : we need action . we need action on the A12 improvement — a £ 1 . 2 billion project . the scheme have be sign off , the housing have be clear and business have be relocate , but it be scrap without warn by this Government . the A12 be a core artery for Essex and South Suffolk . what about the regional inequality of that region ? my hon . Friend say the magic word : " Essex " . do he support the Transport for London ( Extension of Concessions ) Bill that I have table ? TfL run to Shenfield , Reading , epping , Watford , Cheshunt and Amersham , way beyond the boundary of Greater London . the Bill would require TfL to enable any local authority that be serve by a TfL route or by a route to which a tfl concessionary scheme apply to opt in to the concessionary fare scheme , include the freedom pass for our old age pensioner . I be aware that my hon . friend ' s Bill do not make a call on the public purse , at least on the Treasury , and it be for local authority to opt into the scheme should they wish to . it sound like a very exciting project and one that should be develop far . I mention the A12 in East Anglia , but there be also the A47 near Great Yarmouth . the Conservatives ' RIS2 include dualle to North Tuddenham , which be go on at the moment — I declare an interest as it be in my constituency — as be the dualling of the Brundall to Blofield stretch of the A47 . labour come into power and cancel all further improvement . the shadow Minister talk about the A47 , which run through my constituency . would he agree that the £ 200 million be spend on the improvement of the Thickthorn junction in our area will make a huge difference , compare to the £ 50 million waste by Norfolk county council , run by his party , on a road that have not have an inch of tarmac lay ? the hon . Gentleman ' s intervention give I the opportunity to raise the proverbial eyebrow at his claim credit for secure £ 200 million for the Thickthorn roundabout when that have be in process for many year before he be elect . as for the £ 50 million he mention , I think he mean the western link road , which would be a huge improvement . at the moment we have the equivalent of the M25 for Norwich , but it be miss one section of 3 . 9 mile . the Conservatives be squarely behind finish it : I be surprised to hear that Labour do not support the resident of Norwich in a similar way . I will move on to what Labour have do . it have cancel the further improvement on the A47 , particularly at the other end towards Peterborough . that be just another example of where East Anglia have be ignore by Labour . bus be the most popular form of public transport and the most important one in area of high deprivation . they be particularly important for poor member of society , the young , elderly and disabled . the Conservatives recognise that — we recognise that price matter — so the last Government introduce the £ 2 bus fare cap , and our manifesto commitment at the last election be to maintain it throughout the course of this Parliament because we recognise how popular and useful it be in increase bus ridership . when Labour come to power , it have a choice : it could back passenger or it could back the union . one of its first — shameful — act in government be to give a 15 % pay rise to ASLEF train driver , who be already the well pay in Europe , pay for by a 50 % increase in bus fare for passenger around the country . that speak to a wide truth : when it come to it , Labour be the party of the union and not of the people . rise — on that point , I will give way . do the shadow Minister agree with his predecessor — the last Conservative Rail Minister , Huw Merriman — who say this : " whilst it ' s legitimate to debate the term of the deal , the demonisation of train driver and those onboard and at station , who carry out a difficult and skilled job for the safety of passenger , be completely unfair . these people work hard and should be show more respect . " ? I have no problem with the union make demand — after all , they be represent the interest of their member . what I complain about be the Government give way to they at the expense of the general public . on train , we have get the cancel project as well . the midland main line electrification have be cancel , which have lead to lay - off and the loss of expertise . it be also cause problem for the procurement of new bi - mode train , because we no long have any certainty as to whether the line will be electrify . at Dawlish , the Conservative Government complete phase 1 to 4 of the improvement and reinforcement of the line . phase 5 be all that remain . what have the Government do ? they have kick it into the long grass , as be mention by the hon . member for Newton Abbot ( Martin Wrigley ) for which I give he credit . back in East Anglia , the hon . member for South Norfolk ( Ben Goldsborough ) highlight the need for the Ely junction and Haughley junction project in Cambridgeshire and Suffolk to be advanced , yet they have be ignore by the Government . will the shadow Minister give way ? I will not , because I be run out of time . I have already give way to the hon . gentleman . what be the big plan ? it be one of nationalisation for railway . we must look at the Government ' s motive — what do they think it be go to do ? it be not about unify track and train , because that be already in the Williams - Shapps review ; that be go to happen without nationalisation . be it about reduce fare ? if so , it be backfire , because nationalise train company ’ fare be rise above inflation . be it about increase efficiency ? one would hope so , but through the Government ' s nationalisation process they be decapitate the management team that drive efficiency in the individual rail company . be it about increase passenger number ? the inconvenient truth for Labour be that under privatisation passenger ridership on the railway double , because the company be incentivise to chase ridership . that be drive by increase open access route , yet the Government have oppose every single application for open access since the election . be it to save money ? if so , they be not do a very good job . on south Western Railway — one of the first to be nationalise since the election — they waste £ 250 million on infrastructure overspend with the roll stock leasing company due to Government negotiate incompetence . the truth be that the Government be do it because it be an article of Labour faith — faith in the big state — and also a key demand of the union . how have it go for they ? as we have hear , ASLEF have already get a 15 % pay rise , and the RMT be strike now . next time , when GBR be finish , that strike will be national . the Government be one year in . we have hear in the debate of cancel scheme after cancel scheme . we have also hear that price have increase and that money have be divert from passenger to union pay . that have do nothing for regional inequality , save for the industrial action that be spread from London and engulf the rest of the country . it be why passenger be so disappointed in Labour . they deserve well . I call the Minister . I welcome today ' s debate on regional transport inequality , and I thank my hon . friend the Member for Derby North ( Catherine Atkinson ) for secure this time . I have 10 minute to address the many excellent contribution make this afternoon , so member must forgive my reluctance to entertain many intervention . for decade , this country have face a grow deficit of opportunity fuel by the poor connectivity that have come to define too many community . I have experience at first hand the frustration feel by million of people every day . grow up in the north - east , I could wait hour for a bus that would never arrive , so I understand that miss shift , miss lesson and miss appointment all lead to miss opportunity for hard - work family . poor transport have deepen divide , isolated community and erode quality of life , all while stifle growth , hinder productivity and deter investment . in my own region , Leeds be one of the large european city without a mass transit system . we be shamefully behind the curve , with people and business suffer as a result — but it do not have to be that way . this government be turn the page on decade of decline , end short - sighted whitehall - centric decision making and unlock talent , ambition and potential right across the country . we be seize a once - in - a - generation opportunity to change the way that thing be do and build a strong transport network that work for everyone , whoever they be and wherever they come from . later this year , we will set out that vision in our integrated national transport strategy . we will champion transport that be design , build and run with people in mind , recognise that different place face different challenge and need different way to solve they . the strategy will aim to make transport safe , more reliable and more accessible , help everyone to feel more confident and able to use the network . we will encourage housing , healthcare and other service to work with transport , try to tackle regional inequality in all its form . we know , however , that politician in Westminster can not fully grasp the reality of life in Warrington , Wolverhampton or Woking . that be why our Bus Services ( no . 2 ) Bill put power in the hand of local leader , with the freedom to choose the approach that well serve their community . we recognise that a one - size - fit - all formula just will not work , so we be fund franchising pilot to well understand all the option on the table . the Bill also call time on the plague of violence against woman and girl and antisocial behaviour with training and enforcement measure to help make journey safe for everyone . we be back those step with landmark level of investment . this year alone , £ 1 billion will help improve bus service and keep fare affordable . we will extend the £ 3 bus fare , which will put more money in passenger ' pocket , make bus travel a viable option for more community , while improve access to job , education and healthcare where it be need most . we be also give city mayor £ 15 . 6 billion to support wide local transport project , include mass transit in Leeds , a metro extension in the north - east and so much more . to ensure that our town , village and rural area , particularly outside London , be no long leave behind , we be not only commit £ 2 billion to help they tackle their unique challenge , but just last week we confirm an extra £ 104 million in resource funding for local authority , show that they can well design , decide and deliver ambitious local transport project . I be delighted with all the investment in city with mayor ; that be fantastic . however , in Dawlish , in Devon , we be once again leave behind . be that purely because we do not have a city mayor ? as I just mention , we have commit £ 2 billion to help those outside city area and last week commit £ 104 million for resource funding across the country outside city area . although we be eager for local leader to take the rein , there be still an important part for central Government to play in tackle transport inequality , particularly on our road and railway . we be invest billion to fix historical gap in the network , reconnecte long - forget area and tackle regional disparity head on . from major project such as the TransPennine route upgrade , East West Rail and hs2 to improve motorway in Cumbria , Greater Manchester and the midland , or funding to maintain and improve the road network , our mission to address inequality sit at the heart of everything we do . will the Minister give way ? I be go to make progress . we be also deliver new train station in the south - west and in Yorkshire , create brand new rail link across the midland , and back road scheme to well connect and grow community . not only will those measure improve people ' s everyday journey , they will also create job , power growth and unlock new home for family . last week , we announce that we be simplify fare and expand digital ticket trial to make rail more accessible and affordable , with new digital trial now live in the east midland and launch later this month in Yorkshire . passenger can sign up to take part and benefit from automatic good - value fare , make rail travel simple , smart and more flexible . our commitment to investing be clear , but we be also work behind the scene to ensure that every penny be well spend . we be review the Green Book to give a fair hearing to all part of the country . we have plan to recruit 300 new planner into the public sector by 2026 , support local authority and implement new planning policy to enhance housing supply , leverage private investment to bolster public funding and forge a fast and more efficient planning system . I be pleased to see a strong contingent of member from the east midland in this debate , and I be glad that they recognise , like I , the importance of improve transport link to drive growth across the country and tackle regional inequality . we recognise that transport spending have historically not be evenly distribute across the country . we be take action to drive up prosperity and living standard across the UK , include address any imbalance where appropriate . that be not just the case for the east midland . we be invest across the whole country , from enable mass transit in West Yorkshire to reopen the Bristol and Portishead line in the south - west . we be provide the East Midlands combine county authority with over £ 2 billion through the transport for city region fund , with the east midland receive over £ 450 million from the local transport grant and the integrated transport block . I be very pleased to see that Mayor Claire Ward intend to use some of that £ 2 billion of funding to progress the case for a permanent bridge at Darley Abbey . that mean that the east midland will receive significantly more local transport spending per head than the England average in the come year — £ 561 per person against an average of £ 398 . we be invest in the region , include deliver improvement to the east coast main line and progress the A38 Derby junction scheme , which will improve safety , reduce delay and support house building . we be also commit to deliver the A46 Newark bypass , subject to planning consent . I recognise the frustration that hon . member and their constituent feel about the electrification of the midland main line , but we have have to prioritise our funding on scheme that will make the great difference for passenger and economic growth as soon as possible . further electrification of the midland main line have be pause but will be keep under review as part of our pipeline for future funding . the new train , however , will increase seat capacity and will mark a step change in passenger experience . member have advocate passionately for other scheme in their local area . while I can not address every scheme that be raise in this debate , we will always need to prioritise the funding that we have available . my official will continue to work with their counterpart in local government and with other stakeholder to well understand local need and potential pipeline . I will now turn to specific contribution make in the debate . will the Minister give way ? no — I have a lot to get through . I welcome the many contribution from across the House on issue with bus service in Members ’ constituency . the Government know how important good , reliable and frequent bus service be to local community , and that be why we be invest £ 1 billion this year to support and improve service and give local leader more power to improve service through the Bus Services ( no . 2 ) Bill . while I welcome the contribution of the hon . member for Farnham and Bordon ( Gregory Stafford ) , he not only seem to have forget the 14 year in which his party have the opportunity to improve bus service in regional constituency but he also forget to mention that his Government give £ 26 million to the Conservative - control county council that cover that constituency . however , in rural area and place with poor public transport , driving be not a luxury ; it be a lifeline . the Driver and Vehicle Standards Agency continue to work hard to combat the unscrupulous practice of resell test across the country . in July , we announce over 50 new road and rail scheme , many of which will benefit the constituency of member who have speak in this debate . that include the midland rail hub , which we be back with £ 123 million and which will create link to more than 50 location . it also include the Middlewich Road scheme , the A38 Derby junction work , transform rail service across Manchester and new station in the south - west . we be address under - investment in Welsh rail infrastructure with a 10 - year funding package of £ 445 million to meet its long - term connectivity need and to help kickstart Welsh economic growth . turn to the comment of the shadow Minister , the hon . member for Broadland and Fakenham ( Jerome Mayhew ) , I will admit that the previous Government do allocate £ 27 billion for the road investment strategy 2 , but that be revise down to £ 23 billion . from my calculation , RIS3 represent a £ 3 billion increase compare with the funding for RIS2 . will the Minister give way on that point ? I will bring my remark to a close because Madam Deputy Speaker be grow impatient . I be here today not just as the Minister for Local Transport , but as someone who know what it be like to live in an underserved community , who have stand in the rain wait for bus that never arrive , and who have see at first hand the impact of poor connection , so I could not be more intent on deliver real change where it be need most . our plan for english devolution will shift even more power away from Whitehall . our industrial strategy will drive investment and growth in all region , and our infrastructure strategy will boost living standard across the UK . this issue transcend departmental silos . since last July , we have work tirelessly to restore confidence and certainty . we be look after the penny and the pound to improve life and livelihood across Britain , and I will continue to tackle the shameful deficit of opportunity that plague this country . we will continue deliver our plan for change until we get the job do . I thank the Backbench Business Committee for grant the debate . I thank my many colleague who speak passionately and persuasively for well transport option for their region , but also raise fantastic example of new investment . the number of contribution show how important transport equality be , and it be hugely heartening to hear the progress be make by this government , back by actual funding . I thank the Minister for his response . when it come to regional transport equality , some of we may sit behind the Minister and echo my child ' s oft - use refrain , " be we nearly there yet ? " but now we have a Government who have we drive in the right direction , on track to unlock the economic potential across the whole country . question put and agree to . resolve , that this House have consider regional transport inequality . Suicide Prevention I call Lee Pitcher , who will speak for around 15 minute . I beg to move , that this House have consider suicide prevention . before I begin , I want to share for the benefit of anyone watch or anyone in this Chamber who may ever need it that help be available : 24 / 7 crisis mental health support can be access by call NHS 111 and select option 2 , or by call the Samaritans , whose badge I proudly wear today , on 116 123 . I can not thank the Backbench Business Committee enough for grant this debate in the main Chamber . the Committee ' s recognition of just how important it be for this issue to be hear here be in itself hugely symbolic . let I start with the worker who be on stand - by , who in the early hour of the morning be call to deal with the death of a man from suicide , who be find in the tree , alone on some open land . that worker , have deal with the immediate response , then reflect and think about the true impact of manage that situation . he fail to sleep for the rest of the week , and never once sleep well again when on his stand - by duty . to the family of John , he be a massive West Ham fan who love Mot ö rhead and the genius of Pink Floyd . his mum , who find he that day , experience that thing no parent should ever have to endure : their baby , who they once cradle , leave this world before they . that worker on stand - by , that cousin of John , that be I . we get that call about John as we prepare to go to another family member ' s funeral — that chill call that no one ever want to receive . John have decide he could no long go on live with his demon , and feel that the only way to gain peace be to end his life . right now , as we speak today , there be many other Johns out there make a similar choice . like our John , they will be someone ' s son , dad , brother , uncle , cousin , friend or colleague . from that day on , we vow as a family that the good thing we could do in John ' s memory be to ensure that we help show people a different path , so that that dread call could never happen to anyone else . whether it be by raise fund through marathon , maximise our use of social medium to highlight support or , for I , secure this debate , we be all do everything we can for John . while none of this can bring John back to his gorgeous sister Jacqui , who be watch this in Australia , or to my auntie and uncle , there will be some comfort that his personal fight may prevent other ' pain in the future . today , use the privilege of be elect to this place , I will use my voice to try to make a difference . I have share my story , because I want everyone to remember how common , unfortunately , these situation be ; so many of we will tragically get that heartbreaking call about a family member , friend or colleague at some stage in our life . I be also share this because , just by raise the subject in this place , we give suicide prevention a national platform , from which we can strive to share good practice and find new way to take action to make a difference and save life . compare with other leading cause of death , suicide remain poorly understand . the stigma that still cling to it stop people reach out and isolate the family leave behind . break that stigma require we to talk openly and honestly in place such as this Chamber . as I be sure you agree , Madam Deputy Speaker , there be not many subject on which simply have a debate have the potential to save life , but today we have that opportunity , and my hope be that hon . member will use it as a chance to shift perception and push back stigma , and perhaps it will be hear by someone who need it . on 10 September every year we mark World Suicide Prevention Day . it be a chance to remember those we have lose , to stand with those who be struggle and to commit to do all we can to reduce the number of life lose . this year ' s theme , set by the Samaritans , be interrupt suicidal thought , and that be what we must do in this Chamber — interrupt the silence , interrupt the stigma and push for change . the statistic be stark . in 2023 , 7 , 055 people across the UK lose their life to suicide . it remain the lead cause of death for man under 50 and for man and woman age 20 to 34 , and suicide among teenage girl and young woman have nearly double in recent year . in Doncaster , where I live , suicide rate be above the national average ; 121 life be lose between 2021 and 2023 . in the same period in North Lincolnshire , in which the Isle of Axholme lie , 41 life be lose . every life lose be a tragedy , but what those number do not show be the ripple effect . every statistic represent a family and network of friend , colleague and acquaintance who be all affect . Suicide may often happen alone , but it never happen in isolation . however , suicide be not inevitable ; it be preventable . before I speak about the ask I have of the Minister and the Government , let I touch on the importance of mental health and building resilience in early life . mental health problem often start to develop in our teenage year , and even if they do not reach crisis point until much later in life , we need to do something , which be why we can not leave these conversation until it be too late . we need to start talk to child about mental health from an early age . this have to be do carefully and in an age - appropriate way , but just as we teach our child about eat well and stay active to look after their physical health , we should be help they to build resilience and wellbee for their mental health , whether that be through mindfulness , by learn how to manage stress or by know where to turn if they need help . just as importantly , we need to teach young people — again , at an appropriate time — that seek help with suicidal thought be not a weakness and be not something they need to face alone . it be a medical issue and it need medical intervention and support . there should be no more shame in reach out for mental health support than there be in get a prescription for insulin or pick up an inhaler . if we can make those lesson part of grow up , we can give the next generation a far strong chance of live a healthy , hopeful life . that be why it be so important that this Government be commit to put a mental health professional in every school , help to build that early resilience and understanding . that help be already in place for nearly 1 million pupil , and it will be there for every child during this Parliament . at this stage , I want to give a shout out for with I in Mind for the amazing work it do in my area . I will concentrate on three key area where I would like the Government to take action . the first area be mandatory suicide prevention training for first responder and well mental health awareness across frontline service . our police , fire and ambulance service be amazing , and their crew be often the first to respond when someone be in a suicidal crisis . in the year up to March 2025 , fire and rescue service be call to more than 3 , 100 suicide attempt . East Midlands ambulance service alone respond to more than 20 , 000 incident in 2024 , and the North East ambulance service respond to more than 21 , 000 incident — three time the number from just four year before . the fact be that training on this matter be just not consistent , and we have an opportunity to do more . we know that training work . evaluation show that with suicide prevention knowledge , confidence and attitude improve significantly after training . GPs who complete training be 20 % more likely to identify people at risk . equip first responder with the skill to spot the sign , start a compassionate conversation and make an intervention will save life . the second area be well research into demographic gap in suicide death . we know that the risk be not evenly share ; man be three time more likely to die by suicide than woman , and man in deprive area be five time more likely to do so . too often , man be tell to man up or tough it out , and they be less likely to seek help , confide or access service until it be too late . however , this be about not just how man be teach to act , but how people react to man seek help . research show that nine in 10 man who die by suicide have be in touch with a statutory service in the year before their death , whether it be at A & E , through primary care or even through the criminal justice system , yet too many opportunity to help be miss . if we be serious about tackle the big killer , as the Government have promise , we need a clear , evidence - base programme of research into how suicide risk present in man and how service can respond more effectively . without that , the mental health strategy risk fail the very group it need to help the most . this be not just about a gender gap . People in the most deprived area be twice as likely to die by suicide . autistic people face three time the risk of their peer . gay and bisexual adult face twice the risk . for tran people , the risk of a suicide attempt be four and a half time high , and for tran youth the risk be nearly six time high . there be huge difference in death by suicide across ethnic group , across region and between different kind of employment and educational background . these difference need to be study and understand , just as we would for any disease that affect different demographic in different area . by study the different demographic affect , we can learn about the cause , risk factor , preventive or protective factor and path to recovery . the third area be a rapid and ambitious roll - out of mental health hub after next year ' s pilot . these hub could be transformative — local , community - base and accessible without referral or appointment . that be exactly the kind of frictionless support we need to offer . when someone be suicidal , every barrier be a potential barrier too far . no wrong door , no delay — if someone ask for help , the system must help they . alongside that , we must support the voluntary and community organisation that be already save life every single day , such as Samaritans , Mind , Andy ' s Man Club , James ' Place , Men ' s shed and local group such as the Jackson Hope Foundation and the Shed on the Isle in my constituency . they provide the human connection that prevent suicide , but they be too often leave to rely on their own fundraising . if we be serious about prevention , Government must partner with they , not leave they struggle for survival . the Government have commit in their manifesto to tackle the big killer , include suicide , and to deliver the suicide prevention strategy . I urge Ministers to go fast and far ; for some people listen today , time be already run short . prevention be not just well than cure ; for suicide , it be the only chance that some people will ever get . as I say , the theme for World Suicide Prevention Day be interrupt suicidal thought . it be the responsibility of each and every one of we to interrupt with training , with research , with service that open door in every community . Suicide be not inevitable ; it be preventable . with the right action , we can and we will save life . on Monday , I will be carry the baton of hope , take part in a relay across my constituency alongside many other to raise fund and awareness for suicide prevention . that baton be a symbol — a physical icon of mental health . it be a reminder that hope can be carry , share and pass on to the next person . our task in this House be to ensure that hope be meet with action , so that few family face the grief of lose a love one and more people find the support they need to live . rise — as colleague can see , over 10 member be hope to speak . we need to begin wind up by 4 . 30 pm , to let the Front Benchers contribute , so unfortunately I will have to set a time limit of four minute to ensure that everyone can get in . I call Liz Twist , who chair the all - party parliamentary group on suicide and self - harm prevention . I start by thank my hon . friend the Member for Doncaster East and the Isle of Axholme ( Lee Pitcher ) for secure this important debate just one day after World Suicide Prevention Day , and for speak so movingly about his personal experience . it do not take much scratch below the surface to find out that many of we here in Parliament and across our constituency have be affect by suicide . an estimate 7 , 055 suicide be register in the UK in 2023 . Suicide remain the lead cause of death in people under 35 , and of man under 50 , and each suicide ripple out , affect family , friend , work colleague and social group , lead to an increase risk of suicide in they . it be now some 25 year since my husband Charlie take his own life , and I still see those ripple affect so many people who know and love he . we can not say it too often : every one of those life lose to suicide be not a number but a real person , and every life lose to suicide be a tragedy . as a result of my work over a number of year with the APPG for suicide and self - harm prevention , I have get to know many wonderful organisation , very many of they inspire and run by those with their own experience of loss , work hard to prevent suicide and to help those family and friend who have lose people to suicide . that include organisation such as if U Care Share , Body & Soul , Gambling with life , Silence of Suicide , SoBs , 3 dad walk , Jami , Baton of Hope , James ' Place , the Martin Gallier Project , and the Speak their name quilt project , with quilt from the UK on display in Parliament when we return in October , and with the Baton of Hope end its trip in Westminster the previous Friday . there be so many people who I could name , and I apologise for not name they , but I see and hear they . I thank they for their work . I be pleased to have work with the British Standards Institution over the past 18 month , which will shortly publish suicide prevention guideline for employer and launch they in this place . there be no single community in this country that be not affect by suicide . but it be also true that some be more affected than other . death of this nature be both a cause and a consequence of health and economic inequality . in the north - east , our suicide rate have consistently remain high than the national average , and they have rise steadily over the past decade . there be so much more that I be go to say , but I will move on to my ask of the Government . I be proud of the work that the Government have carry out so far , from expand mental health support team in school to implement online harm legislation . but go forward we need to have mechanism in place to assess public mental health need at a local and national level , tackle emerge issue and support well - evidence public health intervention to prevent suicide . I would also like to talk about the online harm that people face . the Government have start to take action , but it be develop all the time . I hope that we can continue to take strong action in that region , and continue to improve the national suicide prevention strategy . I be grateful to my hon . friend the Member for Doncaster East and the Isle of Axholme ( Lee Pitcher ) for secure this debate and for his incredibly powerful remark a few moment ago . suicide be one of the most pressing public health challenge we face . behind every statistic be a devastated family , a community shake and life change forever . there be between 650 and 850 death to suicide in Scotland every year . my local authority area of North Lanarkshire experience between 40 and 62 annually . while Parliament rightly debate this national issue and seek a national response , I want to highlight the work be do in my own community . several year ago , the spotlight fall on my area where , despite there be a drop in death by suicide in Scotland , community in Coatbridge and Bellshill and across north Lanarkshire be experience near record high . North Lanarkshire council , work alongside partner in health education , sport and the voluntary sector , have put suicide prevention at the heart of their wellbeing agenda . the suicide prevention strategy be a model of how public service , anchor organisation and grassroot group can come together , promote early intervention , raise awareness and ensure that support be available at the right time and in the right place . we know that man between the age of 34 and 54 be the group with the high risk of complete suicide . I be proud of the way my community have specifically use sport as a force for change . for many year there be a great partnership with local public service and all of Lanarkshire ' s professional football team . I be involve in that prior to my election to this place . I be tell a story in the week after that partnership launch that have always remain with I . one of our club get a phone call to their main office on a Monday morning from a man who have walk through the turnstile two day prior for the 3 pm kick - off on the Saturday afternoon . he be clear that it would be his last game , as he be plan to complete suicide that very night . as the game progress , he notice the new signage erect around the stadium on suicide prevention . he take a note of the number on the billboard and , in an act of immense bravery , he make a call . his subsequent call on the Monday to the club be to say that go to the game on the Saturday have save his life . just yesterday , the annual North Lanarkshire suicide prevention football tournament take place . it be not only a competition ; it be a statement . it be a statement that through sport , camaraderie and community , we can break down stigma , start conversation and let people know that help be there . I be also proud to be wear the bespoke tartan of Samaritans Scotland , a new tartan to recognise Suicide Prevention Day . I pay tribute to they , as my hon . friend the Member for Doncaster East and the Isle of Axholme do , and to all those who work so diligently to support my constituent at such a challenging time in their life . but suicide prevention still require national leadership . there be too many still die , too many story be cut short , too many chapter not write , too many experience lose and too many family endure life sentence of heartbreak . we must ensure that mental health service be properly resource , that school and employer be equip to support those at risk , and that public authority be give the funding and flexibility to expand the work they be already do so well . above all , we must send a clear message from this House that suicide be preventable , that no one should suffer in silence and that help be always at hand . I congratulate my hon . friend the Member for Doncaster East and the Isle of Axholme ( Lee Pitcher ) on secure this debate and speak so powerfully . last Friday , we have the honour of welcome the Baton of Hope to Bathgate , Blackburn , Armadale and Linlithgow as it make its way across West Lothian . the county be Scotland ' s only stop as the baton travel the United Kingdom , carry a message of hope and purpose . the Baton of Hope be , as we have hear , a powerful symbol in the national conversation about suicide prevention . I must give my personal , heartfelt thank to Donna from Neil ' s Hugs Foundation for work so hard to bring the baton to our home . for Donna , the Baton of Hope and Neil ' s Hugs Foundation be a beacon of light in the dark time . live with the loss of her son , Donna have dedicate her time and love to give other the compassion they need . she do it with an open heart and open arm , wrap everyone she meet in the big hug . the Baton of Hope ' s presence in our community be more than ceremonial ; it be a rallying cry and a reminder that hope be not abstract . it be build , carry and pass on by people and a great many community organisation that I have be fortunate to meet . last week we have the opening of the Bathgate Men ' s Shed , lead by Alan , which be a lifeline for man face isolation during retirement or mental health challenge . the entire shed movement be a brilliant example of how workshop be place of camaraderie , purpose and healing . it would be remiss of I not to mention the inspire work of everyone involve in Andy ' s Man Club across the country , with a special mention of Sandy , who tell I about its work in Bathgate . such organisation — there be too many to mention — often have the reach that health service and local government simply do not . they also do vital prevention work in local community to keep people mentally well . they be not only transform life , but very often save life . for example , organisation such as SMILE , lead by the inspirational Declan , support child and young people affect by poor mental health . their counselling , advocacy , outreach and community - build effort be nothing short of heroic , especially when we consider that they receive no specific funding for the soar number of referral from medical service . another local organisation , EnvironMentalHealth CIC — with June Dickson at the helm — provide lifesave mental health first aid training in local community . it meet people where they be with empathy , dignity and understanding . although we be thankful for the hard work of many organisation , such as those I have mention today , we can not continue to rely on the good will of volunteer and charity to plug the gap in our mental health system , which be stretch beyond break point in Scotland . the Baton of Hope pass through my constituency , but we can not let it pass we by in this Chamber today or tomorrow . we must carry it forward with action and political will to ensure that no one in Scotland or the rest of the UK wait until it be too late for the help that they desperately need . I thank my hon . friend the Member for Doncaster East and the Isle of Axholme ( Lee Pitcher ) for secure today ' s vital debate . this issue be particularly personal for I , and I have be open about it in the House before . I be 11 when my mum first try to take her own life , and I be so grateful to the Samaritans , whose badge I wear with pride , because it be they who save she that first time . she be eventually diagnose with bipolar disorder and finally get the support and medication she need , and I be so thankful that she be around today to be the brilliant mum that she be — I know she be watch this right now . in my 30 , I go through a tough time . have it not be for my wonderful daughter , I would have like to switch my " on " button off . I be not alone , because one in four people will have suicidal thought , and one in 13 will attempt to take their own life over the course of their life . forty - five be the age at which a woman be most likely to take her own life , often influence by hormonal change ahead of menopause . I be a 45 - year - old menopausal woman , so that sober fact hit hard , and I be grateful for hormone replacement therapy . we need to ensure that more woman be able to access the right support when they be go through these change . but as member have say today , suicide do not just affect woman . veteran of all gender live with PTSD have a heighten risk of suicide after serve their country . there be a disturbing increase in suicide by farmer between 2022 and 2023 , with more feared because of change to inheritance tax rule . Suicide be the big killer of people under 35 and the big killer of man under 50 , and we know that there be a significant crisis in man ' s mental health . nationally , there be a lot of organisation that aim to support man with their mental health , such as Andy ' s Man Club and man ' s shed . luckily , in my constituency of South Derbyshire , ManClub be set up last year after a local chef , Craig Riley , tragically die by suicide . Joe Ward , one of the founder and a friend of Craig ' s , live in Melbourne and now help to run weekly meeting on Monday evening at Melbourne Assembly Rooms , where man can talk openly without fear of judgment . this Saturday , the Baton of Hope , a suicide prevention charity , will be tour through Derbyshire . it be start by two father whose son tragically die by suicide . one of those father , Mike McCarthy , along with other affect or bereave by suicide , will be stop by Elvaston Castle in South Derbyshire on their tour , and I wish they all the good . I can not wait to meet they in Parliament in December with my fellow derbyshire mp . I want to live in a society in which no one ever feel like suicide be their only option . People deserve holistic and accessible mental health support through access to medication and / or affordable therapy . that be why I be so glad that the Government be fix our precious nhs . but this be about so much more than healthcare and treat people with mental health issue ; it be about prevent they from feel suicidal in the first place — and so much of that come from a great sense of security , and hopefulness instead of hopelessness . Hope be so much easy to have when people have a secure home , good , well - pay job , a sense of purpose and a united feeling of community . I know that this government desperately want to ensure that everyone have that , and that they be strive really hard to deliver it . I thank my hon . friend the Member for Doncaster East and the Isle of Axholme ( Lee Pitcher ) , and I congratulate my constituency neighbour , my hon . friend the Member for South Derbyshire ( Samantha Niblett ) , on her powerful speech . I welcome the conversation that we , as a country , be have about mental health , because every community have a story where life have be lose , and my constituency be no different . Helena Markey go to my school , de Ferrers , and be in the year below I . I still remember her smile , which would light up any room . on 10 September 2015 , she pass away after jump into the path of a vehicle . she be just 17 . it shock our school community . it shock our local community . a young life with so much potential and so much to give to the world be take away from we . week before Helena die , she receive her exam feedback and be consider her option for year 13 . she become very distressed about the result and would later go on to take her own life . Helena ' s parent be completely unaware of just how upset she have become . I have be work with Helena ' s incredible parent , Glen and Sharron Markey , since my election , and have be support they on their Smile4Helena campaign , which aim to change the Department for Education ' s guidance to school to ensure that they notify parent if a pupil become distressed during their result feedback . Glen and Sharron believe that just a simple phone call to they about Helena ' s distress would have mean that they could have go and pick she up from school , and that would have save her life ; they could have talk she through that situation and get through it together . we be seek a meeting with the new Schools Minister to ensure that what happen to Helena do not happen to any other young person . I would be grateful if the Minister could use his good office to assist with that . the key to mental health support be talk and be open with each other about the challenge that we all face . it be about not just the investment that we need in mental health crisis service , but front - load that into preventive support . that be why I believe that the Government ' s plan for mental health hub , and the increase in the number of mental health counsellor , be so important . locally , there be so many people who support other to open up about their mental health , include the Sexual Abuse Rape Advice Centre or Sarac , Burton YMCA , Burton and District Mind , BAC o ' Connor and those , like Andy ' s Man Club , that be look to set up in Burton and Uttoxeter . I pay tribute to all those organisation ; they save life every single day , even if they do not know it . we owe it to Helena , her family and every young person in this country to do well — to create a culture where no one suffer in silence , where family be keep inform and where the right support be there at the right time . I ask the Minister to reaffirm our share commitment to build a system that catch young people before they fall , because behind every statistic be a life , a family and a future . if by make change we can prevent just one more family from experience the heartbreak that happen to the Markeys , then it will be worth it . I be grateful to my hon . friend the Member for Doncaster East and the Isle of Axholme ( Lee Pitcher ) for secure the debate , and I congratulate he on his very touching speech . the clear message come from the House today be that suicide be preventable . defeat stigma be essential , and the more that we can raise this issue in Parliament , the more we can do to help remove that stigma . this Government inherit a mental health crisis . More than a million people who be in need of mental health support be not get the care that they so desperately require . the suicide rate be now high than it have be at any time in the 21st century . the pledge by Ministers to ensure that mental health get the same attention and focus as physical health be an important one . it be talk about for 14 year when the conservative party be in power , but there be little progress . I genuinely hope that under this Government thing will finally change . with that in mind , will my hon . friend the Minister update the House on the progress be make to tackle mental health waiting list ? research from Rethink Mental Illness have show that 12 time as many people have to wait 18 month or more for mental health treatment compare with the wait for treatment for physical health . it be necessary to discuss mental health provision in this debate ; after all , the link between suicide and mental illness be well establish . do my hon . friend agree that we should also look at the impact on people ' s mental health of online gambling , which be responsible for between 117 and 496 suicide a year — figure repeat in our Health and Social Care Committee report ? my constituent Jack lose his son Arthur to gambling - relate suicide age only 19 , after only six month . it be a tragic situation . do my hon . friend agree that gambling should be see as a public health issue , that in future it should be regulate not by the Department for Culture , Media and Sport but by the Department of Health and Social Care , and that the DHSC should launch a public health strategy to tackle gambling as a cause of suicide ? I agree with my hon . friend that not all suicide be link solely to mental health . I be about to say that various social issue need to be tackle as well . it be it be important that we do not see suicide prevention solely through the prism of mental health . indeed , many of those who die by suicide have either have no contact with mental health service or show no sign of mental ill health . it be also important to point out that not everyone who die by suicide have a diagnose mental illness . for those at risk of suicide , a complex range of individual , relationship , community or societal factor can be at play . as the suicide prevention strategy make clear , common risk factor that be link to suicide include physical illness , financial difficulty and economic adversity , gambling , alcohol and drug misuse , social isolation and loneliness , and domestic abuse . although address suicide prevention can include mental health , the strategy emphasise that it also go well beyond these issue . if we see suicide prevention just as a mental health issue , those people in our community who may not meet the criterion for a mental health diagnosis but be still in acute distress can end up be forget . perceive suicide just as a mental health issue also put the responsibility mainly on mental health service , when in reality local authority , employer , school , the criminal justice system and wide society all have role to play . when we talk about suicide prevention , we should therefore also talk about early intervention in school , university , place of work and community group . it be worth mention the great work do by charity — many name have already be mention . I congratulate the recently open Ashford Safe Haven , which be base at William Harvey hospital . it offer a walk - in service every evening for people who be in crisis or feel they be head towards crisis . a few month ago , I visit the safe haven and meet some of the staff to hear about the support they provide and how they help to create stay well and crisis plan , as well as support people to access other service and organisation that may be useful to they . it be a great resource for people in our community and I hope that the East Kent hospital trust be successful in its bid for funding for a round - the - clock walk - in service . work with suicide prevention charity can complement the service offer by the NHS and bridge gap in provision . we should also ensure that the health system become more effective in signpost the service that be offer by suicide prevention charity . while I will always lobby for meaningful change in the mental health system , I also know that talk about suicide prevention just as another issue for our mental health service risk narrow the conversation and exclude other who might need help . I hope that today ' s debate have help to make it easy for those watch who might need help now or in the future to get the right help at the right time . I congratulate my hon . friend the Member for Doncaster East and the Isle of Axholme ( Lee Pitcher ) on secure this debate . I will focus my contribution on the suicide risk during the perinatal period , which be the period from pregnancy through to the year after a child ' s birth . I have speak in the House before about the tragic death of my wonderful friend Sophie , who take her own life four year ago , leave behind her husband and her three little girl age six , three and just 10 week old . I have be feel the sadness of her death again this week , look at the photo of she young now set off to primary school for the first time , beam with pride , and I know Sophie would have be so proud too . I still vividly recall the shock of the moment I learn that she have die when the message come through from her husband . it be only after we lose she that I learn just what a risk there be of suicide in this period of life . one in four people experience some form of post - natal depression or anxiety , which be still poorly recognise as an issue generally , and it be something I campaign on . the vast majority go on to recover , but for some people it be very serious , and for some it be so unbearable that they end their life . the lead cause of death for woman in that period from six week to a year after the birth of their child be suicide . the Maternal Mental Health Alliance have delve into the datum and find some more alarming detail — in particular , the persistent social , economic and racial inequality in who die and who survive . woman in the most deprived area have much high rate of death . black woman be more than twice as likely to die as white woman , and woman of asian and mixed ethnic background also face elevated risk . with these risk and Sophie ' s death in mind , I want to offer three reflection . the first be that we be all vulnerable — each and every one of we . of the woman who die by suicide , nearly half have know mental health problem , but the rest do not . it be a time when the social pressure be really great . People expect you to be revel in the joy of the new baby , but the reality for many be that there be challenge in care for the baby : not enough sleep , not enough company , feeling of loneliness , failure and guilt , and the loss of the sense of self — the old you that you know before have child , which you fear be go forever . this can make it a very difficult period for many woman , include people who have not struggle with their mental health before . it be so important that we be all cognisant of this in ourselves and other around we . my second reflection be that we all carry a responsibility to each other . I still look back on Sophie ' s death and blame myself ; I ask whether I could have do more . as Paul Doble , a fascinating therapist work in my constituency of Aylesbury , recently put it to I , the reality be that we can not prevent every suicide , but we must never be afraid to try . the real question be how we support people well when they be suicidal , know that our compassion , care and presence may not remove every risk but can make life more bearable , and our question may be the one that interrupt their suicidal thought and lead they to different choice . again , that be something we must all be cognisant of . my third point be that the Government have to keep take suicide risk and suicide prevention really seriously , as I know they do . I hope we will hear more on the suicide prevention strategy from the Under - Secretary of State for Health and Social Care , my hon . friend the Member for Glasgow South West ( Dr Ahmed ) , who I welcome to his place . we know that the care a suicidal person receive can make a big difference . we have some fantastic specialist perinatal mental health service , but I have hear from so many woman who can not access they . suicide risk need to be assess in all the routine maternity care a woman receive , and support give if necessary . the same be true of so many other part of the NHS and other public service , where action can make the difference between life and death . the role of public health intervention in this — for example , social and emotional learning programme in school — be crucial , too . conscious of time , I will end it there , but I hope that this World Suicide Prevention Day be a turning point in save life and tackle this immense challenge in our society . I thank my hon . friend the Member for Doncaster East and the Isle of Axholme ( Lee Pitcher ) for secure this very important debate . may 1997 be etch on my memory for two very different reason : first , the elation of 1 May and the election of the first Labour Government in 18 year , and then , just a few week later , the death by suicide of a good friend . this debate be not just personal to I but be of great importance for far too many of my constituent . accord to Department of Health and Social Care statistic , Cumberland have the second high suicide rate in England . over one in five adult in Carlisle have be diagnose with depression , place we sixth high in England and Wales . my constituency be home to a large rural and farming population , and we know that rural isolation be a major contributor to poor mental health and suicide risk . I pay particular tribute to the work of the Royal Agricultural Benevolent Organisation , which provide tailor mental health support to our farming community . I also highlight the work of field nurse across the rural north — specialist nurse who visit auction mart to support farmer , their staff andtheir family with their physical and mental health . support group be also make a huge difference . Andy ' s Man Club , which have be mention , open in Carlisle early this year , and have already welcome more than 2 , 000 man who be seek support and find the meeting a safe place to talk and share their experience . I recognise the work of Mal Craghill in Brampton , to the north - east of the city of Carlisle . until merge his Brampton Mentalk group with Andy ' s Man Club last month , Mal run the club for over two year . his leadership and honesty have help so many man to feel less alone . I thank he for his work . Carlisle Happy Mums offer peer support for woman experience post - natal depression , anxiety and other mental health challenge . its work be compassionate , community drive and essential . those be just a few of the excellent organisation that help our community and the people in they to access the support that they need . we owe they all our sincere thank . suicide prevention must be a whole - of - society effort . that message be carry by the Baton of Hope when it come to my constituency last Sunday . I welcome the step that the Government be take to overhaul the Mental Health Act through the Mental Health Bill , and to invest in mental health in school , with nearly 1 million young people gain access to support this year . those be important reform , and I hope that they will be match by continue investment in the community - base service that I have touch on . on occasion like this , I feel that our House and this Chamber be at their good . it be incumbent on we all to unite to ensure that , no matter where someone live — be it in a community that be prosper or one face hardship , or in a city , in a village or on a farm — they be able to access the support that they need , when they need it . it be an honour to take part in the debate , which be so powerfully open by my hon . friend the Member for Doncaster East and the Isle of Axholme ( Lee Pitcher ) . I be grateful to colleague for ensure that suicide prevention remain at the top of our agenda . as other have mention , yesterday be World Suicide Prevention Day , so this debate be timely . suicide be one of the big killer in this country . as other member have touch on so well , behind every statistic be a friend , a mum , a cousin , a husband — each one love by friend and family . over the summer recess , I visit Bracknell Samaritans , where I see for myself the extraordinary work that it do as part of a successful and grow national network . its volunteer be there for people at their dark moment , and we should never underestimate the number of life that they save . I thank they for everything that they do in Bracknell and beyond . last year , I have the privilege of chair a roundtable on autism and suicide prevention , organise by Autism Action . it shine a light on the disproportionate effect that suicide have on those with autism . accord to the National Autistic Society , 66 % of autistic adult have experience suicidal thought — nine time high than for the general population . the society also report that as much as 11 % of people who die by suicide have either an autism diagnosis or autism trait . those figure be shocking and demand action . the insight and voice of autistic people and their family , which I hear at the roundtable and in further conversation , have be invaluable in shape my understanding of the scale of the challenge and the need for action . recent research from Autism Action , the University of Cambridge and Bournemouth University — the large study of autism and suicide to date — provide further insight . almost 1 , 400 autistic people take part . the study identify loneliness , hopelessness and feeling of failure as key driver of suicidal thought ; many report difficulty in get the support they need , long waiting time for diagnosis and a lack of post - diagnostic help . our national strategy do recognise autistic people as a priority group , but there be more to do to ensure that recognition translate into practical action . an update suicide prevention strategy should specifically address the need of autistic people , and the next autism strategy should explicitly consider suicidality , with the two approach work hand in hand , rather than separately . while there be more to be do nationally to address mental health issue , I be proud that local organisation in Bracknell be already lead the way : Walks for Wellbeing and Sandhurst Health Walks ; Youthline and Create Hope ; Stepping Stones Recovery College ; Sandhurst counselling service , which , I be very happy to say , be back up and run after a difficult year ; Andy ' s Man Club and the Crowthorne and Wokingham without man ' s shed ; and , of course , Bracknell Samaritans . these group be lifeline , and they deserve recognition and support for the critical service they provide . I be pleased to say I have meet each of they and can personally vouch for the hard work they do in our community . I want to end with a message to anyone watch or listen today who may be struggle : help be available . whether by call the Samaritans on 116 123 , through local service in Bracknell Forest or through friend , family and community , there be people ready to listen and to help . please reach out . I pay tribute to my hon . friend the Member for Doncaster East and the Isle of Axholme ( Lee Pitcher ) for secure this debate on what I think we can all agree be a critical national public health issue . it be a timely debate give yesterday ' s World Suicide Prevention Day , promote by the wonderful Samaritans , who do so much good work , and whose badge I be proud to be wear today . figure from the House of Commons Library highlight the previous long - term decline in suicide up to the year 2000 have see some reversal in recent year , with 2023 see the high number since 1999 . it be right , therefore , that when the Government commit in our manifesto last year to a renew drive to tackle the big killer , suicide be include . the recently publish 10 - year health plan set out how the Government intend to put into practice the aim of transform our mental health system so that support be available when people need it . I very much welcome the commitment to a cross - Government approach to suicide prevention , which mirror the successful strategy that I have see in my time in local government . I have be pleased , since my election last year , to have be able to work with an excellent charity that have be mention by other , gamble with life , to highlight the troubling link between gambling and suicide , with the Office for Health Improvement and Disparities estimate that there be up to 500 gambling - relate suicide each year . I agree with both Gambling for life and my hon . friend the Member for Chelsea and Fulham ( Ben Coleman ) that the responsibility for gambling should be transfer to the Department of Health and Social Care , and that there should be investigation of all gambling - relate suicide and lesson learn from every case so that we can prevent future death . at present , coroner do not always correctly identify the link between gambling and suicide , and that need to change . I hope that Ministers will give full consideration to both those call . local suicide prevention strategy have a crucial role to play . in my previous life , I be cabinet member for health on Lambeth council . we launch our own local suicide prevention strategy with the aim of bring down the number of suicide , which see the council target support at the group identify by evidence as the most at risk : old man , the LGBTQ + community , and a range of other . we roll out suicide prevention training to everyone , free of charge , so that all resident be able to access it , but aim the support particularly , as other have say , at key organisation in touch with at - risk group in the borough . the training be all about how to have effective , potentially lifesave conversation with people in a safe way , and we see great take - up . crucially , the council also launch a borough - wide mental health campaign aim at support people on their mental health journey and at provide advice and wellbee information on how to access service at the right time . that period see a decline in the number of suicide , which I hope will continue . in my constituency , I pay tribute to the newly constitute Dartford Safe Haven — a little like the Ashford Safe Haven mention by my hon . friend the Member for Ashford ( Sojan Joseph ) — which , work closely with GPs , provide a walk - in service , out of hour , with the crisis support that so many need . I also pay tribute to North Kent Mind , which supplement local mental health service , provide vital additional help for those with mental health support need . let we all commit to make suicide prevention a successful national mission . I thank the Backbench Business Committee for grant this debate and my hon . friend the Member for Doncaster East and the Isle of Axholme ( Lee Pitcher ) for secure it and for make his opening remark in such an amazing way . we hear the devastating number and the personal experience of the impact that suicide have have on our community and on ourselves . these people be important to we and , I hope , by discuss this difficult subject not only can we offer comfort and support , but provide the hope that we can put in place improvement to prevent someone else from take their own life . I want to speak about two friend : my childhood friend who lose her dad to suicide when we be just in our teen ; and one who make the decision to take his own life just a couple of month ago . it be not until my friend ' s funeral in July that I reflect that while those suicide be more than three decade apart , the similarity between the two man who make that decision be stark . they be both man in their early 50 , successful and run their own business . they be amazing family man who be well respected in their work and in their social circle . yet they still both make that ultimate decision to take their own life , leave those leave behind to unpack their grief and sorrow with the override question : " why ? " in the face of such loss , we often search for answer — something to help we make sense of the silence and the unanswered question . while no single explanation can ever truly account for an individual ' s decision , pattern begin to emerge when we look more closely at the broad picture . we can look at age and gender , and the risk of suicide be high among man age between 45 and 54 . it be three time more common among man than woman — a gap that only continue to grow . we can look regionally too . between 2021 and 2023 , the east midland have a suicide rate of 11 . 3 death per 100 , 000 people , place we above the national average and make we the fifth high of the english region . we also need to look nationally , and we have to create some hope . local authority develop strategy to prevent suicide , but the funding for voluntary service have , sadly , go awry in recent year . we need the much more important national debate . we can look at the limit of exist mental health support and the reality that nearly a third of people who die by suicide be in contact with mental health service in the 12 month lead up to their death . those be of course important insight , but they be just insight , just statistic . we have to search for answer to this difficult question . although we might never know why someone decide to take their own life , what matter be what we do with the information that we do know . we know that we have to build resilience for young people in school , teach our young people how to promote good mental health and wellbee in themselves . we need to equip people with the language to talk about how they feel , the confidence to ask for help , and the tool to support themselves and each other through the inevitable challenge in their life . we can also look to our local organisation , such as the Leg up Project in my constituency . its core philosophy be about build resilience , and tackle loneliness and isolation . the Government ' s commitment to transform mental health service with 24 / 7 neighbourhood mental health centre be a fantastic start , but it will mean nothing if we be not give people the tool that they need to communicate to get themselves there in the first place . prevention of death by suicide will come from continued conversation , a grow understanding of the mental health landscape and hear the voice of those whom we have lose and those of we struggle now — those voice be the one that truly matter . we now come to the Front Benchers , and I call the liberal Democrat spokesperson , Dr Danny Chambers . we have three doctor on the front Benches . thank you , Madam Deputy Speaker . I always say that real doctor treat more than one specie . I thank the hon . member for Doncaster East and the Isle of Axholme ( Lee Pitcher ) for secure the debate and speak so emotively , as so many hon . member have today . I know from personal experience of talk about loss due to suicide in this Chamber that the pain never go away , no matter how long ago it be . I particularly commend the hon . member for North West Leicestershire ( Amanda Hack ) for speak about such a recent bereavement , which be a very difficult thing to do . other hon . member have mention that only one in four people who take their own life be know to clinical mental health service . that be why the charity and community organisation be so important . I recently visit the Winchester branch of the Samaritans , and I meet Wayne Fletcher , the director . it be so impressive and inspiring to see the number of volunteer involve in make sure that there be 24 - hour access for someone who need help in the darkest and loneliest time ; in the middle of the night and early in the morning , someone can pick up the phone and a volunteer will be wait to speak to someone . it be incredible . other hon . member have mention the Men ' s Shed . two week ago , I visit the Men ' s Shed in Alresford . its lease be up , so we will work with the town council to find it a new location . the connection , the friendship , the sense of purpose and the mentorship be vital , and it become a lifesave community . I have a message from a fellow vet in Winchester , Alison Moores . she say that her 15 - year - old son , Sam , take his own life early this year . she tell I : " at the weekend I go with three of his school friend and their mum to Sam ' s grave . see 16 - year - old cry at the grave of their good friend be heartbreaking . the loss of my son be so horrific I can ' t even begin to describe it . we have raise over £ 30 , 000 for Papyrus but they still need more . I hope we ' ve make a difference in save another child ' s life . " we know that charity fundraising be hard than ever in the current economic climate , and that all three of the organisation I have mention , plus other , rely on the generosity of the public and the people who be work so hard to fundraise for they . I would like to ask , in the most constructive way possible and with no party - political agenda — because I know all hon . member care deeply about this issue and that the Minister have a genuine commitment to suicide prevention — about the Government ' s decision to end the voluntary community and social enterprise suicide prevention grant . that funding support organisation such as Samaritans , Papyrus and the Men ' s Sheds , which all play a vital role in reach people who may never come into contact with mental health service . be there any scope , through cross - party pressure or engagement with Treasury colleague , to look again at how we can sustain support for those lifesave organisation at a time when suicide be at a 25 - year high ? I finish by pay tribute to Archie Pond , a 19 - year - old constituent of mine who take his own life last year . last month , I meet his father , Martyn , who have be relentlessly fundraise for Young Minds . I be always so impressed that someone can turn that sort of heartbreak into something so positive . one of my core team be a retire clinical psychologist , Peter Wilcock , who help so much before the general election and have do so especially since I be make the mental health spokesperson . I put on record my thank to he for his effort and his invaluable expertise on this subject . I thank the hon . member for Doncaster East and the Isle of Axholme ( Lee Pitcher ) . he honour John by secure the debate . all hon . member who have speak have honour respectively the people they hold so dear , in the most powerful way possible by turn personal grief into public purpose . I therefore thank they all for give their time to speak . there be a tiktok video that go viral . it open with a young woman energetically and innocently ask : " be honest : who do you call whenever you ' re at your low ? who ' s that one person ? " the stitched video reply come in , with man answer . the reply be harrowing and insightful : " nobody . I ' m a man . no one care . " " not a single soul . " " nobody . " " no one , cause I be all alone . " " I think I speak for a lot of people when I say I don ' t call anyone . " " nobody . I ' m a guy — no one give a s * * * " " speak for the guy , literally no one . " " you all call someone ? " " there ' s no one . nobody who care . " " no one . I ' m a man . no one care . " " not a single person . I wouldn ' t turn to a single person on this earth as they will use it against I . " " I wouldn ' t call anyone . " " what — we can call somebody ? " that small insight from a seemingly jokey platform hit on what we — the House and wide society — must look at to try to understand why man feel they be not value . why do they feel they can not call someone ? why do they fear do so will be use against they ? why do they fear ask for help ? many hide in plain sight , struggle and battle until it be too late . after all , we know from the Samaritans that about two third of suicide victim be not know to mental health service . hon . member may wonder why I be choose to focus my comment on man when the late datum from the Office for National Statistics show that suicide rate be at their high level since 1999 . as we have hear , man account for three quarter of all suicide in the UK . the late paper by the Centre for Policy Research on Men and Boys put that in stark light . it show that more man under 50 die in the UK due to suicide than for any other reason ; 14 man every day die by suicide in the UK ; 74 % of all suicide be male ; three time as many man die by suicide every year than die in a vehicle accident ; and by 2023 , over 90 , 000 man in England and Wales have die by suicide this century . that be enough to fill Wembley stadium . there be so much to do in this area . I want to highlight the focus and progress of the previous Government . through the NHS long - term plan , an additional £ 57 million be provide by the former Conservative Government between 2019 - 20 and 2023 - 24 to fund suicide prevention and bereavement service in every local authority . my former colleague Sajid Javid , who be touch tragically by the experience of lose his own brother to suicide , be instrumental in start the development of the suicide prevention strategy , which be publish in 2023 . key initiative include the development of a new nationwide , near real - time suspect suicide surveillance system that aim to provide early detection and timely action to address change in suicide rate . the strategy in its entirety set out over 100 action to make progress across Government Departments , the NHS , the voluntary sector and national partner . in 2021 , the previous Government also announce £ 150 million of funding for crisis mental health facility and patient safety in mental health unit . in January 2023 , it be announce that £ 7 million of funding would be allocate to new mental health ambulance , with £ 143 million go towards 150 new project , include scheme provide alternative to A & E . that be welcome , but the stat show that , even with all that focus , the trend be worsen . despite all that work and prioritisation of funding , we have yet to hear anything substantial from this Government about what they be do on suicide prevention . as we know from one example , training can make a difference . samaritan report from its rail team that , for every one life lose , it be estimate that six life be save by intervention make thank to the training give to National Rail and rail operating staff . that be proof that thing can be do . just yesterday it be World Suicide Prevention Day and the Prime Minister be ask twice about the topic . in response he say , first : " may I also thank those deal with suicide prevention ? probably everybody in this House know someone who have take their life . it touch all of we and we must do everything we can , together , to prevent suicide . " — [ Official Report , 10 September 2025 ; Vol . 772 , c . 862 . ] secondly , he say : " I think that suicide prevention matter to everybody in this House . I will reaffirm our commitment and I will work across the House with all member to deal with suicide prevention . " — [ Official Report , 10 September 2025 ; Vol . 772 , c . 868 . ] those be positive , warm word from the Prime Minister , which we be all pleased to hear . however , I think that we , across this House and among the public , would be interested in hear the tangible action take by this government after one year in office . will the Minister provide an update on what direct , practical step this government be take on suicide prevention , include the implementation of the recommendation in the strategy ? what point — for example , disparity in the difference across ethnicity and race in the UK — be be address ? I know that the Government have be consult on a wide range of issue , particularly when it come to man ' s health and the man ' s health strategy . I have be shine a light on those issue since I be elect in 2019 , so I thank the Government for take that important step forward . I understand that the Government be due to publish the mental health strategy and I commend they for that . indeed , I note than in an Adjournment debate early this year , the Minister for Care state : " in November , my right hon . friend the Secretary of State for Health and Social Care bring together lead campaigner , expert and the Premier League to gather idea and inform our strategy and our 10 - year health plan . we take suicide prevention extremely seriously , because every suicide be a tragedy that have a devastating and enduring impact on family , friend and community . " — [ Official Report , 24 March 2025 ; Vol . 764 , c . 757 . ] his Majesty ' s opposition welcome that step forward , but in look at the 10 - year plan , I note that suicide be mention only three time . I think that everyone here hope to see it feature heavily in the upcoming man ' s health strategy . will the Minister provide an update on timescale for the strategy and how it will consider suicide prevention ? will the Government look at the prospect of a Minister for man and boy if the evidence point in that direction ? we have a Minister for Women , as we believe that woman have different problem across society . by that very logic , man and boy have different need too . if we be to go down the route of segregate policy on sex , there appear to be a compelling argument to have a man ' s Minister to work across department . that can not be starker if we consider that for every woman who die by suicide in the UK three man die . another achievement by the previous Government be the launch of the suicide prevention grant fund , as we have hear , provide £ 10 million to 79 organisation between August 2023 and March 2025 . in my constituency , the charity First Step Leicester , Leicestershire and Rutland receive £ 76 , 845 and the grant be use to improve specialist counselling work in prison and to build on pilot project . it be therefore a regret that the suicide prevention grant come to an end in March 2025 and have yet to be renew or replace . in response to a write question in April , the Minister for Care state : " there be currently no plan to run another grant fund . " will the Minister explain the basis behind the decision early this year not to renew or replace the suicide prevention grant fund , and what alternative provision , if any , be be provide ? I thank the shadow Minister for his comment . there be no question but that we all want to work together to achieve the good outcome . may I remind he , however , that the £ 10 million voluntary service grant be a one - off grant and that the last Government fail to renew the funding — the £ 57 . 1 million that be mention — for local authority ’ prevention work ? I thank the hon . Lady for all the work she do with the APPG . I be look holistically at the different part of what we be try to do in this space . I have already outline all the funding that the previous Government put in , and I will come on to some of the other problem , such as the national insurance rise , because she will know that they will have a devastating impact . at the time , the Minister also state : " we will be evaluate the impact of the fund , and the service that have be provide by the grant - fund organisation . learn from this evaluation will help to inform … the Government ' s mission to reduce the life lose to suicide . " could the Minister provide further detail about that evaluation , such as when it will be complete and whether the Government would reconsider their decision to end the grant funding if the result show that it have have a positive impact in support suicide prevention ? charity be not exempt from the increase in employer national insurance contribution in the Budget . that have significantly hamper their financial situation . we just have to listen to what the Samaritans say in response to the spending review last year : " the reality be that funding for suicide prevention have dwindle down to next to nothing . to deliver our life - save work , charity be reliant on donation — on the generosity of the public . and this be even more precarious at a time when many people across the country be face economic hardship . " I point that out not to score political point , but to draw attention to the fact that the Labour Government need to set a direction and plan to deal with the lead killer of man and woman under the age of 30 . in closing , I want to recognise that yesterday be World Suicide Prevention Day . every year , 720 , 000 people across the world take their own life . the theme this year be , " change the Narrative on Suicide " . it call on we all to challenge harmful myth , reduce stigma and foster open , compassionate conversation about suicide . that lead I to where I start : if man do not know their value , if they do not know they have someone to confide in and if they do not truly believe that we care , we will not break the cycle , we will not make a difference and , ultimately , we will not save life . that be the challenge lay before society , this House and , ultimately , this Government . I believe we have a new Minister , Dr Zubir Ahmed — congratulation on the promotion and welcome to the Dispatch Box . just in case you need to know , we have be touch by young male suicide in my constituency of Sussex Weald , so I will be listen closely to your response . it be an honour to respond on behalf of my hon . friend the Mental Health Minister and the Government on this uniquely emotive topic that impact every community . I thank my hon . friend the Member for Doncaster East and the Isle of Axholme ( Lee Pitcher ) for give we the opportunity to have this debate the day after World Suicide Prevention Day . I know that the whole House will join I in thank he for channel a deep amount of personal pain and sorrow into such a constructive debate . his family and constituent should be rightly proud . I also want to commend all hon . friend and hon . member for their contribution , many of which have also come from a position of personal pain and experience . often in our society it be the doctor and nurse who be perceive to be the lifesaver , but I be confident that every hon . member who have take part in the debate be a lifesaver , and their constituent should be rightly proud of all of they . the hon . member for Winchester ( Dr Chambers ) speak about the mental health fund , and I would be delighted to set up a meeting with he and my colleague the Mental Health Minister to talk far about that . my hon . friend the Member for Burton and Uttoxeter ( Jacob Collier ) ask for a meeting with his constituent Helena ' s parent , and I would also be delighted to arrange that . the hon . member for Hinckley and Bosworth ( Dr Evans ) , in his usual forensic manner , ask a number of question that I hope I will address in my speech , but I be sure he will be forthcoming if there be any shortcoming in my answer . the Government stand on a manifesto commitment to tackle the big killer , and suicide remain the lead cause of death for young people in this country . every life lose to suicide be one too many . that be why our man ' s health strategy , our plan for change and our 10 - year health plan have give a renew focus on prevention . our aim be to get the NHS , Government Departments , academia and the private sector to intertwine like never before in a call to action . let I briefly set out the different strand of the work . first , we will target high - risk group , include child and young people , middle - aged man and people know to have a history of self - harm . secondly , we will expand the offer of our mental health emergency department as part of our 10 - year plan . thirdly , we will imbibe a great sense of responsibility and responsiveness in the digital and media sector . too often people in crisis find themselves terrified and vulnerable in place that be least equipped to help they — for example , traditional A & E department , face long wait and often inadequate support . that be why we be commit to expand mental health emergency department . we be invest up to £ 120 million to bring the number of mental health emergency department up to 85 , while pilot an innovative model of mental health care for people with serious mental health need . that will mean that people in their dark moment can access immediate specialist care in safe and dignified space . give that only one third of people who die by suicide be in contact with mental health service , we be also work to make support easy to find and easy to navigate . our shift from hospital to neighbourhood care in the 10 - year plan be a big part of that , as be NHS England ' s recently publish " stay Safe from Suicide " guidance , which be for all mental health practitioner to follow . it remove any uncertainty about the approach that they should take , move they away from tick - box checklist and put each patient and their individual circumstance at the centre of their care . today , I can update the House that NHS England be launch an e - learn module as a practical resource to support the implementation of the guidance . the whole country be horrify by the excellent portrayal of the issue currently affect young man in the television show " Adolescence " . it be a work of fiction , but it shine a searing light on many of the struggle that young people face , include social isolation — ironically , in an age of social medium and connectivity . that be why this Government be take action by equip a generation of young people with the tool to manage their mental health . by the end of this Parliament , every school in England will have access to a mental health support team . but as we safeguard our child in school , we can not remain blind to the poisonous environment that child be expose to online . as a father , I know that this be something that keep every parent up at night . that be why we be promote online safety and ensure responsible medium representation of issue relate to suicide and self - harm . under the Government ' s Online Safety Act , all in - scope service be now require to protect their user from illegal content , include illegal suicide and self - harm content . beyond that , the strong protection in the Act be for child who be now also protect from legal but harmful suicide and self - harm content . we have see too many tragic story of child be bombard with that content , often with fatal consequence . the onus be now on tech firm to recognise that that material have no place on their platform or in our society . Ofcom be continue to implement this regime , and it have recently publish proposal regard additional step that should be take to ensure that such content be not promote in an algorithmic fashion , but we know that legislation be not enough . I will now turn to the point make by my hon . friend the Member for Doncaster East and the Isle of Axholme about first responder training . first responder play an important part in prevent suicide , as they be often the first port of call for someone in distress and experience suicidal ideation . we will work closely with first responder , include the police and ambulance staff , to support suicide prevention effort . sometimes the first response to someone experience distress be provide by government frontline service . that be why the suicide prevention strategy include the training of frontline staff in some Departments . the Ministry of Justice be roll out mandatory suicide awareness training to prison staff , and Department for Work and Pensions frontline staff be receive mandatory training . the NHS be commit to ensure that all healthcare professional receive the necessary mental health training to meet the need of patient . I will now turn to the question of neighbourhood mental health service . the international evidence base be robust , and we be currently test the extent of the benefit of the model here . there will be an external evaluation of these pilot to determine their impact , particularly in term of patient experience , access , reduction in pressure on exist service , and economic impact . we will follow the evidence and make an assessment for future roll - out . I will now turn to the research into gender difference in suicide . we agree that research be hugely beneficial for make good - quality policy . that be why the ambition outline in the suicide prevention strategy for England cover five year and include research on national trend and suicide rate in specific group . we will continue to look for way to improve our national real - time suspect suicide surveillance system so that we can pick up on these trend and act on they fast . we will draw on expert from our advisory group and listen to people with live experience to help we understand why we see some of these pattern and what can be do to address they . I want to end by thank my hon . friend the Member for Doncaster East and the Isle of Axholme for bring forward this debate . I also thank all other colleague who have contribute to it , but I want particularly to thank my hon . friend the Member for Blaydon and Consett ( Liz Twist ) for her tireless campaign since she be elect to this place eight year ago . in her maiden speech , she stand on the Opposition Benches and speak very movingly about her husband . she then give this House a call to arm , say : " I do not ask for sympathy ; I ask for your support " . — [ Official Report , 19 July 2017 ; Vol . 627 , c . 907 . ] she may not remember , but the Secretary of State for Health and Social Care , my right hon . friend the Member for Ilford North ( Wes Streeting ) , be sit behind she on that day . he be delighted , as I be , that we be now in a position to be able to answer that call . that be incredibly powerful . we have feel a very different kind of emotion in the Chamber this afternoon , compare with what we normally feel . the story that have be share have be strip back , quite raw and very emotional . it really bring home to I the extent of the risk we be talk about here . let I thank all hon . member for their contribution and for their honesty . I thank the Minister , the shadow Minister and the Liberal Democrat spokesperson . these kind of debate be never easy , but what I have hear just show the depth of commitment across the House to tackle suicide . what also give I hope be the amazing organisation and volunteer who be out there every day try to support our most vulnerable when they need it the most . Suicide be a huge problem . we all know that there be no quick or easy solution , and every one of we come here to challenge thing like this and to make a difference . what we have hear today give I renew hope that change be possible . if we get it right , we can make a massive difference that will save life . so , to use the phrase use early today by my hon . friend the Member for Blaydon and Consett ( Liz Twist ) , we do hear you , we do see you and we want to be here for you . question put and agree to . resolve , that this House have consider suicide prevention . petition - No Limits Community Caf é and hub closure I wish to present a petition from my constituent Anna Todd concern the provision of inclusive community space in Newton Abbot , which have gain hundred of signature . change to access to work , retail rate relief and employer national insurance contribution have see the closure of Newton Abbot ' s no Limits Caf é , and Dawlish Gardens Trust have have to stop help people with learn disability into work . the petitioner therefore request " that the House of Commons urge the Government to protect exist community support hub and ensure long - term resource allocation and recognition of their role in mental health , wellbee , and inclusion . " follow be the full text of the petition : [ the petition of the resident of the Newton Abbot constituency , declare that the no Limits Community Caf é and Hub in Newton Abbot , Devon be a vital , inclusive space for disabled and neurodivergent people , provide community , support , and social connection ; far declare that the no Limits Community Caf é and Hub be a beacon of hope , employ 18 local people and create a warm , inclusive environment for its participant , staff , and visitor ; it be a place where people who often face barrier to employment gain confidence , learn valuable skill , and become part of a supportive community ; note the petition on Change . org on the same issue of closure of the no Limits Community Caf é and Hub in Newton Abbot , Devon that gather 573 additional signature . the petitioner therefore request that the House of Commons urge the Government to protect exist community support hub and ensure long - term resource allocation and recognition of their role in mental health , wellbee , and inclusion . and the petitioner remain , etc . ] [ p003110 ] Male Chick Culling Motion make , and question propose , that this House do now adjourn . — ( Claire Hughes . ) I declare an interest : early this week , I host the " Ban Hatch and Dispatch " event in Parliament with the Vegetarian Society , as well as host a drop - in event the previous week . it be important to hear presentation from industry expert about the innovative and effective in - ovo testing laboratory in Europe , which offer a vision of what we could have here in the UK . I will be host a further event on 4 November and I encourage colleague to attend . I be keenly await the publication of the animal welfare strategy this autumn , and I hope that this topic will be discuss in it . I thank my hon . friend for bring this animal cruelty to the attention of the House . consider the advance that have be make in determine the sex of chick before they hatch , do she agree that there be absolutely no excuse for commercial egg producer to be routinely cull animal on such a massive scale ? I could not agree more . motion lapse ( Standing Order no . 9 ( 3 ) ) . motion make , and question propose , that this House do now adjourn . — ( Claire Hughes . ) I agree what my hon . friend the Member for Glasgow North East ( Maureen Burke ) say , and I will go on to say more about that . Most people will not have hear of hatch and dispatch , which be a process of cull male chick a few hour after they be bear because they be not capable of lay egg and do not grow fat enough to breed for meat . it be estimate that 6 . 5 billion newly hatch male chick be cull globally every year , around 45 million of which be in the UK . legally , live chick can be kill use maceration , exposure to insert gas , or cervical dislocation , where no other method be available . in the 21st century , surely it be not acceptable that such a cruel practice take place , when alternative exist , as I will go on to describe . in July 2023 , the then Government ' s Animal Welfare Committee release a report , " opinion on chick cull alternative " , which call to ban male chick culling and import from system that still use cull . the Committee advise that any future welfare labelling scheme should say whether the production system cull male chick or use in - ovo technology , as well as call for financial support for the introduction of new technology and for wildlife rehabilitation project , which be reliant on cull chick for food . in - ovo technology can determine the sex of a chick while it be in the egg , mean that only female egg will hatch and avoid the cruel cull . research have show that chick embryo can feel pain from around day 13 of egg incubation , so most in - ovo sex system operate between day eight and 12 of incubation . while some method take small fluid sample , there be also non - invasive technique , such as spectroscopy and hormone detection . there be also significant progress in many other country . male chick culling be ban in Germany , France and Austria , while country such as Italy have pass ban that will take effect in the future , and many other country , include the United States and the Netherlands , among other , have adopt in - ovo technology voluntarily or through retail - lead initiative . I hope people here will agree that it be time that the UK catch up and introduce a ban on this cruel practice . almost 90 % of egg consume in the UK be produce in the UK ; that be a figure of about 12 billion egg per year , out of the 13 . 6 billion that be consume in total , so about 2 billion egg a year be import . I thank the hon . member for give way — she be passionate about animal welfare . she mention in - ovo technology identify the sex of chick . similar technology have work well in the dairy industry , where semen can be sex before a cow be artificially inseminate , to ensure we have female cow rather than a surplus of male cow that end up get cull at a young age . that be a successful programme in the dairy industry that could be replicate in the poultry industry . I fully agree with what the hon . Member say and I think that be a good example to follow . two major hatchery dominate the UK ' s lay - hen sector . if we be able to introduce in - ovo sex technology in just two hatchery , we would be able to eradicate the vast majority of male chick cull in the UK ' s commercial egg industry , so surely that be worth consider . the public be vastly in favour of that as well . a poll by the Vegetarian Society in May find that 76 % of respondent support ban male chick cull even if it would result in a price increase of 1p per egg . in Westminster , over 30 mp and peer from different party sign a joint letter to the former Minister call for a ban on male chick culling . what would happen to egg that be deem to be male ? the immediate answer would be to merge they with other hatchery biproduct use for energy generation , fertiliser or animal feed . however , expert be also investigate the possibility that the egg could be use to feed exotic animal in captivity . they could potentially be a high - value product as by day 12 the chick embryo have nail , beak and bone , as well as not be sentient yet . on a personal note , as a vegan for many year I find this whole discussion difficult , but it be important to highlight that currently cull chick be be use as animal feed for captive raptor . however , animal by - product from slaughterhouse could be the good alternative , as this would be a circular and low - impact approach that would ultimately reduce the number of animal kill . expert recommend that this should be a short - term solution , with long - term research focus on cultivate meat , cultivate casting and even 3d - print whole - prey alternative . the culling of live male chick be a cruel and outdated practice . there be strong public support on this issue and wide international precedent . as with many other , I keenly await the animal welfare strategy this autumn , and I hope that the banning of the culling of male chick will be a key aim of the strategy . it be important that a road map with a timeline be introduce to phase out this cruel practice and that male chick culling and import be a thing of the past . I thank my hon . friend the Member for North Ayrshire and Arran ( Irene Campbell ) for secure this debate . she raise this issue in a Westminster Hall debate on animal welfare standard in farming in June , and I be grateful to she for give we the opportunity to focus on the subject in more detail today . I fully recognise that there be strong public feeling on the routine culling of male chick , as highlight by the breadth of support that the Vegetarian Society ' s " Ban Hatch & Dispatch " campaign have attract . my hon . friend have speak passionately on the subject this evening . as a nation , we be rightly proud of the high animal welfare standard that underpin our high - quality british produce . this Government want to build on and maintain our world - lead record on animal health and welfare , and we be absolutely committed to ensure that animal receive the care , respect and protection that they deserve . I completely understand that the culling of day - old chick be a process that many , include someone not far away from this Dispatch Box , may find incomprehensible and wasteful . I assure my hon . friend that all farm animal be protect by comprehensive and robust animal health and welfare legislation , include when they be kill . regulation set out strict requirement to protect the welfare of animal at the time of killing , which include male chick in the egg production sector . as she point out , the permit kill method for chick , such as gas stunning , be base on scientific research and assessment to ensure that the bird be spare any avoidable pain , distress or suffering . all lay hen hatchery in the UK use argon gas mixture as their stunning method . that be a much more humane method than other gas , such as carbon dioxide , which be routinely use in several european country and elsewhere in the world . however , as have be comment by the Animal Welfare Committee — an expert committee advise the UK , Scottish and Welsh Governments on animal welfare issue — the routine killing of chick be principally an ethical issue , rather than a welfare problem , because it do not lead to direct welfare harm . of course , that do not mean that we should not work to see if we can move away from it in the future as quickly as be practical and possible . be able to do that rely on viable alternative be develop ; my hon . friend talk about some of those in her remark . the Animal Welfare Committee review the alternative to cull newly hatch chick and publish its independent opinion on this issue last year . in its report , the committee recommend that chick culling should be ban as soon as reliable , accurate technology be available . it also highlight that several consequence would arise from such a ban , and as such it would be crucial to learn from those country that have already commit to move away from the culling of male chick . my hon . Friend mention that Germany , France and other european state have ban the culling of male chick , but some european state have encounter issue follow a ban . in some case , in country where there be a ban in place — Germany , for example — male chick be merely transport to other member state prior to be kill , which be not the welfare gain one would want to get from such a ban . any ban on the culling of male chick need to allow for the rearing and processing of those male bird that hatch despite the use of in - ovo sex technology . another issue flag in the Animal Welfare Committee ' s report be the fact that male chick provide a whole food source for exotic animal and raptor . I congratulate my hon . friend the Member for North Ayrshire and Arran ( Irene Campbell ) on secure the debate and outline so eloquently the case for this cause , which I support . give that we use many male chick carcase for animal feed , pet food and place like bird of prey centre , and we import far more than we use , do the Minister agree that we need to find a solution to meet that need , if we be , as I hope , to eventually move to in - ovo sex in hatchery ? I agree that when a supply chain , however difficult , be establish and we try to move away from it , there can be unintended consequence . we have to look at the whole series of issue along that chain , so that we do not end up in a situation that have low welfare outcome than the one we start with . I assure my hon . friend that the Department be well aware of that , and we will not move in any way if we would end up in a bad welfare situation than the one we start with , but he make a perfectly good point . as I be about to say , another issue flag in the Animal Welfare Committee ' s report be the fact that male chick provide a whole food source for exotic animal , and we would have to replace that . in recent year , there have be phenomenal global progress in the development of technology that could help to end routine culling of male chick by identify or determine embryo sex before hatch , and it appear that this be go on in the dairy industry as well . there be clearly a lot of scientific work go on to see what we can do to get away from the current situation in our livestock supply chain . several new method and system have appear , and many refinement in exist system have continue , since the publication of the Animal Welfare Committee ' s report on this subject . we welcome the UK egg industry ' s interest in the development of day - zero sex technology , which enable egg to be sex prior to the start of their incubation . such a commercial system offer many benefit , include economic and sustainability saving by directly free up hatchery space , in addition to provide an ethical solution to the culling of chick . in Germany , one alternative be the rearing of male layer chick for meat production , also know as brother hen . due to their slow growth rate , rear brother hen require a great input of feed and a long rear phase to produce a small bird with less desirable body composition , make it more challenging to rear they commercially at scale in the UK . there be a lack of publish research on the welfare of brother hen , but animal welfare concern have be link to this practice . in particular , manage aggression and high mortality within all - male flock can be problematic , often accentuate by housing inappropriate to the bird ' behavioural need . aside from in - ovo sex technology and rearing of brother hen , I be pleased to hear about an initiative to assess the viability of dual - purpose poultry breed in the UK — that is , breed that can be use for lay and meat . clearly , they be not as specialist as the different breed currently use for the laying of egg and for meat , but since they be dual purpose , they do not result in the mass culling of male in the lay industry . the initiative be award funding early this year as part of defra ' s farming innovation programme . use bird that can serve both as egg layer and meat producer could offer an alternative to chick culling , but it be different meat — they grow and turn out differently than UK consumer be perhaps use to . it be also think that dual breed bring other animal welfare benefit , as hen of dual - purpose breed have low incidence of keel bone fracture , and some breed show less injurious peck behaviour than find in commercial lay hen breed . the male of dual breed have well walking ability , low level of pododermatitis and well feather cover than fast - grow meat chicken breed . in addition to the animal health and welfare benefit , the project be also look at the sustainability benefit of dual breed . dual breed have low protein requirement , and a german trial find that locally grow bean be a suitable alternative to very high - protein soya . if this approach to chicken breeding can be make viable , become popular and be accept by UK consumer — those three thing all have to work — it may deliver sustainability benefit . bring value to male layer chick be of key importance , and I look forward to hear the outcome of this research and whether dual - purpose breed might offer a more ethical and sustainable approach than our current one . this Government be elect on a mandate to introduce the most ambitious plan in a generation to improve animal welfare , and that be exactly what we be go to do . our farm animal welfare policy be back by a robust evidence base , and be support and shape by input from our many excellent stakeholder and expert advice group . I look forward to speak to hon . member about this in more detail soon . although , as I say early , this be principally an ethical rather than animal welfare issue , that do not mean that we should not be try , very robustly , to address it . I look forward to see progress in this area over the next period . that be incredibly educational . question put and agree to . House adjourn .