Oral Answers to Questions Scotland the Secretary of State be ask — Inheritance Tax Relief : Agriculture sector what assessment he have make of the potential impact of change to inheritance tax relief on Scotland ' s agricultural sector . what assessment he have make of the potential impact of change to inheritance tax relief on Scotland ' s agricultural sector . this government appreciate the role of farmer and everyone involve in our agricultural sector , and I have be delighted to meet representative of the National Farmers Union of Scotland and other stakeholder on numerous occasion . on each , I have reiterate that the Government want to strike a fair balance between support farmer and fix our public finance and the public service on which our rural community rely . as both hon . member will be aware , the vast majority of farmer will not be affect at all . they will be able to pass the family farm down to their child , just as previous generation have always do . only the rich estate will be ask to pay , not small family farm , and that be a policy that we on this side of the House be proud to support . I welcome the new ministerial team to the Dispatch Box , and particularly the Secretary of State , who be back as Secretary of State for Scotland after nearly 20 year . farmer watch that response will be think , " what a load of tosh ! " what representation have the Secretary of State and the Minister make to the Chancellor on behalf of farmer in Scotland ahead of the Budget ? as I mention , we be in regular dialogue with farming stakeholder and we regularly consider the evidence that be present to we . I would stress that , while we will always give evidence due consideration — indeed , the Prime Minister say that from this very Dispatch Box last week at Prime Minister ' s question — we will not deviate from our policy objective , which be both to raise revenue and to introduce great fairness to our tax system . that be exactly what this change do . it be clear that Scottish Labour and this government do not care and do not understand our rural community . if we have no farmer , there be no food . will the Minister listen to the voice of rural scot , NFU Scotland and communitie up and down this country , and ask the Chancellor to rethink this ruinous inheritance tax reform ? I myself be a representative of rural scot , as indeed be the Secretary of State for Scotland , who be meet farmer representative in his constituency this very week . we be in ongoing dialogue with our constituent and with farming stakeholder . I reiterate that what we say in the course of those dialogue be that we must introduce great fairness to the system and that three quarter of farmer will not be impact at all . there be many factor that make family farm viable , include the ability to work the land and carry out what be a very physically demanding job . do the Minister agree that tackle the fundamental problem in our NHS and the grow waiting list in Scotland must be a priority when balance compete pressure , give that poor access to healthcare disproportionately affect those work in Scotland ' s farming and rural constituency ? I could not agree with my hon . friend more . since the election , the UK Government ' s plan for change have deliver an extra £ 5 . 2 billion to the Scottish Government — funding that can be use to improve the performance of devolved public service such as the NHS . in June , an additional £ 9 . 1 billion of funding for the Scottish Government be announce in the spending review , so rural community like my own be right to ask when they will see improvement in their access to healthcare . I would also like to take the opportunity to commend charity such as the Farm Safety Foundation and its brilliant Yellow Wellies initiative for the work that they do to support the mental and physical health of farmer and all in our rural community . the propose change to agricultural property relief in Scotland will ensure that , by still provide full relief for the first £ 1 million of asset , farmer continue to benefit from Government support far beyond that which be available to other asset . give that 7 % of claimant — 117 claimant — receive two fifth of all agricultural property relief at a cost of some £ 219 million , do the Minister agree that this Government ' s reform be essential not only for fairness but to help fund vital public service in rural Scotland ? our reform mean that the majority — almost three quarter — of those claim the relief will not be affect . only the rich estate will be ask to pay more . this be a fair approach that balance fix our public finance with maintain support for small family farm and business . rise — order . it say Scotland in the title for these question . they be not link to Northern Ireland . I call the shadow Secretary of State . the agricultural sector be weave into the fabric of community across Scotland . it employ thousand and contribute million annually to the economy , but farmer across Scotland have be leave in fear for their family ' future and their way of life because this Government want to tax they out of existence . despite the clear message from the farming community , support by the NFUS , this Government be plough on regardless and completely ignore the damage they be do . the truth be that they do not understand — and bad : because those people do not vote labour , they do not care , do they ? I will reiterate it in case the shadow Secretary of State do not hear I : both myself and the Secretary of State represent semi - rural and farming constituency . we be in ongoing dialogue with constituent . we absolutely understand the pressure they face , which be why we have say that we will support family farm and that only the very rich will be affect . our constituent rely on public service and they require investment in those public service , and that be exactly what this tax change be design to do : introduce fairness but also raise revenue that will benefit all our community , include rural scot . I call the liberal Democrat spokesperson . Archibald Young , a foundry in my constituency , manufacture component that be vital to our national security , yet it now face a devastating blow from Labour ' s tax change . we be hear that food production — another cornerstone of national security — will also be decimate by these measure . this issue go to the heart of the protection of our country . do the Minister agree that scottish business that be essential to national security must be safeguard , and will she commit to meet I and other with similar concern to discuss that ? I would be delighted to meet the hon . Lady , and I welcome she to her new position . food security be indeed national security , and national security be the no . 1 priority of this Government . we be try to safeguard it in a number of way , include through our commitment to food security and , indeed , energy security . I would be delighted to discuss it with her far . Energy security : North Sea Gas and Oil what assessment he have make of the contribution of North sea gas and oil to energy security . oil and gas from the North sea will remain part of our energy system for decade to come . as a Government , we be strengthen our energy security , and as part of that effort , we be invest in home - grow clean power and energy through great British Energy . we be committed to a fair and orderly transition . next week , I will be in Aberdeen to meet energy company from across the north - east . we all know that the Government ' s energy policy be unsustainable . it have even be report that the Department for Energy Security and Net Zero be look at authorise tieback to access new oil and gas well use exist infrastructure in the North sea . will the Secretary of State acknowledge that if we want to increase energy security and reduce energy price for household and business , we must expand the use of the energy resource available to we , include North sea oil and gas ? as I seek to reflect in the first answer , oil and gas will be a central part of our energy mix in the United Kingdom for decade to come , but it be also right to recognise that there be a transition that need to be manage and there be an abject failure by the previous Government to manage it . that be why we see ten of thousand of job go in the North sea without the level of investment that we be now see from GB energy to manage that transition effectively . do the Secretary of State agree with I that the Conservatives have get a cheek ? some 77 , 000 job drift out of the North sea under their government , and they do not lift a finger . this government , along with the Scottish Government , invest £ 18 million in a transition fund to help oil and gas worker move into energy job . that will be an uneven transition , but it be an inevitable one . do the Secretary of State agree that that be what come from have a Government with an industrial strategy that put worker first ? I find myself in agreement with my hon . friend from the Western Isles . the North sea have provide decade of good job , not just for people from the Western Isles and across Scotland but from the whole of the United Kingdom . the last Conservative Government do not believe in industrial strategy — it be as basic as that . it be not just a difference of policy ; it be a difference of philosophy . we believe in open market and an active state . that be why we set up GB Energy , that be why there be a transition fund and that be why people can rely on Labour . I welcome the right hon . Gentleman back to the Dispatch Box as Secretary of State for Scotland after his sabbatical over the last 20 or so year . the messianic zeal of his colleague the Energy Secretary to see the destruction of our oil and gas industry be have real - life consequence . scottish worker be be make unemployed in their thousand , while this government ban the drilling and exploration of oil and gas in british water , and import more gas from Norway , which get it from the very same sea that we be prevent from exploit . come on , Secretary of State ; it be all a little unhinged , isn ' t it ? where to begin ? we have a Government that have invest in GB Energy and that have a transition fund up against an opposition that abjectly fail in their responsibility towards the North sea . we just hear from my hon . friend the Member for Na h - Eileanan an Iar ( Torcuil Crichton ) that 77 , 000 job be lose . that be the record that they own , and we will continue to point it out . the Secretary of State for Energy be not the messiah . week after week , I come to this Chamber to ask Energy Ministers and Scotland Office Ministers why they be content to sacrifice one of this country ' s great national asset and allow highly skilled worker to go on the scrap heap or go overseas . as Scotland ' s man at the Cabinet table , the Secretary of State know that his job be to speak up for those people who be lose their job today , not to defend the Secretary of State for Energy . will he explain that to the people of Aberdeen when he visit next week ? I gently remind the shadow Secretary of State that there be a difference between abuse and argument , and in relation to his substantive argument , of course I be happy to be Scotland ' s voice at the Cabinet table . that be why only next week I will be meet a range of energy company base in Aberdeen and listen directly to they . that dialogue have already start . I think we can do well than his question . pride in Place Programme : Regeneration what step he be take with Cabinet colleague to support regeneration in Scotland through the pride in place programme . what step he be take with Cabinet colleague to support regeneration in Scotland through the pride in place programme . the Scotland Office be back Scotland ' s community with our £ 292 million pride in place investment . the plan will support grassroots movement that restore local people ' s power , boost national pride and help people get on in life . it will revitalise our high street , create job and improve safety and security . More than that , it will give expression to this Government ' s core belief that community be powerful and that in every corner of our country , we find million of so - call ordinary people do their good and do their bit to transform the place they love for the people they love . the UK Government be invest more than £ 41 million of funding in my constituency , include the recently announce pride in place award . that will unlock the potential of my West Dunbartonshire constituency , match the level of ambition I have to regenerate our town centre and community and make they fit for the future . do the Secretary of State agree that this be in stark contrast to the SNP , which have give up on our community right across Scotland and in West Dunbartonshire ? I commend my hon . friend on his ambition for his seat and his sterling advocacy for it . he be right that this funding will help revitalise our high street , create job and improve safety and security in Scotland . he be also right that the SNP be desperately out of touch with its squabble over independence while service across Scotland be at break point . since the election last year when Labour come to power , our constituent in Scotland have see their friend in England and Wales see real improvement in their community and public service , while they look on and wonder what the SNP Government be squander Scotland ' s share on . do the Minister agree that key to the success of the pride in place funding and project , include the £ 41 . 5 million come to Lanarkshire , be that we be put power directly in the hand of people to make decision about investment in their own community ? my hon . friend be right that both her constituent and mine look with some envy to the other side of the border where million of extra NHS appointment have be secure while waiting list in Scotland go up and up . local community be at the heart of scottish life , which be why we be give they control over hundred of million of pound of investment to revitalise their high street , take ownership of important local asset and build thriving and prosperous place to work , live and visit . the Government ' s pride in place initiative — their equivalent of level up — should be great and should be feel across Scotland , but unfortunately we be feel the opposite in north - east Scotland because of the Government ' s energy policy . our high street need regeneration after a decade of disastrous decline in the sector , whether that be from SNP or labour policy . how will the Government act to ensure that our high street in north - east Scotland will not be far decimate ? I remind the hon . Lady that , of course , her constituent benefit from a city region and growth deal — there be investment go into her area . if she have complaint about the decline of her constituency , I suggest that she look at her colleague and hold they accountable for 14 year of catastrophic economic mismanagement by the Conservatives . as long as I get any opportunity , I will continue to ask why Perth , and Perth and Kinross , be not get one penny from the current allocation . why have Perth and Kinross never have one single penny from any Government allocation ? why do this Labour Government take away the £ 5 million that we finally get from the Conservatives ? finally , when be Perth , and Perth and Kinross , go to get its fair share ? the allocation under the pride in place programme have be evidence lead , base on datum and on a formula that be progressive and put money into the pocket of those who need it most . if the hon . Gentleman be worried about where money in Perth and Kinross have go , I suggest he ask the First Minister of Scotland , who be from his own party and have receive more than £ 5 billion . his constituent , like mine , will be ask , " where ' s the money go , John ? " Energy price what step he be take to help ensure that people do not pay disproportionately high energy price in Scotland . this government be take action to support vulnerable family this winter , include by expand the warm home discount scheme , which mean that more than 500 , 000 household now benefit from that £ 150 payment — one in five scottish household . will the Minister acknowledge the unfairness that my constituent in Skye , and indeed people all across rural Scotland and rural Great Britain , be pay four time as much to heat their house use locally generate renewable electricity — often while look at wind turbine outside their window — than those in city who heat their house use import high - carbon gas , which be largely due to the fact that the environmental tariff fall wrongly on the renewable and not on the carbon fuel gas ? community can feel tangible benefit , but those community benefit be largely voluntary at the moment . the hon . Gentleman make an important point , however ; that be why this Government be consider mandate the provision of community benefit fund for low - carbon energy infrastructure across the United Kingdom . we will have more to say in our plan when they be set out later this year . it be estimate that more than 70 , 000 household in Glasgow live in fuel poverty . the UK Government ' s extension to the warm home discount will mean that many of those family receive money off their energy bill . can the Secretary of State outline how people can access that support ? the good news be that those in receipt of pension credit that top they up to a minimum weekly income will continue to receive the discount automatically . the scheme be open again this month ; anyone who think they may be eligible , in Glasgow or elsewhere across Scotland , should contact their energy supplier . scottish Independence Referendum what his policy be on hold a referendum on scottish independence . what his policy be on the holding of a referendum on scottish independence . I be elect on a very clear manifesto , which make clear that this UK Labour Government do not support independence or another referendum . if , after 18 year , the SNP be not prepared to run on its record , that beg the question : what kind of record have they leave , after 18 year in power ? behind the smokescreen it have try to create by talk about independence , we know the reality : one in six of we on waiting list , rise violence and fall standard in our school . frankly , Scotland deserve well . I thank the Secretary of State for his unequivocal rejection of separatism . he will always find on the conservative side fellow colleague who treasure this United Kingdom and want to shout about the most successful alliance in political history . what specific step can he take to prevent more taxpayer ' cash be squander as the SNP pursue its doom dream ? as my hon . friend the parliamentary under - Secretary of State for Scotland make clear , we have commit £ 5 . 2 billion to the Scottish Government this year — the large settlement in the 25 year of devolution . there be a very basic question that we scot be ask : " where ' s the money go , John ? " the reality be that our service be get bad , not well , and we see industrial - level waste from the SNP . that be why it be time for a new direction . I , too , welcome the Secretary of State to his place , although it seem that his appointment have not be universally welcome . indeed , I hear that the Daily Record , have ask his Labour colleague for their opinion , fear an asterisk shortage . one particularly caustic comrade say : " if I have a pound for everyone who like Douglas , I would have 50p . " but rest assure , Mr Speaker , his appointment be welcome with open arm on the SNP Benches , and I have to admit to have a grudging admiration for he as someone who care not about the opinion of other people . but with Labour tank in the poll , and independence the majority view in — order . Mr O ' Hara , this be mean to be a question , not a statement . well , Mr Speaker , the quality of the SNP ' s contribution do not seem to have improve since 2007 , and neither have its argument . in the face of fail school and hospital , and the inability to build ferry in the hon . Gentleman ' s own constituency , what do we see ? once again , dreary document about independence . the reality be that the SNP have let Scotland down , and Scotland deserve well . that be why we be up for the fight in May . the SNP ' s renew chatter on independence be understandable , because it want to distract from its abysmal record of run down our public service . give that its plan for defence in an independent Scotland include give up the nuclear deterrent and replace it with little more than a scottish navy comprise the Waverley and the Vital Spark , do the Secretary of State agree that Vladimir Putin will be rub his hand with glee at the SNP ' s late outburst ? I be a great fan of Para Handy , the Vital Spark and the Waverley , but I would not want to offer they in the face of Vladimir Putin as an approach to Euro - atlantic security . the reality be that we have student gesture politic from the Scottish National party . I meet with the major defence company in Greenock last Friday , and they be very clear that we be forgo industrial opportunity now . there be a real cost to the incompetence and student naivet é of the Scottish National party . business in my constituency and across Scotland need stability , certainty and opportunity . do my right hon . friend agree that that be what they be get from a Labour Government , which stand in stark contrast to the instability and uncertainty of the SNP and its obsession with independence ? return to the Dispatch Box as the Secretary of State for Scotland , I think it be strike that the SNP ' s answer be no well than they be in 2017 , 2014 or 2021 . I simply ask : what be its policy on a scottish currency ? what be its policy on foreign reserve ? what be its position on a scottish pension ? it be no well at answer those question now than it be 20 year ago . may I join other Opposition Members in welcome the Secretary of State to his place ? I wish he well in that job . my hon . friend the Member for Argyll , Bute and South Lochaber ( Brendan o ' Hara ) be not the only one with a quote that might be of interest to the Secretary of State ; I have another one here . can he tell we who say this ? " if there be a majority " — an SNP majority — " it have get to be look at in Westminster . " who say that ? I sense that it might be myself . we would take seriously any SNP majority , but if the SNP be return to office , I hope it will do well than it have do over the past 18 year . I assure the hon . Gentleman that we on the Government Benches be not anticipate defeat ; we be work for victory . well , this might get just a little bit awkward . the quote be not from the Secretary of State , although I welcome his contribution ; it be actually from his boss , the leader of the Labour party and the current Prime Minister , who be about to turn up . that be very awkward indeed — [ interruption . ] there he be . will he stick to that commitment , or will we see Labour break yet another promise ? not least because he have just turn up , let I say that I always agree with my boss . the reality be that we be clear and unequivocal that we do not want the break - up of the United Kingdom . as scot , we make our choice in 2014 , and that be for a well future within the United Kingdom . cost of live what recent discussion he have have with the Chancellor of the Exchequer on fiscal step to reduce the cost of live in Scotland . this government be work tirelessly to reduce the cost of live in Scotland . we have introduce a national living wage , deliver a generational upgrade to worker ' right and help the Bank of England to cut interest rate five time , put money into people ' s pocket across Scotland . furthermore , thank to our stewardship , the International Monetary Fund forecast the UK to be the second - fast grow G7 economy this year . Scotland be the only part of the United Kingdom where child poverty be fall , and it be also the only part of Great Britain with a non - Labour Government . I be sure the Minister agree that the rest of the UK deserve well , so will she be call on the Chancellor to scrap the two - child cap in the upcoming Budget ? a child poverty strategy be on the way and will be release in due course . I can underscore our commitment to fight child poverty with every breath we have . that be what Labour government have always do , and it be what this Labour Government will do , too . this weekend , thousand of people will march in Edinburgh to say that Scotland demand well . we be right to do so , because the Poverty Alliance say that one in six adult in Scotland — around 1 . 2 million people — be live in food insecurity . what be the Scotland Office and the wide Labour Government do to end food insecurity for scot ? our commitment to end poverty be clear . we have have a clear focus on living standard ; work be increasingly now pay ; and we be focus on ensure that none of Scotland ' s child be subject to the poverty that the hon . Member so vividly describe . before we come to Prime Minister ' s question , I be sure that the whole House will know that this weekend the Rugby League Ashes return for the first time since 2003 . I place on the record my very good wish to the England team , who will make the major rumble in London this weekend — the first of three match against Australia . Prime Minister the Prime Minister be ask — Engagements if he will list his official engagement for Wednesday 22 October . on Sunday we unveil labour ' s plan to recruit hundred of thousand of worker into clean energy , create quality , well - pay job in every quarter of the United Kingdom . on Monday we announce the new v - level qualification , to make sure that every young person have the skill to realise their potential . on Tuesday our first ever regional investment summit in Birmingham secure £ 10 billion of investment . and today we be announce tough new penalty to end the scandal of pollution in our river and sea . that be national renewal with a Labour Government . yesterday I meet Claire Throssell , who be with we in the Gallery today . her two young son , Paul and Jack , be murder 11 year ago this week by her abusive ex - husband after a family court order that he should have unsupervise contact with they . Claire ' s bravery and her campaign be humble , and today I be pleased that we can announce that we will repeal the presumption of parental involvement , put child ' s safety first . this morning I have meeting with ministerial colleague and other . in addition to my duty in this House , I shall have further such meeting later today . I associate myself with the Prime Minister ' s sympathy extend towards Claire , and I commend she for her bravery . I regret to inform the House that yesterday there be a very serious breach of national security , when my Prime Minister ' s question be photograph head into no . 10 in a transparent folder . the nation can rest easy , as on this occasion no state secret be reveal . however , it do make I wonder whether this Government can be trust with a digital ID scheme that be mandatory in all but name . [ laughter . ] I like to keep the Prime Minister on his toe . will he reverse this misguided scheme , or will he persist with a plan that make all of our personal datum vulnerable to hack and attack ? I thank the hon . member for her question . the whole point of digital ID , of course , be that you can not see it , so that should at least deal with her first concern . it be important that we make access to public service as easy as possible for people . we all know the difficulty that so many people have with accessing service , and digital ID have be show in other country to help . I do think this be an important step forward . I also think it be very important as part of our plan to tackle those who be enter our country illegally . the number of household in Cornwall in temporary accommodation have increase by 265 % in five year , so I be delighted that this Labour Government be invest £ 39 billion in social and affordable housing . in Cornwall we be develop a strategy to provide housing at site such as Pydar in my constituency , which need support from Homes England . will the Prime Minister arrange for we to meet the Housing Minister at our Homes Cornwall launch next month , to accelerate discussion on a strategic partnership for Cornwall so that we can build the right home in the right place for local people ? I know that the Housing Minister will be delighted to meet my hon . friend to help unlock new home for her constituent . we be work closely with local authority through our small site aggregator to build new affordable home on brownfield site . my goal be to restore the dream of home ownership , which be steal by the opposition when they be in government . I call the Leader of the Opposition . may I first pay tribute to the former Conservative MP Oliver Colvile , who have very sadly pass away after a long illness ? colleague will remember he for his love of cricket and , of course , hedgehog . he will be very much miss . four victim on the rape gang survivor panel have resign , and they have resign because they have lose all confidence in the Government ' s inquiry , so I be give my first question to one of they — to Fiona . she say : " be dismiss and contradict by a minister when you ' re tell the truth take you right back to that feeling of not be believe all over again . " Fiona ' s question be simple : " what ' s the point in speak up if we ' re just go to be call liar ? " I thank the right hon . Lady for raise that on behalf of Fiona . let I give Fiona and the House my answer . the grooming scandal be one of the bad scandal of our time . woman and girl be abuse and exploit by predatory gang of man , and survivor have be ignore for many year , include by the state , which of course be suppose to protect they . my vow to Fiona and to they be that this national inquiry will change that . I do acknowledge that in recent day some member , include Fiona , have decide to step away from the panel . should they wish to return , the door will always be open , but even if they do not , we owe it to they , to Fiona and to the country to answer the concern that they have raise . the inquiry be not and will never be water down , its scope will not change , it will examine the ethnicity and religion of the offender , and we will find the right person to chair it . I can tell the House today that Dame Louise Casey will now support the work of the inquiry , and it will get to the truth . injustice will have no place to hide . I doubt that Fiona will be satisfied with that answer . the Prime Minister say that they could return to the panel if they wish to . why would they do that ? the Government have be engage in a briefing war against survivor . Elizabeth — [ hon . member : " Shame ! " ] they say " Shame . " why do they not listen to what Elizabeth have to say ? Elizabeth , who be abuse in Rotherham from the age of 14 , have this to say about the government : " it have create a toxic environment for survivor " . they be look for answer from the Prime Minister , and what they have hear be Labour mps say " Shame " at their word . yesterday , the Safeguarding Minister , the hon . member for Birmingham Yardley ( Jess Phillips ) , say that Elizabeth be wrong . who should we believe : the Prime Minister ' s Safeguarding Minister or Elizabeth ? let I put on record my respect for all the survivor , who have be through the most awful ordeal , and I want to thank those who have be involve so far for their work in the process . what we be try to do be to get this right , and to have an inquiry with survivor at its heart . as the Safeguarding Minister tell the House yesterday , that be obviously not easy . they have all come with difficult experience . there be a wide range of view , understandably , and every survivor do bring their own painful experience to this . the survivor meet the prospective chair this week , and we want they to have the chance to engage . I want survivor to be at the heart of this . I want an inquiry that can get to the truth . these be the hard yard — I accept that — but I want to press on and get this right . the Prime Minister say that he want survivor to be at the heart of this , but in his first pmq this year he say that we do not need a national inquiry . when he do , all of these Labour Members cheer . they be nod their head , include the Safeguarding Minister . they vote against the national inquiry three time . [ interruption . ] yes , they do . they vote against the national inquiry three time , so the victim do not believe they . they can say no as much as they like , but it be on the record . they do not like it , but it be true . now , one of the victim have quit . contrary to what the Prime Minister have just say and what the Home Secretary write this morning , the victim believe that the inquiry will downplay the racial and religious motivation behind their abuse . be the victim not right when they call it a cover - up ? let I reassure the victim and the House that the scope of the inquiry will not be dilute , and we will not shy away from cultural or religious issue . it be I who commission Baroness Casey in the first place . she give I her recommendation in relation to a national inquiry , and we have , in the four month since then , finalise the panel and be try to get the leadership of this inquiry right , with survivor at the heart . in that period , we have also reopen 1 , 200 historical closed case . I have long argue that the criminal route , where it can be pursue , be the right route for perpetrator . we have introduce mandatory reporting of child sex abuse , which I happen to think be a vital safeguard — I have be campaign for that for over a decade . I ask the last government to introduce it , and that fall on deaf ear . that mandatory reporting of child sex abuse be something that each and every Conservative Member vote against early this year . we have give victim and survivor the power to seek an independent review of their case . but in relation to this inquiry , I want to go as fast as we can to get the justice that be deserve , and I want to ensure that survivor be involve in that . we be balance the two to get this right , and I will continue to do so . the Prime Minister be talk about mandatory reporting . I will remind he what Fiona ask : what be the point , if the victim be not go to be believe ? what would be the point of mandatory reporting ? all of this be happen now — all that he be say — be because four of those victim resign from the survivor panel . if they have not do that , the Government would have continue with the watering down , which we all know they be carry out . so yes , the victim be right to be worry . the Prime Minister also talk about look for a chair . it have be 10 month since we first call for a national inquiry — 10 month . it be shocking that the Government still do not have a chair . one of the final two candidate have pull out , leave a former police officer who the victim do not want . what they do want be a judge . they deserve a judge . we be talk about the industrial - scale rape of woman and girl . unlike most of the inquiry go on , why be it that this inquiry do not deserve a judge ? can I answer that ? it be a serious point , because whether the inquiry should be judge - lead be look at by Louise Casey . she decide against that for a reason , and her reason be twofold — I will spell they out . the first be the speed with which we could do this , and it would have be — [ interruption . ] they ask the question . the first reason be the speed with which we could do this . the second be really important : I be absolutely determined that criminal investigation would go on at the same time as the inquiry . one of the problem that judge - lead inquiry run into — I have see and experience this myself — be that they be often hold back until the end of the criminal investigation , and I be determined that we would be able to run the two together . it be because of that that we have be able to reopen 1 , 200 historical case at the same time . the Leader of Opposition ask what be the point of the mandatory reporting that she vote against . I do not think she understand how it work . this be — [ interruption . ] this be mandatory reporting of those who have have allegation make to they and there be clear enough evidence that they have not then pass that on . that be a fundamental problem in the system . that be why we have change the law . the Conservatives should hang their head in shame for have vote against that vital protection . the Prime Minister should hang his head in shame for call this a " far - right bandwagon " when we first raise this issue . the deputy leader or the future deputy leader — we all know who be go to win — call this a dog whistle . what we need to think about right now be the victim and the survivor . I speak to one of they yesterday . let we remember that these be victim who waive their anonymity — an incredibly difficult thing to do — and they believe that the Safeguarding Minister have lie to they and about they . one of the survivor have say : " Jess Phillips need to be remove because I don ' t think her conduct during this … have be acceptable for the position that she hold " . [ interruption . ] those be not my word ; those be the word of a survivor . it be a shame that Labour mp be drown that out . the hon . member for Birmingham Yardley have clearly lose the confidence of the victim . do she still have the confidence of the Prime Minister ? order . can I just say that , even if we be quote somebody else , we should not quote a direct allegation against a Member of this House ? I be sure that that be not what be intend . I respect the view of all the survivor , and there be different view — I accept that — but I think the Safeguarding Minister have probably more experience than any other person in this House in deal with violence against woman and girl , and alongside she will be Louise Casey . these two individual have spend decade — decade — stand up for those who have be abuse and sexually exploit , and I absolutely think they be the right people to take this forward . the Safeguarding Minister do not have more experience than the survivor . the fact be that , just a few week ago , the Prime Minister be stand there tell we he have full confidence in the good friend of a convict paedophile , so it be no surprise the people have no confidence in what he be say . the victim have say that she should be sack . we on this side of the House believe that she should be sack , because this be about labour failure . labour never want this inquiry ; we demand it . it have be labour - run council — Trafford , Bradford , Blackpool — that have try to suppress the truth . it be Labour Ministers attack the victim ; we be stand up for they . how be it that , whether it be rape or chinese espionage , when the Prime Minister be in a position to do something about it , it be always someone else ' s fault ? my priority be listen to and stand up for the survivor . that be why we be do the work on the inquiry , why we have reopen the criminal case and why we bring in mandatory reporting . I would gently remind the Conservatives that they have 14 year in office and they barely mention this issue , and where there be inquiry , they fail to act on they . we have do more in the time we have be in office than they do in 14 long year . mental ill health affect one in four of we , and it cost this country up to £ 300 billion a year , so will the Prime Minister join I in thank the staff at Maghull health park , who do a brilliant job in look after those suffer from mental ill health ? will he wish they well with their plan to set up a world - lead research and innovation centre , which will make an enormous contribution towards this Government ' s state aim of give mental and physical healthcare equal priority ? of course , I join in thank the staff at Maghull health park . we be invest £ 15 . 6 billion to bring down mental health waiting list — vital in continue to drive down inactivity and help people to get the care that they need . in the upcoming multi - year capital budget , we will enable NHS trust to accelerate decision on local priority , and that could include development like the mental health digital research centre that my hon . friend champion . I call the leader of the Liberal Democrats . I agree with the Prime Minister ' s word about Claire Throssell . I agree with he that it be right that we change the law , and I hope that it be name after her son , Jack and Paul . give the revelation about Royal Lodge , do the Prime Minister agree that this House need to scrutinise the Crown Estate properly to ensure taxpayer ' interest be protect ? the Chancellor herself have say that the current arrangement be wrong , so will the Prime Minister support a Select Committee inquiry so that all those involve can be call to give evidence , include the current occupant ? it be important , in relation to all Crown property , that there be proper scrutiny . I certainly support that . I hope the House can look at that properly and that all people can be summon to the relevant committee . turn to the economy , I know Labour Members be relieve — they be finally allow to say that the Conservatives ' Brexit deal be a disaster . but that can not just be a political ruse to attack the hon . member for Clacton ( Nigel Farage ) , however much he deserve it . even bad , give that we still have the high inflation in the G7 , it must not be a smokescreen to raise taxis on ordinary people . it must be a call to action . will the Prime Minister act now to repair the Brexit damage by negotiate a new UK - EU custom union to boost Britain ' s trade and grow our economy ? no , I do not think that be the way forward . what we have do be to have a much close relationship with the EU , recognise the damage do by the flawed Brexit deal that the conservative party negotiate . we have also strike deal with India and the US , secured record investment into this country and have the fast grow economy in the G7 in the first half of this year . this summer , I visit every road across the Bexleyheath and Crayford constituency , report pothole to ensure that the £ 895 , 000 give by this Labour Government to the Conservative - control council in the London Borough of Bexley be spend . however , the conservative council cabinet member responsible for road write to our local newspaper , , ask that I stop report pothole because it be cause work for the council . will the Prime Minister join I in urge my conservative council to get on and spend that money to make road , such as Mayplace Road East , safe to drive on ? so , this be a local conservative council tell my hon . friend not to point out pothole in case it have to fill they ! that be outrageous — just like the record of the last 14 year . we know how problematic , dangerous and costly pothole be to driver . that be why we have deliver record investment to maintain our road and fix pothole . that be £ 1 . 6 billion . that money have be give to council , but it come with string . my message to the council to reinforce that be clear : " use the money , fix the road and show how you be carry out repair , or lose the money . " it be council that should get on with the job of fix our road . I will make sure the Roads Minister follow up with my hon . friend . give that the TUC have calculate that the wealthy 10 % of household in the UK hold more wealth than everyone else in the country put together , do the Prime Minister agree with I that it be inequality , not immigration , that be a threat to our country ? we need to deal both with level of immigration and with inequality , and that be what the Government be do . as we get on with try to boost our economy , may I gently point out that if we want more equality and if we want our economy to be strong , the hon . Lady ' s party need to start vote for some of the measure that will make it necessary ? in March 2022 , I give birth to my son by emergency c - section — both my son and my life put at risk by a fail maternity service . in Nottinghamshire , we know fail maternity service far too well , with harm cause to mother , baby and father — over 2 , 400 family involve in the Donna Ockenden inquiry . do the Prime Minister agree that grief must be the engine of change , and that where previous government have fail , it be imperative that this Government transform maternity service , so that every birth be an informed birth and every birth be a safe birth ? I extend my gratitude to my hon . friend and to all those who speak in the baby loss debate last Monday for their powerful and move story . I be at the Pride of Britain award on Monday night and very many people come forward to I , have hear some of the speech from this House , particularly the personal testimony , so I assure she that those story really do have power in make the argument . we do need to fix what need fix , so we will fix maternity service , improve safety and make sure every mother be hear and get high - quality care . my constituent have so many question they would like to ask the Prime Minister , but I will settle for one today : can the Prime Minister define when grey belt be really grey ? let I give the right hon . Lady a simple example . we have an example of green - belt land that be , in fact , a car park where building do not take place , and non - green - belt land that be an open playing field where building do take place . that do not make sense to I . that be why we have our policy . twelve - year - old Millie Blair from Oundle join we today in the Gallery along with her mum , Gemma , her sister , Jessica , and her dad , Gordon . on Millie ' s 11th birthday , she be diagnose with a rare bone cancer , which lead to her leg be amputate . Millie attend Prince William school , but she can not access the low playing field because the slope be too steep . her parent , the school and I have ask the East Midlands academy trust to put in a ramp , but it have refuse , claim that it be not subject to certain part of the Equality Act 2010 . do the Prime Minister agree that the trust have an absolute moral obligation to make those adjustment to give Millie full access to all the school , so that she can play and thrive with all her friend ? I welcome Millie to the Gallery — I appreciate that member on the Opposition Benches can not see she , but she be look down at we and smile with the courage and positivity that I know be everything to she . we absolutely salute that ; we be humble by it . [ hon . member : " hear , hear . " ] I really do find it hard to understand how a school trust could make a decision like that in relation to the ramp . rather than berate those in the trust from the Chamber , I would just implore they on behalf of everybody here and Millie in particular to look again , and hopefully , with the endorsement of the whole House , to reconsider that decision , put in that ramp and match the positivity and the courage that Millie have show all of we . I thank my hon . friend for raise that campaign . have report that local election across the country will be delay for a second year in a row . the leader of my local authority , Surrey county council , have have to go on the record to say that he have not call for election to be cancel , but other conservative clearly have . can the Prime Minister give I a cast - iron guarantee that my constituent in Woking and other across the country will not lose their democratic right to vote ? the hon . Gentleman know that we inherit a situation where local council be underfunde and million be waste on duplication . by reform the system , which be what we be do , we will save money and reinvest that in improved public service . in response to the hon . Gentleman ' s question , we expect the election in Surrey to be for the new unitary council , and we will be set out the plan timetable very shortly . central to grow our economy be deliver major event that drive footfall and investment . do the Prime Minister share my disappointment that since Reform take over the running of Durham county council , it have slash funding for Durham Pride , which bring in 20 , 000 people a year — Reform member can not cope with accountability , Mr Speaker . reform have also cancel the Lumiere festival , which have bring nearly 1 . 5 million people into County Durham since it start . this will undermine business and community . do the Prime Minister agree that if reform can not run one county council , it certainly can not run Scotland , Wales or our United Kingdom ? my hon . friend be absolutely right to point out what voter in Durham can see : what people get if they vote reform be total chaos and broken promise . council have a vital role in our community . it be not just Durham where Reform be do this ; I think four councillor in Kent have just be suspend for bring the party into disrepute , which be quite something for a party whose Welsh leader accept russian bribe to spread Putin ' s propaganda . Weston Hospicecare provide an invaluable service for constituent with a terminal illness . the hospice now face an increase national insurance bill of £ 139 , 000 a year as a result of the Chancellor ' s job tax . the Prime Minister will know that the money he have announce for capital expenditure can not be use for day - to - day running expense and that the money he have announce for child ' s hospice will not benefit Weston Hospicecare , so what help can he offer the hospice as it struggle under the tax burden impose by his Government ? we be put in the support that we can for hospice , and the money we put aside at the Budget for the NHS be absolutely crucial in relation to that . the NHS be underfunde for 14 long year . we have now put in the funding that the NHS need to do its work . December will mark the 10th anniversary of the storm Desmond flood that devastate my constituency and force thousand of people from their home . despite promise we new flood defence , previous conservative Governments leave they unfinished . with climate - relate rainfall forecast to increase in the north - west over the next decade , do the Prime Minister agree that the climate change - sceptic policy peddle by some opposition party be both reckless and dangerous , and will he assure the people of Carlisle that this Labour Government will defend our great border city ? my hon . friend be right that the Tories leave our flood defence in their bad state on record . we be build they up again , invest over £ 10 billion to protect home and business . we have deliver over 150 flood scheme in our first year , and I want to see even more rapid progress . my hon . friend be a superb champion on this issue , and we have provide £ 300 , 000 to complete the feasibility study for strong defence in her constituency . as last week ' s urgent question highlight , Jhoots — the pharmacy non - provider — be effectively de facto bankrupt and possibly even insolvent too . last week we discuss at great length the impact that be have on patient secure their prescription . it be now become increasingly evident that while his Majesty ' s Revenue and Customs be be tell by Jhoots that staff be be pay , they be not . Lana - Olivia Gulston and Blake Horwood in my constituency have not be pay since 18 July . they be resort to the kindness of friend and the support of food bank to make end meet . the Minister for Care — the hon . member for Aberafan Maesteg ( Stephen Kinnock ) — be do fantastic work to try to drive forward modernisation of the regulation , but this situation be now impact the work of the Department for Business and Trade , HMRC and the Department for Work and Pensions . could I urge the Prime Minister to convene those three Departments alongside the Department of Health and Social Care to secure a well , fair deal for patient and for those who be currently trap in employment — not be release by be make redundant and not be pay ? I thank the hon . member for raise this serious issue , as he have do on a number of occasion . it affect both his constituent and other across the country . it be simply unacceptable that customer and staff have be so badly let down . I know he will be meet the relevant Minister , but let I update he now in a couple of respect . official be currently review whether the integrate care board and General Pharmaceutical Council need additional power to address pharmacy business that do not play by the rule — I think that be exactly the point he raise . that could include power for the council to go after business owner in addition to the pharmacy professional . More detail will be provide when the hon . member meet with the Minister , but I think it helpful to give those two indication . well over 1 , 000 youth club have close in this country since 2010 , have a huge negative impact on our young people . this be despite the fact that youth club have a long positive history of help young people to mature in a healthy fashion . in particular , Phab club help disabled and non - disabled people to build friendship in an inclusive environment . the Phab charity be here in Parliament later today to gain support for its work . will the Prime Minister commend its work and consider how good to support the youth club movement to help the next generation of young people grow into well - adjust adult ? I thank my hon . friend for his question ; he be a credit to his community . I know at first hand that he have do so much hard work to help to heal , to rebuild and to look to a bright future for Southport . I welcome the Phab charity to Parliament ; it do fantastic work to help break down barrier . I be proud that Labour be back our youth club with £ 30 million of grant funding , double the number of youth hub and provide a youth guarantee with earn or learn guarantee for our young people . our national youth strategy will be set out in the autumn . last week , I invite the Prime Minister to match the conservative pledge to scrap business rate for our high street . however , he decline . instead , he point I towards the small business strategy . since then , business have be in touch to tell I that the strategy will make little or no difference to their future . with 14 , 000 high street business expect to close this year alone , and with retail business in my constituency face a doubling of their business rate , when will the Labour Government deliver on their commitment to reduce business rate , give that they be unprepared to accept our policy of scrap they altogether ? our small business plan be draw up with small business . I send the hon . member a copy online ; I hope that she share that with the 3 , 000 small business in her constituency . that show what we be do . [ hon . member : " Rubbish ! " ] well , Conservative Members shout " rubbish " , but this be what small business ask we to do . there be £ 1 billion of additional lending to small business and £ 3 billion extra for small business to scale up , and we be deal with late payment in the big reform for 25 year . as Britain face peril in world war two , Winston Churchill take a radical step : he change the clock to shift extra daylight into the evening . as the clock go back this weekend , will the Prime Minister take a look at the evidence on trialle Churchill time again to cut carbon , reduce bill , improve road safety , boost the hospitality industry and be the Prime Minister who will brighten up all our life ? I thank my hon . friend for her question . we will look at the relevant material . many in Glastonbury and Somerton be force to travel hundred of mile to see an NHS dentist or suffer in agony , fall into debt to pay for private treatment or turn to DIY dentistry , like Jennifer , who extract two of her tooth over the weekend . they simply can not wait for the consultation on the broken NHS contract ; they deserve immediate action . will the Prime Minister outline what measure he be take to end the dental desert in Somerset for good ? I thank the hon . member for raise that . add to the list of shocking thing the last Government leave we be the shocking state of NHS dentistry — break , like everything else under the last government . we be roll out extra urgent care appointment . in Somerset , the integrate care board be expect to deliver over 13 , 000 extra dental appointment this year ; I will give she more detail in due course . we be also reform the dental contract , which will shift focus on to retain nhs dentist . Ahmad Al Ibrahim be only 16 year old when he be fatally stab in Huddersfield . his life be cruelly take away in what the police describe as an " unprovoked " and " motiveless " attack . follow a visit to Netherhall learn campus in my constituency last week , I know how important this issue be for young people . will the Prime Minister commit to redouble effort to tackle serious violence and knife crime through more visible policing , strong prevention and investment in youth service ? I thank my hon . friend for raise that devastating case . my thought , and I be sure those of the whole House , be with the family and friend . through our Crime and Policing Bill , we be increase penalty for the illegal sale of knife and give police new power to seize knife likely to be use for violence or cause harm . we have also launch a coalition to tackle knife crime , to bring together campaigner and community leader to tackle the root cause of knife crime and help protect the next generation . heathrow : National Airports Review with permission , I will update the House on the step this Government be take to realise the benefit of expansion at Heathrow airport , have invite proposal for a third runway early this year . today I be launch a review of the airport national policy statement . Britain want to fly , and this Government will act to meet public aspiration . our review of the ANPS will ensure that while we unlock long - term capacity for more flight at the nation ' s only hub airport , we will also meet our obligation to passenger , community and the environment . today be a step forward for UK aviation and infrastructure , support growth in the economy and enable a modern , efficient transport system that harness international investment , boost connectivity and strengthen UK competitiveness . we be committed to make a decision on a third runway at Heathrow within this Parliament , and we be clear in our ambition to see flight take off on a new runway in 2035 . we say we would get on with this , and we have . when the previous Government set up the Davies commission , it take they five year to publish the original draft ANPS . we will get to the same point in 18 month , with the process complete by the end of 2026 , show our commitment to deliver progress swiftly but robustly . when we say we back the builder , not the blocker , we mean it . but this be not a blank cheque . expansion at Heathrow must minimise cost for passenger and customer . the taxpayer must not be expect to foot the bill . that be why the scheme will be privately finance — both the core project and the related infrastructure improvement . extra staff and passenger must be able to get to and from the airport without turn the M4 and M25 into Europe ' s large car park . crucially , the expansion must align with our legal , environmental and climate commitment . start the review of the ANPS be critical to deliver expansion and will provide the basis for decision on any future planning application . the world have change since the last ANPS review in 2018 , which be when it be designate . new environmental and climate obligation have be introduce , and pattern of travel have change . however , pretty much every UK airport see its busy summer on record . we could put our head in the sand and pretend this be not the case , but we would be do a disservice to our economy and to the next generation . that be why , in carry out this review , we will consider how any propose scheme must meet four clear test : that it contribute to economic growth across the country ; that it meet our air quality obligation ; that it be consistent with our noise commitment ; and , crucially , that it align with our legal obligation on climate change , include net zero . we will seek the independent opinion of the Climate Change Committee , which I will write to shortly to request this advice . while a third runway at Heathrow have be factor into carbon budget 6 , it be right that we update our modelling and seek the view of the CCC . give Heathrow ' s national importance , we will also consider name the airport as critical national priority infrastructure , in line with our approach to low - carbon energy project . we be far consider whether to name a statutory undertaker as an appropriate person to carry out the project under the Planning Act 2008 , provide additional clarity to stakeholder and the local community . it be clear that this be a large and complex programme that require a thorough and evidence - lead approach . over the come month , my Department will develop analysis on economic and environmental impact of expansion . we will also undertake an appraisal of sustainability , as require by statute , alongside a habitat regulation assessment and other necessary technical work . if amendment be need to the ANPS as a result of the review , we expect to consult on an amend policy statement by next summer . community will be able to have their say and we will shortly publish an update stakeholder engagement approach to ensure transparency and fairness throughout the process . early this year , we invite potential promoter to submit proposal for deliver a third runway at Heathrow . seven proposal be receive and be consider by official from the Department for Transport , the Treasury and expert financial and technical adviser . follow that assessment , two potential scheme remain under active consideration : a proposal from Heathrow Airport Limited and a proposal from the Aurora Group . we know that we must provide as much clarity and certainty for community , investor and user of Heathrow as soon as possible , so we be seek further information on the two propose scheme with a view to reach a final decision on a single scheme to inform the remainder of the ANPS review by the end of November . when make that decision , we will consider : the interoperability of the propose scheme with exist infrastructure ; the plan for transport to and from the airport and associate road scheme ; the land take and impact on surround home and community ; the evidence that the scheme can be privately finance ; and the economic benefit of the scheme . this Government be commit to move quickly but we will also do this properly . to deliver the scheme on time , the Government be also press ahead with a series of enable reform . the Planning and Infrastructure Bill will streamline the delivery of major infrastructure , include Heathrow . that include fast consent route and more proportionate consultation . on judicial review , we have announce that we will work with the judiciary to cut the amount of time it take for a review to move through the court system for national policy statement and nationally significant infrastructure project . we be establish the UK Airspace Design Service to deliver modernised airspace . that will initially prioritise airspace design for the London region , support both Heathrow and the wide network , and will also make flight path more efficient so that plane spend less time over London . we will initiate slot reform to ensure future allocation maximise benefit of an expand heathrow , as well as approve growth at Gatwick and Luton for passenger , local community and business . expand Heathrow will be one of the large infrastructure project in the UK . rigorous and effective cost control will be essential to its success , both in minimise any impact on airline charge and cost to passenger and in maintain credibility with financial market . the Government will therefore work with the Civil Aviation Authority to review the framework for economic regulation for capacity expansion at Heathrow , ensure the model provide strong incentive for cost - effective delivery . we expect the CAA to publish a work paper in November , with a view to that work complete next summer . this be a landmark opportunity for Heathrow , for the aviation sector and for the UK economy . the Government remain fully committed to ensure the expansion be deliver in a way that be timely , cost - efficient and environmentally responsible . I commend this statement to the House . I call the shadow Secretary of State for Transport . I be grateful to the Secretary of State for her statement and for advance sight of it . the statement should have be bring to the House month ago . the Secretary of State surely recognise that today mark a delay and an acknowledgment of that , rather than a decisive move forward . the truth be that this whole process have come about the wrong way round . recent announcement on Gatwick and Heathrow , rather than be any clear plan for the future of british aviation , be not drive by plan and prepared work but by a clear attempt to divert attention from the Government ' s grow list of crisis , scandal and cover - up . however , we on these Benches welcome the fact that this statement have finally be bring forward to the House , because both the aviation sector and passenger deserve clarity , as do the local people who will be affect , and we hope that they will see sensible mitigation to these proposal . can the Secretary of State confirm what assessment the Government have undertake so far of the total cost of heathrow expansion , give that one of the central estimate now stand at almost £ 50 billion , exclude an extra £ 10 billion for further surface access work ? those figure would quadruple Heathrow ' s current asset base , which be already responsible for some of the high passenger charge in the world . if Britain be to remain competitive on the global stage , those cost must be keep down , not drive up . crucially , how will the Government ensure that the cost be minimise , not maximise ? I be sure that , like I , the Secretary of State do not want those cost directly pass on to airline and then to their passenger in high fare , because affordability must be at the heart of any credible aviation strategy . maintain affordable flight be crucial for passenger , so can she assure the House that the Heathrow expansion will not result in significant pass - through cost , especially with the Government ' s rise in air passenger duty , the job tax and now real concern over how business rate will affect the aviation sector ? I understand that the Chancellor have claim a third runway will be operational by 2035 — something the Secretary of State have reflect today — and that she want to see spade in the ground during this Parliament . of course , we welcome the reform that will enable this to happen . those reform will not have any tooth , however , unless the Government commit to back our plan to scrap the Climate Change Act 2008 . otherwise , Heathrow expansion will face judicial review after judicial review , bogge down the process , drive up cost and deliver further delay . even Labour ' s Mayor of London have say that he " wouldn ' t hesitate " to launch legal challenge against a third runway . can the Secretary of State commit to ensure that her own labour colleague — include those she work for previously — and ally will not be the one who prevent this important project from ever see the light of day ? can the Secretary of State also commit to ensure that the associated road and rail link not just into London but to the south be include , so that the expansion deliver genuine economic growth and connectivity for the whole of the United Kingdom ? the Conservatives would end the constant threat of judicial review and eco - lawfare to ensure that infrastructure across the country could finally be deliver on time , on budget and in Britain ' s national interest . it be great to hear the Secretary of State ' s word on this from the Dispatch Box , but will those reform relate to the judiciary come into force before the decision on Heathrow and the development consent order be make , or will they be subject to the current situation we be face ? we on these Benches recognise that great competition be the most effective way to deliver value for money and reduce cost to consumer , and I be grateful that the Secretary of State acknowledge in her statement that Heathrow expansion must minimise cost , but the only way to achieve that be through real and genuine competition . heathrow ' s current structure have the potential to create perverse incentive that reward high spending rather than efficiency , push up charge for passenger and airline . I note the commitment that the CAA ' s review into economic regulation will begin in November , but that review must look seriously and fundamentally at how to embed competition and reverse perverse incentive . how do the Secretary of State and the CAA intend to bring competition to the heart of deliver this project ? she say that the review would be deliver in the summer of next year . will it be before the summer recess so that the House will have time to scrutinise it ? while this Government continue to splurge cash , hike up taxis and debt and tie Britain up in eco - lawfare with their Green ally , only the Conservatives would restore confidence , break that cycle and deliver a strong economy with world - class aviation at its heart . sadly , under this government , taxis have rise to historic high . they have impose a punish job tax , and borrowing have soar to the high level since 2010 outside the pandemic , with £ 100 billion in annual debt interest payment . a third runway alone will not shield the country from the consequence of Labour ' s economic mismanagement , but it be a project that must be deliver correctly and responsibly and put passenger at its heart . I be interested in the right hon . Gentleman ' s comment about our pace of delivery , and I roundly reject his criticism on this . we be the party that be accelerate Heathrow expansion , today set out this swift and robust review of the ANPS to help we determine application swiftly . previous work to get a final airport national policy statement by the last Government take more than five year . this government will do it three year fast . we be get on with the job and take the important and sometimes difficult decision to get Britain building . I gently remind he that when his great ally and mentor , Boris Johnson , be Prime Minister , he go to such length to duck decision on this issue that he end up in Afghanistan . the right hon . Gentleman be absolutely right to care about consumer and cost control , and that be precisely why we be review the ANPS and why we be start the work , via the Civil Aviation Authority , on the model of economic regulation . if we fail to plan for future capacity , price will rise and choice will shrink . this review will be integral to keep the UK competitive and connect by ensure sufficient capacity , sustainable growth and fair competition between global hub airport . I agree with he that consumer deserve affordable fare and greener aviation , and that be what we be work to deliver . the right hon . Gentleman also ask about climate change , service access and our reform to judicial review . on service access , I can be clear with he that we expect this project and associate infrastructure improvement to be privately finance . through the ANPS review , we will be look holistically at public transport requirement , be that southern rail access , western rail access or how people get to and from central London . he will recall that , in the spending review , we set out the big investment in London ' s transport for over 10 year , with £ 2 . 2 billion enable Transport for London to buy new rolling stock on the Piccadilly line and 10 extra Elizabeth line train . we will work closely with our colleague , the Mayor of London , and TfL to ensure that appropriate infrastructure be in place . the right hon . Gentleman talk about the change that we be make to judicial review , and I would simply say to he that we be act where his Government have their head in the sand . I be confident that the CAA will look carefully at competition issue in the work that it be do . I be also confident that , ultimately , we could create 100 , 000 job through expansion at Heathrow . we could boost economic growth as well as open up new opportunity for trade , tourism and travel . we will do this properly , and that be what we be do by launch the ANPS review today . I look forward to answer further question from other hon . member . I call the Chair of the Select Committee . I thank the Secretary of State for her statement . I look forward to the work she do on this ANPS come to our Committee in due course . a third runway at Heathrow , combine with all the other agree — or likely to be agree — expansion of capacity in London and south - east airport would involve an increase of 177 million passenger , which would be 70 % more than the number of passenger in London and the south - east from 2024 . I look forward to the Climate Change Committee ' s response to the proposal , because it have say that a 35 % increase in capacity would be the maximum that would keep the UK compliant with our international legal commitment . to return to the specific of the statement , the Secretary of State say that she seek to minimise cost for passenger and customer , but give that the cost of a third runway will be between £ 25 billion and £ 49 billion , how exactly will that cost not be pass on to the airline and therefore the passenger if the Treasury be not go to fund those cost , which we know it be not ? on surface access , ever since the building of the fifth terminal , the local authority all around Heathrow have be push for southern rail access to Heathrow . Heathrow Airport have long say — and have clarify recently — that it will not pay the cost of southern rail access , so how do she expect that to be fund ? if the M25 and M4 be not to grind to a halt , and if passenger and worker from the west and south of the airport be to be able to get in and out of the airport , how be that to be achieve ? my hon . friend be entirely right to raise these issue . we will give very careful and thorough consideration to they in the airport national policy statement review , which will take place in the come month . she refer to the Climate Change Committee ' s opinion on capacity expansion . we be make rapid progress in clean up the fuel that be use in plane , and we be make huge effort to reform our airspace , so that we can have clean and more direct flight . the carbon intensity of flying have to come down if we be to have more plane in the air . she be also right to highlight the importance of the regulatory model . that be why we have ask the Civil Aviation Authority to do this piece of work over the come month ; it be align with the review in the airport national policy statement . we will say more on that in due course . I call the liberal Democrat spokesperson . I thank the Secretary of State for her statement , which make the Government ' s intent of support the propose third runway at Heathrow very clear . it be good to hear her recognise the complexity of all that will be need to deliver it , include major diversionary work on two of the country ' s busy motorway . we Liberal Democrats continue to support the right infrastructure in the right place , which be why we have always support scheme such as East West Rail and Northern Powerhouse Rail . however , we need the right infrastructure to tackle the right problem , and there be many unanswered question about the Heathrow third runway . the New Economics Foundation have be very clear in its analysis that the environmental impact of airport expansion will erode a lot of our carbon emission reduction plan , and many study have question the economic case for Heathrow expansion . I would be interested to hear from the Secretary of State about the danger of rely solely on the private sector to fund large scheme , as happen in the case of the channel tunnel , which remain an enormously underused asset , partly because of the cost that result from the decision to fund it only through the private sector . it be welcome that the Secretary of State have make her support for Heathrow expansion subject to four test , but I detect perhaps a slight hint of cognitive dissonance , and a contradiction in the Government set out timeline for deliver something that they say be subject to four test . the Secretary of State say that she would hear the independent advice of the Climate Change Committee . if the CCC decide that the preferred option for the Heathrow third runway be incompatible with our carbon emission and our net zero target , will she drop her support for the third runway ? I start by congratulate the hon . gentleman on his appointment . he refer to New Economics Foundation research . I should be clear with he that the Government be absolutely committed to reach net zero for the whole economy by 2050 , and that we will meet our climate change obligation as set out in the Climate Change Act 2008 . we have also be clear repeatedly that any airport expansion proposal will need to demonstrate that they will contribute to economic growth and can be deliver in line with the UK ' s legally bind climate change commitment . we will engage with the CCC in the ANPS review . Heathrow be only one part of the process ; the expansion of Heathrow , Luton , Gatwick and Bristol airport be factor into carbon budget 7 , and the hon . Gentleman will know that the Government will publish our update delivery plan for carbon budget 4 to 6 in the come week . we should not see economic growth and our climate change commitment as be inconsistent with each another . I believe we can go far , fast , on clean fuel and technological development , but people want to fly , and I do not think that this Government should get on the wrong side of public aspiration . I first of all express my sympathy for the Secretary of State : she know from past experience that this be like watch a car crash in action , and it have be thrust upon she by the Chancellor . she know that Heathrow have make the clear commitment that it will not pay for the infrastructure ; that landing charge will go up , and passenger will pay for it ; and that there be no way that we can meet our climate change target if the expansion go ahead . that be why I express my sympathy ; she have be give an impossible task . I have a constituency interest , as the Secretary of State will know , because Heathrow be in my constituency . she mention that the stakeholder engagement process will be publish shortly . could she be a bit more precise on the timescale , and on what measure will be include in that ? the House need to know that in my constituency , 4 , 500 home will be demolish or render unliveable ; 15 , 000 people will lose their home ; we will lose three school ; and whole community will go . my constituent want to ask : where be they go to live ? where will their child be educate , and what will their happen to their community ? we just need some certainty now — and from my point of view , it be certain that this be a white elephant . it be almost like watch High Speed 2 all over again . I be sure it will not come as a surprise to my right hon . friend to hear that I reject his characterisation of the work I be do . I see the expansion as an opportunity to improve our connectivity as a nation , to improve UK competitiveness and to ensure that we deliver for business and passenger all across the UK . I understand why he raise the interest of his constituent who live close to the propose expansion . he ask I for more detail about the consultation timeline . if we make change to the ANPS through the review , a consultation will take place on that next year , and we be work on a timeline that would see a new ANPS designate by the end of next year . I give he a commitment to meaningful engagement and consultation . in the document that I refer to in my statement , we will set out a new stakeholder engagement approach , so that people will be treat with fairness . we will act transparently throughout the process . rise — I ask colleague to keep their question short , so I can get everybody in . I sympathise with the right hon . member for Hayes and Harlington ( John McDonnell ) ; my Spelthorne constituency be on the southern side of Heathrow airport , and the resident of Stanwell Moor , a village of some 520 home , be half a mile away from the southern perimeter . they have put up with a lot , include appal behaviour by Uber driver , holiday parking and noise pollution . in the consultation , will the people of Stanwell Moor be engage with directly ? I also ask that we measure air and sound pollution , and use current level as a baseline , so that we can determine the impact of the Heathrow expansion . in the ANPS , there will be a very thorough review of the noise requirement , and mitigation be set out in that document . I can give the hon . Gentleman a commitment that there will be meaningful engagement with his constituent . can the Secretary of State confirm that this be not a do deal ? as part of the ANPS review process , will there be a full and independent analysis of the economic cost and benefit , the environmental effect , and demand in London and the south - east , give airport expansion elsewhere ? as she say , the world have change since 2018 . can my constituent , who will be seriously detrimentally affect by any further expansion of Heathrow , be assure that the Government have their good interest at heart ? we will do this properly . as Secretary of State for Transport , and as the person who may ultimately be the decision maker on any future planning application , I assure my hon . friend that I will approach this issue with an open mind and will apply the high standard of professionalism and probity to the process that I be oversee . Egham in my constituency be five mile from Heathrow , and it be not the fact that it be overflow that I want to ask about today . the shadow Secretary of State for Transport , my right hon . friend the Member for Basildon and Billericay ( Mr Holden ) , visit the patch on Monday , and we wait 12 minute while level crossing barrier be down in Pooley Green . the Secretary of State do not mention whether train would be part of the consultation . will they be within scope ? if the expansion go ahead , we will desperately need to deal with our level crossing , and we will need well rail access from Egham to Heathrow to make this work . I agree that we need to deal with the issue of level crossing on the rail network . we will look holistically at rail requirement in the ANPS review . I thank the Secretary of State for her statement , and be pleased to hear that this will be a thorough and meaningful consultation , because even though my constituency be not near the airport , my constituent in Camberwell , Stockwell and Brixton write to I regularly to say that they be suffer from air and noise pollution . the Secretary of State talk about infrastructure ; a key point will be ensure that more people use public transport to get to Heathrow . the reality be that some upgrade to the airport have not have the funding over many year , as the Chair of the Select Committee , my hon . friend the Member for Brentford and Isleworth ( Ruth Cadbury ) , highlight . I want to tease out more from the Secretary of State on private funding , because in a number of case , developer commit to something , but then the viability issue come up , and the money never seem to appear . will she ensure that there be fund to secure the transport infrastructure that will be vital if there be any new airport runway ? how people get to and from an airport be as important as the number of plane landing and take off , so I can give my hon . friend an assurance that we will look at these issue closely . I point out that Transport for London be buy a new fleet of Piccadilly line train that have high capacity . it be part of a large fleet replacement programme , and 10 new Elizabeth line train be also be build . we will look at the whole issue of how people get to and from the airport , because I agree that it be absolutely vital . the Chancellor have stake her economic credibility and growth strategy on a third runway at Heathrow . the Secretary of State say that she be committed to see flight take off from it in 2035 , yet at the same time , she talk about take an evidence - lead approach , put this project to her four test , take the advice of the Climate Change Committee and do a thorough economic and environmental impact assessment . could she clarify a point for the House , because I fear my hon . friend the Member for Didcot and Wantage ( Olly Glover ) do not get a straight answer ? if the evidence show that the environmental cost be too great and the economic benefit be too little , will she and , crucially , her Chancellor be prepared to do a u - turn and can this whole project ? we see the huge opportunity and benefit associate with expand capacity at Heathrow and have a third runway there . there will be a thorough process , which we be start today by review the policy framework in which any planning application will be judge . the Planning Inspectorate will look at that and consider all the issue to do with economic need , air quality , noise and carbon , and then a decision will be take . we have an ambition to see plane take off from the runway in 2035 , but that do not mean that we will not have a thorough process . we be committed to that , and that be what I be set out today . it be abundantly clear that air travel be here to stay ; in fact , the amount of it have rise over recent year . we of course need to take mitigation measure to tackle the noise and environmental impact , but while we have for decade be debate ad nauseam build a third runway , dozen of runway and , indeed , airport have be build by nation across the globe . I ask my right hon . friend the Transport Secretary to safeguard the thousand of Slough household who be dependent on Heathrow to pay their bill ; to boost business and trade ; and to maintain our world - lead position in the aviation sector . will she work at speed to tackle the blockage and finally help to deliver this third runway ? my hon . friend be absolutely right . we have have decade of dither and delay on this issue , and it be right that we crack on and start the process of review the airport national policy statement . he be also right to highlight the huge economic benefit of Heathrow — it be the large single - site employer anywhere in the UK — and its effect on the livelihood of and opportunity for his constituent . we will move at speed , but we will also do this properly . as the Secretary of State know from her time at City Hall , Heathrow have be a planning disaster since it be accidentally site to the west of London , force plane to land over million of head . while it might be amusing to watch she take the chainsaw to all those tree plant at Sipson by a series of Labour politician , why she would compound that plan disaster I have no idea . More than that , if this go ahead , she will also be compound the Heathrow monopoly on long - haul flight . to her four rule , I suggest that she add a fifth , which be the impact on direct connectivity to and from regional airport . there be the strong view that the expansion of Heathrow would kill connectivity from Manchester , Birmingham , Bristol and elsewhere . I actually think the opposite could be true : an expand heathrow could provide great regional connectivity . the right hon . member be right to highlight that Heathrow be our only hub airport , and it account for over 70 % of long - haul flight , as well as over 70 % of air freight by gross value , so it be an important economic asset . I repeat what I have say to other : we will move at speed and look at economic growth impact across the entire country . but where he see a challenge , I see opportunity . I thank the Secretary of State for her statement . I welcome the mention of the four test that will be part of the review , but it must be say that scepticism be run high in Hillingdon , where the effect be great , and the four test need to be more transparent . I encourage she to publish clearly what those four test be and the metric against which they will be assess . I ask she for a commitment that the datum and information that will be assess will be fully and transparently share with community as early as possible so that it can be interrogate . I echo colleague ' comment about the need for meaningful engagement with the community most affected . can she confirm that the engagement will not just be the formal consultation on the draft statement , but that there will be meaningful early engagement for the community affect ? we be move at pace on this , but I do believe it be possible to have meaningful consultation opportunity as well . if through the review that we be conduct in the next couple of month it become apparent that we need to change the ANPS , we will consult on a new draft by the summer of next year . I will ensure that I remain in close contact with my hon . friend , who be a fearsome advocate for his constituent , because I know that it be important that we not just address concern about noise , air quality and carbon , but demonstrate the important economic effect that expand Heathrow could have . my constituent , particularly those along the river in Molesey and Ditton , be concerned about an increase in the noise pollution that already affect we from a third runway at Heathrow . how can they be reassure that their view will be take into account , unlike in the top - down centralised planning policy that this Government have implement ? will the four test be transparent , meaningful and readily available to constituent ? can I please ask again : should it be show that the climate commitment of the UK will not be meet by this expansion , will the Minister U - turn ? this be the start , not the end , of the process . we will be transparent and clear about those four test . we will consult on an amend ANPS if that be require follow the review . a planning application would then come forward , and there would be consultation around that . there would be a public inquiry lead by the planning inspector . there will be ample opportunity for people to make their view know . I refer the hon . member to the remark I make early about treat this whole process with professionalism and integrity to ensure that we make the right decision for the future of the country . heathrow aircraft noise have a significant detrimental impact on my Putney constituent . similar hub in other european country affect far few people : for Schiphol it be 44 , 000 and for Charles de Gaulle 133 , 000 , while for Heathrow it be more than 680 , 000 people who be directly impact by the noise . currently there be no legal noise limit . I welcome the mention of noise in the Secretary of State ' s statement ; will she commit to a bind noise limit within the new strategy , as well as strong environmental limit and full community consultation in the process ? I can tell my hon . friend that the current ANPS set out very clear requirement on noise that any scheme would have to meet . we will review those requirement alongside any necessary mitigation requirement , and we will consult on any change . I should also say that the rule around the operation of a night flight ban , include the exact timing of such a ban , would be define in consultation with local community and relevant stakeholder . the DFT ' s own update appraisal report show that the economic benefit of a third runway be either exaggerated or misguided . the Labour Government be yet to produce their economic analysis . meanwhile , Heathrow Airport Ltd be in more than £ 15 billion - worth of debt and its own proposal have increase in cost by 50 % since 2016 . what make the Secretary of State so confident that private financing will be find not just for the proposal on the table , but for all the surface transport upgrade that will be require ? the two promoter that remain in the scheme will be responsible for secure private investment , and they have express to I confidence that the scheme can go forward . I also gently point out to the hon . Lady that there be huge support for this expansion among the business community : the Confederation of British Industry , the Federation of Small Businesses and the British Chambers of Commerce all support Heathrow expansion , as do regional business group across the UK . the Environmental Audit Committee have just complete its very detailed work on aviation expansion , which we will announce soon . one thing that come across be that the Climate Change Committee be advise demand management as one of the way that it should be deliver , consistent with our environmental commitment . I be glad that the Secretary of State have reaffirm that the expansion will have to be consistent with those commitment , but can she tell we whether demand management will be part of that ? what assessment have she make of the aspect that will require Government policy rather than be within Heathrow ' s gift , such as the expansion of sustainable aviation fuel ? finally , I be glad to hear that she recognise that this be a 21st - century plan with 20th - century road link and 19th - century rail link , so can she tell we more about how she will reduce the overall carbon emission contribution that Heathrow make ? there be probably three question in one there . I say to my hon . friend that I be not prepared to stand in the way of the public ' s aspiration to fly . we be not look at demand management at the moment ; our approach to aviation decarbonisation be base on the analysis suggest that the sector can make a significant contribution to our economy - wide net zero target by 2050 by focus on new fuel and new technology . I have mention that the naming of Heathrow as critical national priority infrastructure be vital to end the disruption to power and system we have see over the summer , so I encourage the Government to go forward with that . on the plan for transport to and from the airport and associate road scheme , can the Secretary of State confirm that the cost of the southern and western rail access , the new southern access tunnel that will ease congestion on exist road and low emission , and the rail access to provide reliable public transport link for passenger and staff be include in the estimate we have already see ? I implore she , as other have do , to ensure that those plan be cover as part of the project , and that it be not leave to the taxpayer to pick up the bill ? I be clear that the project will need to be privately finance . that include both the core project and the associate infrastructure improvement . it will be for the promoter submit a planning application to set out in that application how it be consistent with the review ANPS . however , I refer the hon . gentleman to the remark I make early ; I be clear that we must ensure that the M4 and the M25 do not turn into a car park , because that will not result in the successful operation of the airport . my right hon . friend know my constituency well , and she will know that my constituent be very concerned about air quality in London and worry that the expansion of Heathrow will affect air quality in the constituency , especially for future generation . will she reassure not just I , but local organisation such as Green School Runs and the London Clean Air Initiative , which be campaign hard to ensure that air quality be not impact and be at the heart of the review , not ignore by the Government ? air quality will be one of the factor look at through the ANPS review . obviously , there may have be some change in baseline condition compare with when the ANPS be last designate back in 2018 , give that the ultra low emission zone be in force now , but we do take the issue seriously and that be why it be one of the four test . about an hour ago , the Prime Minister do not answer my request for a cast - iron guarantee , so I wonder whether the Secretary of State can do a bit well . my constituency be 16 minute from Heathrow , yet it have no rail link to our country ' s busy airport . can she give I a cast - iron guarantee that , if this airport be expand , Woking will finally get the rail link it need ? far be it from I to give a different answer from the one the Prime Minister give . I can assure the hon . Gentleman that we will be look at rail in detail through the ANPS review and the public transport requirement , in order to have an expand Heathrow with a third runway that operate successfully . provide job for 800 people and support a further 7 , 000 , East Midlands airport be a fantastic example of how aviation power regional growth . do my right hon . friend agree that , whether it be through Heathrow expansion or at East Midlands airport , deliver sustainable expansion in aviation be not just about flight , but about deliver job , apprenticeship and growth , and about secure Britain ' s role as a green aerospace and aviation leader ? my hon . friend be right ; I know that East Midlands airport play a particularly important role in air freight , second only to Heathrow . that be something we do not talk about enough , give its importance to the economy , so I welcome the comment he have make . I be and always will be a proud Yorkshireman , but I live in west London for a number of year , so I be aware of the diverse range of view on Heathrow expansion . I certainly do not subscribe to the luddite nimbyism of the hon . member for Hammersmith and Chiswick ( Andy Slaughter ) , but may I ask the Secretary of State what consideration she have give to potential chinese investment into this critical national infrastructure ? it will be for the promoter of any future scheme to secure financing for the development . I can reassure the hon . Gentleman that national security always come first and foremost for this government , but we be keen to secure international investment so that we can boost UK competitiveness and improve global connectivity . that be central to everything we be try to do . regard the new airport national policy statement , can the Secretary of State clarify whether " airport " be in the plural ? if so , will she be look to change the planning process so that it can take into account the cumulative environmental impact of different airport expansion around the country ? the review of the airport national policy statement be site - specific for Heathrow . the other application I have deal with for Luton and Gatwick in the past couple of month be deal with use the " make good use of runway " policy . the ANPS be specific to Heathrow . Britain want to thrive , but all I can hear be this government once again prioritise the need of the wealthy , most frequent flyer above those of we on the ground . can the Secretary of State tell I what crumb of our carbon budget will remain for the rest of we and our life after the review be complete ? after the fudge on Gatwick , if the test say no , will she say no as well ? I refer the hon . Lady to the remark I have make previously about carbon budget , but I dispute the statement that it be only the wealthy in this country who want to fly . this may be sad , but one of the highlight of life for I be the bacon butty on an easyjet flight to a greek island in the summer . that be an aspiration share by many of the british public . I reassure my right hon . friend that many of we on the Government Benches want we to get on and build , baby , build . [ hon . member : " hear , hear ! " ] thank you . while much of the national conversation be understandably London - centric , can she assure the House that regional airport , particularly those in the west midland , and the community and business that they support , be be consider by the Government ? I assure my hon . friend that this Government be ambitious for all airport across the UK , include regional airport . I be with the chief executive of Birmingham airport only yesterday , and I be really excited about the £ 300 million investment in that airport that they announce at the regional investment summit yesterday . just as with the expansion of Heathrow , there be huge potential for drive economic growth through our regional airport . while most of the comment today have be critical , region across the United Kingdom need a strong hub airport , and Heathrow provide that . I seek assurance from the Secretary of State that slot at any expand airport will be ensure for flight from regional airport . but I also warn she : give the way climate change target have be use to stop major infrastructure project in Northern Ireland , such as major road , be she confident that , by stick by the Climate Change Act 2008 , we be not give a weapon to those who be oppose to this project and will use the court to ensure that it be stop ? the right hon . Gentleman be right to highlight the opportunity for other regional airport and the regional connection that an expand heathrow could provide . it have be operate at about 95 % capacity for much of the past two decade , so we be take slot reform forward . we will look closely at a range of issue to ensure that we be maximise the contribution of that process to our economy . I thank the Transport Secretary for her statement and recognise the national importance of this project . as she say , we must ensure that the whole of the United Kingdom benefit from the project , should it go ahead , and I be particularly keen that firm across Staffordshire and the midland be involve . if she approve the scheme , how will british firm play their part in this nationally significant project ? my hon . friend be right to highlight the very significant supply chain that will exist , and not just in relation to the construction of a third runway , but in term of the expand airport and the opportunity that present to the aviation sector . we will review the economic impact through the ANPS review , so more detail will be available on all that in due course . can the Secretary of State update the House with a bit more detail on the progress of airspace modernisation in relation to noise ? resident in my constituency who be on the flightpath for Bournemouth airport have no night - time restriction and be see massive increase . in place such as Dorset , people be be disturb in their home and in their sleep . if regional airport will not be include , can the Secretary of State explain when we can get something far on they ? this Government have move with speed to set up the UK airspace design service , and we plan to have that mobilise by the end of the year . the first region we will look at be London — that be partly to do with the connection to expansion scheme in London as well . if the hon . Lady write to I with the detail of what her constituent be experience , I will look into the matter far . do my right hon . friend recognise the severe concern that my constituent in Fulham will have about aspect of this proposal , particularly the noise ? they will hence take an interest in ensure that the four test be properly adhere to . can she reassure I that she have no intention of water down the ANPS to lessen its noise commitment ? as I say in response to a similar question from my hon . friend the Member for Putney ( Fleur Anderson ) , we will review the noise requirement set out in the current NPS and the mitigation associate with that . as I stand here today , I have no intention of diminish in any way those requirement , but we will look at the new technology associate with new aircraft and new place , and we will do a thorough piece of work . if any change be make , we will consult on those before next summer . as far back as 2019 there be talk of manufacturing and logistic hub for the Heathrow hub be site in Northern Ireland . can the Secretary of State still give a reassurance that the whole of the UK will be consider in support of the manufacture of the third runway , should it go ahead ? will site be consider in my constituency , for example , which be critical to Belfast international airport ? one of the four test relate to economic growth across the whole of the UK , and when I talk about the whole of the UK , I mean the whole of the UK . I hope that provide the hon . gentleman with sufficient reassurance . my right hon . friend know how ambitious I be for improve connectivity from Bracknell to Heathrow airport . heathrow ' s proposal say that it be explore the option of promote a new rail scheme that combine the objective of a western rail link to Heathrow and southern rail access to Heathrow , and there be similar commitment in the Aurora Group ' s plan . will she ensure that the review of the ANPS help we to hold it to account for those promise so that we can deliver the well surface access that my constituent so badly need ? the ANPS will provide the policy framework against which any future planning application be assess . as I have say to other hon . member , when a planning application come forward , a thorough consideration process will be associate with that before any decision be take . clear condition will be set out on any planning decision relate to surface access . I very much welcome the Secretary of State ' s statement — her positive word be encouraging . this be an economic advantage for everyone , and I thank she for that . the fact that Heathrow ' s number look set to surpass last year ' s number , with 8 million passenger in August 2025 alone , demonstrate abundantly clearly the need for expansion . a fit - for - purpose airport can only increase revenue through tourism and connectivity for business . how can she ensure that the extension will secure regional airport connectivity and enhancement and a streamlined domestic service , as well as international increase ? how can she ensure that Northern Ireland contractor can be part of the building of the new third runway ? we be at the start of this process , and I be as ambitious for the whole UK as the hon . Gentleman be . we will look at the economic impact through the ANPS review . if a scheme come forward and get planning consent during this Parliament , all Government Departments and I be absolutely clear that we must make the most of this incredible economic opportunity . I thank the Secretary of State for her statement , her leadership , her focus on growth and her commitment to fit this project within the Paris agreement . I welcome the four test that it will be judge against , but I have a suggestion for a fifth test — people might not be surprised to hear that it focus very much on my constituency . in recent year , Edinburgh South West have benefit from fantastic rail connection between Edinburgh and London , and from fantastic direct international flight from Edinburgh airport to overseas . do she agree that if this project go ahead , it can not be to the detriment of place such as Edinburgh ? my hon . friend be a fine champion for his constituency and the fantastic city of Edinburgh . an expand heathrow could open up more regional connectivity to city such as Edinburgh . improve the rail network between our two capital city be absolutely essential as well , and we be commit to do that . we urgently need to modernise and expand british airspace — it be at capacity , and our growth depend on it . I be at Bournemouth airport last week . we be close to a bus service and a public transport interchange , but Bournemouth airport can not easily connect with european airspace , as most traffic join it at a single space . that be particularly problematic , give that I hope the Cherries , who be contest for european football , get to play european team next season . will the Government review and modernise our airspace and back regional airport such as Bournemouth ' s ? as I say in answer to a previous question , the work that the UK airspace design service will do to modernise our airspace will start with the London area . it will not be limit to the London area , but we need to make that a priority . I appreciate the case that my hon . friend make with respect to Bournemouth . I draw attention to my chairship of the GMB parliamentary group . as someone who work on this issue the last time around , I be astonish to hear the opposition ' s flight of fantasy when they accuse other of delay . on their watch , the airport commission be artificially delay until after a general election , with three more year spend produce the current NPS and a further two year tie up in the court . can the Secretary of State assure the House that the lesson have be learn from those eight waste year ? I totally agree with my hon . friend . let we be honest — it be not just eight waste year , it be 14 . I repeat what I say early : it come to something that the previous Prime Minister , Boris Johnson , go to such length to duck these decision that he end up in Kabul . personal statement with your permission , Mr Speaker , I would like to make a personal statement . when I make my maiden speech over a decade ago , I say that it be the honour of my life to represent Ashton - under - Lyne in this House . alongside serve in this historic Labour Government , it be still the honour of my life . I promise then to bring determination , commitment and my socialist value to this House while represent my constituent , and I intend to continue do so . my title may have change , but the strength and character of the people of my constituency have not . first , let I address the circumstance under which I leave office . the last few week have be incredibly tough on my family , with my personal life so much in the public eye . all of we in public life know all too well the toll that the intense scrutiny we face take on our love one , but I have always believe in the high standard of transparency and accountability — that be what the public expect , and it be the price we pay for the privilege of service . that be why I refer myself to the independent adviser and give he access to all the information he need . as I set out then , parent of a disabled child with a trust who divorce and seek different property face a complex tax position . if there be one good thing that can come out of this , I hope that other family in that situation may now be aware of that and avoid get into the position I be now in . I be of course correspond with HM Revenue and Customs , and it have my full co - operation . there be no excuse not to pay taxis owe , and I will do so . this be an honestly make mistake , but when you make a mistake , you take responsibility . to serve at the high level of Government be a privilege — not for the title or the office , but for the chance to change the life of the people I grow up with and live alongside . every day , I work to serve those same working - class community ; in every decision that I make , I think of they . I know the power of politic to change life , because it change my own . the last Labour Government give I the foundation to build a well life for I and my young son : a council house to support I , sure start to help I raise my kid , and the security of a minimum wage . a good job and a decent , secure home be not too much to ask , but for too many it be out of reach . that be what I be determined to change , for the people who all of we on these Benches be fight for and must keep fight for . that be why , despite the fierce criticism and the relentless lobbying from vested interest , I be so proud that , within week , our landmark Employment Rights Bill will become law . it be a game changer for million stick in insecure and low - pay work . it will give they the dignity and security that they deserve . there be those who say we can not afford to deliver new right for work people ; I say we can not afford not to deliver they . labour be at its good when we be bold , and I have be so proud to work alongside some of the trade unionist who nurture and support I to deliver the big upgrade to worker ' right in a generation . this be a personal statement , but the trade union movement teach I that it be not about yourself ; it be about we . it be about who we be here for , and everything that I have do have be an endeavour for we — for our people , who elect we and who we serve . as Secretary of State for Housing , it be my solemn duty to serve the Grenfell Tower inquiry . it be difficult to think of a more humbling experience — a stark reminder of what happen when we forget who we be in this place to serve . it have be a privilege to work on behalf of those family , and it be why this Government will pass a duty of candour . make no mistake : the Hillsborough law be for the 97 and their family , but it be also for the sub - postmaster who endure the Horizon scandal , the victim of infected blood , and those who die or whose life be change forever in the Grenfell Tower fire . it be a line in the sand that say that the public will always come first . I be also incredibly proud that this Labour Government provide the big investment in social and affordable housing in a generation . it be the foundation of a decent home that give I the security to build my life on ; now we must provide a safe and decent home to million of people across this country . when our Renters ' Rights Bill return to the House this afternoon , we will give a generation of renter the protection , security and right that they deserve . from vote at 16 to historic investment in homelessness prevention , from neighbourhood renewal to fair funding for the whole country and put power back where it belong , in the hand of work people everywhere , I be proud to lead , but we achieve together , with my hon . friend on these Benches and the support of our entire movement — the lifeblood of this Labour Government . when I think back on how far I have come , I remember when at age 16 , I be pregnant with my child , need a job and a home . People write I off , assume that I would be on benefit for the whole of my life , but I want to prove they wrong . I have carry that with I , whether on the Back Benches , at the Dispatch Box , or represent this country abroad . the support and advice of so many friend and colleague have keep I go . I want to give a special mention to my excellent ministerial and parliamentary team , my hon . friend the Members for Greenwich and Woolwich ( Matthew Pennycook ) , for Oldham West , Chadderton and Royton ( Jim McMahon ) , for Nottingham North and Kimberley ( Alex Norris ) , for Wellingborough and Rushden ( Gen Kitchen ) , for Huddersfield ( Harpreet Uppal ) and for Gateshead Central and Whickham ( Mark Ferguson ) ; my noble Friends Lord Khan and Baroness Taylor ; my superb parliamentary and political staff ; and the many excellent civil servant . I want to say a special thank you to many of my constituent and the public who have make contact with I . I offer my successor and his new colleague my congratulation and , of course , my support . I be fortunate to count so many member as not just honourable friend but actual friend . I will finish by say that in each generation it have fall to a Labour Government to strengthen the hand of work people . in 1945 , it be maternity pay , the NHS and home for hero out of the ruin of war ; in the 1970 , it be Barbara Castle and the fight for equal pay ; and in the 1990 , it be the national minimum wage . despite the opposition , because of the work of this Labour Government , we have the opportunity to write a new chapter of justice and fairness for work people . as tough as politic can be , it be nothing — nothing — compare to what thousand of my constituent and many more across this country face every single day . whether we sit on the Back Benches or on the Front Bench , elect office be not about we . it be about our chance to change the life of other . from wherever I sit on these Benches , I will fight with everything I have to do exactly that . [ hon . member : " hear , hear . " ] point of order on a point of order , Mr Speaker . last week I be notify by the Table Office that my Cabinet Office oral question about the £ 97 billion increase in fail major project spend that this Government have oversee have be select to be answer by the Government . however , it do not appear on the list of question to be answer during Cabinet Office oral question tomorrow . the Cabinet Office have decline to answer , and have remove it from the list of question , which mean that it will not be ask or answer in the Chamber . I have long suspect that the Government have be manipulate the oral question process in their favour . how can the general public have any confidence in the parliamentary process , or the holding of the Government to account , when the Government can avoid scrutiny by pick and choose only the question that they wish to answer ? I be sure that the Government would not wish I to submit any more write question , so what guidance can you give , Mr Speaker , on how I can well ensure that my constituent in Huntingdon get the answer that they deserve ? I thank the hon . gentleman for give I notice of his point of order . the transfer of question between Departments be a matter for the Government rather than the Chair . however , the hon . Gentleman ' s concern be now on the record , and I hope that those on the Treasury Bench have note what he have say . let I add that there be always the expectation that department will inform member of such transfer . if there be a continuation , I be sure that the hon . Gentleman will not leave it there — but please , will he come and let I know ? on a point of order , Mr Speaker . on Monday the Secretary of State for Culture , Media and Sport tell the House , in relation to the Maccabi Tel Aviv match , that the risk assessment be base " in no small part on the risk pose to fan attend to support Maccabi Tel Aviv because they be israeli and because they be jewish . " — [ Official Report , 20 October 2025 ; Vol . 773 , c . 646 . ] however , report last night reveal that the decision to ban away fan be due to intelligence suggest that the main threat come from extremist Maccabi Tel Aviv fan themselves , and that they be the likely perpetrator of trouble in Amsterdam last year . the Ministerial Code require Ministers to give accurate and truthful information to Parliament . if the Secretary of State have that information before her statement , she must correct the record . can you ask she to clarify the position , Mr Speaker , and to return to the House immediately if she have breach the code that govern all parliamentarian ? unfortunately I do not have such power , although perhaps at time I would welcome they . I will say this , however . I thank the hon . member for give I notice of his point of order . minister be responsible for their word in the House , and the Ministerial Code be not a matter for the Chair , but the hon . Member have certainly put his view on the record , and I be sure that — once again — we will find that those on the Treasury Bench have be listen . on a point of order , Mr Speaker . at the beginning of Prime Minister ' s question , I rush in while a question be be ask , and I want to apologise . I be rush in from celebrate Diwali and the new year from my local temple in Willesden . on Monday I be celebrate Diwali and the new year at my local temple in Neasden , the large mandir in the United Kingdom , and the day before that I be celebrate in Kingsbury . I wish everyone who be celebrate today a happy new year and a happy Diwali . let I first say that that be probably the bad point of order I have hear in the form of an apology , but let I also say happy Diwali to all the temple that the hon . Lady have visit . she have certainly put that on the record , but I hope that next time she will wait at the Bar of the House until after the question . Bill present Removal of Titles Bill Presentation and First Reading ( Standing Order no . 57 ) Rachael Maskell , support by Nadia Whittome , Ian Byrne , Kate Osborne , Richard Burgon , Apsana Begum , Brian Leishman , Imran Hussain , Jon Trickett , Cat Eccles , Mary Kelly Foy and Bell Ribeiro - Addy present a Bill to give the Monarch power to remove title ; to provide that such removal can be do by the Monarch on their own initiative , follow a recommendation of a joint committee of Parliament , or at the request of the person who hold the title ; and for connected purpose . Bill read the first time ; to be read a second time on Friday 31 October , and to be print ( Bill 317 ) . Perinatal Mental Health Assessments Motion for leave to bring in a Bill ( Standing Order no . 23 ) I beg to move , that leave be give to bring in a Bill to require the provision of mental health assessment in NHS antenatal care for the purpose of identify those at risk of perinatal mental health problem and make referral to appropriate support ; and for connected purpose . we often assume that pregnancy , birth and the year after birth be a time of life to be happy , celebrate the arrival of a new baby and embark on a new chapter in family life , and for some people that be how it pan out , but for many the reality be much tough . I have speak previously in the House about my brilliant friend Sophie , who take her own life after the birth of her third child , who be just 10 week old at the time . that be four year ago , and her death remain a huge sadness in my life and for her family , some of whom be in the Gallery today ; but the shock of it still sit with I too . I do not know — and many of we do not — that suicide be the lead cause of death for a woman in that period from six week to a year after give birth , a statistic recently reconfirm by the late report from mother and Babies : reduce risk through Audits and Confidential Enquiries across the UK , know as MBRRACE - UK . although Sophie ' s death be a particularly serious example , I also do not know of the scale and normality of mental illness at that time in a woman ' s life . one in four woman experience some sort of mental health difficulty during pregnancy or after give birth . it can be anything from depression to anxiety to obsessive - compulsive disorder or post - traumatic stress disorder , and it can be completely debilitate for mum and their family . the consequence ripple out more widely , too : the London School of Economics and the Centre for Mental Health estimate that untreated perinatal mental illness cost the country more than £ 8 billion a year , largely through the long - term impact on the child ' s health , education and future productivity . in theory , woman be ask about their mental health early in pregnancy . the guidance from NICE — the National Institute for Health and Care Excellence — specifie that question about depression and anxiety should form part of a woman ' s first contact with health professional during pregnancy , include at the booking appointment , but in practice woman ' s experience vary enormously . some be ask a few hurried question between blood pressure check , while other be not ask at all . woman with a previous history of mental illness may be give more attention , but we know that pregnancy and early motherhood can often be the first time woman experience mental illness , so that be not enough . some gps and midwife have the training and time to offer support ; other be stretch far beyond capacity . some have establish mental health service to which to refer woman ; some be almost afraid to ask the right question , because they do not trust that a referral will kick in . the result be a postcode lottery , whereby a pregnant woman ' s access to mental health support can depend on the NHS trust that she happen to fall under , but it be also a lottery that a woman be more likely to lose if she be black , asian , young , or experience domestic violence , poverty or other form of deprivation . as in so many area of healthcare , pre - exist inequality correlate with poor outcome . that be why this Bill matter : every woman , regardless of age , ethnicity , background or postcode , deserve the same standard of care and the same chance to be mentally well at that time in her life . we be not start from scratch . in the 10 - year health plan , the Government have set out their determination and their plan to reorient our health system — away from treatment towards prevention , and away from hospital towards the community . ensure that pregnant and new mum be mentally well be one of the ultimate act of prevention , set they and their child up for a healthy , productive future . on mental health specifically , include well support for suicidal people , the Government have also make their commitment very clear , and have match it with action . in the last year an additional 6 , 700 mental health professional have be recruit , and £ 120 million be be invest in dedicated mental health emergency department , ensure that those in crisis can get help quickly . we be roll out good start family hub , a transformative initiative that will give family a single route into support service , include mental health service . my Bill build on those commitment , but it focus the mental health support at the very start of motherhood , when woman need it most . we be not start from scratch in our understanding of good practice either . at a roundtable that I convene here in Parliament in September — bring together NHS England , the Maternal Mental Health Alliance , the royal college , parent with live experience and other expert — the message be united and clear : professional want to help , but they need structure , time , and training to do it properly . the Royal College of Midwives have just publish a road map for perinatal mental healthcare , which set out what this could look like and be well worth a read . let I now turn to the detailed proposal in the Bill . it set out a clear , practical framework for mental health assessment , and it have four core pillar . the first be to ensure that every pregnant woman have a structured , evidence - base and compassionate mental health assessment . while mental health check - in must continue after the birth of a baby too , the evidence show that outcome be well when intervention happen soon . that be why my Bill will focus on improve support in the antenatal period first . the assessment would form part of routine antenatal care ; it would not be an extra . it would use validate tool such as the Whooley question or the Edinburgh post - natal depression scale , adapt for pregnancy , and it would be root in nice guidance , although that might need update to ensure that well practice be embed . crucially , it would be deliver through trauma - inform conversation , not tick - box exercise . Staff would be train to create a safe space for disclosure , recognise that woman may have history of trauma that affect their mental health during pregnancy , or may have no history of trauma or mental illness at all . secondly , the Bill would improve training and supervision for all professional involve in maternity care . GPs , midwife , obstetrician , health visitor and community mental health practitioner all need the knowledge and confidence to ask the right question , to do so compassionately and to recognise when something be not right . this Bill call for a national training standard that will be endorse by NICE and the royal college , and deliver across NHS trust and integrate care board . it should include regular clinical supervision , so that staff be support to ask question and make decision safely . importantly , the training must equip professional to recognise and respond to the specific need of woman from diverse background — understand cultural difference in how mental health be express and experience , and address the stigma and barrier that prevent some woman from seek help . thirdly , this Bill set out the need for clear referral pathway . although midwife , GPs and other involve in routine maternity care should be equip and able to identify mental health risk , they should not also be deliver specialist care when it be need , so clear referral pathway into specialist mental health service be vital . the Maternal Mental Health Alliance recommend that a specialist perinatal mental health midwife be embed in every maternity service to ensure that risk be identify and referral make effectively . the appropriate support will be different for every woman , but one important option be the NHS talk Therapies programme , to which I know the Government be commit . I have see in my own constituency of Aylesbury how helpful that can be for woman , and I urge NHS talk Therapies service to consider woman in the perinatal period a priority group for support . there be also fantastic voluntary service in community across the country , such as panda and many of those under the umbrella of the Hearts and Minds Partnership , yet many woman be not make aware of they through their routine antenatal care , and they should be . fourthly , and finally , this Bill call for clear accountability to ensure effective delivery of perinatal mental health assessment . NHS England and integrate care board would be responsible for ensure that local maternity system introduce the single standardised assessment process , but then also , crucially , capture datum through the maternity service dataset , allow outcome to be track . there must also be improve oversight of these service from the Care Quality Commission as part of its maternity inspection . I hope my Bill ' s aim be clear , and I hope that the Government and colleague in this House will look upon they favourably . I know resource be tight across the NHS , and I know there be particularly acute challenge in many of our mental health and maternity service , include the national shortage of midwife , but I also know how transformative the relatively modest measure in this Bill could be for the woman at the heart of the Bill and for our society . I believe that it could have make a difference for Sophie , and it could still make a difference for the many woman who be struggle with their mental health now or who will do in future . ultimately , this Bill be about more than mental health care for woman ; it be about the kind of country that we want to be . when parent be mentally well , they thrive , their child thrive and our community become place not of fear and insecurity , but of hope and opportunity . that be the kind of country that we want to be , and improve perinatal mental health care be such an important part of it . I commend this Bill to the House . question put and agree to . order , that Laura Kyrke - Smith , Paulette Hamilton , Sojan Joseph , Dr Danny Chambers , Liz Twist , Sarah Hall , Maya Ellis , Jen Craft , Michelle Welsh , Anna Sabine , Lee Pitcher , Dr Simon Opher present the Bill . Laura Kyrke - Smith accordingly present the Bill . Bill read the first time ; to be read a second time on Friday 31 October , and to be print ( Bill 316 ) . renter ' right Bill consideration of Lords message Clause 15 - other duty I beg to move , that this House agree with the Lords in their amendment 19b , 19c and 19d . with this it will be convenient to consider the Government motion to agree with the Lords in their amendment 39b and 39c . today be a momentous day , because , subject to agreement from this House , the Renters ' Rights Bill will have complete all its stage and will therefore shortly become law . this House last legislate to fundamentally alter the relationship between landlord and tenant in 1988 — I be just six year old . in the decade since , England ' s private rent sector have change beyond all recognition . it now house not just the young and the mobile , but many old people and family with child , for whom great security and certainty be essential to a flourish life . the need to overhaul the regulation of the private rent sector and , in so do , level decisively the play field for landlord and tenant be press . that be why we introduce the Bill within month of take office . we promise that we would succeed where the previous Conservative Government have fail by legislate to transform the experience of private renting . I be delighted that we be now within touching distance of see the Bill become law . before I turn to the final amendment agree to in the other place , I want to put on the record once again my profound thank to Baroness Taylor for so ably guide through its House of Lords stage . I , too , welcome the Bill become law . personally , I wish that it also regulate rent level , but my question be : how quickly will it become law to protect people ? while this Bill have be wind its way through Parliament over the last year , many have face the appalling situation of no - fault eviction . many have lose their property as a result , whereas they would have be protect have the Bill become law more quickly . can the Minister give I some idea — so that I can give some comfort to my constituent who be face no - fault eviction — of how quickly they will get protection , and will there be any retrospective element to it ? I thank the right hon . gentleman for that point . we want to provide both renter and landlord with certainty about how the new system will be implement . I will say a bit more on that in the course of my remark . will the Minister give way ? I be go to make a bit more progress . as I make clear when we consider Lords amendment to the Bill on 8 September , although the Government be not prepared to accept amendment that would undermine the core principle of the Bill , we be more than willing to make sensible change in response to the legitimate concern that have be raise . the change we be propose today be firmly within the spirt of that commitment . I be delighted that we be able to reach agreement with those on the Liberal Democrat Front Bench and Lord Young of Cookham , and I thank all the noble Lords involve for their willingness to work collaboratively to strengthen the Bill . let I briefly set out the purpose and effect of the amendment in question , begin with those that relate to share owner . lord amendment 19b , 19c and 19D exempt share owner from the 12 - month " no re - let " period in respect of new mandatory possession ground 1a , which allow a landlord to evict a tenant because they intend to sell their property . the exemption be subject to meeting set criterion , to ensure that share owner have make a genuine attempt to sell their property . the amendment in question also include a delegate power to remove the exemption in the future — for example , once the building safety programme have be complete . I welcome what the Minister have propose . More and more of these issue have come to my attention in my constituency . tenant then have to find alternative and affordable accommodation that be close to their work and close to their child ' s education . I know this legislation apply to England and Wales only — I understand that . but the Minister be a good Minister , and he always share information on the legislation that be put forward with the regional assembly — in my case , the Northern Ireland Assembly . will he do I and this House the favour of share the legislation with the Northern Ireland Assembly to ensure that the good thing in the Bill can become good thing for we in Northern Ireland as well ? the Northern Ireland Assembly can access this legislation online , but I will certainly continue to have conversation with Ministers in all the devolve administration about what lesson can be learn from what we have do with this Bill , and about what they can take from it . I once again commend Lord Young of Cookham for champion the interest of share owner affect by the building safety crisis , and I thank he for table his three amendment in lieu . as I make clear when we consider Lords amendment last month , the Government recognise the plight of share owner live in building that require remediation . many be face unaffordable cost , often with no viable exit route other than a distress sale . we also appreciate that it be often hard to secure a purchaser for a shared ownership property , and that the sale of share ownership flat be more likely to fall through due to the additional constraint involve . as such , we have always accept that the 12 month no re - let period would have place many share owner in an extremely challenging position . the reason why the Government do not feel able to accept Lord Young ' s original Lords amendment 19 be that it could undermine protection for the small subset of tenant who happen to rent a sub - let home from a share owner . I be therefore pleased to report to the House that the amendment in lieu deliver the core aim of that original amendment , while also ensure that three key safeguard be in place to protect tenant . first , there be a requirement for the shared owner to have inform the assured subtenant in write at the outset of the tenancy about the exemption and its possible use . this will ensure tenant be aware of the particular circumstance of the tenancy they be enter into and can make an informed choice about whether they wish to enter into a tenancy agreement with the share owner in question . secondly , share owner must have inform their provider of their intention to sell before obtain possession of the property from the tenant . this be an essential first step that all share owner must take to begin the process of sell their property . I be satisfied that it be a proportionate requirement to evidence that a shared owner be genuinely intend to sell their home . thirdly , a valuation must be undertake on the property by a member of the Royal Institution of Chartered Surveyors , or the share owner must have advertise the property for sale . this can be do at any point before a property be re - let , recognise the need for flexibility in how share owner will approach a sale . take together with the protection that be already in place as a result of register provider have to authorise sub - let request and have oversight of what rent level can be charge , I be satisfied that these safeguard will reduce , if not eliminate entirely , the risk that an exemption from the 12 - month no re - let period might otherwise have pose . lord amendment 39b and 39c will introduce a statutory requirement for annual reporting on the extent to which service family accommodation meet the decent home standard . I thank the Minister for listen to Liberal Democrat colleague who have make these point , as I have along with my hon . friend the Member for Taunton and Wellington ( Gideon Amos ) , on previous occasion . it be very good that those live in military service accommodation will now have the opportunity to access the decent home standard . could the Minister assure I that he will work with colleague in the Ministry of Defence to ensure that all service family be aware of the decent home standard — the standard to which they can hold their accommodation provider — so they can live in well home in my constituency of Bicester and Woodstock and across the country ? we have ongoing dialogue with colleague in the Ministry of Defence about this issue , and if the hon . Member will allow I , I will elaborate on how we think these amendment will work in practice and how they interact with what the Ministry of Defence be itself do . first , however , I once again thank Baroness Grender , Baroness Thornhill and the hon . member for Taunton and Wellington ( Gideon Amos ) and for North Shropshire ( Helen Morgan ) for their continue support and advocacy for service personnel and their family . the Government have be clear throughout the passage of the Bill that our armed service personnel and their family must live in safe and decent home . we remain determined to improve the standard of service family accommodation across the entire defence estate . alongside the commitment to drive up standard through a record investment of £ 1 . 5 billion in service family accommodation over the next five year , the Government will soon publish a defence housing strategy set out clear renewal standard and further step to improve the life of those who serve our country . that standard will be publish , so service family will be able to see , judge their accommodation against and interact with this new statutory duty . as I outline in the previous debate on Lords amendment , the Government acknowledge the need for great transparency and accountability to ensure that the commitment we have make be honour . the amendment in lieu will place the commitment I make to this House last month on a statutory basis . the Government believe that this , alongside the wide step I have already set out , will help ensure service personnel and their family have the quality of home that they deserve . the amendment also include a delegate power allow the housing quality standard that SFA be assess against to be update when the current version of the decent home standard be no long consider appropriate — for example , when it have be replace by a new modernised standard . the Liberal Democrats have indicate their support for these amendment , and I hope hon . member will join I in support they . to conclude , I urge the House to support the amendment put forward by the other place , and I look forward to the remainder of the debate . I call the shadow Secretary of State . we be consider the Lords amendment in lieu to the Renters ' Rights Bill , and I begin by recognise the work that have take place in both Houses to improve this legislation , and by thank their lordship for the constructive way in which they have approach this endeavour . on the amendment themselves , the issue of share ownership leaseholder be rightly champion in the Lords by my noble Friend Lord Young of Cookham , and I pay tribute to he for his persistence . he make a fair and compelling case for share owner who , through no fault of their own , may be unable to sell their share and should not be penalise for re - let in those circumstance . the Government ' s acceptance of that principle , although through a modify amendment , be a sensible and pragmatic improvement , which we will therefore support . on the decent home standard and the service family accommodation estate , the Government have place a duty on the Secretary of State to report on the condition of service family accommodation and provide independent oversight . our armed force and their family deserve and need decent , well - maintain home , and we believe that great transparency will strengthen service family ' confidence in the system . we support this improvement , and we hope that the Government will look at our policy to create an armed force housing association that would oversee these change and address the decline recruitment and retention rate that , sadly , we have see under this Government . while we support these improvement , I fear the Bill in its current form will in some area be counterproductive , and drive landlord from the market as well as put up rent for tenant . labour ' s own impact assessment for this Bill support that concern , state that " landlord can pass through some , but not all , of their cost increase to their tenant in the form of high rent " due to new cost . under the Bill , all tenancy will continue until either the tenant give notice or the landlord obtain a court order for possession on specific ground . the Government have commit to end section 21 eviction , but they must also ensure matching court reform so that the system work for both tenant and responsible landlord . we need clarity about when and how these change will be implement , because uncertainty help no one . local council must have the mean to enforce the new rule effectively , and the Government should set out a clear and workable plan to that end . the Lords amendment represent a sensible set of adjustment that I would say make this Bill slightly more workable , but sufficient challenge remain in how it will operate in practice . we recognise the value of the scrutiny that have take place in both Houses , and the constructive way that many of the concern have be address , but the uncertainty in this sector be see landlord leave the market at an alarming rate . the shadow Secretary of State know that I have a great deal of time for he as a person , but he must reflect on how all of his speech be about the right of the landlord with absolutely nothing about the right of tenant . in my own constituency , 600 child be in temporary accommodation , have largely be drive out of their private rent accommodation because of no - fault eviction . do he have anything to say about the right of tenant ? I can only assume that the hon . Member have be asleep through the last couple of paragraph I have read out , in which I specifically speak about the right of tenant in the military estate , for example , so I reject his characterisation of our position . the simple fact be that tenant ' right be all well and good , but if accommodation for those tenant do not exist , they be no well off . we have see an estimate 18 % of new home for sale that be previously in the private rental market estate , and in London that figure be 29 % . a reduction in the private rent sector market harm , not help , people seek to rent in the private sector . Labour Members will say , " well , we be go to deliver 1 . 5 million new house , " but no one — I doubt even their own Front Benchers — actually believe they have any chance of deliver that figure . the Office for Budget Responsibility certainly do not believe that they have any credible chance of do it , so the housing and rental situation be likely to get bad . I confirm that the official opposition will support the Lords amendment , for the reason that I have set out . we urge the Government to implement they professionally and swiftly , and to focus on deliver a fair and effective system for tenant , for the landlord that provide accommodation for those tenant , and for the wide housing market . however , there be still a number of flaw in the Bill — it do not do enough to protect renter or ensure a stable rental market , as it will reduce supply and , perversely , push up rent — which be why , have commit to not oppose the amendment , we will hold the Government to account on the Bill ' s consequence . I fully support my hon . friend the Minister ' s motion to agree with Lords amendment 19 and 39 , and I thank he for all his work . I pay tribute to my right hon . friend the Member for Ashton - under - Lyne ( Angela Rayner ) for pilot this momentous legislation through the House . if I may , I add my own thank to the noble Baroness Taylor of Stevenage , who have be a doughty champion in the other place and , of course , in my constituency of Stevenage . some 7 , 000 household rent privately in Stevenage . they fear their tenancy come to an end for no good reason . I be knock on door in the ward of Roebuck last weekend . a young mother open her door , and I notice that the window next to the front door be break and patch up with a wooden board . I ask whether it be a council property , and she say , " no , I rent privately . he ' s a good landlord . " I say , " okay , so will he fix that window ? " she reply , " oh , no . he have give I this bit of wood . I be a bit worried that if I ask , he will throw I out . " that be what a " good " landlord be assume to be . it must come to an end . renter like that young mother have be wait 40 year for change . today , should the House agree , the Bill will go for Royal Assent , and that fear will come to an end , so I support the motion . I thank the Minister . I call the liberal Democrat spokesperson . I look forward to Parliament finally pass legislation that will bring long - overdue protection to tenant . we do not believe , like the shadow Secretary of State , the right hon . member for Braintree ( Sir James Cleverly ) , that tenant ' right be " all well and good " . they be not all well and good . no - fault eviction be not all well and good , and the previous Government ' s failure to outlaw they be unacceptable . it be a good thing that this legislation will finally change that . the Liberal Democrats have long campaign for — and stand on a manifesto that include — end no - fault eviction of tenant , long and more stable tenancy , a register of landlord , and decent home for our force family . thank to the Government agree to our proposal , all those thing be to become law through the Bill and in MOD service accommodation . for too long , renter across the board have have a bad deal . it be time to redress the balance after year of conservative government fail to deliver both on no fault eviction and on decent home for our military family . I warmly welcome Government amendment 39 , which will make service family accommodation subject to the decent home standard . I be glad that minister have listen to the call from the Liberal Democrats and service family . I thank the Minister for do the hard yard pragmatically in his negotiation on the Bill , and I pay tribute to my noble Friends Baroness Grender and Baroness Thornhill for their work to secure those important change . the state of housing that service family have have to endure be a disgrace . the Defence Committee hear of dire condition , with pest infestation , black mould , damp , flooding and unreliable heating and hot water in winter . I have hear similar story and see the photograph from constituent service family who be force to live in damp and mouldy accommodation declare unfit for human habitation . our soldier , sailor , air force personnel and Royal Marines — such as those who serve in 40 Commando at Norton Manor Camp in my constituency , the conservative closure of which I begin campaign against in 2017 — sacrifice so much for our country . the very least that they deserve be a decent home for they and their family . this be not an isolated issue . research we obtain early this year find that , on victory in Europe Day alone , more than 400 service family be force to apply for emergency repair . while the country celebrate our veteran , too many force family be struggle with housing that fall far short of the standard that we rightly expect elsewhere . their new decent home standard — which come a year after my hon . friend the Member for North Shropshire ( Helen Morgan ) try and fail to get the Conservative Government to deliver it , and 18 year after Sir Menzies Campbell begin the liberal Democrat campaign for decent home for our military — be a matter of fairness , as I hope the House will agree . this be a great first step , and I be proud that the liberal Democrats have have a hand in secure it . decent home for service family should be not just report on but act on . Defence Ministers have assure the House that housing standard be on an upward trajectory . we will hold the Government to account on that commitment . can the Minister give any assurance that resource will be put in place to ensure that that happen ? nobody want to see an annual report that lead to no progress . I also ask he to ensure that service family accommodation meet the commitment make in the Defence Infrastructure Organisation ' s consumer charter — most notably the requirement to complete urgent repair within a timeline consistent with Awaab ' s law . that would ensure that Lords amendment 39 strengthen a Bill that already deliver vital reform for renter and rightly include protection for service family . it deliver broad transformation in renter ’ right by end no - fault eviction , create more secure tenancy and raise standard across the private rent sector . amendment 19 would also allow share owner to re - let if a sale fall through . as such , we support it . of course , we must not lose sight of the big picture : the need to build a new generation of council and social rent home — 150 , 000 per year . this week show that determination , persistence and principle can deliver real change . our force family will now have statutory protection for their home , tenant across the country will gain great right , and every step like this bring we close to the fairer housing system that we all want . I congratulate all those who have campaign for this change , particularly the force family who have contact I . more secure home be what private renter need , and decent home be the least our military deserve . let we be clear : the Bill be the big uplift to renter ' right in a generation . it will make a huge difference for so many people in my constituency . before I come to the amendment , I place on the record my thank to the Minister stewarde the Bill through Parliament , and to my right hon . friend the Member for Ashton - under - Lyne ( Angela Rayner ) for her remark as a champion of renter and social housing in this country . I also place on the record my anger that the Bill have take so long to pass through Parliament . it be an absolute disgrace that it have be slow down — bogge down in amendment — by the other place , which have delay these vital right reach my constituent . opposition party table 450 amendment , so our colleague in the other place have to sit for a very long time to get the Bill through . in that time , my constituent have be stick in damp and mouldy housing and subject to section 21 eviction , and many child have be grow up in temporary accommodation , because of the delay to the legislation in the other place . opposition party whose Lords place so many amendment should be ashamed for slow down the legislation . this House give the Bill its Third reading in January . ten month later , my constituent in Hastings and Rye be still wait for its vital right and protection to become law . they be not the only one wait : 11 million renter up and down the country need this legislation . it will make a huge difference to their life , and we be very proud to support it , but in the 10 month that we have be wait since Third Reading , too many people in my constituency have be stick in damp and mouldy privately rent housing , without the right they need . they have be unable to speak up about poor - quality accommodation because of that lack of right , and because they be worried about be evict under section 21 . it be absolutely right that the Bill extend Awaab ' s law and its vital right to private tenant , so that they can speak up when they be live in damp and mouldy accommodation . in the last 10 month in my constituency of Hastings and Rye , hundred of section 21 eviction notice have be issue , and many of those affect have go on to the homeless register , and have go to the council for housing help . indeed , my council tell I that 30 % of people in temporary accommodation be there as a result of section 21 eviction . it be shameful that that have be happen in the time it have take for the Bill to progress . lord amendment 19 refer to social housing . it be vital that social tenant , as well as private tenant , get access to good - quality accommodation , and to good - quality repair , without delay . just as we be ask private landlord to do more to ensure that their tenant be in good - quality accommodation , it be vital that we continue to ask housing association to step up and ensure that they be not leave people in poor - quality accommodation . I recently visit a new social housing development in my constituency , Holmhurst St Mary , where many social home have be build that be 100 % social rent . it be amazing to speak to resident who have go from be on the homeless register to have a roof over their head . we need more development like that , with 100 % social rent , and I hope that we will see more . I be really pleased that the Government be put more money into social housing , because the gratitude and relief of those resident , who have a roof over their head for the first time , certainly outweigh a lot of the opposition that we see when we seek to build more home . lord amendment 39 refer to improve the standard of armed service accommodation . I fully support the Government ' s effort to improve the standard of that accommodation . it be vital to do more to help veteran . so many come out of the force only to fall homeless . I really welcome the work that the Labour Government be do to support veteran and ensure that they do not become homeless . I pay tribute to the East Sussex Veterans ' hub in my constituency for its work on that issue . to conclude , my constituent can not wait any long for these vital protection . they need a ban on section 21 eviction , they need a right for private renter to speak up against bad landlord , and they need these long - overdue right grant . my generation in particular , which have be stick in private rent accommodation for so long , really need those right . I fully support the Renters ' Rights Bill . I will be brief , because this be a time - limit debate . I welcome the Bill , although it have deficiency , because it do not regulate the amount of rent that be charge . in my constituency , a two - bedroom flat in the private rent sector go for about £ 2 , 000 a month , which be way above what most people can afford . there be a desperate need , in inner - city area in particular , for rent regulation . I be pleased that we be end no - fault eviction , but I absolutely agree with the point make by the hon . member for Stevenage ( Kevin Bonavia ) and for Hastings and Rye ( Helena Dollimore ) about the extraordinary way in which the Bill have be delay . thousand of tenant all over the country have lose a home that the Bill , have it become law , would have prevent they from lose . it be outrageous , the number of people who have become homeless or be force to move to an even more expensive place . I would be grateful if the Minister could assure we that the no - fault eviction protection will come in immediately when the Bill receive Royal Assent , and that there will be no delay . some of we be concerned that there have be too long a delay . there be two quick point that I want to put to the Minister . the Bill require local authority to play a much great role in the private rented sector , but they lack the resource to do that . be there a guarantee that they will get the resource to ensure proper monitoring of the Bill , and proper support for tenant ? in the same vein , the provision of housing advice have disappear in many part of the country , so the demand grow on local authority and organisation such as Citizens Advice for advice for tenant . many tenant be simply unaware of their right . if they be unaware of their right , they can be exploit by unscrupulous landlord — and sadly often be . with the leave of the House , I will close this brief but thoughtful debate . I thank all right hon . and hon . member who have speak for their contribution . in the time available , I will respond to as many of the issue raise as I can . let I start by say that I welcome the broad support for the Lords amendment express by both shadow Front Benchers . in our view , the amendment be reasonable and proportionate , and respond to legitimate concern that be raise . they have the safeguard in place that we feel be need , and we be happy that they be be incorporate into the Bill . the shadow Secretary of State , the right hon . member for Braintree ( Sir James Cleverly ) , raise the issue of supply . we acknowledge that it will take time for the sector , include build - to - rent provider but also landlord of any type , to adjust to this significant change in regulation , but we do not believe that the legislation will have a destabilising effect on the rental market , or a harmful impact on future rental supply , which , it should be note , we be take step to boost , not least by provide more opportunity for investment in a grow build - to - rent sector . accord to the English housing survey , the size of the private rent sector have remain broadly stable since 2013 - 14 . landlord have be aware of successive government ' plan to reform the sector since 2019 . it be worth note that a study from the UK Collaborative Centre for Housing Evidence look at whether regulation of the prs over the past 25 year , in the UK and internationally , have affect prs supply . it conclude that there be no evidence to support the assertion that non - price regulation impact supply . we will , of course , continue to work with landlord and their representative association throughout implementation . we be committed to robustly monitoring and evaluate the private rent sector reform programme , and we will , of course , continue to monitor trend across the prs , include the supply of property , to understand how the market be respond to our reform . the right hon . member for Islington North ( Jeremy Corbyn ) raise the issue of rent control . he know that the Government be oppose to introduce rent control . as I have make clear on many previous occasion , we do not support they , include rent stabilisation measure , because we believe that they could make life more difficult for private renter , both by incentivise landlord to increase rent routinely to a cap , where they might not otherwise have do so , and by push many landlord out of the market , thereby make it even hard for renter to find a home that they can afford . the right hon . Gentleman ask I about implementation . follow Royal Assent , we will allow time for a smooth transition to the new system . we will support tenant , landlord and agent to understand and adjust to the new rule , and ensure the sector have enough time to prepare . as he be aware , the Bill will ensure that the new tenancy system for the private rent sector be introduce in one stage . at that point , the new tenancy system will apply to all private tenancy . exist tenancy will convert to the new system , and any new tenancy sign off on or after that date will be govern by the new rule . as I say , I be glad that there be broad support for the Lords amendment relate to share owner . it be worth say that the Government will make provision during implementation to ensure that share owner landlord with an exist tenancy will have an opportunity to provide the information in question to the tenant after the Bill come into force . we want to take the time to get this right , and find a solution that work for share owner . we intend to do that use the delegate power to make transitional provision provide by clause 147 . the Liberal Democrat spokesman , the hon . member for Taunton and Wellington ( Gideon Amos ) , ask about various issue relate to the amendment about service family accommodation . in particular , he ask about investment . as I outline in my opening speech , the Ministry of Defence have announce an additional £ 1 . 5 billion investment in SFA as part of a £ 7 billion commitment over the next five year to improve and modernise defence housing . that investment will unlock rapid work to tackle the poor state of force housing , help to support recruitment , retention and morale . as I mention , the defence housing strategy , to be publish later this year , will also set out wide plan to improve service family home . it be also worth say that redress be already available to service personnel , who already have a robust system in place for raise a complaint about the standard of their accommodation and receive remedy or reimbursement . if not resolve , complaint can be escalate to a service complaint , for which there be further power of reimbursement , charge reduction and policy redress , and ultimately to the employment tribunal in case of potential discrimination . I agree with my hon . friend the Member for Hastings and Rye ( Helena Dollimore ) about the delay to the Bill . I serve on the Bill Committee more than a year ago now , and since then , so many tenant have experience no - fault eviction . I encourage the Minister to move as quickly as possible to implement the Bill , so that I can tell my constituent how soon their assured shorthold tenancy will become roll tenancy , and so they can benefit from that as quickly as possible . I thank my hon . friend for that point well make , which I will respond to directly as I wind up . we know that many tenant out there want the great security , right and protection afford by the Bill in place as soon as possible . we promise in our manifesto to overhaul the regulation of our country ' s insecure and unjust private rented sector , and this Bill deliver on that commitment . it will empower renter by provide they with great security , right and protection , so that they can stay in their home for long , build life in their community and avoid the risk of homelessness . it will ensure that we can drive up the quality of private rent housing , give renter access to good - quality and safe home as a matter of course , and it will allow we to crack down on the minority of unscrupulous landlord who exploit , mistreat or discriminate against renter . the Bill will also provide tangible benefit for responsible landlord who provide high - quality home and a good service to their tenant , not only improve the reputation of the sector as a whole , but ensure that good landlord enjoy simple regulation and clear and expand possession ground , so that they can regain their property quickly when necessary . as I have argue many time throughout the passage of the Bill , the current system for private renting be break . in abolish section 21 no - fault eviction and modernise the regulation of the sector , the Bill will improve the life of England ' s 11 million private renter . it be a transformational piece of legislation and , if you will allow I a brief personal word , Madam Deputy Speaker , I take great pride in have develop and shepherd it through Parliament . it would be remiss of I to conclude my remark without thank a number of people . I would like to express my gratitude to all hon . and right hon . member and peer in the other place who have engage with the Bill throughout its passage ; the expertise and insight that have be bring to bear in both Houses have strengthen the Bill in a number of important respect . I particularly want to thank my right hon . friend the Member for Ashton - under - Lyne ( Angela Rayner ) , who be and remain one of the Bill ' s big supporter . she be instrumental in ensure that it be introduce so quickly after the formation of the Government . I also thank all the stakeholder who have work closely with the Government to ensure that the Bill will work for landlord and tenant alike . I can not possibly credit they all in the time I have available , but I will put on the record my thank to Generation Rent , Shelter , Crisis , Citizens Advice and the other member of the Renters ' Reform Coalition , as well as the National Residential Landlords Association , the share ownership network and Propertymark . I will say a final thank to all the official in my Department who have devote so much time and energy to develop and progress the Bill , particularly the Bill team , Aidan Hilton , James Kennedy , our lawyer and many more , and my private office , specifically will Gaby and Grace Doody , who provide I with invaluable support throughout the Bill ' s passage . complete the Bill ' s final stage today be obviously only the beginning ; once the Bill become law , we need to implement its provision . in do so , we will balance the need to act quickly , so that tenant can soon benefit from the new right and protection introduce by the Bill , with ensure that the sector have sufficient time to adjust and prepare for a significant change in regulation . the Government understand the need for certainty , and we will set out our implementation plan as soon as possible . I very much look forward to work with hon . and right hon . member , as well as all stakeholder , as we take forward that progress . lord amendment 19b , 19c and 19D agree to . lord amendment 39b and 39c agree to . Life Sciences Innovative Manufacturing Fund if everyone be in their place , in particular Mr Anderson , who seem to have sit on every Bench in the Chamber this afternoon — not the Opposition Benches . well , quite . in that case , I call the Minister to move the motion . be this your first time at the Dispatch Box , Minister ? not quite . well , congratulation and welcome . I beg to move , that this House authorise the Secretary of State to undertake payment , by way of financial assistance under section 8 of the Industrial Development Act 1982 , in excess of £ 30 million to any successful applicant to the Life Sciences Innovative Manufacturing Fund , launch on 30 October 2024 , up to a cumulative total of £ 520 million . thank you for call I on this none the less memorable occasion , Madam Deputy Speaker ; it be the first occasion on which I seek the Chamber ' s authority . the life science sector be a jewel in the crown of our economy — a national asset that play a unique role in both the health and the wealth of the United Kingdom . the sector drive job , investment and innovation right across the country , from cut - edge research laboratory in Cheshire to — close to my heart — advanced manufacturing site in south Wales . life science manufacturing be the critical link between our world - class research and real - world patient benefit . it ensure that scientific breakthrough translate into tangible improvement in care , while underpin economic growth and strengthen the resilience of our NHS . yet despite the UK ' s global leadership in many area of life science manufacturing , we must acknowledge that , in recent year , growth in manufacturing site and job have not keep pace with the expansion of the life science sector as a whole . that be why this summer the Government publish the life science sector plan — a comprehensive strategy to ensure growth in all part of the sector . the plan set out the UK ' s ambition to secure more life science foreign direct investment than any other european economy by 2030 , behind only the US and China globally by 2035 . central to that ambition be boost manufacturing through delivery of the life science innovative manufacturing fund , one of six headline commitment in the sector plan . launch last October , the fund demonstrate this Government ' s commitment to the continued growth of our life science sector , with up to £ 520 million of funding available to support private sector capital investment until 2030 . Northern Ireland have a vibrant life science manufacturing sector . I be look to the Minister for an assurance relate to article 10 of the Windsor framework , which subject Northern Ireland to EU state aid rule . can the Minister assure we that there be no impediment arise therein that would impede successful application to the fund from Northern Ireland manufacturer ? that could also have a knock - on effect on GB , because if the good produce be transport to Northern Ireland , they , too , come under the state aid rule . have the Department examine that ? what assurance can the Government give we on the protection against EU state aid rule for the fund ? the talent and ability of people in Northern Ireland be very much at the forefront of our mind , and we want to ensure that everything we be do to support the life science sector be take a whole - UK approach . I be very happy to write to the hon . and learn Member on his question about northern irish eligibility . will the Minister give way ? I will make some progress for now . the life science innovative manufacturing fund directly support two of the Government ' s key mission : to kick - start economic growth and to build an NHS fit for the future . the scheme be project to attract nearly £ 4 billion in private investment , create more than 7 , 000 job and safeguard more than 5 , 000 exist one . however , the scheme ' s impact be not just economic . the pandemic prove that we can not take our critical supply chain for grant , and support the onshoring of life science manufacturing through the fund be therefore critical to strengthen our national resilience and preparedness for future health emergency . will the Minister give way ? I will make some progress . this week we announce the first two grant award through the scheme , mark a major milestone in the fund ' s roll - out . this will unlock substantial private investment , showcase the UK ' s appeal to valuable , globally mobile life science manufacturer . as delivery of the scheme progress , we expect to announce more grant winner in the come month . each project support through the grant will far strengthen health resilience and drive economic growth across all nation and region in the UK . since the Minister have be talk about taxpayer ' money , I would be grateful if he could let we know what the minimum leverage be . for every pound of taxpayer ' money put in , what be the minimum that have to be put in by the private sector ? my understanding be that these be grant capital investment that the Government will be make , and I be sure we will be look at the leverage at a whole - fund level . if there be particular requirement at an individual investment level , I be happy to write to the hon . member on that particular point . will the Minister give way ? I feel that , out of parity , I must give way to the hon . member too . third time lucky . I welcome the Minister ' s announcement of the fund for life science with regard to the company we have in North Antrim and South Antrim . could the Minister also ensure that any research and development tax credit that company can apply for be fully support , utilise and bring forward at speed so that company be able to utilise not just the fund but the tax credit that come through R & D as well ? I thank the hon . member for his important point . I be happy to take a full look at the R & D tax credit system and how it will support our ambition to back our private sector partner in both R & D and subsequent commercialisation . the Government be clear that the life science innovative manufacturing fund be a strategic investment in our future . it be a vital step in deliver the Government ' s commitment to support the UK ' s life science sector and ensure that our country remain at the forefront of the sector . I call the shadow Secretary of State . I thank the Minister for his statement — or perhaps I should call he October ' s cover star for the House magazine . the conservative back today ' s motion on the life science innovative manufacturing fund . it be a no - brainer , because the fund be establish by we in government when my right hon . friend the Member for Godalming and Ash ( Sir Jeremy Hunt ) make £ 520 million available for life science manufacture over five year — from 2025 to 2030 . funnily enough , it be the exact same amount that be be reheat today . that fund build on a series of small , highly successful intervention that manage to attract £ 850 million of private investment for the £ 64 million of taxpayer ' money that we deploy . the Association of the British Pharmaceutical Industry call the fund a step change in ambition and something that would strengthen our manufacturing base , address the weakness we see during the pandemic in our supply chain . it be good for job , for health security , for our life science and for Britain . so yes , we support this fund because we design it . let we be clear about what be happen here . the Minister be simply uprating for inflation the threshold at which payment must be approve by Parliament . that be fine and all very sensible , but what it be not be anything new . it be not new money . it be not labour innovation or a sign that this Government be suddenly get really serious about growth , and it be not the route to deal with the crisis face life science right now . it be what we be do but in different wrapping paper . they have plonk a bow on it and call it a new strategy . let I tell you what I reckon have happen here , Madam Deputy Speaker . an edict have go bounce around Whitehall from the Treasury and no . 10 as the November Budget disaster loom , say : " we need some growth announcement . department , please feed the comms grid . we need to give the market and the OBR some confidence that we be serious about growth . " it be worth remind the House what happen yesterday . UK Government borrowing figure in September hit the high level for the month in five year . this be truly terrifying stuff . I think the Secretary of State have go and ask her official , " what have we get in the cupboard to announce ? " , and they have say , " Minister , we have a statutory instrument to table at some point . do you want we to shove a bit of lipstick on it ? " we have the spectacle of Ministers come to the Chamber to tell we that a humble statutory instrument to uprate for inflation something already in the pipeline be a grand plan . in no way at all do it shift the dial on life science , because it be already bake in . this be not a Government who be serious about growth . let we look at what happen to the life science manufacturing fund when Labour take office . in early 2024 we use it to negotiate a £ 450 million vaccine manufacture investment by AstraZeneca in Speke , Liverpool . that mean real job , real regional investment and great resilience for our country . after that , AstraZeneca announce another £ 200 million investment in Cambridge , which mean 1 , 000 job . to drive that investment and growth , we also deliver one of the most competitive business tax regime through policy such as full expensing . then the general election happen and our new Chancellor , in her infinite wisdom , put a pause on that investment — supposedly to get well value for money and fill the fantasy £ 22 billion black hole in the public finance . we all know what happen next . AstraZeneca pull the £ 450 million investment , despite issue private warning to the Government that it need certainty for business planning . but do not just take my word for it . when announce Speke ' s cull , AstraZeneca say that " the timing and reduction of the final offer compare to the previous Government ' s proposal " be critical to lose that £ 450 million investment . what else have happen since Labour take office ? AstraZeneca pause the £ 200 million Cambridge investment . we lose Merck ' s £ 1 billion King ' s Cross R & D hub , which be cancel after eight year in development . that be £ 1 billion , and the Secretary of State have nothing to say about it — diddly squat . Eli Lilly have put its £ 279 million research incubator in London on hold . Sanofi have say that it will not consider " any substantial investment " in UK R & D under current condition . in fact , industry have warn that the UK be become uninvestable for the life science . do the Minister know how many meeting the Secretary of State have have with life science company in the past month ? as I understand it , the answer be very few . what have she be do to rally colleague across Government and make clear to the Chancellor , the Health Secretary and Prime Minister the scale of the peril ? I have be look at her statement , and it be not at all clear to I that she have be do anything . the fund , which we support , be a capital manufacturing fund . it help de - risk certain project and reduce borrow for company , but it do not fix the fundamental problem of the commercial environment for medicine in the UK . we all know that Labour have make the commercial environment bad in many way , such as through national insurance rise and other tax increase , and that have also make successful people not want to base themselves here . there be also long - stand issue that need fixing here , include drug pricing and the voluntary scheme for brand medicine pricing , access and growth — VPAG — rebate , which risk become a tax on innovation . but the Labour Government have screw the public finance so badly that they have nowhere to go on these issue , not least because the NHS have have to spend a large chunk of the money that the Government have take from our constituent . they take a lot of money from our constituent and tell we that it would make this big difference to the NHS , but the money go on wage deal in the NHS and national insurance rise . [ interruption . ] labour like to talk about the tough choice it have make to the NHS , but I would ask Government Members to ask their constituent whether they be really see a tangible difference in the NHS . the Government have take a hell of a lot of money from everybody and it be not work . normally I would be glad for the ability of the NHS to use its collective bargaining power to keep drug price low , but there be now a real risk that life science company will not be bring new medicine to market in our country . that mean my constituent and your constituent not get cutting - edge treatment . it mean pain , heartache and ill health , and it mean that the life science industry that have serve we so well be ebb away and take the high - quality , high - value job with they . this be a crisis . I must ask the Minister : can this fund succeed when the wide tax environment stand as be ? the issue of medicine pricing be fast come to a head as President Trump play hardball on drug cost . the US Administration have alight on the UK ' s low drug price and be use they as a bargaining tool against the threat of tariff . this Government have boast of their special relationship with the US , and we have have endless excruciating shot of the Prime Minister prostrate himself before the President . can the Minister tell we how that relationship be benefit the life science , because I can not see it for myself ? can the Minister tell we whether the Secretary of State be aware that it look as though his Majesty ' s Revenue and Customs have decide that company provide medicine for clinical trial or compassionate use under the early access to medicine scheme should now be bill for vat ? that be a tax on medicine that be be provide for free . apparently , one company have already receive a bill and more be on their way for other . this could affect trial and people ' s access to medicine . will the Minister please commit to look into that urgently as Labour scrabble around for more revenue ? will he also ask HMRC to publish guidance confirm that in fact the early access to medicine scheme fall outside the vat deem supply rule ? will the Minister tell we how much of the £ 520 million have be spend to date ? what be the current investment pipeline ? how do it compare to the one he inherit ? will he update the House on the current state of negotiation between industry and Government on the VPAG scheme and medicine pricing , and with the US on tariff ? what conversation — if the Minister know — have the Secretary of State have personally with the Health Secretary and the Chancellor on these issue ? this be an extremely perilous situation for our life science firm and for patient ' access to new drug . Britain ' s life science sector be worth over £ 100 billion to our economy and support about 300 , 000 job . it be massive . it be one of our define national strength : a source of innovation , prosperity and national pride . of course , it be also the key to well health for our constituent and people across the world . the life science innovative manufacturing fund remain a conservative achievement , but unless the Government act swiftly to restore competitiveness and rebuild investor confidence , we risk lose our place at the forefront of global life science . I be afraid that no amount of rebadging , repackage or recycle announcement will change that . rise — order . a tip for member : if the word " you " or " your " be in your speech , just cross it out . you be speak through the Chair . I can not repeat myself day in , day out . I call the Chair of the Science , Innovation and Technology Committee . thank you , Madam Deputy Speaker . it be a great pleasure to speak to you on this occasion to welcome the ambition behind the life science innovation manufacturing fund and , indeed , the Government ' s positive support for life science , with their belief that Government can act to support industry in general ; it be not simply a matter of get out of the way . that be in sharp contrast to the last Conservative Government ' s approach to industry , allow a gentle decline and deindustrialisation in our nation . to be fair , the series of conservative Governments chop and change their approach to industrial strategy so often it be difficult to know exactly where they stand . unlike they , Labour be committed to the life science sector . labour publish its plan for life science in opposition , which include 10 - year funding commitment for key research body aim at put an end to the short - termism that undermine economic growth and scientific success . now in government , I welcome labour ' s commitment to the life science sector plan — develop in close co - ordination with the Government ' s 10 - year health plan — which aim to support cutting - edge research and turn that into real - world result , with new treatment , fast diagnosis and more life save . it be about make sure that breakthrough happen here in this country , create job , improve life in every part of the country and drive growth . as the Minister say , the life science be a strength of our country — they be often describe as a jewel in the crown of the british economy — and we all know that success in life science lead to positive , wide - reach benefit across the country for the economy and our health . you mention the sector ' s relevance and benefit to the whole of the United Kingdom . would you agree that Northern Ireland have a rich manufacturing and life science heritage and that we have a huge role to play ? order . Ms Eastwood , it be only at the start of the week that I have to reprimand you twice for use the word " you " , and it have come up twice again . I apologise . let I thank the hon . member for that intervention , which pre - empt something I will say in a few minute . she be absolutely right : Northern Ireland already play an important role in the life science sector and life science manufacturing , and it will have an important role to play in the future . it be an incredibly exciting time to be involve in life science . I often think that if I be a young engineer now — I study electrical engineering — I would be fascinate by the life science and , in particular , synthetic biology , which offer so many potential opportunity for growth and wellbeing . it be an enable technology across so many different sector . in Newcastle , include in my constituency of Newcastle upon Tyne Central and West , the life science contribute £ 1 . 7 billion and employ over 8 , 000 people across more than 200 company . we be home to the National Innovation Centre for Ageing , Newcastle Helix and the Biosphere . our city be one star in a constellation of excellent life science cluster across the north of England . I really welcome the ambition of the innovation manufacturing fund . I ask the Minister in his response for more clarity in three particular area . first , in regard to the size of the fund , in the face of increase competition , and as the shadow Secretary of State describe — this will be in less sensationalist term — we be see some reduction in investment in the UK . be £ 520 million enough to ensure that the UK be an attractive prospect for internationally mobile business ? by contrast , a manufacture plant such as Moderna ' s recently open vaccine centre in Oxfordshire might cost in the region of £ 150 million to £ 200 million . be the fund the right size ? secondly , the Select Committee recently hold a one - off session on life science investment , which be of such interest that we have decide to hold another one - off session next week on the same subject . we hear evidence from the pharma sector , include significant support for the life science sector plan and for the Government ' s approach , but I think it be fair to say that we be tell that , although NHS pricing be not the only factor in investment decision , it be a significant one . we hear evidence that the UK spend less proportionately on medicine than other comparable country and that that reduce the pull - through for innovative medicine . it would clearly be a difficult decision to spend more on medicine , as that would mean spend less elsewhere in our NHS . do the Minister see the manufacturing fund as support in some way for investment decision in the absence of progress on the NHS pricing discussion ? could he tell we whether the Secretary of State be involve in discussion between the Health Secretary and the pharma sector with regard to NHS pricing ? I understand that discussion be ongoing , and I see the Under - Secretary of State for Health and Social Care , my hon . friend the Member for Glasgow South West ( Dr Ahmed ) , confer with he . perhaps he can confirm that those discussion be ongoing . when the Committee hold its one - off session on investment in life science , do it unearth the reason why Sanofi , Eli Lilly and Merck have recently choose to disinvest in life science in the UK ? I thank the hon . member for that intervention . the Committee ' s work be fascinating , so I certainly recommend he read the transcript . to summarise , we be look specifically at the reason for investment be pull and , as I say , we ask the question in a number of different way . the message that come back be significant support for the life science sector plan and the Government approach , but lack of certainty and clarity over NHS pricing and dismay about some aspect of NHS pricing and National Institute for Health and Care Excellence decision . the hon . Gentleman be therefore right to point out that there be concern over the current and likely future pricing of innovative medicine , but that be not the only factor in those investment decision . I ask the Minister to give we an update on those negotiation to the extent that he be able to do so , and to say whether this manufacturing fund be see as potential compensation for investment in medicine and pricing as part of the NHS future plan . my hon . friend be make some interesting point about investment decision . have her Committee also investigate why some decision have be make to bring investment into the UK , such as the recent decision about investment in Oxfordshire ? as part of that , be there a parallel need to explore where more could be do to attract further investment through perhaps great supply of train worker , well transport , well access to land for development , and so on ? my hon . friend make an excellent point . my Committee have look at some of the reason for investment , such as those he set out , and it be worth emphasise the strength of the UK , some of which I have mention . we have a really strong life science sector , and specifically skill at every stage in the UK life science ecosystem , together with R & D tax credit , which be another point of incentivisation , and the fact that our NHS offer a fantastic opportunity to test and trial new medicine with a population that be heterogeneous and with population datum record that be second to none . so there be many reason why pharma and life science company be continue to invest in our country , and we have a fantastic ecosystem of life science start - up and scale - up . that bring I to the final question I want to put to the Minister , which be on the regional impact of the fund . the Minister mention on a number of occasion that the fund will drive investment and growth across our country . as part of the Committee ' s inquiry into innovation and regional growth , we hear of significant disparity in investment , particularly in access to capital and research funding from UK Research and Innovation and in funding and investment between the region of our country and the great south - east , otherwise know as the golden triangle . manufacturing be well distribute across the United Kingdom ; we hear early about the opportunity in Northern Ireland . can the Minister tell I whether there will be a regional dimension to how the fund be disburse ? I hope that the extent to which the fund be regionally distribute will be monitor , but do he expect that this funding will be distribute across the country to drive growth in every corner of the country as he say , and that it will not perpetuate exist regional inequality ? I call the liberal Democrat spokesperson . it be my huge privilege to be the MP for South Cambridgeshire , which be home to Europe ' s large biomedical campus and the UK ' s world - lead tech and life science sector , and one of the large contributor to the UK economy . the Liberal Democrats have long recognise that strategic investment in life science manufacturing be essential to our economic future and our national health security . central to the delivery of the life science sector plan as part of the wide new industrial strategy , the life science innovative manufacturing fund be welcome and exactly the kind of target intervention the research and development sector have need for a long time . while boost economic opportunity , the fund also aim to increase the UK ' s health resilience and ability to withstand and recover from health emergency such as pandemic , long - term healthcare challenge and system shock such as supply shock disruption . scientist at the Norwich research park and Quadram Institute be do incredible work in the field of agri - science , which could transform the future of food for the well ; in fact , the Quadram Institute will be visit Parliament and briefing mp during evidence week next month about this work . this research be perfectly locate to create job in my constituency , both directly and in the supply chain . do my hon . friend agree that investment in exciting life science project such as those in North Norfolk be particularly crucial to unlock growth in the rural economy ? absolutely . investment in the life science sector in the rural economy be critical , and that be why we be concerned that this motion come at a time when our life science sector be in crisis — and , frankly , I be not hear yet from the Minister that the Government be grasp the scale of the crisis . I have hear consistent concern from the life science sector about this , with Novartis say that the UK be become " largely uninvestable " . we have see sign of this , and hear of it today , with the loss of plan investment by Merck MSD in life science and vaccination manufacture facility to the tune of £ 1 billion and also £ 450 million - worth of investment by AstraZeneca . that come on top of AstraZeneca pause the plan £ 200 million expansion of its research centre in my constituency . this be obviously ring alarm bell across the Chamber . additionally , in a report by the Association of the British Pharmaceutical Industry , " deliver a voluntary scheme for health and growth " , life science leader be warn that the Government growth plan will not succeed unless minister commit to fix a scheme know as VPAG — the voluntary scheme for brand medicine pricing , access and growth — which unexpectedly now require company to pay record clawback rate of up to a quarter or even a third of their revenue from sale of brand medicine to the NHS . the liberal Democrats would commit to raise R & d spending to 3 . 5 % of gdp by 2034 , a decade - long commitment that give business the certainty they be ask for . we would introduce proof of concept funding to help researcher develop their early - stage idea and empower local authority to develop regional spin - out ecosystem so innovation can drive growth and high pay job right across the country , as well as where I be in my constituency in the golden triangle . I therefore ask the Minister to set out , in addition to this much - await manufacturing fund , the status of the last - minute negotiation with company and their investment , such as AstraZeneca and Merck MSD , and also what the Government be do particularly on VPAG to restore confidence to pharmaceutical company that the UK be a competitive place , attractive to investment , that value research , development and manufacturing . I will try to get my word correct this time , Madam Deputy Speaker — the second time . I simply want to say , Minister , that I really do believe that we in Northern Ireland have a huge role to play — not just in Northern Ireland , but across the UK — for many , many reason . other member have mention a number of thing include R & D tax credit and the skill ecosystem , which be really relevant to all this . I be perfectly well aware that we in Northern Ireland be obviously part of a devolved settlement , but there be an opportunity to re - engage how we drive forward opportunity for skille people for these sector through the like of apprenticeship and how we interface with business . this might sound a bit leave - field , but I genuinely believe that this sector be hugely significant in term of national resilience , national security and national propriety of our own intellectual property within the UK . this be a huge sector and it have the potential to make sure that we be self - sustain and that we also work with company over a long and sustained period of time to ensure that , in an era of antimicrobial resistance for example , we have the tool at our disposal should — God forbid — anything ever come down the track again in term of pandemic or challenge to our supply chain . I know that that be probably a lot to take in . I just reiterate our potential in Northern Ireland . we have a huge heritage that go back decade and we stand ready . other have mention the headwind come down the line , not just in the UK but as we try and navigate our way through this global turmoil of tariff and trade and what that mean . we now have a golden opportunity to get this right . wonderfully do . I call Minister Narayan . I want to be in your good book , Madam Deputy Speaker , so I will proceed at pace in answer some of the question raise . I first thank the member on the shadow Front Benches and in particular the hon . member for Hornchurch and Upminster ( Julia Lopez ) . I be sad that her generous welcome to I be not extend to this particular announcement . in particular , I be sad that she do not welcome the fact that out of their tory fiscal wreckage we have manage to get £ 520 million for the british life science sector , that out of the economic damage they do to this country we have still manage to secure over £ 1 billion in investment from Moderna in the british life science sector , and that out of what we inherit from the Tory context we have manage to secure over £ 1 billion from biontech . right across the board , there be a picture of stability , good job in the life science and broad technology sector , optimism and , above all , an energy share across Government , the private sector and academia . will the Minister give way ? I must proceed because , as I say , I need to be in Madam Deputy Speaker ' s good book . a particular concern have be raise about VPAG , another part of a long - stand legacy from a Tory Chancellor ' s austerity rampage for the life science sector in this country . the Government ' s position be very clear : we will always put patient and taxpayer first . this Government be open to work collaboratively with the pharmaceutical industry , which be exactly why we have put forward a generous and unprecedented offer worth approximately £ 1 billion over three year as part of a review of VPAG , which ultimately industry do not take a vote on . we remain confident in the life science as a driver of both economic growth and well health outcome and our door remain open to future engagement . I know that regular conversation go on and while I will not update member on the shadow Front Benches on every single meeting the Secretary of State take , I can assure they that she be involve in both the particular conversation around VPAG and more general engagement with the life science sector . I particularly thank my hon . friend the Member for Newcastle upon Tyne Central and West ( Dame Chi Onwurah ) , whose depth of experience in engineering prior to this House and extensive experience in this House , in particular through leadership of the Science and Technology Committee , be one that I take considerable inspiration from . will the Minister give way ? I will make some progress for now . my hon . friend raise a particular point around synthetic biology , which be very close to my heart because I think that Britain have a particular opportunity in the convergence of engineering , AI and life science , and we be keen on seize that to its full extent . on the three particular question from my hon . friend the Member for Newcastle upon Tyne Central and West , foremost of which be about the size of the funding available , I will say a couple of thing : first , that this be the large fund of this nature announce in the history of the UK Government , to my understanding , with capital grant worth £ 520 million altogether ; and secondly , that it be but one part of the overall funding package across Government if one consider the investment across Innovate UK , UKRI , the British Business Bank and beyond . I hope that some of the assurance around VPAG have answer the particular question pose there , and on regional impact , I point out that the first two grant from the scheme be make out to firm in Birmingham and Keele . I hope that be a start indicator of my long - term hope ; we will certainly monitor it . on that , will he give way ? I be afraid I will not ; I believe I have be relatively generous in welcome contribution from across the House . on the point of regional impact , in addition to the midland , may I join the shadow Front Benchers in welcome — they do so with laughter and amusement — the collective effort of our entire northern irish contingent ? I will take away the strong point about Northern Ireland ' s strength in the life science sector ; it will be embed on my mind . I thank the hon . member for South Cambridgeshire ( Pippa Heylings ) for South Cambridgeshire for talk about investment . the only thing I will say on some of the announcement be that they have to be take in the context of the wide global context for those firm , MSD in particular . on the point of global context , will he give way ? if the member listen , he may feel that his point be address in my claim . in at least one of those case , a pause , rather than a cancellation , be announce and in the other , there have be a series of announcement globally regard thousand of job , not only in the UK but beyond . as I say , I hope that the two announcement I mention , by Moderna and biontech , will give we some assurance that the life science sector in the british context be fire on all cylinder with Government support . finally , I note with thank the important point on national security and IP make by the hon . member for Lagan Valley ( Sorcha Eastwood ) . it be top of mind for I in ensure that we be not just power economic growth and not just job and good health for people across this country , but do the first job of Government to protect our national security . question put and agree to . resolve , that this House authorise the Secretary of State to undertake payment , by way of financial assistance under section 8 of the Industrial Development Act 1982 , in excess of £ 30 million to any successful applicant to the Life Sciences Innovative Manufacturing Fund , launch on 30 October 2024 , up to a cumulative total of £ 520 million . procurement , Slavery and Human Trafficking Regulations : NHS I beg to move , that the draft National Health Service ( Procurement , Slavery and Human Trafficking ) Regulations 2025 , which be lay before this House on 9 September , be approve . I be here on behalf of the Minister for Secondary Care , my hon . friend the Member for Bristol South ( Karin Smyth ) . it be an honour to represent the Government as we bring forward this important secondary legislation , and it be right that it should be give the full scrutiny of the House today . Slavery be one of the great evil in human history . this government can not and will not accept that we could be support force labour or human trafficking through our supply chain , however inadvertently . before I continue , I acknowledge the cross - party support on this issue , both in this House and in the other place . I pay tribute to all hon . and right hon . member and peer of the realm , such as Lord Alton , who have work tirelessly to put modern slavery at the forefront of our national conversation . I begin by set out why we need the regulation . many people be take aback when they be tell that there be more enslaved people now , in absolute term , than at any point in human history . it be estimate that around 50 million people worldwide be live in some form of modern slavery . Globalisation have provide near - limitless opportunity for trade in good and service , but also , unfortunately , in human being . though we on these isle would like to think that we be insulate from the highway of human trafficking , we be not . in late 2023 , the previous Government publish a review into NHS supply chain that cover 60 % of medical consumable . it account for £ 7 billion of spend across 1 , 300 supplier , represent 600 , 000 product , and a fifth of those supplier be deem to be high risk . imagine my horror when I read that some of the tool of my trade — surgical instrument , facemask — could be contaminate by modern slavery . as someone who still practise as a surgeon , I know that I share that revulsion with my colleague across the national health service . I ask my colleague in this place to keep all our NHS staff in mind over the course of our proceeding . the review also recognise the wide benefit to the NHS of a well understanding of how our supply chain work , note how we could improve the quality of product supply and the resilience of supply . it give we clear recommendation for we to act on and today I be proud to come to the House with landmark modern slavery legislation to put those policy into practice . this be a first on these isle and I sincerely hope that our colleague across the devolved government can follow suit soon . I now turn to what the regulation will do . the NHS be one of the large public sector procurer in the world , with an annual spend of £ 35 billion , do business with over 80 , 000 supplier . we have a duty to ensure that no product we procure could be taint by force labour , and an opportunity to use our immense purchasing power for global good . the regulation we bring forward today will require all public body to assess modern slavery risk in their supply chain when procure good and service for the health service in England . they give effect to a duty establish by the Health and Care Act 2022 , which require the Secretary of State to eradicate modern slavery wherever it be find in NHS procurement process . we be ask public body to take reasonable step to address and eliminate modern slavery risk , especially when design procurement procedure , award and managing contract and set up framework or dynamic market . reasonable step may include enforce robust condition of participation in our supply chain , with assessment criterion build into every stage of that process . they may include monitor supplier ' compliance and reassess risk throughout the lifetime of a contract . they can also include write term that require immediate mitigation where instance of modern slavery be discover . the regulation will also require public body to have regard to any relevant guidance issue by the Department of Health and Social Care or NHS England for consistency and accountability across the system . the update version of the guidance have now be publish by NHS England and be publicly available . colleague might be worried about legislative overlap . they might ask themselves why we need new regulation when modern slavery be already illegal , but these regulation have be carefully draft to fit with exist statute , and I can assure the House that contradictory duty have be avoid . we be build on exist measure , such as the Modern Slavery Act 2015 and the Procurement Act 2023 , not replace they . we be bring all NHS England ' s procurement into scope and create a strong legislative footing for enforcement . the point be to introduce a single , enforceable risk management approach to modern slavery across the NHS , and we will continue to review our arrangement to ensure that they remain effective for year to come . I do not pretend that this will be easy . if there be a button somewhere in Whitehall or inside the national health service that could eliminate modern slavery at a stroke , I do not doubt that all of we would push it , but our supply chain be vast , make it difficult to fully assess the scale . although the 2023 review be just a snapshot in time , it be likely that more than a fifth of our supply chain be still at high risk of modern slavery . item include cotton - base product , surgical instrument and PPE glove — all product that be vital for the day - to - day functioning of hospital and clinic up and down the country . that be why we will back NHS organisation with clear guidance and support to root out the scourge of modern slavery wherever we find it . there be an argument that we could procure these item on the cheap if we could just turn a blind eye , but that way of thinking be abhorrent and fundamentally un - British . we can not simply weigh such thing on the scale of a tradesman behind a counter , and we must remember our historical responsibility in eliminate slavery wherever we find it . but even if we could do that , ethical supply chain have be prove to be cost effective in the long term . there be a strong case that they help to avoid litigation and , more important , supplier collapse . even if that be not the case , I know the will of the british people , and I have not a shred of doubt that decent people across our country will not think modern slavery a price tag worth pay . this place , the mother of Parliaments , be here to answer a call today and to send a message to all enslave people across the world : what be happen to you be unjust , but we have not forget , and we will do our utmost to ensure that our money do not go to those that exploit you and keep you in chain . I call the shadow Minister . it be a pleasure to speak in this debate on the draft National Health Service ( Procurement , Slavery and Human Trafficking ) Regulations 2025 . I thank the Under - Secretary of State for Health and Social Care , the hon . member for Glasgow South West ( Dr Ahmed ) , for bring forward the regulation and welcome he to his place at the Dispatch Box . this important issue go to the very heart of the value that underpin our national health service . it be a vast organisation — one of the large in the world — with supply chain that reach across many sector and many country . with that scale come a responsibility to ensure that the product and service we rely on to care for patient be source ethically , and that the health service do not , even inadvertently , contribute to exploitation or modern slavery . as an NHS consultant , I know that the idea that any item use in the care of patient , from surgical glove to hospital linen , could have be produce through exploitation or forced labour be abhorrent to all of we . these regulation seek to strengthen the NHS ' s ability to identify , prevent and address such risk — an ambition that I be sure command support right across the House . indeed , this work begin under the last Conservative Government . the Health and Care Act 2022 pass new regulation to address the risk of modern slavery in NHS supply chain , and in December 2023 we deliver a review into those risk , support by NHS England , which examine where the great risk lie and how they could be mitigate . although we welcome the direction of travel , there be , however , some important question about how the regulation will work in practice and how we will ensure that the regulation deliver what be intend in a fair way . first , what demand do we expect that the regulation will place on the NHS ? they apply to all public body procure good and service for the NHS in England , include NHS England , hospital trust and integrate care board . will each organisation have to make its own separate risk assessment ? have an estimation be make of the time that that be expect to take ? how many people be expect to be require for organisation to fulfil the requirement , and what will be the associate cost ? will any mechanism be put in place to prevent duplication , for example , where supplier be already report under the Modern Slavery Act 2015 ? secondly , I turn to implementation and support . regulation be not enough on their own ; they must be embed in practice . what step will NHS England take to support procurement team in apply these rule consistently and effectively and in maintain the same standard across all the public sector body that be cover by these regulation ? the regulation require NHS England to issue guidance , which be welcome , but how comprehensive will that guidance be ? with NHS England be abolish , who will produce it ? will there be accompany training and practical support for procurement team to ensure consistency across the system ? what will happen to a supplier if they be find to be non - compliant ? will the consequence be decide by NHS England centrally , or by individual trust or icb ? will there be independent oversight to assess progress ? with all the churn in NHS England and icb and the cut to their budget , how will they have the time and space to do that ? next , I turn to the impact on business . the NHS rely on a wide range of supplier , many of which be small and medium - sized business that bring innovation , flexibility and local expertise . can the Minister confirm that the new requirement will not place undue burden on supplier or deter small business from bid for NHS contract ? we must uphold the high ethical standard , but we must also avoid create unnecessary bureaucracy that exclude capable business from contribute to patient care . finally , I turn to the issue of co - ordination across Government . many NHS good be source internationally from complex and often opaque global supply chain . it be crucial , therefore , that our framework align with the broad cross - Government effort to tackle modern slavery , include at the Home Office and the Foreign Office . I would be grateful if the Minister outline how those link be maintain in practice . the question of co - ordination be not new . during the passage of the Great British Energy Act 2025 , an amendment be introduce in the Lords to stop GB Energy from source panel link to force labour . the Government ' s initial position be that exist law already address that risk , but later down the road , the Government heed those call by introduce their own amendment to block GB Energy from use slavery - link solar . that episode show how important it be to have clear and join - up action across Government when address the risk of modern slavery . the NHS should be a beacon of integrity as well as excellence . patient and the public rightly expect that the care provide in our hospital be not , however indirectly , taint by the exploitation of other . the regulation be a step forward in ensure that our health service live up to that ideal . we welcome the intent and the ambition behind the regulation , but we will continue to push to ensure that they work in practice and without unintended consequence . I be grateful for the comment of the Opposition health spokesperson . proportionality be the theme of the day when it come to anything that we implement in the NHS at a global scale . the appropriate training will be provide . as the hon . Lady well know from her time in government , conversation across Departments , particularly on these issue , be always ongoing . we be always willing and able to flex as we learn and as we feel our way through these regulation . the hon . Lady will recognise their importance and primacy when engage in supplier contract negotiation , and therefore businesse both small and large can feel confident that , if they follow ethical procurement practice , their business be most welcome in the national health service . I want to end by remind colleague that these regulation be not just about what we can do on these isle but what we can do to eliminate modern slavery across the globe . NHS England be one of the big buying organisation in the UK . we have a golden opportunity at the moment to leverage its purchasing power to influence supply chain not only in the UK and Europe but right across the world . today , Parliament can send a clear signal to the world that we will not tolerate human right abuse and that , if a company want to do business with the NHS , they must get their house in order . under this government , there will be no compromise with the evil of slavery . I ask colleague from all side to help we to keep that promise , to back our NHS and its staff and to help we to keep this country ' s conscience clean . I commend the regulation to the House . question put and agree to . resolve , that the draft National Health Service ( Procurement , Slavery and Human Trafficking ) Regulations 2025 , which be lay before this House on 9 September , be approve . Backbench Business Devolution in Scotland I beg to move , that this House have consider devolution in Scotland . I be jolly glad I come to the Chamber when I do . [ laughter . ] I thank the Backbench Business Committee for make time available for this debate and for recognise that it be a debate that hold great significance for the whole House . I thank those member who support my application to the Committee for the debate . in particular , I thank the hon . member for Glasgow West ( Patricia Ferguson ) , who chair the Scottish Affairs Committee and who have be a personal friend of mine since our time together in the Scottish Parliament . I begin by make no secret of the fact that I lead this debate as someone who believe in the strength of our family of nation and that we can make people ' s live well through co - operation and partnership by pool and share resource . I believe that my credential as one of the first of my party ' s Members of the Scottish Parliament and now as a Scottish Member of the UK Parliament make it clear that I be a devolutionist to my core , one who will always believe in the value of the Scottish Parliament and its potential to work well for the people of Scotland when it work constructively alongside Westminster . I will not have it say here today , or anywhere or ever , that I be against devolution — I be not . I truly believe in it and also know that the Scottish Parliament be comparatively young , hence why I be here today , initiate what I hope will be a civil and valuable discussion into the success and failure so far of our system of what one might term " multi - level governance " . I be proud to have be a found member of the Scottish Constitutional Convention responsible for the establishment of the Scottish Parliament in 1999 . I be proud to say in my own way that my name be on the historic claim of right for Scotland — I do not think that any other Member of this place can say that . of course , I be then elect to the Scottish Parliament in the first election in 1999 , and I witness the way that it develop over the next 12 year . crucially , during those first year , I become a member of the Holyrood progress group , which oversee the building of the Parliament . People like I and other see the Scottish Parliament as , to quote the late , great John Smith , the " settle will of the scottish people " . I say that to reassure the House that my thought come from a place , I believe , of true experience . let we remember that the scheme for the devolved Parliament , as enshrine in the Scotland Act 1998 , be about the concept of there be no need for a second Chamber in Edinburgh because the Committees of the Scottish Parliament be intend to fill the role of hold the Executive to account . that could have entail , where necessary , amend or initiate legislation in a fashion similar to the House of Lords today . as an example , I highlight the role of the education Committee in the first Parliament , of which I be a member , in tweak and amend the then Scottish Government ' s first education Act . be that a reflection of the consensual attitude that many msp display during the first term of the Scottish Parliament ? very possibly — perhaps the hon . member could comment on that . a few initial thought come to mind . although the Committees do largely fulfil some of that function during the first 12 year of the Parliament , I be bind to add that the advent of the SNP Government in 2011 , which control not only the Chamber but all the Committees , change that dynamic . I would argue that , after that year , the failure of some Committees to show any real tooth mean that some bad legislation come to be . I need only quote one example , and that be the ill - fate deposit return scheme — I rest my case . the hon . Member be make a very good speech . as a fellow Member of the Scottish Parliament for 10 year , I concur completely with his comment regard the Committee structure . there be many fault about the other place , but it be significantly well at scrutinise Government , hold Government to account and improve legislation than the Committees in the Scottish Parliament , so I agree with he . I thank the hon . member , who , like I , be an MSP all those year ago . why , to take up his point , be the Scottish Parliament not work the way it be intend to ? I think part of the answer lie in the fact that make someone the Chair of a Committee in the Scottish Parliament be in the gift of the party leader . that can lead to Committee Chairs , particularly those in the Government party , feel somewhat beholden to their party ' s leadership and be , I would suggest , sometimes rather less than willing to say boo to a goose when it come to challenge or amend legislation . in Westminster , Committee Chairs be choose via a secret ballot of the whole House . I would say that the independent - mindedness of Committees and those who lead they be very much a strength . in that respect , we have in Westminster a certain safeguard against the risk of pass completely unworkable legislation . my purpose in make this assessment be not in any way to enlarge on the proposal for a second Chamber in Scotland ; the Scotland Act 1998 be very clear that the Scottish Parliament would be unicameral . similarly , we can see that there be ground for Westminster to learn lesson from Edinburgh . I have have the honour , as I say , of be a Member of both the Scottish and UK Parliaments . when people ask I , as they often do , how the two compare , I often say that we mps be deeply envious of the access to Ministers that msp enjoy . the direct and frequent communication between the Scottish Government and their opposition strike I as a very positive facet of scottish democracy . furthermore , the fact that there be only 129 member of the Scottish Parliament mean that the member all know each other — or at least know each other an awful lot well than would be normal here . there be recognition of the strength and weakness of those 129 individual . how should I put this , Madam Deputy Speaker ? that be not necessarily something that we can perceive in Westminster , where we have a great number of member . in fact , I be afraid we can all think — no name , no pack - drill — of member who somehow slip under the radar ; let we just put it that way . I do not intend to be one of they . the Scottish Parliament have become much more powerful than it be when I be there — just look at the tax and social security power — but as an MP from the far north of Scotland , I be constantly remind of just how centralised Scotland have become . decision be too often not take close to the community that they affect . there have be devolution from Westminster to Holyrood , but practically nothing from Holyrood down to council or community . in fact , when it come to police and fire service , power have simply be grab by Edinburgh . one of the most interesting academic to comment on the matter , and one of the first to scrutinise devolution , James G . Kellas , emphasise that merely establish new institution such as the Scottish Parliament can not fundamentally alter the efficiency of decision - make norm . instead , he say , we must respect the interplay between respective institution and their political behaviour . that be what he prescribe to moderniser like I , who hope that devolution would bring long - term stability to british politic and give it a new lease of life . in recent year , however , we have see just the opposite : a breakdown of constructive intergovernmental relation and a move towards polarisation that have pit the Scottish Government against the UK Government as rival , rather than partner . that have be clear on multiple occasion over the past decade . Scotland need government in Edinburgh and London that be capable of work together , and of iron out difference of opinion , where they exist , maturely , within proper framework , and without always resort to legal action and court battle . that lead I to the elephant in the Chamber , if I can get away with that expression . most significantly , and perhaps least surprisingly , the chasm in our system of governance be most strongly pronounce during the scottish independence referendum in 2014 . the subsequent repeat call for a second referendum have colour the relationship between our two Parliaments ever since . I be a proud Scot — I always have be and I always will be — so for I these have , alas , be dark time , with too much grievance , too much aggression and too much resentment . on top of that , I humbly suggest that the people of Scotland be tired and frustrated — and they have a case . they see their household bill soar . they have long wait to see their gp , they have the ferry fiasco , and they have a scottish education that we all know simply be not what it use to be . Scotland deserve well , and the Scottish Parliament need to show people that it can respond to the challenge at hand and change people ' s live for the well . I think back to what my party , when it be in coalition , deliver in its first term in government , include free personal care , eye test , dental check , bus pass , the smoking ban and fair vote for local government . indeed , it be the signature of my then party leader Jim Wallace that break the ground on freedom of information . we collectively care about get the basic right , and be determined to show that devolution could deliver the change that people want to see . I do not suggest that that be just the attitude of the govern party in the coalition ; there be co - operation with the Scottish National party and the Conservatives , from time to time . I touch early on the work of James G . kella , and I return to his prediction in 2001 . he warn that observer of devolution might develop an " expectation gap " , as scot could develop resentment , feel that the potential of the Scottish Parliament be unfulfilled , or limit by a system of multi - level governance . there could be truth in that , but we still have a chance to rectify it . with last year ' s change of government in Westminster and the Holyrood election next year , this be surely the perfect time to revise our approach to our system of multi - level governance in the UK in order to engage with those feeling of discontent and negotiate a well way forward — together , not apart . no legislation be forever , include our beloved Scotland Act . all legislation be from time to time re - examined and amend ; that be how we do thing in the UK . that be surely one of the foundation stone of british democracy . to put it simply , we can come together to well understand how to make our Union more workable and acknowledge what need to change . Governmental co - operation and multi - level governance can improve , and I strongly believe that the vision of the found member of our devolved government can and do endure . there be still hope that our Parliaments can build a strong relationship for the future , in the face of increase uncertainty and threat from beyond the sea . I conclude with one simple request . the UK Supreme Court rule in 2022 that the Scottish Parliament can not legislate for an independence referendum without Westminster consent . I touch on that issue in the hope that this debate will not be waste , and co - opt into a debate revise and exhaust the legality of that decision . instead , I invite all member from every corner of the House to engage in a constructive debate about how we can improve what we do . that be essential , particularly in the face of increase uncertainty and — let we be honest — threat from across the sea to the way in which we do thing in our precious democracy . beautifully time , Mr Stone . I call Patricia Ferguson . thank you , Madam Deputy Speaker . I nearly lapse into old habit and call you Deputy Presiding Officer , but that be a title for another place some 500 mile up the road . I thank the hon . member for Caithness , Sutherland and Easter Ross ( Jamie Stone ) for procure this debate , and for arrive when he do ; some of we be become rather anxious . I do not think I have ever be more pleased to see he enter any room . on a more serious note , 25 year ago this month , Donald Dewar — MP , MSP and the first First Minister of Scotland — die prematurely . Donald have work hard , both in our party and beyond , to promote the idea of a Scottish Parliament . it be a huge loss when he pass away only 17 month into the life of that new Parliament , but his legacy — the Parliament he play such an important part in establish — live on . despite the disappointment of the 1979 referendum , devolution remain firmly on the agenda of the Labour party through the long year of conservative rule . the idea be keep alive by Donald , his great friend John Smith , Labour party and trade union member across the country , and colleague in the Liberal Democrats and some other party . " a claim of right for Scotland " in 1988 and the scottish constitutional convention be significant marker on the long road to the successful 1997 referendum . I be pleased to recount that when Labour be return to power in 1997 , one of its first act be to pass the Scotland Act , which pave the way for the Scottish Parliament just two year later . it be quite remarkable that a party be return to power in May 1997 , hold a referendum just two or three month later on the Scottish Parliament and whether we should have devolution , and deliver that Parliament within two year . I be proud to campaign , along with many other , for a Scottish Parliament over many year . I believe that such subsidiarity be sensible and be a democratic imperative , and as one of the first MSPs elect in 1999 — alongside my colleague , the hon . member for Caithness , Sutherland and Easter Ross — I be privileged to see at first hand the challenge and success of the Labour - Liberal Executive , which steer our country through the first year of devolution . we do not call ourselves a Government then ; " Executive " be good enough for we . as my colleague say , it be my conviction that co - operation between the coalition partner , and sometimes across all party , be key to the progress of devolution , as be joint work between the Scottish and UK government . many positive initiative be implement during that early period , some of which the hon . member for Caithness , Sutherland and Easter Ross mention . I apologise to the House if I repeat one or two , but I would like to list some of the one that come most easily to mind . they include free personal care for the elderly ; free university tuition ; the banning of smoking in enclose public place , which have lead to verifiable health benefit — Scotland lead the way for the rest of the UK on this issue , and we celebrate the 20th anniversary of the ban this year — the repeal of the discriminatory clause 2A ; bring the Golden Jubilee hospital into the NHS ; the Fresh Talent initiative ; the creation of an international development fund ; the creation of the National Theatre of Scotland ; and submit a successful bid for the 2014 Commonwealth game , to name but a very few . the Scottish Parliament ' s approach be modern , with family - friendly hour and a willingness to use technology to the advantage of member and the public . our electronic voting system and the public petition process be see — I think rightly — as efficient , businesslike and inclusive . I sincerely hope that the Modernisation Committee will consider those example during its investigation — especially electronic voting , please . I sometimes find myself watch Holyrood TV , and most of what happen after the electronic voting be endless people check whether they have vote — want to clarify whether the machine have work . give that there be 120 - odd Members in Holyrood and 650 - odd member in this place , I be not entirely sure that that be the good plan for Westminster voting . my recollection of the system be that it work very well indeed . I do not know whether standard have slip since the day when I and other hon . member present be member of the Scottish Parliament . what the hon . Lady describe do happen — I admit that — but very rarely . I be for some time in the Chair , announce those decision , and I genuinely do not remember that happen very often at all . I think the recollection that the hon . Lady and I will have of our time in the Scottish Parliament be of vote physically , albeit electronically , together in the Scottish Parliament Chamber . the difference now , of course , be that some member of the Scottish Parliament be vote in the Chamber , while other be vote at home , sit at their kitchen table , by press a button . that be where the connectivity issue mention by my hon . friend the Member for Gordon and Buchan ( Harriet Cross ) arise , and that be why it be important that we maintain physical voting in this place . I absolutely agree with the hon . member . I be not in favour of voting remotely either , except perhaps in very rare and exceptional circumstance . however , please believe I that electronic voting be the way forward . member would not have to spend some 20 minute walk through the Lobby . vote would be cast , and a result declare , within roughly one minute . that be definitely a well use of member ' time , and a much more efficient way to do thing . I think the hon . Lady have make a good point . she may be up against it if she be try to talk to those on the Opposition Benches about modernisation in any fashion , but when , during the pandemic , Members be force to go through the Lobby when they be unwell , that affect member throughout the House . I think — and I shall say more about this later — that there be always place where legislature can learn from each other . it be undoubtedly true that we have to learn from one another , and from international example too . if I can give one example that I would like colleague to learn from , it be that electronic voting have a place , and a place from which I think this House could benefit greatly . will the hon . Lady give way ? before I give way , may I just say that I really do not imagine that that one line would create such a response ? I can not really comment on electronic voting , but I be go to make a comment in the other direction — about learn in both direction . I believe that Donald Dewar , in his heroic struggle to bring about devolution , want a strong Scottish Parliament , in term of privilege , in term of the right to summon Ministers — Powers ? power , yes , in term of order and the balance of power between Parliament and Government , which he want to be much strong as well . do the hon . Lady think that that would be a good thing ? I think we have to realise that the Parliament in Scotland be very much small than this Parliament , which make a great difference to many of the way in which it operate . as we hear from the hon . member for Caithness , Sutherland and Easter Ross , it be much easy to speak to a Minister there than it be here . it be a regular occurrence . there be a saying in the Scottish Parliament : you only have to sit in the Garden Lobby for half an hour , and every other parliamentarian will have pass you by at one point or another . that be a huge advantage , and it be one of the aspect of the Scottish Parliament that I personally prefer : we do have that access , not just to Ministers but to other colleague across party , and we could develop relationship that enable we to work in a cross - party way very easily with they . that , I think , be a great thing . I also think that the Scottish Parliament have , perhaps , a well balance of power between member and the Government , but we have to accept that the scale be an influence factor at the very least . I would not suggest for a moment that the year from 2007 onwards — when the SNP first form a government through a deal with the Tories , when they then form a majority government , and even when they be in coalition with the Greens — have be a complete failure , but there have be a great deal of waste time and opportunity . be the hon . member aware that in that 2007 Parliament , the Labour party vote with the SNP more often than the Conservatives do ? the Labour party do not vote with the SNP on the Budget . the SNP need the Tories to get Budgets through , and that be the basis on which they do a deal . sadly , those Budgets very much reflect Tory value , and that be why Labour could not vote for they ; nor could friend in other party that be represent in this Chamber . I have to say , though , that time have be waste by people obsess about the constitution and create grievance with Westminster . we could have be in a very different place if the Scottish Government have continue to focus on the issue that matter to people in their everyday life , and also if they have be more constructive in their engagement with member of the Scottish Parliament itself . my hon . friend the Member for Caithness , Sutherland and Easter Ross cite the ill - fate deposit return scheme as an example of when there be not that cross - party work to make legislation appropriate and fit for purpose ; I would cite as another example the Offensive Behaviour at Football and Threatening Communications ( Scotland ) Act , which be pass in 2012 only to be repeal in 2018 . again , I would not suggest for a minute that Scotland do not sometimes have a problem with football match , and with some of the sectarian and offensive behaviour that go on in connection with they , but that Act be badly think out . People try to say so at the time , but they be not listen to . I think it be always important for we to listen to one another and hear what other have to say . sadly , it have to be say that recent scottish government have be find want when it come to the measurement of success that they have set for themselves on NHS waiting time guarantee , climate target or educational attainment , and the premise of the Parliament — allow for the delivery of scottish solution to scottish problem — have fall some way short . for a Parliament that be devolve , it have have the most centralise agenda in recent year , which have not be to Scotland ' s advantage . Scotland be make up of people , city , town and village , and what work in my constituency of Glasgow West will not necessarily work in Caithness , Sutherland and Easter Ross . it be important that those difference be reflect , and that the agency and public organisation that support and serve our population reflect local bias , local need and local interest . sadly , that be no long the case in some place . as the Scottish Parliament progress into its second quarter - century , we have an opportunity to look back , to mark both the success and the shortcoming , and to recall the word of Donald Dewar at the Parliament ' s opening on 1 July 1999 , which be as relevant today as they be then . he say that we will " never lose sight of what bring we here — the strive to do right by the people of Scotland , to respect their priority , to better their lot and to contribute to the common weal . " in recall those word , we should look forward to the future , to how the Scottish Parliament can do right by the people of Scotland , and to how we member of this Parliament can play a constructive part in make that so . rise — Order . I currently have no plan to put a time limit on contribution , but member might like to reflect on how many colleague be here and adjust their remark accordingly . devolution be not work . instead of two government work in harness , Scotland have one in Westminster with its back turn to the one in Holyrood , which daily plot to break up Britain . labour take power convince that they be the grown - up who would reset relation with the SNP at Holyrood . the harsh reality be that the SNP Government have no interest in joint working , for if devolution be a success , they lose the argument that independence be a necessity . they be aid in their mission by Labour ' s " devolve and forget " . this government trolly billion of pound north to Edinburgh via the block grant , but what happen after it disappear into the SNP black hole , where we can see what go in but not what come out ? well , no one on the Government Benches seem to care overmuch . the sleekit SNP be run ring around they . the Chancellor appear in a smart video say that she be deliver investment in Scotland . the backdrop be Lossiemouth , a key RAF base for protect the High North , yet the SNP actively undermine british defence . there have be ludicrous talk of deploy " scottish force " as peacekeeper in Ukraine . there be many scot man and woman in Britain ' s force , but there be no scottish force . ironically , the SNP deny defence firm vital investment because of childish opposition to ordnance — the shell , bomb , bullet and missile that keep we all safe in a dangerous world . that be pull apart , not pull together . under the previous Administration , the Scotland Office be the guardian of devolution . the then Secretary of State for Scotland , Alister Jack , adroitly deploy section 35 of the Scotland Act to prevent the unlamented Nicola Sturgeon ' s gender recognition reform from trample on the right of woman and girl across the entire UK . that be not some assault on Holyrood ' s power , but a judicious application of the law as it stand to prevent devolution from be abuse , to prevent Scotland from become a different country bit by bit , and to stop devolution be use as a battering ram to smash the Union . would that happen now ? today ' s Scotland Office be , we be tell , " Scotland ' s window on the world " . rather than nurture the Scotland Act , it look increasingly like Dover House have be annex by the Department for Business and Trade as a pop - up shop for salmon and whisky . perhaps a bit less look out the window and a bit more attention to what be go on at John Swinney ' s Bute House be in order , for Scottish Ministers seem to have more foreign break than Galloway Travel Service in Stranraer , in my constituency of Dumfries and Galloway . they have go to Malawi , Zambia , Canada and Washington DC . despite have no role in international affair , Scottish Ministers have rack up more air mile than Biggles , at taxpayer ' expense . what be they discuss , give that trade policy be reserve ? let we take China , for example : Scottish Business Minister Richard Lochhead slope off on a low - key visit to Beijing , and I ask what occur , but the Foreign Office do not have eye on it , in another display of " devolve and forget " . there be many siren voice call for Holyrood ' s abolition as Supreme Court judgment on gender be ignore ; its Committee system , as we have hear , be neuter so that genuine scrutiny be near impossible ; and the First Minister spend more time pronounce on Gaza and boycott Israel — foreign affair be outwith his bailiwick — while scot ' taxis rise with no improvement in public service . the hon . Gentleman be draw attention to many issue that he say be the fault of the Scottish Government ' s create difference between Scotland and England . what would he say about the Brexit vote in 2016 create such difference ? I just gently point out that I think more scot vote for Brexit than for anything else in the history of Scotland . will the hon . Gentleman give way ? sorry , but I will not give way , because I want to make some progress . John Swinney — not so much yesterday ' s man as the day before yesterday ' s man — be a pound - shop Parnell try to suborn british institution to undermine Britain . devolution be not work , but it be not break beyond repair . my noble Friend Lord Offord of Garvel , who sit in the other place , have challenge Holyrood to do well in a series of essay entitle " Wealthy Nation , Healthy Nation " . that be predicate on Holyrood park its constitutional obsession to deliver what it be intend to do — to better the life of those live in Scotland . amen , but it will require the Scottish Government to respect democracy , not least the clearcut decision in the 2014 independence referendum to remain part of the UK , and it will take this House find the courage to confront what the SNP Government be up to . it be not about put they in their place or keep they in their lane . no , it be merely about both government respect the Scotland Act . if Holyrood be to have another 25 year , John Swinney need to comport himself as First Minister , not " First Agitator " . the present Secretary for State for Scotland once tell Harvard University of the need " to more closely align accountability with decision - make authority . " hear , hear . the chink of ice in the whisky cocktail in far - fling embassy be seductive , but while the Scottish Secretary be distract , the SNP plot , and it be our constituent who will pay the bar bill and face the hangover . when the Scottish Parliament be reconvene in 1999 , there be an expectation that devolution would not stop at Holyrood , but would build strong system of local government . Donald Dewar put it well in his first speech : " a Scottish Parliament . not an end : a means to great end . " we should celebrate Holyrood ' s achievement over the past 25 year , but we must also face a truth : devolution have stall or even go backwards when it come to local government . the first phase move power from London to Edinburgh , but the second phase — transfer power from Holyrood to our local community — never come . instead , power have be strip away . business rate , water , further education , police , fire and local enterprise be all once local responsibility that have now be centralise . the principle of devolution be simple : the good decision be make close to the people affect by those decision , yet in Edinburgh we have a Government run by the Scottish National party , and no one could accuse it of be the scottish local party . before I come here , I be the leader of Stirling council . about 80 % of our budget come from a Scottish Government grant , with the rest from council tax , which be the only fiscal lever leave to council . it should be set locally , but for most of the last 18 year the SNP Government have freeze or cap it . argument for and against tax rise should be make in town hall , not dictate from Holyrood . for devolution to work there must be respect between different level of government . I welcome effort by the UK Government to reset that relationship . I only wish the Scottish Government would show the same respect to local authority . meanwhile , England have race ahead . Metro mayor and combined authority be transform the landscape . we have see the next step in english devolution in recent week and month , with exciting reform push power outward . by contrast , a tired SNP Government be pull power inward through quango and direction from the centre . I agree with what the hon . Gentleman be say . I be strike by what the Chair of the Scottish Affairs Committee , the hon . member for Glasgow West ( Patricia Ferguson ) , say about the root of the Scottish Parliament and the constitutional convention . those of we who be part of that movement believe that there be a well way for Scotland to be govern , but thing have move on , and now the Parliament be see as an exercise merely in assert national identity . do he agree that if we get back to the Scottish Parliament be about a well delivery of scottish service for scottish people , the difficulty that he be identify would very quickly be solve ? I completely agree — that go back to what I be say . Donald Dewar say : " a Scottish Parliament . not an end : a means to great end . " if we all remember to think about the evolution of devolution , and strive to make it as good as it can be , we would all be do the people of Scotland a service . the risk of divergence between scottish devolution and english devolution be stark . Glasgow be the UK ' s fourth large city , yet without a metro mayor or combined authority , it have no mechanism to secure trailblazer deal , as Greater Manchester and the West Midlands have . if Glasgow perform at the level of its peer , Scotland ' s GDP could rise by an amount equivalent to our entire oil and gas sector — that be the real prize of real devolution . Scotland ' s eight city , include Stirling , should be able to debate what great devolution would mean for our economy and community . partnership require honesty , however . the Verity House agreement promise " no surprise " but within month , Ministers impose another national council tax freeze without consultation . that be not partnership ; it be central direction . if we be serious about devolution , we must be serious about accountability . Audit Scotland and the National Audit Office should deepen collaboration . joint funding stream must be scrutinise coherently . public trust depend on transparency . devolution be never mean to be a one - off event . the Convention of Scottish Local Authorities have long warn that Scotland be now one of the most centralised country in Europe . while England power ahead , our council be squeeze , our community feel remote from decision making , and our city risk fall behind . what Scotland need be a new phase of devolution : more fiscal autonomy for council , genuine partnership with national Government , more power for community through development trust , community council and other body , and the option of combined authority or mayor where local people want they . back in the early ' 90 , I be just out of school and get involve in politic . it be an exciting time , with a constitutional convention , excitement about a new Parliament , and decision making come close to home . People in Scotland have the right to decide on whether to have devolution with a Scottish Parliament or keep power at Westminster — and they choose well ! the Scottish Parliament ' s early year feature some of the most well - know name in scottish politic : Donald Dewar , Winnie Ewing , Alex Salmond , Nicola Sturgeon , Jack McConnell , Annabel Goldie , Jim Wallace and , of course , our current First Minister and SNP leader John Swinney , whose public service and commitment to Scotland remain second to none . I add to those name George Reid , who sadly pass away recently . he be respect right across this House and the Scottish Parliament . the formation of the Scottish Parliament mark my first employment in politic , for former MP and MSP Alasdair Morgan , who retire in 2011 after a distinguished period as Deputy Presiding Officer in the Scottish Parliament . my introduction to politic — work for an MP and MSP , as many in the Scottish Parliament be in its first couple of year — fire up my own desire to go far in politic and become an elect councillor , then a council leader and now a parliamentarian in this place . I do that because of my desire to improve the life of the people I represent and the people right across Scotland , which be the same reason that colleague right across the House get into politic . the Scottish Parliament have lead the way in many area of policy . on tackle child poverty , it be the only part of the UK in which child poverty have fall . the scottish child payment of £ 27 . 15 a week , introduce by the SNP , have be praise by numerous highly respected charity and organisation in tackle child poverty . on social security , the formation of social security — I thank the hon . gentleman for give way , but the scottish child payment be not just praise by charity ; it be their idea . the Child Poverty Action Group campaign for it for a long time and the Scottish Government oppose it . it be party in opposition and charity who make it happen , so they do not just praise it . we should congratulate they on their long campaign that make it happen , and I hope he will join I in that . the point make be entirely reasonable and I commend the work do by charity and third sector organisation over many year in highlight that and a wide range of issue . I be grateful that the hon . Member acknowledge that the Scottish Government respond to those concern and take action , demonstrate exactly the power the Scottish Parliament can have and the difference it can make . on social security , we introduce the carer ' s allowance supplement . we mitigate the bedroom tax and increase the employment rate for disabled people , without resort to cut vital welfare support . I be very much enjoy the hon . Gentleman ' s speech reflect on the many experience of devolution that have inspire we , but on the point around employment and disabled people , will join I in say that it be regrettable that the Scottish Government decide to cut employability funding for disability scheme in 2024 - 25 ? I take the hon . member ' s point , but the fact remain that the personal independence payment be currently under threat from the UK Government . that will have a devastating impact on disabled people , and many Labour Members on the Government Benches would agree with that . on the economy and taxation , we have a more progressive income tax system . More than 50 % of people work in Scotland pay less tax than they do elsewhere in the UK . I fully support that as a high rate taxpayer . I thank the hon . member for give way . do he accept the fact that PIP be devolve in Scotland ? it be the adult disability payment in Scotland , rather than PIP . fundamentally — I be sure the hon . Lady know this — if the UK Government decide to cut a vast amount out of the social security system , that will have a really significant impact on the scottish budget . week after week , Labour Members call for more money to be spend on certain thing in Scotland , but at the same time they seem to be suggest a substantial cut to the scottish budget with the change to the social security budget . will the hon . Gentleman give way ? can I respond to the first intervention first ? if a substantial budget cut come through on the back of that , that will have a serious impact on what the Scottish Government can do , whatever colour that Scottish Government may be follow the next election . I thank the hon . member for give way . he talk about a budget cut to the Scottish Government , but do he not recognise that this Westminster Government have actually give the Scottish Government the large funding settlement in the history of devolution ? what have happen to the money ? I gently remind Labour Members that every single year should be the large devolution budget , because inflation go up every year . there have not be a negative inflationary year in my lifetime , so it should be go up every year . there should be a record settlement every single year . that be just inflation . that be basic economic . I know those on the government Benches struggle with that sometimes . on council tax and water charge , we have the low in the UK . we be , for over a decade , the top destination outside London for foreign investment . since the SNP come to power in 2007 , GDP per capita have grow in Scotland by 10 . 3 % and by 6 . 1 % for the rest of the UK . there be thing that have be do , both by the Labour and Liberal Executive in the first few year of the Parliament and by the SNP Government since 2007 , that have deliver substantial benefit for the people of Scotland . on health , briefly , we have have more gps per head than any other part of the UK for the past five year ; they be also the well pay , recognise the challenge and importance of that role . Scotland ' s core A & Es have be the good performing in the UK for nine year , with low average waiting time . we have abolish prescription charge and , as the hon . member for Caithness , Sutherland and Easter Ross ( Jamie Stone ) refer to , we have free eye examination as well . in addition , more than 1 , 000 school building project have be complete since 2007 , and 96 % of our school leaver go into further training , further education or workplace . in his submission to the Backbench Business Committee , the hon . member for Caithness , Sutherland and Easter Ross describe this place as the parent of the Scottish Parliament and the Scottish Government , but I would describe the scottish people as the parent of the Scottish Parliament and the Scottish Government through the Scottish Constitutional Convention . I very much commend the hon . member for his work in that role . fundamentally , I would say that the parent of the Scottish Parliament be the scottish people who vote for it and who continue to back it and elect it and the Government . that bring I to my final point . the Scottish Parliament be on a journey . it be form in 1999 and have continue on a journey . the hon . Gentleman will have hear other people make the point about that journey and the need for it to go from the Scottish Parliament down to community . one of the most clamant case for that journey to continue relate to the administration of the Crown Estate . we now see Crown Estate Scotland behave in exactly the same way that the Crown Estate do when it be answerable to the Treasury here in London . do the hon . Gentleman agree that his colleague in the Scottish Government should be devolve control of the Crown Estate — especially the marine estate — to community like mine in Shetland ? I thank the right hon . gentleman for his intervention . I think the point he be make be reasonable up to a point . we need to be very careful when talk about energy be a matter of national security — no , this be about the seabed . well , the seabed be very important for our energy infrastructure , so we need to be really careful about how we deal with that and how we handle that . I would not be averse to have a full debate and discussion about the devolution of Crown Estate asset to local community , but we do need to be careful around the energy link to that and how that could play out to ensure that we maintain the national security of our energy and grid infrastructure . what the hon . Gentleman seem to be say be that Shetland could not control our own seabed . do he maybe think we be too wee and too poor for that ? I think the right hon . Gentleman be twist what I be say a bit . we be in the realm of get into a debate about an entirely different subject . I agree with he to an extent — have be a council leader , I have always argue very strongly for more devolution to local government . I make that point very strongly when I attend the Convention of Scottish Local Authorities leader meet , and I will continue to do so . I be sure there be many other internal debate within other party over where power should rest on particular issue , too . I will continue to make those argument with colleague . I start off by say that the people of Scotland make the decision — what I believe to be the right decision — to form the Scottish Parliament , and we be now on a journey . my colleague in the SNP and I believe that that journey will reach independence , and that will then be a new journey with where we go from there . fundamentally , it be for the people of Scotland to decide . minister and other across the House have recognise that the people of Scotland be sovereign and that it be their right to choose and decide ; what they have not set out be how they can choose and decide . that be the responsibility of the current UK Government . I commend the hon . member for Caithness , Sutherland and Easter Ross ( Jamie Stone ) for secure this important debate . before devolution , Scotland - specific Bills in this place be few and far between — often single digit per year — even though our health , education and legal system have be completely different for century . decision that shape people ' s life in Scotland be make elsewhere , without the understanding or accountability that they deserve . that be why so many of we , myself include , campaign passionately for devolution . like other in the Chamber , my belief in devolution be forge in the 90 in the run up to the ' 97 referendum . my memory of the campaign , polling day and result will be with I for the rest of my life . the feeling of hope that we have will also stay with I for the rest of my life . we want decision about Scotland ' s school , hospital and community to be make by a Parliament root in Scotland but still part of the wide United Kingdom . it be about give scot a strong voice within our Union , bring democracy close to the people , improve accountability and deliver well government . it be also about pool and share and be grow - up . for a time , that promise feel real . it feel good . but the promise have be squander . even with extra power over the year and a record £ 52 billion settlement this year from the Labour Government at Westminster , the SNP Scottish Government have fail to make devolution work for the people it be create to serve . I look at my own constituency and the evidence be stark . many of my constituent be still languish on NHS waiting list . it be shock that in NHS Lanarkshire alone , more people have wait over two year for treatment than in the entirety of England . what I find distressing be how Labour member be always talk down the health service in Scotland , but you avoid mention — order . " you " would be I . I beg your pardon , Madam Deputy Speaker . the hon . member and other Labour colleague often refer to problem in the health service in Scotland , but they never point to the fact that Scotland ' s wait time for cancer from diagnosis to treatment be well than in any other part of the UK . they do not point to the fact that waiting list in Scotland be fall while waiting list in England be rise and have be for three month now . there be many , many other problem — order . the hon . Gentleman could have choose to contribute by make a speech . I refer the hon . gentleman to my life experience before come to this place as a member of staff within the health service . I work through the pandemic when we use the red , amber and green status to indicate how waiting list be . we do not just have red , amber and green stage . we create a purple status for when there be serious capacity issue that warrant more than a red status . we then move to black status if it get too serious for status purple . one of the reason I be in this place be the 14 month that I work with colleague through that . nobody who be try to provide healthcare should have to do so when work in situation that go way beyond an emergency . the situation within the health service be highlight several week in a woman ' s lowland league football match in my constituency , when a Linlithgow Rose player who be injure during a match with Cumbernauld United Ladies lie with a broken leg for five hour on a Sunday while wait for an ambulance to be dispatch . with reference to the previous intervention , I wonder what my hon . friend , who know so much about the NHS in Scotland , make of the fact that the Scottish Government ' s target for cancer treatment — that 95 % of patient be treat within 62 day of an urgent referral — have not be meet since 2012 . I thank my hon . friend for her intervention . certainly , the experience be that the Scottish Government be good at set target but never good at make sure those target be meet . I see the toll of that every week , with people live in pain , lose mobility and struggle with their mental health . they look at the improve picture south of the border and ask , " how much long do we have to wait ? " what they be hear be , " actually , this crisis be business as usual . " nhs staff be be fail by the very system that devolution be mean to strengthen . [ interruption . ] I hear a heckle from a sedentary position . nhs staff in Scotland pay high rate of income tax and significantly high rate of pension contribution , so the take - home pay of an NHS band 6 nurse in Scotland be not necessarily different from a band 6 nurse in England . the problem do not end with health . across Scotland , the fire and rescue service be consult on cut that firefighter , their union and the public fear will cost life . the service face a capital backlog of £ 800 million . that be not just a government asleep at the wheel but one who be fail to protect one of our most vital public service . my constituent know too well the threat that fire pose from the serious fire at Blairlinn industrial estate that injure six people and the destruction by fire of the iconic St Mungo ' s church : a list building and landmark see from across the constituency that be now go . that be a failing of scrutiny and a failure of priority . the SNP Government be distract . they be more interested in constitutional division than in fix the problem that our community face . the Labour Government have deliver record investment for Scotland ' s public service , but ask anyone on the ground — no one can see what the SNP have do with the money . I remember the hope of 1999 when the Scottish Parliament be first elect . it be full of passion , full of debate and full of co - operation . member disagree — often strongly — but they share a common purpose to make Scotland fair , healthy and more prosperous . they pass legislation ; as we have hear , some of it be groundbreake . that be the spirit that Scotland need again . the need for change be clear . Scotland be full of ambition , potential and opportunity . we have world - lead business , unique natural resource and global brand that command respect across the world . we be world leader in renewable technology and home to cut - edge scientific and tech institution and renowned research - intensive university . we need a Scottish Government who share the same hope and aspiration for the future as we do on the Labour Benches to make devolution work and to take full advantage of everything Scotland have go for it . we face a clear choice : do we keep circle the constitutional cul - de - sac that the SNP have lead we down or do we choose to move forward with the strong devolution settlement and a new direction for Scotland ? devolution sound like , and should be , a fantastic opportunity . it should bring decision close to home with policy that fit the uniqueness of local area and community such as mine , where accountability and impact be more closely link . that be the theory but in practice , certainly in Scotland ' s case , the reality be very different . devolution have become a fight for power — for the power , but not for the responsibility — and it have become about push party and personal ideology rather than what be actually good for the public and the business which we be mean to serve . since 1999 , we have see so much power , indeed more power than any other devolved nation in the world , devolve to Scotland , or more specifically , as other have mention , to Holyrood , because that be where in Scotland devolution end . what we see in Scotland be a level of bureaucracy , red tape and top - down decision make that stifle any opportunity for devolution to properly trickle down to benefit all region and community across Scotland . we can look at the evidence . in Scotland , 53 % of planning decision appeal to the Scottish Government be overturn by Ministers ; in England , by contrast , local decision be uphold 70 % of the time . on policing , the SNP merge eight regional police force into one nationalise central body . in do so , it scrap local police board run by local council and replace they with a single national authority appoint by , and accountable to , Scottish Ministers . the result be that since its creation over 140 station have close , create what the Scottish Police Federation have itself call police desert and an " almost invisible police presence " across great part of the country . there be also of course endless example of devolution put our business at a disadvantage compare with other across the UK , include on business rate . business rate be devolve and when the last Conservative Government introduce 75 % rate relief for hospitality south of the border , that be not replicate in Scotland . business in Scotland have to wait year for a similar relief , which , when it be finally introduce , be less generous than elsewhere . in education we have see year of decline in scottish standard . in 2006 , Scotland proudly have student who be the good in the UK at math . but now , after year of the SNP curriculum for apparent excellence , our PISA score have plummet by 35 point and we be trail well behind England . that be a generation of young scot be fail by the SNP . why in Scotland , after almost 20 year in office , have the SNP seemingly be so content to let education standard slip and slip while over the past decade , when conservative be in government at Westminster , we see standard and international ranking rise south of the border ? why , other than for the need to just do thing differently , would we not look at the rise standard elsewhere in the UK and think for just one minute that maybe for the sake of the next generation of scot we could learn from what be happen elsewhere in the UK ? there be also a huge amount of incoherence between different policy in devolved area . pensioner in Scotland with an income of £ 35 , 000 be consider to have a low enough income to be eligible for the winter fuel payment , which of course be welcome after Labour decide to balance their book on the back of our poor pensioner , but how do this square with the SNP Government consider worker on a salary as modest as £ 30 , 000 to be wealthy enough to be tax more than those in the rest of the UK ? be devolution really set up as a vehicle to see teacher and doctor and police officer base and work in Scotland tax more and take home less pay than those do the same job in the rest of the UK ? for devolution to be consider a success , we should be able to see it and feel it , but even objectively these benefit be very hard to find . I know there have always be those say and point out that we get thing for free , like free prescription or certain bus travel or university education , but these be not free ; they be taxpayer - fund — fund at the expense of something else and fund at the cost of high taxis for people and business across Scotland . the Scottish Government be receive from the UK Government over £ 2 , 500 more per person to spend than be the case in England . why then be our outcome not streak ahead of those south of the border ? why be our education system fail child ? why be university almost at the point of collapse ? why be life expectancy low in Scotland and our drug death the high in Europe ? why be NHS capital project be pause , include the Ellon health centre in my constituency ? there be chronic underfunding and under - investment in our road , include the A96 and the A90 in Gordon and Buchan . Scotland ' s employment rate be low than those in the rest of the UK . why be local authority on their knee due to a lack of funding ? if devolution have be make to work for Scotland , it would surely be at least equal to the rest of the UK in all those regard . if successive scottish Governments have focus on their job and on actual devolve competence , maybe — just maybe — Scotland would have outperform the rest of the UK , but it have not . why ? because since devolution , successive scottish Governments have not want to take the responsibility as well as the power . they have prefer to point finger to cover their own incompetence , rather than hold themselves accountable . if what I describe have happen , or even begin to happen , over the last 25 year , maybe devolution could be see as a success for Scotland . until that do happen , I struggle to accept that it have be . I thank the hon . member for Caithness , Sutherland and Easter Ross ( Jamie Stone ) for secure this debate . as a labour politician , I be immensely proud of my party ' s commitment to devolution and our delivery of the Scottish Parliament , and I will always be grateful to those who have go before we , such as my constituency predecessor John Smith , who fight tirelessly to bring the decision - make process close to home . in the formative year of the Scottish Parliament , it be the labour - liberal coalition that deliver the smoking ban — an innovative policy that considerably improve the public health of the scottish population and reduce the number of primary - aged child inhale second - hand smoke by 39 % within a year . the same coalition oversee an education system that be recognise as be one of Europe ' s good . indeed , in those formative year , £ 3 million of initial funding be set aside for international development , particularly in Malawi . that develop an already strong relationship between the people of Scotland and that country , and commit the labour - liberal coalition to tackle global health and wealth inequality , reduce infant mortality rate in Malawi and improve educational standard . the delivery of free personal care for the elderly be a transformative domestic policy that set Scotland on a path to be a more compassionate society , and it secure dignity for our elderly population . it be we put the principle of devolution into action . that be always the change that devolution be intend to make , and it be pretty tell that even though significant time have since pass , the policy I mention remain to this day some of the most significant achievement of the Scottish Parliament . the reality be that the SNP , Conservatives and now Reform UK thrive when Scotland be divide . their record of poor delivery , incompetent governance , money waste and vanity project be clear to see , yet they be all as comfortable as one other in hide behind the constitutional question . my hon . friend have mention Reform UK , which be apparently a recent convert to devolution . do it tell we all we need to know about how much it value devolution , Scotland and its future that there be not one member from that party in the Chamber this afternoon ? my hon . friend make a very good point . devolution open the door for the delivery of good legislation . it be an opportunity for devolved Assemblies and Parliaments , whose politician be close to home , to deliver positive change for the people they represent . however , for almost two decade , Scotland have be hold back . eye - watering amount of public money have be waste , our once - great education system have see standard plummet , and the poverty - relate attainment gap remain stubbornly wide , with the gap between pupil achieve an a to c grade at high level sit at 17 . 1 percentage point this year . like my Labour colleague , I want devolution to succeed . I want the Scottish Parliament to deliver for scottish people . I want the people of Scotland to look at their Parliament and recognise it as a place where good thing get do in the interest of work people . however , under nationalist leadership , it have increasingly become a talk shop , where blame get pass and responsibility and accountability be avoid . it sadden I to say it , but through no fault of our public sector workforce — it be a consequence of SNP incompetence — those who live in Scotland have a one in six chance of be on an NHS waiting list . gp appointment in town such as Shotts in my constituency be hard to come by . rail fare be exorbitant . those who be educator , as I be , be work with diminish resource , and pupil from poor background still face great barrier to educational and vocational success . indeed , with the opportunity now afford to young people as a result of this Government embrace the potential of artificial intelligence , the SNP ' s political choice to neglect our further education and vocational sector become increasingly inexcusable . this be not the Scotland we envisage when we hold the devolution referendum and the first set of scottish parliamentary election . this be a Scotland that have be stop in its track , due to the lack of ambition show by its SNP Government , and their unwillingness to do anything about grow the economy , increase investment or showcase Scotland as a proud part of the United Kingdom . my hon . friend rightly mention the crucial role that further education play , both in our community and in our economy . do he recognise that the reality be that , in my area , Fife college be receive real - term cut from the SNP Scottish Government , whereas college in Edinburgh , Glasgow and Aberdeen be receive increase ? those area be have their funding increase , whereas Fife be have its funding cut . the whole further education system across Scotland need to be look at rather rapidly . thing be move quickly , and we be now become a skill economy , with skill not just in AI , but in other thing . a lot of company want to move into Scotland , and they want a good , well - fund further education college close to the place they locate to . I be immensely proud of the investment that this Labour Government have put into Scotland . the large financial settlement in the history of devolution be be deliver to improve the life of work scot in Airdrie and Shotts and beyond . this reaffirm labour ' s commitment to devolution , and its pride and passion for Scotland ' s potential . this debate have reflect on the past and the progress of devolution , but this historic settlement could define its future . the people of Scotland will have the opportunity to elect a Scottish Labour Government next year , to invest in our NHS and to grow our economy , so that it work once again for work man and woman . I thank the hon . member for Caithness , Sutherland and Easter Ross ( Jamie Stone ) for bring forward this debate , and for the way in which he do so . this be always a useful exercise : let I start off by be consensual . [ interruption . ] I know that will astonish my conservative colleague . there be always a place for legislator learn from one another . in my time work in the european institution , that be what we use to do , and the same go for these island . to be fair , the Chair of the Scottish Affairs Committee , the hon . member for Glasgow West ( Patricia Ferguson ) , also touch on that point , and it be good to hear about her experience of Holyrood , as well as those of the hon . member for Caithness , Sutherland and Easter Ross ; it enrich the debate . rise — I have barely start . let I make a bit of progress , and maybe I can take the hon . Gentleman ' s point shortly . there be so much that we can learn , and there be always a way to learn . I know from my experience here that there may be something that this place could learn from Holyrood . I remember take part in seize control of the Order Paper , simply so that member could have a say . that be something we never have to do in Holyrood . I can remember a minority government — only just a minority — in 2017 nearly keel over because they be just short of a majority and yet refuse to speak to the other party , the Democratic Unionist party notwithstanding . they speak to the DUP , but that be pretty much it . we have see the catastrophe cause by the culture in this place , and the damage that do . labour and the Liberal Democrats have acknowledge that . I want to pick up on the point about work with other party to get a majority . the first thing that come to mind be the SNP ' s venture with the Scottish Greens after the last election in Scotland . would the hon . member reflect on how damaging that be , particularly for north - east Scotland , whether we be talk about upgrade to our road , or the impact on our oil and gas sector ? I thank the hon . member for her intervention . what I find more surprising be that we have have only one majority Government during the period of devolution , yet every Government , regardless of their colour , and every party that have be a part of government — except the Conservatives , who struggle electorally in Scotland , which speak to the wisdom of the scottish electorate — have serve their full term . in my time as an MP , we have one minority Government , lead by the Conservatives . it collapse in a heap and cost the taxpayer £ 40 billion a year — there be more waste emanating from this place than the Scottish Government ' s entire budget , and the Conservatives bear huge responsibility for that . on accountability , we sit in a Parliament where we have to pass an Act of Parliament just to get rid of a Member of the House of Lords . I have hear member complain about those who sit in the House of Lords , be it Peter Mandelson or Michelle Mone . be they accountable ? be they accountable to the electorate in the way that every single Member of the Scottish Parliament be ? [ interruption . ] I will happily give way on the point about Peter Mandelson if the hon . member for Paisley and Renfrewshire South ( Johanna Baxter ) want to come in . no ? okay . every single Member of the Scottish Parliament be elect , and we could learn from that enormously in this place . it be a disgrace that it need an Act of Parliament to remove a Member of the legislature , who have get a job for life , and I would love it if Labour would at long last deliver its 115 - year - old manifesto commitment , but I fear we will be wait at least another 115 year . I congratulate the hon . member for Caithness , Sutherland and Easter Ross on his speech , but I beg to differ with he on one area , and today I have to agree with my hon . friend the Member for Moray West , Nairn and Strathspey ( Graham Leadbitter ) : I do not think we should present the idea that the parent of the Scottish Parliament and the Scottish Government should be mind its disappointing child . I be sure that the hon . member for Caithness , Sutherland and Easter Ross would agree , on reflection , that the parent of the Scottish Parliament be in fact the scottish people in the referendum ; that have be acknowledge by all side . I be sure that he will reflect on that . to be fair , Westminster have not be much of a parent these past few year . we see austerity during the Labour and conservative year ; we see Brexit ; and we see that our neighbour have much more powerful legislature at sub - state level . the Faroe Islands , the Å land Islands and Greenland be sub - state , non - independent actor that can determine their relationship with the European Union , and can even determine whether they want an independence referendum . the Scottish Parliament be a relatively weak legislature compare with other in Europe , but despite that , child poverty be reduce , and social security be deal with respectfully . when the Labour Government make the woeful mistake in their opening day in government of get rid of the winter fuel payment , the Scottish Government , with their limited resource , step up . the Labour Government have criticise the fact that Scottish Water be in public hand ; that astonish I , but it remain in public hand because of devolution , and the move towards 100 % renewable come about because of devolution . there be some area where we can learn from Westminster . I have serve on Committees in this place , and they work well . the hon . member for Caithness , Sutherland and Easter Ross will be aware that , because of the structure that be put in place , Committees be part of the legislative process . there be always thing to learn , and we need to acknowledge that . the hon . Gentleman have talk about the need for different legislature to learn from each other . ater 10 year of COSLA say to the Scottish Government that fund for local government have be strip to the bone , library be close , swimming pool be close , school be underfunde , our teacher be at their wit ' end in the classroom , and the one who want to be in the classroom can not get a job because there be not enough money . what have his party learn from COSLA , after 10 year of its plea for local government to be fund well ? the hon . member sound very helpless , but there be quite a lot he could do about thing , since the overwhelming majority of the Scottish Government ' s finance still come from Westminster and the Chancellor . he will find that scottish local government be in a well situation than its counterpart down in England , which have see tremendous cut from the Conservatives , and then from the Labour party as well . let I conclude on this . we should learn from each other . I look at all part of these isle to see what we can learn . I have talk about Westminster , so let I touch on Wales . member such as the hon . member for Glenrothes and Mid Fife ( Richard Baker ) be right to talk about Reform . tomorrow there be a by - election in Caerphilly , which will reflect how people feel about what happen when Labour be in control of the devolved Administration in Wales . look at those poll , it be not for I to tell the people of Caerphilly how they should vote , but the hon . member be right that reform be a threat to devolution . I hope that Plaid Cymru win in that election tomorrow give the threat from Reform and give that the other party — Labour include — be so uncompetitive on that . in this family of nation , member be right to talk about a new relationship . take we out of the EU against our will be a profound change in that relationship . I be grateful to hear the concession from the Secretary of State for Scotland today around an independence referendum . finally , I will reflect on the hon . member for Caithness , Sutherland and Easter Ross say that nothing be forever . nothing be forever . this place could not be forever in its control over Scotland , so let I finally bring this up : labour and Liberal Democrat Members mention the claim of right for Scotland . the claim of right — I take this from a House of Commons Library paper — acknowledge the " sovereign right of the scottish people to determine the form of Government well suit to their need " . that be something we would call for each and every day . hon . member may be aware that in May the people of Scotland send 37 Scottish Labour mps to this place — and a diverse bunch we be . it probably age I to note that when my hon . friend the Member for Falkirk ( Euan Stainbank ) speak shortly , he may talk about the referendum , and he will mean the one in 2014 , when he be just too young to vote , whereas when I talk about the referendum , I mean the one in 1997 , for which I be just too young to vote . of course , that 1997 referendum ask whether there should be a Scottish Parliament and if it should have tax - vary power . at the time , I remember feel that if I have be old enough to do so I would have vote yes to both . it be a long - hold labour manifesto commitment to bring decision making on hugely important issue — our health , education , community safety and economy — into the hand of the scottish people . I still remember be in the car with my mum the day after the vote , listen to the news coverage and feel excited that the result have be " yes , yes " . it feel like such a huge opportunity for all of we . in his speech at the opening of the Scottish Parliament in 1999 , Scotland ' s then First Minister , the late great Donald Dewar , say that the Scottish Parliament be " first a hope , then a belief , then a promise . now " it be " a reality . " the question today be whether the SNP Scottish Government be use the reality of those significant power they hold , together with record level of funding — an extra £ 5 . 2 billion this year alone — to make the great possible difference to the life of our people . I believe the answer be clearly no , whether through incompetence or by design . the Labour - lead scottish executive , as they be when the Scottish Parliament be first form , take bold decision : ban smoke in public place , the fresh talent initiative and action on sectarianism — something that too often be overlook in Scotland . they take action and , crucially , deliver result , and we need far more of that in our politic in Scotland . today ' s reality for many in my constituency , and across Fife and Scotland as a whole , have be bitterly disappointing after almost two decade of SNP division , diversion and failure . one in six scot languish in pain on NHS waiting list — over 40 , 000 of they in Fife . indeed , more people be wait over two year for NHS treatment in Glasgow alone than they be in the whole of England . a third of ambulance wait at hospital for more than an hour while the patient in they wait for a bed . last winter , medic at my local hospital , the Victoria hospital in Kirkcaldy , have to set up a makeshift ward outside the hospital , because the queue of ambulance be so great . SNP Members may not think that that matter — they may think it be a record to be proud of — but that be not what my constituent feel at all . the Victoria hospital be not in my constituency , but it serve my constituent . do the hon . member share my concern that the propose downgrading of the neonatal intensive care unit in both Dundee and Fife will mean that our constituent will have to travel much far for critical need , and that their premature baby will be far away from home ? I thank the hon . member ; I have see the work she have be do on this issue . it be essential that the special intensive care treatment available for premature and sick baby at the Victoria hospital do not change in any way . I wish the Scottish Government would get on and act to put at rest the concern that our constituent no doubt share about that . may I offer a warning from history ? during the time of the coalition Government in Edinburgh , I plead the case for maintain consultant - lead maternity service base in Wick . no soon do the SNP Government get in than the service be downgrade . now mum have to travel huge distance to give birth , and the grisly fact be that one mother of twins give birth to one child in Golspie and the other in Inverness . that be intolerable in this day and age . I can feel the horror that the hon . Member feel for what his constituent have be put through because of that downgrade . my hon . friend talk eloquently about the pressure on the health service in Scotland under the SNP Government . do she share my concern about the dental desert that now exist in Scotland ? just yesterday , a constituent contact I to say that they have be tell that their daughter would have to wait three year for an orthodontist appointment — or they could pay more than £ 2 , 000 and receive a private appointment in two week . my hon . friend make an important point about something we see too frequently across Scotland : our people be force to opt in to private healthcare because they can not get treatment under the SNP ' s NHS . that be completely unacceptable . I know that similar wait exist for assessment for autism and for mental health support . there be a crisis across Fife and the Scottish Government be refuse to give NHS Fife the support need to try to make a difference . the problem do not just exist in our health system ; sadly , they also exist in our education system . our educational outcome in Scotland worsen this year , with the gap in attainment between the rich and poor student grow , include in Fife ; that happen after Nicola Sturgeon say that eradicate that attainment gap be the priority on which she want her record as First Minister to be judge . as my hon . friend the Member for Glasgow West ( Patricia Ferguson ) say early , Scottish Government failure on the target they set for themselves be a hallmark of their time in office . the same Nicola Sturgeon proclaim her love of literature at book festival , yet she be part of successive government who have preside over the closure of almost 100 library in Scotland . on skill , we see the UK Government have to step in recently to save a welding skill centre because the SNP Government refuse to do so . the SNP Government ' s indifference and often opposition to the highly skilled , highly pay job that the defence industry provide across Scotland and in constituency such as mine have mean young worker miss out on the opportunity of a secure , highly pay job . it be also deeply irresponsible at such a dangerous time in the world , with russian aggression in Europe right on our doorstep . all those cut stack up , while the bill to the taxpayer for SNP waste become ever more eye - watering : nearly £ 1 billion spend on Barlinnie prison , almost double the original cost ; more than £ 400 million or four time the original estimate spend on two ferry , with one ferry still not in service eight year later ; and let we not forget the costly shamble that be the deposit return scheme , flunk by the SNP and the Greens and describe by the SNP ' s leader in Westminster , the right hon . member for Aberdeen South ( Stephen Flynn ) , as a " self - inflict wound " . the purpose of devolution be suppose to be to take action in Scotland on Scotland ' s problem , and to help to make our nation the good it can be . yet too often that be not the reality under this Scottish Government , as a couple of example from my own constituency show . at the peak of summer this year , when many business in Kinghorn and Burntisland be look forward to make the most of tourism season , because we be bless by beautiful beach , the beach be close because sewage spill make the water unsafe to swim . some of my constituent become physically sick because they have swum among sewage , yet the chief executive of publicly own Scottish Water say over the summer that the concern of my constituent " should not be overblown " . this issue have a real social and economic impact on people in my constituency , not to mention a health impact . it be the direct result of the SNP ' s failure to invest in our sewerage network and in regular water - quality monitoring . I write to the Scottish Cabinet Secretary for Climate Action and Energy in August and receive a response that begin with a comparison between Scottish and English bathing water . we be familiar with that : if we raise a problem in Scotland , we hear , " well , it be bad in England . " even if that be true , that be exactly why this Labour Government be take tough measure to crack down on pollute water company . yet water quality be another devolved issue , create significant problem that the SNP Scottish Government seem completely disintereste in solve . my hon . friend represent my home town , so it be always great to hear what be happen there . the UK Government inherit an awful situation from the Conservatives on water quality in river — that be beyond doubt — but in the UK we know how much sewage go from sewerage system into river . in my constituency , I have have dog owner concerned about what their dog be eat on river bank , if I can put it politely . when I contact Scottish Water , it could not even tell I the volume of sewage go into the river . do she agree that this whole situation be unacceptable and that we have to discuss it more ? I completely agree with my hon . friend . the experience of dog owner in his seat have also be raise with I locally . in Kinghorn , some of my resident be promise action from Scottish Water five year ago , and nothing have happen . there be no justifiable explanation for that . another serious example be that of antisocial behaviour . across Fife , this seem to be a grow problem . just last week , some of my constituent be leave terrify by appal disorder involve up to 50 young people in Cowdenbeath . a police officer be assault , and resident in Cowdenbeath have say that they be scared to go out at night . I know my local police be do their good to get on top of the issue and have a plan to try to deal with disorder that might take place over the Hallowe ' en period , which resident be worried about . I have raise the issue with the local police inspector and discuss it with he , but the disorder be not an isolated incident . surely it can not be just a coincidence that this come as police number across Scotland last year fall to their low since 2008 . it be increasingly clear that more devolved action be need in Scotland to tackle the problem of antisocial behaviour , because it make life miserable . we have to ask why it be not be take seriously and why more be not be do about it by the Scottish Government . I must say something about the number of tragic drug death in Scotland , which last year be the high in Europe for the seventh year in a row . the National Records of Scotland have say that the total number of people die from drug misuse in Scotland be more than 10 , 000 over the past decade . drug death in Fife last year be almost double what they be in 2010 , each one of they a tragic waste of life . I have a meeting recently with some of the resident of Linktown in Kirkcaldy , who have a particular problem with that issue . resident be deeply worried ; they tell I about family in which mother have have four child , but only one child now remain alive because of the scale of drug death and the problem that we have . that be one example of why it be so frustrating to hear the SNP continue to chunter on about independence and try to distract from the very real problem across our community , rather than get on and solve they . we be tell that the referendum on scottish independence be a once - in - a - generation referendum , and the scottish people give their verdict very clearly . there be so many issue that the SNP ' s mismanagement , neglect and under - investment have cause over the last almost two decade , yet the SNP continue to show almost no interest in fix they and tackle the problem that it already have the power to solve . it be long past time that the SNP take devolution seriously and use it to improve the life of our people . I start by thank the hon . member for Caithness , Sutherland and Easter Ross ( Jamie Stone ) for introduce the debate — it take we two go to get here , but I thank he . I be inspire by his bravery in admit that he be on the committee that oversee the building of the Scottish Parliament , because I think it be 10 time over budget , but perhaps those be skill we can deploy to build ferry in Scotland . perhaps they be already ; I do not know . it have now be 26 year since the Scottish Parliament be establish with the promise of empower our nation . for that to work , it have always be the case that the Government in Scotland need to have a can - do attitude . in the early year under Scottish Labour , the Government make significant progress , as we have already hear . we abolish tuition fee . we introduce a smoking ban , free personal care , and free bus pass for old people — that be one of my favourite one — and we reintroduce the rail link to the Borders . one of the most amazing thing that I read today be that during the 1999 to 2007 Parliaments , life expectancy in Scotland increase by 2 . 3 year . these be the wonder of a Labour Government . of course , we also oversee a vital expansion of social housing in Scotland , something that be need today . the pace of change during that era be incredible , as Scotland be find its foot with its new Parliament , which feel like a bit of an experiment at the time but be now here to stay . in the two decade since then , however , the SNP Government have oversee a period of stagnation and decline across all of the same area . I commend the hon . gentleman on include some positivity in his speech . do he agree that we do not want my gaelic brother and cousin , the SNP Members who be sit in front of I , to leave the Union ? I want they to stay in this great United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland forever , because we be well together . it be the money that come centrally from Westminster that keep the Scottish Parliament and its people go . something that perhaps have not be mention yet be that one of the advantage of devolution have be the tourism connection between Northern Ireland and Scotland — our cousin across the strait . do the hon . Member agree that that be one of the thing that be positive and good in the relationship between people from Ulster and people from Scotland ? I be descend from the Stewarts of the lowland of Scotland , so I be probably scottish , maybe from before some people be — order . Mr Shannon , I be sure we be all fascinate by from whom you be descend , but could I respectfully point out that member who have not be in the Chamber for the bulk of this debate should not be make lengthy intervention ? I thank the hon . member for his intervention . early , we hear about how the scottish child payment have cut child poverty in Scotland . that be something that we all welcome , but it have only happen because of the Barnett consequential that come to Scotland — because of those , public spending in Scotland be high . if they be to go overnight , which some people want , Scotland as a whole would be poor . I be convinced that Scotland will never vote to be poor . get back to the speech and my positivity , over the past year in this place , we have see a real enthusiasm and energy about devolve power to local democracy in England . that be something I see every single week on the Transport Committee — a lot of the power be roll out relate to transport — and we can see the difference that Andy Burnham be make in Manchester . it be a real shame that in Scotland , we do not see the same transfer of power from the centre , Holyrood , into local authority . without a doubt , that be what be hold Scotland back . the situation of housing in Scotland be particularly disheartening . after the Scottish Government declare a national housing emergency — one that they create through their cut , but they do declare a housing emergency none the less — I expect to see a major and concerted effort to reverse the awful trend in the housing situation . instead , the number of complete affordable home fall this year by 22 % , and new housing start be also fall . there be a human cost to this . it be not just about statistic . in Scotland 10 , 000 child be live in temporary accommodation , and more people be live in temporary accommodation in Glasgow than in the whole of Wales . those be incredible statistic , but we have to be careful : this be not a failure of devolution , but a failure of government . tourism , which be mention a few second ago , be a vital part of the scottish economy , and a vital part of Edinburgh ' s economy — it must employ at least one person in every street . however , the lack of decisive action have be clear . the Scottish Government be too focused on accumulate power rather than use they . I love Edinburgh , and I be proud that people come from all over the world to see it , but I be sometimes ashamed of what they see . the amount of tourism come into the city do have an impact , and the city itself gain very little direct cash benefit from the tourism industry . the solution be , of course , a tourist tax — about which I know my conservative friend have their concern . I be on Edinburgh council between 2017 and 2024 , and throughout that time we campaign for a tourist tax power . indeed , I think the council campaign for it for nearly 10 year in the run - up to that . however , for reason unclear to I , the SNP Government oppose it . since then , they have start to support it , and more recently they have try to take the credit for give Edinburgh a power for which it have fight for year . they should be apologise instead , because their dithering have cost Edinburgh million of pound that could have be invest in our city to make it well for its resident and for the tourist who choose to come here . the prolong guddle around the tourist tax raise serious question about the SNP Government ' s use of devolved power . another fantastic example be the Scottish Government ' s power relate to the use of firework . I accept that the power on firework be divide between this place and Holyrood , but I have meet police officer in Edinburgh who have last injury cause by firework , and indeed I have meet police officer and fire brigade personnel who have have firework fire at they . I have meet someone who run a care home that be besiege by young adult with firework . nevertheless , the Scottish Government say that there be insufficient evidence for they to take action on the use of firework in Edinburgh . it be absolutely mind - boggle : they could act , but they choose not to do so . however , the most concerning issue relate to the use of power in Scotland be healthcare , which other have already mention . as we hear early , this be not about NHS staff — such as my wife — but about how the NHS have be resource and support . cancer waiting time be mention a few minute ago ; in Scotland they have never be bad . the situation be quite incredible for people who be wait and wait for a diagnosis , and it should shame we all . as of June 2025 , 7 , 800 patient in Scotland have be wait for in - patient or day - case treatment for more than two year , and in Edinburgh the number be 979 . that figure stand in sharp contrast to the NHS England figure , which I think have also be mention : only 161 people , in a nation of about 50 million people , have be wait for more than two year . be that not incredible ? devolution be never simply about give Scotland more power . it be always about wield those power with accountability — that important word — and competence , which be another important word , to improve the life of people in Scotland . rather than just be hold on to , the power should be use , and should be deploy to local authority . talk of local authority , another issue be council tax . one of the reason the SNP win the election in 2007 be its pledge to scrap council tax , but we be still wait for that to happen . " scrap the hate council tax " be the slogan that we have see on billboard . the current SNP Government have demonstrate a complete inability to meet their fundamental responsibility . another example be shipbuilde . that Government own a shipyard in Scotland , which be fantastic , but they choose to send their own shipbuilding contract to Poland and Turkey . meanwhile , it be leave to the UK Government — and let we give credit to the great work do by the right hon . member for Edinburgh South ( Ian Murray ) in this regard — to go to Norway to bring contract to those scottish yard . where be the Scottish Government ' s priority when it come to shipbuilding ? it be non - existent . do my hon . friend agree that it be ironic that it be only because BAE Systems win the contract with Norway that it be able to give work to Ferguson Marine , which be own by the Scottish Government , to keep it go ? at the time , the Scottish Government be say , " we will not have anything to do with defence procurement . " the irony of that be appal , give that people ' s job be at stake . yes , I do . it be fantastic that the contract come from Norway to the UK , and they will keep household in job for many year to come . it be a fantastic vote of confidence in that workforce and the whole supply chain , but the very , very quiet thank you from the Scottish Government be utterly shameful . it be time for a new Government who will not just set ambitious target , but deliver they and improve the life of people in Scotland . People will not be surprised to hear that I think that new Government should be lead by Anas Sarwar . I want to make one last point . we have speak about parent and child Parliaments , and about level of government . there be nothing that we can do here today to improve the relationship between the Scottish Government and council in Scotland , but when we talk about the issue in Scotland , we have to remember that there be not a hierarchy of councillor , msp and mps . we be all elect by the same people , we be all equal and we be all here to serve those people . if we use that kind of language more in our constituency , resident will come with we on the argument about empower our council to make a real difference in our community . that be the devolution that Scotland need . I welcome this debate and thank the hon . member for Caithness , Sutherland and Easter Ross ( Jamie Stone ) for secure it . I be acutely aware that this debate be not just an opportunity for reflection on the past , but a chance to look forward . over the past two decade , the Scottish Parliament have grow , mature and become a symbol of scottish life . its importance and impact on the people of Scotland be just as relevant as the day - to - day activity in this place , and perhaps even more so . when it come to policy on education , housing and the NHS — what people might consider bread - and - butter issue — decision be now make in Edinburgh . when the Labour Government pass the Scotland Act 1998 , it be an opportunity for we to tailor policy and solution to Scotland , recognise its distinct identity and character , and bring power close to the people as part of our Union of nation . devolution be one of my party ' s great achievement , and I be pleased that this Government be work to renew the settlement . the success of devolution can be judge on two test . the first be a technical test of its structure and principle . devolution renew the UK constitution , reject an old , centralised model of politic that be and be unfit for a modern United Kingdom . on that first test , devolution have be an overwhelming success , but power for power ' s sake be not enough . the second test be very simple : what have devolution deliver ? the past 25 year must be judge on whether people in constituency like mine feel that a positive and material difference have be make to their life . there be many success story from the last 25 year — story that be an argument in favour of power be share and spread out across the UK . we be the first UK nation to ban indoor smoking and the first country in the world to legislate for the right to access free period product , as already mention . but although there be success , those hold devolve power have not always use it for good . I be a councillor in Glasgow before I take up my place in this House , and I witness how , year on year , the Scottish Government would centralise power and cut funding for local authority . in this respect , resource be pull up , not push down . to be clear , the outcome of the second test of delivery be not a failure of devolution , but a failure of the SNP in power . just to explain why Labour be not in power and we be , I will list a few thing we have do for the scottish people and see what the hon . member think : free tuition , free personal care , 1 , 100 — order . an intervention be not a list of item . what be the question ? be there a question ? do the hon . member recognise the over 100 SNP achievement ? I could list they if she want , but I be not go to be allow to do so . do she recognise the real gain and progress that we have make in Scotland ? [ interruption . ] I know Labour Members like to shout down SNP Members — they be sit here do their usual gurn f — but our substantial achievement surely should be recognise by the Labour party . I do recognise the achievement of the Labour Government . [ interruption . ] can I carry on , please ? when the SNP Government take power in 2007 , they promise to eradicate child poverty , but child poverty rate be just as bad today as they be then . the inequality gap have widen in other area , too . the gap in positive outcome for school leaver from the most and the least deprive area have grow . this be drive by a failure in our school , where the attainment gap between the rich and the poor pupil have also widen . a record 10 , 000 child , too many of whom be from my city of Glasgow , be trap without a permanent home and be grow up in temporary accommodation as Scotland ' s housing crisis deepen . one in six scot be wait on an NHS waiting list , with at least 100 , 000 wait for over a year for treatment — disgusting ! compare that with how this Labour Government be bring down waiting time in England . against a backdrop of failure , next year ' s Scottish Parliament election be crucial to Scotland ' s future . the year 2026 represent a chance to ensure that the next chapter of devolution be define by delivery . will the hon . Lady give way ? I will carry on , if the hon . member do not mind , as I have nearly finish . as I say at the start , the success of devolution can be judge on two test . the first be about its structure and principle . I be pleased to say that devolution be now weave into the fabric of our nation , an achievement of which my party be very proud . however , on the second test — how devolve power have be exercise — I have concern . that be why I be convinced that the only way to protect and enhance devolve power be for that power to be exercise by a Scottish Labour Government of vision and drive . the promise of devolution be the promise of a well Scotland , and I hope the people will vote for that next May . I congratulate the hon . member for Caithness , Sutherland and Easter Ross ( Jamie Stone ) on secure this important debate on the 25th anniversary of devolution . my constituency of Edinburgh East and Musselburgh be home to many of Scotland ' s jewel . it be a privilege to represent Edinburgh castle , Holyrood palace and the Edinburgh festival and fringe , although I think the performer be safe give some of the joke we have hear from Opposition Members . however , the most important building in my seat — indeed , in the whole of Scotland — be at the foot of the Royal Mile . not only be it architecturally a huge addition to Edinburgh ' s scenery , but it be where the scottish political heart beat . call the Scottish Parliament the centre of scottish political life may sound like a bland truism , but it be not . it be a huge achievement , and not to think so would be to underestimate the achievement of devolution . before 1999 , critic of devolution say that it would amount to an overgrown town council , cause a brain drain , or be of interest only to the political class , not ordinary scot . I be of the devolution generation : for as long as I can remember , devolution have simply exist . that devolution generation be now reluctantly face middle age , but for we it have become a fact of life that the Scottish Parliament be the primary Parliament in which decision that affect our life be take . the community group and local business that I speak to orient themselves towards Holyrood . when they say " the Parliament , " they mean that place , not this one . that be testament to the Scottish Parliament ' s success in establish itself as the fulcrum of scottish political life . however , we should consider a counterfactual . imagine if devolution have be thwart . our health service , education and justice system and housing policy would all receive only scrap of parliamentary time , with little scrutiny and even less reform . that would be a democratic affront even now , when the Government have 37 scottish mp , but it would have be an outrage over the 14 year under the last Conservative Administration , with little scottish representation . the Scottish Parliament have its flaw , but it have undeniably remedie that democratic deficit , and in so doing , have remove one of the great threat to constitutional stability in Scotland . I pay tribute to the hon . member for Caithness , Sutherland and Easter Ross ( Jamie Stone ) for organise this debate — he be as much an institution as the Scottish Parliament itself . my hon . friend the Member for Edinburgh East and Musselburgh ( Chris Murray ) speak about the Scottish Parliament be the heartbeat of scottish politic . be it not time , in the next 25 year , to devolve power from Edinburgh to region like mine and the highland , to super - charge the Highlands and Islands Enterprise into a highland development agency , cut out — shut your ear — those dynamos of economic activity , Inverness and the Moray firth , and to focus devolve power on transport , housing , depopulation and economic and cultural growth in rural area of Scotland ? power have be pull back from they into a centralised Edinburgh . my hon . friend make an important point . the concentration of power in the Scottish Parliament do not work for city , rural area , the central belt or the highland and island , because it treat Scotland as one monolithic whole and do not address the difference in its community . that bring I to my next point . although devolution have be successful in establish the Scottish Parliament , we have to be honest about where it have fall short . many hon . member have lay out a litany of failure : poor health outcome , fall school standard that be once the envy of Europe , a housing emergency and stubbornly high poverty , and the drug crisis , which shame we all . we once lead the world in set climate target , but we now lead the world in ditch they . we must understand why that happen . if we think of devolution only as the establishment of the Scottish Parliament , we get it wrong . in 1999 , another institution be create — the Scottish Government , then the Scottish Executive . I envy the jewel in my hon . friend ' s constituency . the Scottish Government — and the Greens , who be complicit — really get climate target wrong . the target be set in law and endorse via an election , but they dump they overnight . be that not one of the most shameful thing to have happen in Holyrood ? my hon . friend get exactly to the nub of the issue . we have see good debate , gesture and discussion in Scotland , but we have not see the concomitant focus on policy , delivery and outcome . the Scottish Parliament have be a success ; the Scottish Government have not . it be important to draw that distinction . a highly centralise structure have concentrate decision - making in St Andrew ' s House , to the detriment of local community . as we have hear , council have have their funding and influence hollow out . there have be a proliferation of quango and agency ; there be now more quango in Scotland than there be member of the Scottish Parliament . that breed a clientelism and elitism that shut ordinary people out of decision - make process . the hon . Member be make a very strong and powerful point . do he agree that , as a result of those quango and the thing he be describe , we have actually see a loss of power to the Scottish Parliament , where msp be not get the opportunity to put thing forward ? often , that be because the Scottish Government be bring forward framework Bills that do not have proper policy decision , which be why the implementation of so many piece of legislation ultimately fail . I think the hon . Lady may be psychic , because she make exactly the point I be about to make . I could not agree with she more . what this breed be a culture of gesture and tokenism . that mean we side - step tough choice in Scotland . we duck the trade - off that be require to implement policy change . we now have roundtable and co - production as substitute for reform , and consultation and strategy as substitute for action . I would take that argument one step far . when Labour come to power in 1999 , it set about tackle Scotland ' s press problem , as the Chair of the Select Committee , my hon . friend the Member for Glasgow West ( Patricia Ferguson ) , refer to : free bus pass ; ban smoke in public place ; repeal section 28 , for which I will personally be forever grateful ; and pursue radical homelessness and housing reform . but fundamentally , that policy agenda have be develop in the 1990 and the Government set about implement it when they get in . when the SNP take office in 2007 with its fundamental policy goal of independence , all policy development be shape around that objective . I have to say that the fact that independence have not be realise have become the alibi for every policy failure on its watch . what that mean be that the Scottish Parliament never become the policy development hub in scottish political life . it be denude of its ability to form idea and for those to be turn into action , and to do the full spectrum of policy development in Scotland , such as identify social problem , work through how reform would work , weigh up the trade - off , broker the consent among the people and then turn those idea into tangible reality in people ' s life . I be a devolutionist not just because I believe in scottish representation , but because I believe in the power of the state to change scottish life . the Scottish Parliament give we the locus to debate that , but the Scottish Government have fail to give we the mechanism to operationalise and turn it into reality . it be my assertion that the Scottish Parliament now stand , along with Magna Carta , the Bill of Rights and the Good Friday agreement , as a firmament of the british constitutional set - up . Donald Dewar say it should be not just an end , but a means to a great end . we have the mean now , but it be lamentable that we have not use they to achieve those end . the last 18 year have be heavy on argument , short on policy delivery . a different direction be need to fulfil the promise of devolution , which be the devolved Government use the power of the state not to further their own ambition , but to materially improve the life of Scotland ' s people . I congratulate my good friend the hon . member for Caithness , Sutherland and Easter Ross ( Jamie Stone ) on secure this debate , which he lead with the same erudition and success with which he lead the victorious Scottish Parliament " University Challenge " team against our dear colleague in the Welsh Parliament . Madam Deputy Speaker , this be an early win for scottish devolution . I know that this debate be particularly close to his heart , as it be to the heart of my hon . friend the Member for Glasgow West ( Patricia Ferguson ) and to mine , as former member of the Scottish Parliament , where we have the privilege to serve . today , more than 25 year after the Parliament open in 1999 , it be an appropriate point to look back over what have be accomplish through devolution . I remain proud that it be the 1997 Labour Government , through the Scotland Act , who pave the way to our Parliament . since that principle have be establish in Scotland , so many region and city across the UK have also embrace the principle of devolution with great success . as we look to the future of our constitutional settlement and reform of this Parliament — independence for Scotland or further devolution be not the only constitutional debate we have — I hope we will see a great role still for our nation and region here , along the line envision by Gordon Brown in the excellent report by his Commission on the UK ' s Future . that we have see devolution of power across the UK since the foundation of the Scottish Parliament be , I believe , a positive reflection on devolution in Scotland be the settle and test will of the scottish people . since 1999 , significant additional power have be devolve to Holyrood , not least around income tax . it be so disappointing , therefore , that while the Scottish National party have be quick to demand great devolution of power to Scotland , it have be unable and unwilling to devolve power to local community in Scotland . this debate be title " Devolution in Scotland " , but the sad fact be that there have be precious little devolution in Scotland under the SNP . minister in Edinburgh have centralise power at every turn and eviscerate the budget of our local authority . what have the Scottish Government achieve with the power they have so ruthlessly retain for themselves , instead of devolve they to local community , and with the £ 5 . 2 billion additional funding give to the Scottish Government in the Budget this year ? the SNP have preside over a rate of economic growth in Scotland that have lag behind that in the rest of the United Kingdom , and it have fail to support our teacher and pupil . the reputation of our education system in Scotland — once the great pride of our country — have be batter because of the incompetence of SNP Ministers . while NHS waiting list in England be shrink thank to the investment secure by the Chancellor , and the successful stewardship of health service by the Secretary of State , Ministers in Scotland be squander billion of pound extra on our health service . in Fife , we face some of the long waiting time for surgery anywhere in Scotland . the hon . member for Gordon and Buchan ( Harriet Cross ) mention the sorry statistic on drug death in Scotland . the issue be take a tragic toll on many community and family in my constituency . on the wide provision of health service , particularly with regard to primary care , it be frankly beyond belief to hear some of the promise make by John Swinney on walk - in appointment at GP surgery . lochgelly in my constituency be still wait for any indication that work will begin on a new health centre that be badly need by the local community . SNP Ministers first promise it more than 15 year ago . we have also discuss the centralisation of police and fire service in Scotland . what have be its result ? certainly in my constituency , police number be be cut in the face of rise concern about antisocial behaviour . on fire and rescue service , lochgelly face the removal of a fire engine and a reduce number of firefighter , and another appliance be to be remove in either Glenrothes or Methil . it be no wonder that in a debate on devolution , SNP Members want only to talk about independence , give their woeful record in government under devolution . what a contrast with what Labour Ministers in Westminster be deliver for Scotland , and what Scottish Labour offer next year — not a tired Government out of idea , but a government who will fix our nhs , restore our school , close the opportunity gap , grow our economy and bring back community police for safe community . labour will ensure that the record funding in public service in Scotland be not waste , but actually result in the improvement that people expect , need and deserve . it be Labour Ministers who be actually devolve power on decision making , ensure that community have a real say in what will make a difference for they . two pride in place scheme in Fife be bring £ 40 million of investment into the community where it be most need . in his famous address at the opening of the Scottish Parliament , Donald Dewar speak of the " shout of the welder in the din of the great Clyde shipyard " . this Government have secure the future of 2 , 000 job at the Clyde shipyard with a £ 10 billion deal with Norway for new frigate . in my constituency , the Methil yard be save from bankruptcy by the action of this Government , as Ministers succeed in ensure that it be purchase by Navantia UK , along with Arnish in the constituency of my hon . friend the Member for Na h - Eileanan an Iar ( Torcuil Crichton ) , save the job of 200 skilled worker and apprentice in Methil , and allow the yard to look to a bright future . I fear that my colleague be be far too modest ; he play a key role in save those job . I can remember he , just after the election , pace these corridor , fraught and worried . I pay tribute to he for all his work on this . I be grateful to my hon . friend for those kind word . I be renowned for my modesty , as he know . equally modest be my hon . friend the Member for Na h - Eileanan an Iar ( Torcuil Crichton ) and Labour Ministers , who do much work on these key issue for our local community . in May , Scotland will have the chance of a bright future if it elect a new Government , who actually want devolution to work , with Anas Sarwar as First Minister . Scotland should replace a tired Scottish Government who have run out of idea with new leadership that have already show that it be ambitious for Scotland and ready to deliver on the promise of devolution . " Modesty " and " politician " be not two word that you often hear in the same sentence . I call Brian Leishman — and I hope your cough be well . thank you , Madam Deputy Speaker , I appreciate it . I thank the hon . member for Caithness , Sutherland and Easter Ross ( Jamie Stone ) for secure this debate . the intense animosity that the Thatcher and Major Governments create make the prospect of more political power be base in Scotland highly attractive , but devolution have — so far , at least — be a let - down . the goal of take meaningful decision locally have not be realise , and that be pure political failure . since devolution , local authority ’ ability to be vehicle for drive meaningful improvement to community have be reduce because of underfunding . power have be concentrate in big government in Edinburgh , and ironically the SNP have end up repeat what happen under Thatcher and Major by dilute the influence of local councillor . quite simply , community need council to be properly fund by the Scottish Government . De - industrialisation , insecure employment , low wage and child poverty be all feature of life in Scotland back in 1999 , and they still be , because this year Scotland lose its oil refining capacity , mean that hundred of job be go — and Grangemouth have pocket of the bad poverty in the country , accord to statistic from the scottish index of multiple deprivation . elsewhere , 25 % of child in Clackmannanshire will go to bed tonight live in poverty . imagine be bear into poverty , and exist — not live — in poverty , unable to escape it . that be the reality of life for million of Scots today . another thing that negatively impact life chance and the possibility of social mobility in working - class community like mine be the collapse of the scottish further education sector under this SNP Government , which other member have mention . we have see flat cash settlement , and funding for college reduce by 20 % over the last five year . the principal of Forth Valley college say that if funding do not change , the Alloa campus will close in 2026 , with Stirling set to close in 2027 , and Falkirk more than likely to close in 2028 . living standard and life chance be plummet in Scotland . the SNP Government have be in charge for nearly two decade . this be on they . if any nationalist dare say , " what about Wales ? " or " the statistic be bad in England " , then they be show themselves up . by use someone else ' s poverty and hardship as some sort of perverse justification for the abject failure of governance in Holyrood , they show that they be not the bastion of socialism that they say they be . socialist know that poverty be a political failure when it impact any and every community . the report card for the Scottish Parliament say that it must do well , but let we be honest : the fact that council be underfunded and college be in crisis be ultimately not because of a failure of devolution . the failure be down to the people in charge : this SNP Government . for the sake of devolution and for the sake of Scotland , we need a change next May . I welcome the debate , bring forward by the hon . member for Caithness , Sutherland and Easter Ross ( Jamie Stone ) . as my hon . friend the Member for Cowdenbeath and Kirkcaldy ( Melanie Ward ) point out , I be a member of the devolution generation . as my hon . friend the Member for Edinburgh East and Musselburgh ( Chris Murray ) say , some of we in that generation be still in our 20 . to the good of my knowledge , I be the first of Scotland ' s national elect representative to be bear after the founding of the Scottish Parliament . reflection on the success and failure of devolution over the last 25 year be critical to the devolution generation . the constitutional settlement may still be under debate in some corner , but I hope that one thing that unite we across the House be support for a Scottish Parliament , democratically elect by the people of Scotland . the eternal word of the Scotland Act 1998 — " there shall be a Scottish Parliament " — echo proudly ; they be not just the long - won prize of campaign by politician from this place and across Scotland , but a definitive decision by the scottish people that there will be an institution govern many of our priority that be directly representative of the scottish people . the Scottish Parliament ' s existence have a far great mandate than any individual politician or Government ever have or will have . in 1997 , 80 % of voter in Falkirk back devolution . the first Scottish Parliament return Cathy Peattie and Dennis Canavan as the two constituency msp for the Falkirk area — both people who have make an immense contribution to our public life . devolution bring with it an electoral system that permit a far preferable , if not perfect , representative voting system . however , I say as a proud devolutionist that we can not get catch in the trap of nostalgia , or defence of the status quo . Scotland ' s Parliaments and two government must always do well in the interest of the scottish people . that be not only their core purpose , but an essential antidote to the enemy of democracy , especially now . the perception of my generation , who have only ever know devolution , and have not know a world before the Scottish Parliament , be at a critical juncture . one of the most remarkable conversation I have recently be with a group of young carer in my constituency . they be buzz with remarkable suggestion and clear , pragmatic idea about how their community could be improve . those include idea for , yes , support for carer , but also for more accessible high street , for safety for woman and girl , and for public transport — all core competency of their local council or the Scottish Parliament . we should strongly welcome the fact that there be a burgeon generation of young representative and leader in Falkirk and across Scotland , and many of they have direct life experience of the system that the devolve legislature have govern for the last 25 year . the question for we and our colleague in the Scottish Parliament be : how , in this next phase of devolution , will we empower that generation to lead , and to make well decision than those who come before they ? what stick out to I when I have these refresh conversation with bright , young Falkirk bairn be how much young people tend to agree on the priority ; on how politician should collaborate to deliver they ; and on how government should do thing . I see how reasonable young people be when hold politician to account , and how much of what they want to do and see be relevant to their area . one of the great asset that we have in the devolution generation be a generation who be engage in their area , and who have the political language and skill to fight their community ' s corner . that be progress . vote at 16 , secure in 2016 for scottish parliamentary election , be now to be deliver here , under this Labour Government . however , an element of trust in our politic be be erode , uniquely in Scotland . the issue be structural and long - term . I have no qualm about state that Tory austerity be a predominant factor in the decline that we have see on various front in Scotland and across the UK , but my constituent see that the devolve settlement have not manoeuvre strategically or effectively to maintain an achievable rate of progress under those circumstance . the challenge face under devolution be common to this place , too : it be a lack of delivery that my constituent can see and feel . over 10 year ago , the former First Minister say that she want to prioritise , and be judge on , close the attainment gap , but she barely make a dent in it . that gap between rhetoric and delivery undermine the public ' s faith in Parliament as an institution , as do the lack of accountability afterwards , or the willingness to be hold directly accountable for that failure . after a quarter of a century of Labour rule , child poverty in Wales be the bad than in all other nation of the UK . be that the reason for the collapse in support for Labour in Caerphilly , and why , tomorrow , people will turn to Plaid Cymru ? I imagine the people of Wales choose to vote in the same way as the scottish people do for the Scots . my hon . friend the Member for Alloa and Grangemouth ( Brian Leishman ) put it very well : simply pick a different nation in the UK to tackle our policy issue be get exhausting , especially on the nationalist Benches . not all but part of the problem with the failure to close the attainment gap , as many member have mention , and a broad loss of trust in our politic , be due to disproportionate budget cut that have land at the door of local authority . have be a councillor for two and a half year , I know that they be at the coalface deliver the service in which our constituent have most acutely see the evidence of decline . even though council tax have be freeze for 11 out of the last 17 year of budget settlement , I be completely surprised at the stunt at the 2023 SNP conference which leave council with both arm tie behind their back . the challenge we see in social care and infrastructure be tie in with local authority . this be where politic be most tangibly feel by our constituent and it be currently fail they . even with a £ 5 . 2 billion increase secure by we on these Benches for Scotland , Falkirk Council be allocate only an additional £ 5 million in revenue funding this year from the Scottish Government . where have the rest of the money go , John ? college in Scotland , as again my hon . friend the Member for Alloa and Grangemouth touch upon , be at crisis point . with year of systematic underfunding from the Scottish Government see a 20 % real - term cut in funding over the past five year , many college have now shrink their staff number and offer few course for working - class student at a time when the skill they provide be at their most valuable . Forth Valley college have be put in the position of be an essential provider of training and skill , while Grangemouth undergo an industrial crisis and require major investment for transition . it be a hugely valuable local provider of job , opportunity and training , yet it be now consult on the closure of its Alloa campus . thing be go in the wrong direction . Scotland ' s civic infrastructure should have be enhance and resilient and protect by devolution , but in too many place it have not be protect . on the situation at Alexander Dennis , when it announce its consultation on 400 job and close its only site in Scotland , there be , to their credit , engagement eventually from the Scottish Government , but that be 10 month after the company initially suggest it be go to depart Scotland if something be not do about the scandalous ScotZEB 2 scheme — scottish zero emission bus challenge fund — send less than 20 % of order to Scotland ' s sole manufacturer . however , there have be improvement in how we in this place , under this Labour Government , work with the Administration in Edinburgh . as the Deputy First Minister accurately point out recently , the swift engagement from my right hon . friend the Member for Edinburgh South ( Ian Murray ) in his time as Scottish Secretary be invaluable in ensure that the conversation progress quickly . the truth be that when that sort of crisis arrive in one of our industrial asset — something we should all intrinsically value : a bus manufacturer that have exist long before the inception of the Scottish Parliament and long before any of we be around — action should have be take much early , at strategic level , design procurement through the power the Scottish Parliament have to retain a pipeline of order fund by taxpayer money for bus build in Scotland , not build in China . my hon . friend be eloquently set out a whole host of policy challenge that we face in Scotland , whether they be in industrial strategy , opportunity for the young or the provision of further education . do he agree that when the Government of Scotland say that the answer to every single one of those challenge be independence , that shut down any thinking on what we actually need to do to tackle the challenge and denude Scotland of the ability to think through how we deal with the real issue that we face in our community ? I agree . it also undermine the message in section 1 of the Scotland Act 1998 that there shall be a Scottish Parliament with the power to fix policy challenge . it be the reason we be proud devolutionist in this place : we want a Scottish Parliament that can address the issue under its competency . I agree that that reaction do shut down debate ; it shut down the idea that there be something well that we can achieve in all of our constituent ' interest . as I say on Alexander Dennis , we should never have be in a position where a company warn about the loss of a critical and necessary industry in Scotland , especially as we seek to achieve our net zero goal , and it take over a year for decisive action to be take to prevent it , albeit I welcome that . a devolved Government with a serious interest in stand up for Scotland beyond its be a slogan would not and should not have let it get to that point . across this place , in the Scottish Government and in our council that have be hard - pressed for far too many year under a Government who I hope get replace next year , we must do well . Scotland demand well and Falkirk demand well . I thank the hon . member for Caithness , Sutherland and Easter Ross ( Jamie Stone ) for secure this important debate . the last Labour Government have many remarkable achievement , include sure Start , the national minimum wage and the Human Rights Act 1998 , but right up there among our proud be deliver devolution to Scotland . that be our vision , root in the belief that community be well place to make local decision that shape their life . I know this might age I somewhat , but I be proud to be active in the campaign for the establishment of the Scottish Parliament and campaign for a Parliament that have tax - vary power . indeed , I still have my " yes - yes " t - shirt to prove it . we have see the success of devolution in London , Manchester and Liverpool , with well transport , more house building and more investment in grassroots sport . when power be put in the hand of those who know their community well , devolution deliver . yet I fear that the obsession of the SNP Government in Holyrood with seek to rerun referendum after referendum have paralyse Government north of the border . their endless fixation on independence have come at the expense of delivery . they promise more home but build a housing crisis ; they pledge to strengthen our NHS but put party politic over patient ; and instead of serve Scotland they have sink to sleaze and scandal . council across our country be on their knee after funding cut year after year . local government funding in Scotland over the last 18 year have fall by 42 % , which be less than it would have be have it keep up with inflation . in a summer interview promote her catalogue of career failure , Nicola Sturgeon admit that she might leave Scotland " for a wee while " — the great champion for independence now flee the wreck her party have create . while London , Manchester and Liverpool reap the reward of devolution do properly , for the last 18 year Scotland have be leave with a government more interested in constitutional game than the real business of govern . although that might be a game to some of those on the Opposition Benches , the consequence for my constituent be very real , and I will speak to one example . while the Scottish Government have be hand the large funding settlement in the history of devolution by this Labour Government , in my constituency of Paisley and Renfrewshire South , the SNP - run health and social care partnership be swinge the axe on vital frontline service to plug a £ 19 million black hole in its budget that it create . right now , it be hold voluntary severance talk across the partnership , cut job and gutte and hollow out service that have already be strip to the bone . user of the Disability Resource Centre , which be a lifeline for people live with physical disability , many of whom reside in my constituency , now face a review of their fee and transport cost backdate to April . that potentially mean bill of more than £ 1 , 000 hit the doorstep of some of the most vulnerable people in our community , drive they out the back door and slam it shut on the vital service that they rely on across Renfrewshire . last year , the SNP locally be humiliate into a u - turn on a propose merger of the Mirin and Milldale day centre after brave campaigner stand up to say no to cut to the vital service their family rely on . yet last month , the SNP drag back the same cruel proposal , put the same family through the same anguish all over again . it be cynical , it be calculate and it be downright cruel . hon . member need not just take my word for it . these be the word of Linda Murray , a member of the Renfrewshire Learning Disability Carers Group , who say last month : " we know it wasn ' t a do deal last year . we basically get a stay of execution … we ' re tired , we ' re exhausted , it take a lot out of all of we and we expect to at least get a couple of year ' grace " . we have see it all before . just like its endless independence obsession , the SNP ignore the will of the people and grind our community down until exhaustion deliver it the outcome it demand . that be not democracy ; it be harassment of vulnerable family . the result be that the most vulnerable people in my community be rob of the care that they rely on . that be not just a failure of leadership ; it be a disgrace . the SNP lead for the local integrate joint board say : " the IJB ' s financial challenge have be well document " . I rarely say this of the SNP , but I happen to agree with she . those financial challenge have be well document , so why have the local SNP representative not challenge their own Government in Holyrood to get they the money that they rely on , especially when the Government have be give such a generous financial settlement from this Labour Government ? in truth , it have be 18 waste year — year of scandal , year of sleaze and year of division — while school in my community have be subject to decline , our hospital struggle and our service face collapse . this be not about money , because the Scottish Government have the money . this be not about power , because they have the power . this be about excuse , and for the SNP Government in Holyrood , they have no excuse leave . Scotland deserve well , our NHS deserve well , our local people deserve well , and next year , the people of Scotland can choose a new and fresh direction with a Scottish Labour Government lead by Anas Sarwar . I thank the hon . member for Caithness , Sutherland and Easter Ross ( Jamie Stone ) for secure the debate and for his thoughtful and reflective opening speech . although the Scottish Parliament may be a place of hotly debate politic , the importance of scottish devolution be unquestionable . it be right to refer to devolution and the Scottish Parliament as the " settle will " of the scottish people . as predict , it have become a cornerstone for scottish democracy in the UK , but close the political and social gap between the decision maker and the people those decision impact upon can not and should not stop at devolution from London to Edinburgh — from this place to Holyrood . in recent year we have see the benefit of further devolving power and funding to city region across the UK , with the ability at local level to create and tailor policy to well serve community . in Scotland , however , devolution appear to have stall at Holyrood . in recent year , the SNP have follow the principle of " devolution for I and not for thee " . there seem to have be little appetite from the Scottish Government to pass power and more funding to the Glasgow city region and other community across Scotland . devolution have effectively stall . this be even though further devolution be the logical continuation of the principle of power sharing , representation and accountability that be pivotal in the creation of the Scottish Parliament in the first place . such a continuation of devolution be important for the Glasgow metropolitan region — a city region with a well developed and establish collaboration system . this include the city deal — one of the large in the UK — the UK Government ' s share prosperity fund and the city region innovation accelerator , to name just a few . these investment have already deliver job and major regeneration for area across Glasgow city region . this be proof that the Glasgow region can handle more responsibility while also create a case for more necessary accountability and governance . the Glasgow city region be now at a point where the Scottish Government and the city region need to look at a range of policy area and lever , include power over transport , housing , skill , economic development and public service reform , and to devolve those appropriate power to allow the Glasgow city region to tailor its policy to the need of our community . for our community , this could mean well bus that turn up on time , people no long on housing waiting list for year and year , and more opportunity for neglect community . the devolution of power and responsibility must be base on strategic aim , provide the process to deliver the policy to achieve those aim , and those process must be accountable and transparent with robust governance , but all of this must be root in the outcome that we want to achieve : to reduce inequality and poverty ; to improve access to healthcare and improve health outcome ; and to create new job and opportunity . a recent report by the Centre for Cities make this case for further devolution , too . it estimate that if Glasgow perform in line with city of comparable size , Scotland ' s economy could be 4 . 6 % large . when I campaign with so many other during the referendum in 1997 for the establishment of the Scottish Parliament , it be to devolve power from this place as appropriate to the Scottish Parliament . it be not for those power and responsibility then to be hoard by Holyrood ; it be part of a wide process to devolve power down through local government and to community and citizen . during next year ' s scottish election , the scottish people again have an opportunity to revitalise devolution . by elect a Scottish Labour Government with Anas Sarwar as First Minister , they can have a Government who be committed to the principle of devolution and who will deliver on the priority of the scottish people , instead of continue with constitutional posturing . we can build on the success of the Scottish Parliament and develop a strong Scottish Parliament . it will be make strong not by grasp on to power but by devolve power far . we can renew the commitment to devolution , renew the commitment to empower community and renew our direction — all of that in the service of the scottish people . I call the liberal Democrat spokesperson . I thank my hon . friend the Member for Caithness , Sutherland and Easter Ross ( Jamie Stone ) for bring attention to the matter . as my colleague have make clear , the liberal Democrats believe in devolution . our vote push it over the line in 1999 , deliver a Scottish Parliament and take decision make close to the people . we remain proud of that achievement , and we want that devolution to extend to council and to community , yet the sad reality be that the opportunity present to Scotland by devolution have be squander . year of financial mismanagement , fail education reform and endless NHS recovery plan have let scot down . after nearly two decade in office , the SNP have prove every bit as adept at fail the people of Scotland as they have accuse the Conservatives of be . we have watch the SNP divert half a billion pound from green energy initiative simply to plug budget gap ; through mismanagement , we have see the squandering of another half a billion on ferry that be originally promise for less than £ 100 million ; and worryingly , we have see the party ' s own finance call into question . conservative curtain and cupboard be clearly a no - go , but the SNP motorhome be all right . despite those failure and the clear rejection of independence , the SNP continue to demand referenda . in 2014 , the " time be right " and the people of Scotland say no . in 2016 , the " time be right " again and the court reject it . in 2025 , it repeat the same mantra . a vote once describe as once in a generation have become once in a Parliament . instead of work for the scottish people , it flog the same tired cause . the Liberal Democrats offer a different vision : a fair deal for Scotland within a strong federal United Kingdom . we want decision take as close to local community as possible , empower they to shape their future , but co - operation at the federal level be vital to tackle the challenge we face as a nation . this be why the Liberal Democrats want a joint council of the nation to drive innovation and co - ordinate action to tackle the climate emergency . we want to secure agreement through the common framework and a fair dispute resolution process so that difference between administration be resolve maturely , not through endless political game . we want strong joint ministerial work on issue such as the industrial strategy to ensure that every nation ' s voice be hear in shape our economy . that kind of co - operation deliver result . we should draw on the strength of all four nation , not tear they apart and play politic with people ' s future . Scotland deserve well than the uncertainty it have experience . it deserve co - operation , certainty and a Government who listen . I look forward to the scottish election next year , with more liberal Democrat msp enter the Scottish Parliament to work hard in the interest of scottish people of all age . I call the shadow Secretary of State for Scotland . I start by congratulate the hon . member for Caithness , Sutherland and Easter Ross ( Jamie Stone ) on secure this debate — at the second attempt . I know how important devolution in Scotland be to he , a signatory of the claim of right and a founder Member of the Scottish Parliament , and that he want to see it work well for the people of Scotland . I remember the day the Scottish Parliament be reconvene , in the word of Winnie Ewing . I be not quite as young as some of today ' s contributor , but I be still at primary school . it be a seminal moment . I be from one of those generation of scot who can not really remember a time before there be a Scottish Parliament . as somebody who have work in the Scottish Parliament , it be a place for which I have great fondness . the machinery of devolution , set in motion over a quarter of a century ago , be intend to bring decision make close to the people , to empower community and to enhance accountability . it be never mean to be a stepping stone to separation , nor a shield for poor governance . when we assess devolution , we must consider whether it have bring power close to community , whether it foster accountability and whether it deliver essential service for scot and across Scotland to a high standard . under the scottish nationalist , the system be not deliver for Scotland . the creep transfer of power from community to Holyrood undermine the core ambition of deliver power into local hand . while the civil service in Edinburgh be feed to the point of bloat , power be usurped from local authority and deliver to centralised decision maker . in 1995 , the labour shadow Secretary of State for Scotland predict that devolution would kill separatism " stone dead " , that deliver power to the Scottish Executive , then create a Scottish Parliament , would satiate the separatist appetite . sadly , that have turn out not to be the case . in 2015 , in the wake of the fail bid for independence , the Smith review be commission to set out provision for great devolution . from that experiment , we now know that it matter not how much be give ; it will never be enough for the nationalist . the nationalist in Scotland bray out for more , more , more while deliver less and less and less . today I implore the Minister , the Secretary of State and this Government to be brave and stand firm in support of our United Kingdom and move away from the " devolve and forget " mentality . the Labour party do some analysis that show that Liz Truss ' s mini - budget cost homeowner in the UK £ 336 billion — about five or six time the budget of the Scottish Parliament . what impact do the hon . member think that have on devolution and trust in this institution ? when the Scottish Parliament be establish , and when the Scottish Executive , now Government , be create , I think the scottish people expect it to do a bit well than continually compare its record and role to the role of the UK Government . People be frankly feed up of , " England be do bad , " and would like some accountability and responsibility to be hold by those who have be elect to Holyrood and , indeed , hold power over vast swathe of life in Scotland . we all agree that some mistake be make under the last Conservative Administration — some — but that do not in any way excuse the hon . member for never once stand in this place and resile from or show any contrition about the litany of mistake and the sheer disaster that have befall some of the public service that our constituent , represent by most of the mps in this room , have to suffer day in , day out . that include fall standard in education and Scotland ' s NHS , few local service , library closing and transport infrastructure fail to meet even the level at which it be at in 1997 when the referendum be hold . we acknowledge our mistake and acknowledge that we do not get everything right over the last 14 year . it would be quite nice if one day a Scottish National party Member of Parliament be able to do the same about their Administration in Edinburgh . scot face the high tax burden anywhere in the UK , with little to show for it . under the scottish nationalist , the standard of service — education , healthcare , policing — have take a severe blow . waiting list grow long , Police Scotland face cut , violence in school be rise , and outcome in education and health lag behind those in England . despite more funding per child , scottish pupil be fall behind . despite high per capita spending on healthcare , life expectancy be low and more patient wait over two year for treatment . the NHS in Scotland have recover less well from the pandemic . the challenge of rurality and deprivation be real , but they be not excuse . under the scottish nationalist , scot pay more and get less . let we be absolutely clear : devolution be not the problem . the problem be the party in power in Edinburgh — a party that clamour for more power , more control and more devolution , yet fail to deliver on the power it already hold ; a party that centralise , duplicate and bloat the civil service in Edinburgh while outcome deteriorate . just last week we hear the break record of the SNP regurgitate plan to tear apart our United Kingdom , include report of £ 10 , 000 of taxpayer ' money spend on a pro - independence propaganda campaign . I would like to ask the Government whether they plan to get a grip on that and prevent the Scottish Government from spend UK taxpayer money on research and advertising on their obsession with independence . it be time for the SNP to focus on the priority that matter to scot . devolution of great power over welfare be implement through the Scotland Act 2016 , yet here we be , nearly a decade later , still see statutory instrument come through Westminster to tidy up the unfinished business of devolve welfare responsibility . the duplication , the inefficiency and the inefficacy be staggering , and that be only the beginning . the failure of the Scottish Government under the nationalist be not a foreign concern . one of the problem that have result from devolution be that scottish , Welsh and the majority of northern irish issue fail to be debate on the Floor of this House . school performance crash down the international table ; rise antisocial behaviour ; fall police number — these be not just scottish issue , but issue for all of we in this United Kingdom . the Conservatives will no long accept a " devolve and forget " mentality . it have allow the Scottish Government to evade scrutiny and accountability for far too long . my MSP colleague , lead fantastically by Russell Findlay in the scottish Conservatives , work tirelessly in Holyrood to hold the SNP to account , but it be also our job here , in the sovereign Parliament of the United Kingdom , to do that . be it not for bold and correct decision of the Conservative Secretary of State , Alister Jack and the now Leader of the Opposition to stand up to the absurd Gender Recognition Reform ( Scotland ) Bill , we would have biological man in woman ' s space — prison , refuge , bathroom and change space . by the way , although the Bill be implement and bring forward by the Scottish National party , it be support by Scottish Labour . it also appear to be support by the Reform party , accord to their justice adviser . the Labour party have since concede it be wrong to support the Bill , which prompt the question of whether they read it at the time . we in the conservative party will not stand by in this place while drug death ravage community in Glasgow , while child from deprive background suffer the most from poor educational opportunity in a schooling system that be once the envy of the world , or while the concern and safety of woman and girl in prison and protect space be ignore and trivialise . we will not stand idly by and allow the scottish nationalist to fail scot so tremendously . we refuse to devolve and forget . twenty - five year on from the creation of the Scottish Parliament , it be time to take stock and reflect on the success , but also on the failure , of that institution and its government . it be time to evaluate not just the structure of devolution , but the performance of those entrust with its power . we remain committed to devolution , but the Conservatives will not shy away from ask whether the current settlement be deliver for scot . I welcome today ' s debate on devolution . at its heart , it be really a discussion of how we deliver well outcome for the people of Scotland . that objective have long animate the public service of my hon . friend the Member for Glasgow West ( Patricia Ferguson ) and the hon . member for Caithness , Sutherland and Easter Ross ( Jamie Stone ) . I be grateful to they for secure this debate , and particularly grateful to my hon . friend the Member for Glasgow West for the very moving tribute she pay to our depart friend Donald Dewar and John Smith . I be incredibly proud that Labour be the party of devolution and that it be a Labour Government that deliver the Scottish Parliament in 1999 . I do not wish to pay tribute or give thank to my hon . friend the Members for Edinburgh East and Musselburgh ( Chris Murray ) or for Falkirk ( Euan Stainbank ) for their trolling about the fact that they do not , like so many of we , come of age during that devolution debate . I be proud to say that a vote in favour of a Scottish Parliament be the first ballot I ever cast , and since that time I have never waver in my belief that Scotland ' s interest be well serve by be part of our Union of nation , while at the same time have a Parliament in Scotland that can reflect the distinctive interest and need of Scotland . those of you who can cast your mind back to the beginning of this debate some hour ago may remember that the hon . member for Caithness , Sutherland and Easter Ross and my hon . friend the Member for Glasgow West make some important point about what we might be able to learn from the operation and procedure of each Parliament . the hon . member for Caithness , Sutherland and Easter Ross mention that he would like Ministers to be more accessible , so I give the undertaking on the Floor of the House that I hope in myself and the Secretary of State you will always find Scotland Office Ministers accessible to you — Order . " you " be I . apology , Madam Deputy Speaker . I hope member across this House will always find we accessible to they and willing to make their constituent ' case across Government . my hon . friend the Member for Glasgow West say she feel that we should spend less time in the Lobby . I underscore that I be delighted to be spend so much time with you all in the Lobby — they all ! apology , Madam Deputy Speaker — my mistake . the hon . member for Moray West , Nairn and Strathspey ( Graham Leadbitter ) say that he would like to focus some of this debate on the state of the health service in Scotland , and we would be delighted to address that . as we have hear repeatedly on the Floor of the House today , if people live south of the border , they experience more and more appointment be available and waiting list go down ; if they live up the road , one in six of they be on a waiting list . my hon . friend the Member for Cumbernauld and Kirkintilloch ( Katrina Murray ) , who I thank for her service in the NHS , relay that so movingly . my hon . friend the Member for Cowdenbeath and Kirkcaldy ( Melanie Ward ) do likewise and speak movingly about the experience of patient in her area . the hon . member for Gordon and Buchan ( Harriet Cross ) talk about pause capital health spending in her constituency , and I be very sorry to hear that . I advise she to ask the SNP Government about the record settlement they have in the devolution area and where the money , which could have be put to good use for patient in her area , have go . the shadow Secretary of State , the hon . member for West Aberdeenshire and Kincardine ( Andrew Bowie ) , ask this government to be unequivocal in our support for the United Kingdom . I be pleased to confirm that we be , but we recognise that support for this family of nation be partly dependent on the delivery of this Government in Westminster . we be resolutely focus on deliver for scot and clean up the mess that his party leave . the shadow Secretary of State ' s party colleague , the hon . member for Dumfries and Galloway ( John Cooper ) , accuse we of focus too much on trade promotion — guilty as charge . we could almost taste the envy about the three trade deal secure under this Government . I be pleased to confirm that we will continue to promote Scotland ' s world - class product and service to the world , and we will do so proudly and without apology . the Minister will agree that the work on those trade deal be begin under the previous Administration . credit for those trade deal sit with those who get they over the line . this be a Labour Government who have deliver comprehensively for Scotland ' s world - class producer and service , and we be delighted to have do so . the hon . member for Arbroath and Broughty Ferry ( Stephen Gethins ) say that we should really be have a debate about accountability , and I agree with he . we have more quango chiefs than msp in Scotland , because it be actually very difficult to hold to account those who deliver public service and spend public money in Scotland . that be why Anas Sarwar be so intent on bring back accountability to elect member . on the point about accountability , in the Scottish Parliament all parliamentarian be elect . follow that , do the Minister think that all parliamentarian should be elect in this place as well ? we be focus on the priority of the people of Scotland . we constantly have constitutional question and question about second - order concern from the Opposition Benches , but we will resolutely focus on job and pay in Scotland , as we be elect to do . my hon . friend the Members for Glasgow North ( Martin Rhodes ) , for Falkirk and for Glenrothes and Mid Fife ( Richard Baker ) lay at the SNP ' s door the charge , which I agree with , that the SNP be much more interested in devolution to Scotland than devolution inside Scotland . I argue that devolution be a habit of mind — one that the SNP be yet to acquire , so interested be it in centralise power in its own hand in Edinburgh . devolution in Scotland have always be about ensure that our distinctive voice be hear in the United Kingdom , and this Government have continue in that vein since take office . we have reset the relationship with the Scottish Government to be one base on delivery and partnership , but the question now be about how Scotland ' s two government , together with our local community , can well seize the opportunity grant by artificial intelligence , clean energy , advanced manufacturing , life science , defence and the digital industry . despite the insistence of Opposition Members , we can not do that through division or constant constitutional wrangling . we hear from Opposition Members that they would like to return to the day — the 14 year — when the SNP and the Tories have a symbiotic relationship in which each serve the other ' s political end because they be lock in a dance of grievance , rather than have a focus on delivery . our approach as a Labour Government be different . we say that we may not agree on everything between different level of Government , but we can and must agree on more , enough to make a difference to the people we serve . we have already see result from have a Labour Government with scot at its beat heart : the big upgrade to worker ' right in a generation , with a pay rise for 200 , 000 of the lowest - pay scot ; a new industrial strategy to ensure Scotland take advantage of the job of the future ; GB Energy , with investment to drive the clean energy revolution ; up to 60 , 000 clean energy job in Scotland by 2030 , an increase of 40 , 000 from 2023 ; £ 200 million secure for the industrial future of Grangemouth ; a historic deal worth £ 10 billion to supply Norway with Type 26 frigate ; a trade deal with India that be set to grow the scottish economy by £ 190 million a year ; the high settlement for the Scottish Government in the devolution era ; and a £ 292 million Pride in Place investment to regenerate scottish community . that be what delivery look like . let we contrast that with the record of the SNP , which be so poignantly point out by my hon . friend the Member for Paisley and Renfrewshire South ( Johanna Baxter ) and the hon . member for Mid Dunbartonshire ( Susan Murray ) . there be much about Scotland ' s economy to be proud of , but we on the Labour Benches be under no illusion : it have underperformed , and have particularly underperformed in the service of work people , as my hon . friend the Member for Airdrie and Shotts ( Kenneth Stevenson ) and the hon . member for Alloa and Grangemouth ( Brian Leishman ) point out so eloquently . if Scotland ' s growth in the past decade have even match the sluggish growth of the UK as a whole , our economy would be nearly £ 10 billion large today . that be a decade of lose opportunity , lose job and lose potential . my hon . friend the Member for Edinburgh South West ( Dr Arthur ) be right that we should differentiate failure of devolution from failure that sit squarely at the SNP ' s door . we need a new approach , one that involve Scotland ' s city and region and local government , but the SNP ' s desire for highly centralised power instead of responsive and active local government in Scotland have lead to the accountability crisis we have already discuss . my hon . friend the Member for Stirling and Strathallan ( Chris Kane ) and my hon . friend the Member for Glasgow North East ( Maureen Burke ) have do a fantastic job of explain the role and desire of local government . it be very interesting to hear my hon . friend outline so succinctly how Scotland could be well serve if the UK Labour Government ' s policy be copy elsewhere . I believe that symbol can sometimes be very important , so do she agree that the fact that there be more Labour Scottish Ministers sit on the Front Bench than there be SNP Members attend this debate say a lot about people ' s priority , and about the priority of this government compare with those of the SNP ? I could not agree more with my hon . friend . at the last election , we promise to maximise Scotland ' s influence , and this be what that look like . the call we have hear from leader across Scotland be clear . local government leader be not just ask for money , but for power — power over skill , transport and growth — to unlock the full potential of their region . they be really ask for genuine accountability to the people they serve . as my hon . friend the Member for Glasgow West and the hon . member for Caithness , Sutherland and Easter Ross have both highlight , there be problem with accountability and scrutiny in how the Committee system in Holyrood have evolve away from the desire of those who found the Scottish Parliament . they have warn that Committees that be intend to be the backbone of scrutiny in the Scottish Parliament be too often dominate by the govern party , and lack the independence need to really hold the Executive to account . their view — which , as found member of the Scottish Parliament , carry much weight — be that without strong and more robust Committees , devolution can not deliver as the architect of the Scotland Act intend . as have be say many time this afternoon , devolution be never mean to be an end in itself . it be always suppose to be a means to improve life , not with division , but through co - operation . if we can focus on our common purpose across this House and between all level of Government — if we focus on strong growth and fair opportunity — Scotland can truly be at the heart of UK prosperity . look back to a much young version of myself go to my first meeting of the scottish constitutional convention in 1989 , I never would have dream then that I would lead a debate of this nature in this place , but here we be . I thank from the bottom of my heart all member who have make contribution , and I hope that from time to time , the present Scottish Government — or any Scottish Government — will look in the mirror and think , " be we do thing right ? " I hope that Hansard be look at , read and think about , because there be room for improvement . I leave you with one last thought , Madam Deputy Speaker , which may take colleague by surprise . there have be repeat reference to someone during this debate . I remember get into the lift in Holyrood on my first day there after my election in 1999 . a tall , gangling figure be in the lift . he look I up and down and say , " and who exactly — um — be you ? " that be Donald Dewar . when I say who I be , he say , " ah ! we have have hope of that seat , but I be sure we shall work together in a very satisfactory manner . " and we do . I have have conversation with Labour Members about this , but I be not aware of any image of Donald Dewar in this place . give that this be a man who make such an extraordinary contribution to the constitution of these island , that may be something that the Art Committee might want to think about . I be sure you will take this in the spirit in which it be intend , Madam Deputy Speaker , but I have to tell the hon . member that unfortunately that request have be reject by the Art Committee . I be not sure that I will necessarily take that lie down , as he would imagine , but it have be reject as thing stand , and I think it important for he to know that . well , well , well , Madam Deputy Speaker . I know the hon . Lady well and I doubt very much that she will take it lie down , and I be sure that she will have the support of other . whether we see devolution as a means to an end call independence or see it , as I do , as a way of improve service in Scotland , I think we should all honour that particular man . I be not sure that it be entirely in order to correct the record , but there be , in fact , image of Donald Dewar in the parliamentary collection . question put and agree to . resolve , that this House have consider devolution in Scotland . Mental Health and Hoarding Motion make , and question propose , that this House do now adjourn . — ( Mark Ferguson . ) I be grateful for the opportunity to lead this debate on a subject that , to the good of my knowledge , have never be discuss on the Floor of the House before . I often speak of my 25 year as an NHS nurse because that experience have fundamentally shape my understanding of the hide struggle within our community , and it be from that perspective that I raise the urgent and often misunderstood issue of hoarding disorder . many year ago , as a district nurse serve the kingstanding community — the same community that I be now proud to represent in Parliament — I enter home where extreme clutter be not an anomaly but a visible sign of a deep , unaddresse need . today , we have a name for it . in 2018 , hoard disorder be formally recognise in Britain as a distinct mental health condition . it be define by persistent difficulty in discard or part with possession , regardless of value , lead to cluttered living space and significant distress or impairment in daily life . my hon . friend speak very effectively about hoarding disorder . as she have explain , it be a mental health condition in its own right , although it be often confuse with obsessive - compulsive disorder . one of my constituent speak to I about her husband , who have completely fill the living room with item that he just can not discard . do my hon . friend agree that whether it be relate to OCD or to another condition , hoard not only disrupt the life of the individual who go through the anxiety and trauma of the condition , but affect other around that individual ? during Prime Minister ' s question this morning , we hear that one in four of we will suffer from a mental health condition . do my hon . friend agree that we need to increase mental health support to make it easily accessible and enable it to provide effective treatment , and that such early intervention can avoid the deterioration of the condition ? my hon . friend raise a valuable point . I will come on to that later in my speech , but I absolutely agree that hoard disrupt people ' s life . I congratulate the hon . Lady for bring forward this issue . she be a dear friend of mine , and I always look forward to her contribution to this Chamber and Westminster Hall . I often think of a tv programme on this subject . perhaps I do not always understand the obsessive behaviour of hoarding , but that tv programme open our eye to it , and help we understand it . the maker of the programme not only show the problem , but how to bring about a solution . that be what I always love about the programme : it start off with a problem , but end up with a solution . the hon . member be right , but this be not just about a solution . a number of people in our society be live with a mental health condition , and it need to be treat . at the moment , there be no strategy in place , but I will answer his question as I go on . I thank he for his contribution . I be really grateful to my hon . friend for secure tonight ' s debate . I have meet York ' s Community Bees , who have develop strategy for support people in the community . they dearly need money , because they be not only address mental health need but de - risk a situation . hoarding risk infection , infestation , fire and structural damage to home , so they play a really crucial role . again , my hon . friend raise a valuable point . the issue of financing be vital , but I will discuss that more as I go on . hoarding disorder be a widespread condition affect between 2 % and 5 % of the population , which equate to approximately 1 . 2 million to 3 million people in Britain . let I be absolutely clear : hoarding be not a lifestyle choice , or a matter of laziness . it be a complex mental health condition , deeply rooted in emotional distress and underlying trauma , often stem from adverse childhood experience . for hoarder , it can result in unsafe living condition , social isolation and a diminished ability to manage day - to - day responsibility . if leave untreated , it have a huge cost for family , the NHS , housing provider and emergency service . on top of that , hoarding be a long - term condition with few effective treatment option , mean that behaviour be often leave unresolved . my professional experience show I the heartbreaking reality of individual drown in clutter , their mental health deteriorating and their relationship break . deal with hoarding can be very time - consume and expensive . provide support fall disproportionately to ill - equip local authority and overstretch third - sector organisation , such as Birmingham ' s Clouds End CIC , lead by the inspirational Heather Matuozzo . the challenge can be break down into four key area . the first area be public health and safety . hoarding do not just hurt individual , but have knock - on effect on the entire community . the hazardous living condition that it create , from severe fire risk and block escape route to unsanitary and unsafe housing , pose a direct danger not only to the individual , but to their neighbour and the brave professional , firefighter , social worker and other who be call in to intervene . the second challenge have to do with public awareness and education . we can not combat what we do not understand . we urgently need to educate our community , and our frontline professional work in social care , housing , health and the emergency service , to recognise hoarding as a mental health issue , so that we can reduce stigma and promote more compassionate and effective intervention . the third challenge have to do with mental health and support gap . mental health service and treatment that address hoarding specifically remain scarce and underfunded . many people affect feel reluctant to seek help because of stigma , lack of awareness , or fear of eviction or other legal consequence . close this support gap be not optional ; it be essential . the final challenge concern the legal and housing implication . housing provider can be face with challenge legal situation in which tenant ' hoarding behaviour lead to breach of tenancy agreement or safety policy . unfortunately , these case be too often handle through eviction or legal action , rather than support be provide , so that the root cause of the problem can be address . we need policy that balance legal responsibility with compassionate mental health support . as a society , we have a responsibility to support those live with hoarding disorder . in Birmingham , the number of people need support have rise exponentially since the covid pandemic , and the story be the same across the country , as member have highlight . the seriousness and scale of this issue demand a co - ordinate national response , lead by Government . we need a national strategy to bring consistency , reduce risk and improve life . the current legal framework be simply not fit for purpose . the Care Act 2014 recognise that people who hoard may be consider vulnerable or entitle to advocacy . however , there be no national guideline for the agency that encounter hoarding in their work . without guidance , response to hoarding will remain inconsistent and ineffective . in the absence of national guideline , agency be force to rely on outdated legislation , such as the Public Health Act 1936 , which refer to " filthy or verminous premise " . under these power , a person can be force to clear their property , even if they own it . if they can not afford clearance , it be undertake on their behalf and charge to the property . this approach be deeply flawed . it treat hoarding purely as a practical or environmental issue , rather than recognise that these be vulnerable human being in need of help . fail to recognise hoarding as a mental health condition risk traumatise individual , worsen hoarding behaviour and , in the most extreme case , contribute to suicidal thought . the human impact should not be understate . lack of proper support and compassion lead to further trauma , distress and a great risk of re - accumulation . national guideline would provide clarity on what constitute appropriate and effective practice , a consistent framework for agency across the UK , a balance between address practical risk and meet underlie mental health need , and clear route for advice , support and specialist referral . that bring I to my central ask of Ministers . we need a co - ordinate national strategy for hoard disorder . although the Care Act 2014 provide a foundation by recognise vulnerability , the absence of specific national guideline lead to a postcode lottery of care , and to inconsistent and often ineffective intervention . a national framework would provide clarity , consistency and compassion by balance risk management with mental health support and establish clear pathway for specialist help . I be proud that the labour manifesto commit to recruit 8 , 500 extra mental health staff , and to deliver a transformative 10 - year plan for mental health . it be essential that those welcome initiative explicitly include and address hoarding disorder . my hon . friend be be incredibly generous with her time . Community Bees in York have help 600 people over the past seven year . it have a lot of expertise , not just in how to sensitively support people in decluttere , but in upcycle ; it make a positive contribution by sell thing on . it have sell 7 , 000 book , and collect 5 , 323 item from landfill and pass they on . that not only help people who have hoard , but contribute to the future . do she agree that that should be part of the holistic model ? my hon . friend make an absolutely brilliant point . yes , that should be part of the holistic model , but there be no model in place at the moment . it be like the wild , wild west — everybody be just do as they see fit . that be why I secure this debate . I urge the Government to prioritise the development of national guideline , in order to equip all frontline worker with the tool to identify and address hoarding compassionately and effectively ; to ensure a truly integrate , multi - agency approach that bring together mental health service , social care , housing and emergency responder ; and to invest in research and data collection , so we can properly understand the scale , cause and economic impact of hoarding in the UK , and ensure that our policy be evidence - base and our resource be allocate wisely . in my nursing career , we be teach that prevention be always well than cure . that hold true for hoarding . early intervention be more humane and more cost - effective than crisis response . this issue have remain in the shadow for too long . we have a duty to bring it into the light , to replace judgment with understanding , and to offer a hand up to the million of our citizen who live with this devastating condition . I look forward to hear in the Minister ' s response how the Government intend to lead this vital change . I sincerely thank my hon . friend the Member for Birmingham Erdington ( Paulette Hamilton ) , who be vice - chair of the Health and Social Care Committee , for secure this debate . I pay tribute to she for her work on that Committee , on which she have consistently champion the voice of the unheard , and for her 30 year ' service in the NHS as a district nurse . as she be speak , I recall that , as a medical student at the University of Glasgow , I have the pleasure of spend a lot of time shadow district nurse . I always find they to have the perfect mixture of clinical acuman and a sixth sense of something be not quite right . she display those attribute in abundance . my hon . friend have be true to form in raise the issue of hoarding . this disorder be , by definition , keep from public view . although it be often overlook , it have a profound impact on the life of the affected , their family and their carer , and , of course , on local service . too many suffer in silence . I thank Hoarding UK , Clouds End and Clutterers Anonymous , to name just a few of the charity that do so much to support people up and down the country . for too long , hoarding have be see as something quirky , or perhaps even comical , but the disorder be neither a joke nor a rarity ; it be a complex and often misunderstood condition that can have devastating consequence for people ' s mental and physical health . often , it be a portent to investigate further mental wellbeing and illness . estimate vary , but research suggest that between 2 % and 3 % of the UK population , as my hon . friend adumbrate , may be affect by hoarding behaviour . these be often associate with traumatic life experience such as bereavement , divorce or eviction . People who hoard can experience deep emotional distress , guilt and anxiety . the clutter in their home often represent emotional pain , memory or attempt to regain control . motion lapse ( Standing Order no . 9 ( 3 ) ) . motion make , and question propose , that this House do now adjourn . — ( Mark Ferguson . ) the impact of hoarding can be severe . the clutter can compromise hygiene , strain relationship and pose safety risk , so let I be clear : these people deserve compassion and support from this Government and from every corner of society . my hon . Friend ask whether the Government will introduce a national hoarding strategy . there be no plan for a specific strategy , but we absolutely recognise that people who hoard must have access to the right support . at the moment , that require more co - ordination than be currently in place . as she know well than anyone as a district nurse and an independent lay manager , mental health service have be decimate over the last 14 year . this government be do the hard yard of rebuild those service while transform our mental health system , so people can access the right support at the right time and indeed the right place . through our 10 - year health plan , we have set long - term reform to make mental health a core priority of the NHS and to move from crisis care to prevention and early intervention . this transformation will include : invest up to £ 120 million to expand the number of mental health emergency department to 85 across England ; a modern service framework for severe mental illness to support consistent high - quality and high - value care ; and , as my hon . friend mention , recruit 8 , 500 new mental health worker across the NHS to increase capacity and make sure help be available where and when need . we be already pilot six 24 / 7 neighbourhood mental health centre , which will bring together a range of professional and imbibe that holistic concept — professional such as psychologist , peer support worker , housing specialist and employment adviser . the pilot be test out mechanism that will enable that whole - team approach to capture people who otherwise remain hidden , include collaborative planning of care and treatment , communication and engagement , single patient record and share outcome measure . this join - up approach present an opportunity for people , include those with hoarding disorder , to be identify and to get holistic support and treatment , and then to well join up between social service and mental health support . we know , too , that there be people in contact with social care right now who have a suspect hoarding disorder . Digital social care record , which have be implement by 80 % of Care Quality Commission provider , be already improve that quality and safety , and that personalisation of care . we be also invest in the development of a national infrastructure for social care , which will lay the foundation for ensure great interoperability and integration between care and health service , so that , again , few people slip through the net , as be often the case with hoarding disorder . People who hoard may be isolate , may not recognise their behaviour as a problem and may be reluctant to engage with service . that be why safeguard play such an important role . the Care Act 2014 and its statutory guidance make clear that self - neglect , which explicitly include hoarding , be a safeguard concern . where a local authority have cause to suspect that an adult appear to be at risk of self - neglect and be unable to protect themselves as a result , that authority must carry out a safeguard inquiry . the purpose of that inquiry be to establish what action be require and by whom , and to keep that person safe and ultimately get they the support they need . the guidance also advise that each case of self - neglect should be assess on an individualised case - by - case basis . professional , whether social worker , carer , housing officer , emergency service or clinician , have a responsibility to spot the sign , raise concern , and support people and direct they towards help . one of the most effective treatment of hoarding disorder be cognitive behavioural therapy , otherwise know as CBT . CBT be a form of talk therapy that help individual to understand the thought and feeling that influence their behaviour and support they gradually to make practical change to their live environment . through NHS talk therapy , people with a hoarding disorder can access evidence - base psychological intervention such as CBT . this Government be expand access to talk therapy this year and have commit to continue this expansion over the come year . we aim to increase the number of people complete a course of talk therapy by 384 , 000 by the end of this Parliament and to increase the number of session someone can access , mean that more people will be able to access timely and high - quality mental health support in their local area , and that these service can be access not only through their gp , but through self - referral . we know , however , that access these service can be difficult for those who feel isolated or who feel shame about their condition . as advise by national charity , therefore , during National Hoarding Awareness Week , we encourage friend and family member of people suspect of have a hoarding disorder to gently encourage they to speak to their gp , who can help to assess their need and refer they to the appropriate mental health and community support . no one should face this condition alone . of course , hoarding can also be associate with serious mental illness , include severe depression and obsessive compulsive disorder , which can require more specialist or intensive form of support . that be why the Government be transform service for people live with severe mental illness by invest in new model of integrated community care , expand priceless support and increase access to physical health check and tailor intervention . at its heart , this debate be about dignity and compassion . we be talk about member of our own community who deserve the same compassion , care and support as anyone else with any other illness . the Vice - Chair of the Health and Social Care Committee , my hon . friend the Member for Birmingham Erdington , deserve real credit for her work on this issue . we will continue to work with she , mental health professional , voluntary organisation and people with live experience to smash the stigma while improve access to care . I be grateful to the Minister for give way . from listen to , meeting and engage with those from York Community Bees , I know that their big cry be for funding . these people be specialist in the work that they do to support my resident , but they need funding . will the Minister send a message to commissioner to ensure that they commission these support service ? my hon . friend bring a great deal of experience in these matter to this House . I can certainly give she an assurance that as part of this Government ' s 10 - year health agenda , we encourage all commissioner to commission strategically on the basis of what will prevent ill health in the long term . I believe this issue be an exemplar of where we could think about commission mental health service differently to try to pick up the sign early . for too long , people with mental health condition , include those who hoard , have not receive the understanding or support that they deserve . I want to end , however , on a note of optimism . with love from family , patience from friend and the ongoing support of charity and third sector organisation , countless people with hoarding disorder have manage to live safe , healthy and fulfilling life . we will continue to work closely with these partner , local authority and charity to ensure that this Government be also play our full part . question put and agree to . House adjourn .