business before Questions Bishop ' s Stortford Cemetery Bill [ Lords ] Bill , as amend , consider . Bill to be read the third time tomorrow . oral Answers to Questions Business and Trade the Secretary of State be ask — export : small and medium - sized business what step she be take to support small and medium - sized business to export . what step she be take to support small and medium - sized business to export . my Department continue to help small and medium - sized enterprise to grow overseas and export to the world , especially this year — the year of the SME . business can access a digital self - serve offer and a wide network of support , include trade adviser , export champion , the UK Export Academy , our international market network and UK Export Finance . last year , UK Export Finance provide £ 6 . 5 billion to exporter of all size , with sme comprise a record 84 % of those support directly with a product . sme in Merthyr Tydfil and Rhymney tell I of their frustration around export good and now the Government have scrap the trade show programme , which be set up to support british business to attend event and win overseas order . will the Minister tell the House and the thousand of business that rely on that vital support when there will be a replacement ? UK export be increase . use current price , they be up by £ 21 billion compare with 2023 . [ Official Report , 12 March 2024 , Vol . 747 , c . 5mc . ] ( Correction ) the UK trade show be a pilot programme that do not yield the success we think it would , so we have other scheme in place , include the UK Export Academy , international trade adviser , help to grow and the export support service . focus on Wales , we will soon be appoint a new international trade adviser to help sme . we be lucky that Enfield North have quite a lot of small and medium - sized business , but they be suffer because of the cost of spiral bill and no Government support . do the Minister think it be the lack of a Government industrial strategy or the lack of individual support for exporter that be most hold our business back ? that be an extraordinary statement , because in the hon . Lady ' s constituency the great level of export be from professional and business service , and those export be increase not only to the EU but to country outside the EU . [ Official Report , 12 March 2024 , Vol . 747 , c . 5mc . ] ( Correction ) that be the reality on the ground , so our strategy be work . UK export be £ 859 billion in 2023 — a figure that have go up , not down , by £ 21 billion . the UK be the second big service exporter in the world — she should be proud of that because many such business be in her constituency . those export have increase to 54 % from 48 % , so there be good news , but we be keen to do more . I call the shadow Minister . the Office for Budget Responsibility say yesterday that export , include from sme , will fall even more than expect this year ; growth in export will be less than 1 % in each of the next three year ; and other country will not be hit the same way . there have be cut in the funding to help business start export and there have be no deal with the United States , no Diwali deal with India , and no veterinary agreement with the EU to cut red tape and slash cost . what do the Minister think be the good explanation for the Government ' s dismal performance on export so far ? we can get the good explanation from look at the datum behind what the hon . Gentleman set out . he obviously omit the international reality . in the same report , the OBR reference the " sluggish growth " in " global economy " and mention that british good and service will outperform , on average , G7 country . those be the fact on the ground . when it come to export , we be export not only into the EU but outside the EU . as I say early , professional and business service be increase outside the EU by 19 % . [ Official Report , 12 March 2024 , Vol . 747 , c . 6mc . ] ( Correction ) we have substantial programme in place to help small and medium - sized enterprise . we be keen to learn and do as much work as we can . there will be far more work come through as this be the year of the SME . I call the SNP spokesperson . the trade and co - operation agreement have hit small and medium - sized exporter the hard , as most do not individually have the capacity to deal with the additional bureaucracy and paperwork create by that trade deal . do the Minister recognise that the TCA have disproportionately damage the competitiveness of sme ? what support can the Government offer sme to recapture the market share they have lose in Europe since then ? there have not really be a loss in the market share . I have talk about what be happen internationally . we appreciate that small and medium - sized enterprise may not have the resource they need to export into new market . that be why we have the UK Export Academy , international trade adviser , help to grow and the export support service . we be also look at what trade barrier we can break down and bust to make it even easy for sme to access new market through the trade deal secure by the Secretary of State . Steel Industry what step she be take to help support the steel industry . our commitment to the UK steel sector be clear . the Government be contribute up to £ 500 million in a joint investment with Tata Steel . we be in talk with British Steel follow our generous offer of support . we have deliver more than £ 730 million in energy cost relief since 2013 , and the british industry supercharger be come soon . we update our procurement policy note to ensure we be procure more in the UK , and we be try to do everything we can to continue to support the steel sector . we be all disappointed that the Government , have abandon Teesside steel several year ago , be now ready to give up on primary steelmaking in the UK and to rely on recycle material utilise electric arc furnace . I be pleased to hear that Teesside be pencil in for one of they , but not so pleased that there have be attempt locally to circumvent proper procedure to secure planning consent . will the Minister look into that ? more importantly , will she confirm that the Government have a final copper - bottom agreement with the industry that the furnace will definitely be build on Teesside ? a number of the issue that the hon . Gentleman raise be fundamentally locally . we work closely with Mayor Ben Houchen , who have do a remarkable amount of work for his part of the country . the reality be that the steel sector be place in an area of uncertainty for some time . we be able to provide support for Tata , which have ensure that the steelwork continue at Port Talbot . we provide the large grant ever make available to steel , and we be now in conversation with British Steel . that be what it mean to have a long - term steel strategy to ensure that steelmaking continue here in the UK . Small Business Council what step her Department be take to support small and medium - sized enterprise through the Small Business Council . on 1 February , the Government reaffirm our commitment to all the UK ' s 5 . 5 million small business with the creation of the new Small Business Council , which be look at key area , such as improve business support , access to finance , support and advice , and break down barrier , include barrier to female entrepreneurship . as chair of the woman and enterprise all - party parliamentary group , it have be fantastic to see the boom in female - lead business over the past few year . we now want to see consideration of how some of they can grow . can the Minister set out how the new Small Business Council can help they to do that ? I thank my hon . friend for his question and for all he do for woman in entrepreneurship and on the APPG , on which he have work for many year . the Small Business Council have excellent entrepreneur on it , such as Emma Heal from Lucky Saint and Julianne Ponan from Creative Nature , who we rely on for expert advice . we also have the investing in woman taskforce , which have help to increase the number of female entrepreneur business from 56 , 000 in 2018 to 150 , 000 in 2022 . the investing in woman code have 240 signatory . we be keen to do more and to work alongside my hon . friend to ensure that the world of entrepreneurship be as friendly as possible to female entrepreneur . will the Minister ask the Small Business Council to wake up to the opportunity in the hydrogen sector , not only in term of the engineering that supply that sector , the come replacement of battery and all that transportation stuff , but in the infrastructure of our country ? we have great engineering that be ready to go with a hydrogen future . when will he wake up to that opportunity ? we already have wake up to that opportunity . as the hon . Gentleman know , we have great opportunity in hydrogen in Teesside and in Yorkshire , with the Humber hydrogen cluster . it be something we be keen to support as a Government , and I would appreciate it if he offer his support , too . I call the shadow Minister . the perfect storm of rise borrowing , rent and labour cost be continue to cripple business , and the UK small business index fall 78 point last December , accord to Xero Small Business Insights , to the low reading since the middle of the pandemic in August 2020 . the Government have have 14 year to tackle the barrier face sme . what specifically will the Small Business Council do , and what will minister do to halt the alarming trend of more business close than opening ? I be sorry that the shadow Minister be so pessimistic about the world of business . we have speak at event together many time , and she hear the mood in those audience , which be far more positive than she set out . we be active in many area , as she know . at the event we both speak at this week , I talk about access to finance , support and advice , and remove barrier . access to finance have be key , with £ 1 billion of start up loan have be make to 100 , 000 business . if she listen to the Budget yesterday , she will have hear about the rise in the vat threshold and the growth guarantee scheme . there be many opportunity for small business . we will have 200 , 000 more worker come back into the workplace , tackle another barrier for business . get with the programme ; it be much more exciting than she think . Free Trade Agreement Negotiations : Israel what recent progress her Department have make on negotiate a free trade agreement with Israel . what recent progress her Department have make on negotiate a free trade agreement with Israel . Israel remain a part of the FTA programme , and negotiation continue . I have a productive meeting with Israel ' s Minister of Economy , Nir Barkat , last week in Abu Dhabi , where we discuss our exist trading relationship as well as how Israel be manage the challenge of work on an FTA while fight a war . Israel be face immense challenge in its war with Hamas , but it be know around the world as a start - up nation thank to its extraordinary tech sector , which brit benefit from every day . give the enormous opportunity that a bespoke free trade agreement with Israel offer to the UK , will my right hon . friend update the House on what step she be take to advance negotiation ? my hon . friend will be pleased to know that we hold a virtual negotiating round with Israel in February , focus primarily on service . that be one of the thing that we be do to move the FTA forward , and we will update Parliament shortly in the usual way via a write ministerial statement . my hon . friend be right to highlight Israel ' s world - lead tech sector , which be a reason why we want to modernise and upgrade our relation with Israel . our current FTA be sign in 1995 — it be a roll - over from the one we have with the EU — and technical collaboration , which Israel specialise in , will be make easy through an enhanced FTA . I call Bob Blackman . not here . can the Secretary of State give I some assurance that any free trade agreement with Israel will not allow the importation of good produce in settlement on the west bank ? yes , I can give the right hon . member that assurance . we be clear under our exist UK - Israel trade and partnership agreement that israeli good originate from the State of Israel receive tariff preference . we also have a separate interim agreement between the UK and the Palestinian Authority . I confirm that that will continue to be the case with an upgrade FTA with Israel . we will not compromise our long - stand position on the middle east process throughout this negotiation , include with respect to settlement . trade with Commonwealth Countries what step she be take to increase trade with Commonwealth country . the United Kingdom have trade deal with 33 Commonwealth country , and our new develop country trading scheme offer more generous tariff , rule of origin and trading condition to develop country , include 19 Commonwealth country . the UK - Australia FTA have see sharp rise in many UK export sector , include furniture triple year on year and car export double . meanwhile , of the 11 party to the comprehensive and progressive agreement for trans - Pacific partnership , six be Commonwealth country , and that agreement give we new or improved access to those important market . Mr Speaker , I know that you will be celebrate Commonwealth day on Monday with the raising of the Commonwealth flag . will the Minister take this opportunity to expand our trading relation with the Commonwealth and look at the idea of an opt - in , opt - out WTO - style organisation involve all Commonwealth country ? surely this be a great opportunity to expand our trade with some of the world ' s emerge economic powerhouse . I thank my hon . friend for that question and his commitment to the Commonwealth . as a constituency MP with a huge Commonwealth diaspora in Chelsea and Fulham , I totally understand his sympathy and look forward to celebrate Commonwealth day with he and other next week . he know that the Commonwealth do not make trade rule , nor be it a trade agreement body like the Gulf Co - operation Council , the European Free Trade Association or the CPTPP . we think that the well course at present be to ratify our cptpp membership and continue to have reduce tariff under our develop country trading scheme . however , we be always open to new idea at the Department for Business and Trade and I be happy to meet my hon . friend to discuss this far . I thank the Minister very much for a positive response . the Commonwealth be important for all of we . the value of UK export to the Commonwealth increase by 23 % in cash term between 2021 and 2022 , while the value of import from the Commonwealth increase by some 30 % . we can clearly benefit each other . how can we ensure that Northern Ireland company benefit fully from this enhance trading partnership ? of course , Northern Ireland benefit from all our free trade agreement . I very much look forward to put the case for northern irish good and service in the month ahead . we have economic partnership agreement with 27 Commonwealth country . we also have the Commonwealth Heads of Government meeting in October to look forward to , where we can ensure that the export of northern irish good and service , as well as those from the whole of the UK , take centre stage . EU Withdrawal : impact on business what assessment she have make of the impact of the UK ' s withdrawal from the EU on business . since we leave the EU , we have use our new freedom to secure free trade deal with 73 country , include EU partner , and that account for £ 1 . 1 trillion of UK trade in 2022 . we have simplify import tariff to lower cost for business and household . we plan to remove over 50 % of inherit EU regulation by 2026 . our reform to employment law could save UK business up to £ 1 billion a year , ensure that the UK be the good place in the world to start up and grow a business . I thank my right hon . friend for her reply . measure by tonnage , the port of Immingham in my constituency be the large port in the country , with almost 50 million tonne of cargo each year . it be also a vital part of the renewable energy sector . Immingham be surely an example of the fact that not only EU trade but worldwide trade be important to the UK . if my right hon . friend be able to visit at some time , she would be able to see that for herself . as ever , my hon . friend be a great advocate for his Cleethorpes constituency . he be right that Immingham be the no . 1 port in term of tonnage and be vital to our trade with the EU and the rest of the world . if our diary allow , I or one of my Ministers will be delighted to visit and see at first hand the vital role Immingham play in the transition to renewable energy . in December , the British Chambers of Commerce find that a staggering 97 % of survey business continue to face difficulty use the trade and co - operation agreement . despite the TCA be introduce over three year ago , business be still struggle to deal with the add headache that the regulation have create . if 97 % of business still face difficulty after three year , how many year be it anticipate that it will take for these issue to be resolve ? I thank the hon . Lady for her question . many of the issue that business have be raise with we be specific not to the TCA but to member country . that be why Ministers and I , along with official , go to all these country , and we have remove many of the market access barrier , which be not specific to the TCA . the hon . Lady will know that the TCA will be up for review . if she have specific thing she would like we to take to EU Trade Commissioners , we be very happy to do so . this week , the Financial Times report the most significant decline in UK trade volume since 1997 . it be clear than ever that this Government ' s hard Brexit policy have exacerbate challenge for british business . with a 7 . 4 % drop in trade since 2018 and export down by 12 . 4 % , we be starkly lag behind our G7 peer . can the Secretary of State explain how 14 year of conservative rule have prepare british business for their despair around extra red tape and the chaos unleash by this Tory hard Brexit policy ? I think the hon . Gentleman have just time - travel from 2018 or 2019 — it have be a long time since I have hear the phrase " hard Brexit " . he will of course know that we leave the European Union with a deal , so he need to catch up with what have actually happen . it be also interesting that he talk about an FT report from 1997 ; I should let he know that we have not be in government since 1997 — we have be in government since 2010 . many of the thing he be point out be thing we have say will occur as trade flow move away from the European Union to the Indo - Pacific . that be why we have leave ; that be why we be trade with the rest of the world . the hon . Gentleman should also know that our economy be 80 % service , so most of the thing he be talk about will not impact on the vast majority of the economy . service export be boom , and we be do well since leave the EU . Free Trade Agreement Negotiations : South Korea what recent progress she have make on negotiate a free trade agreement with South Korea . we have excellent relation with South Korea , as my right hon . friend will know as the Prime Minister ' s trade envoy there . bilateral trade total £ 16 billion in the 12 month to September 2023 . negotiation to upgrade our FTA with South Korea be launch as part of President Yoon ' s state visit in November . round 1 of the talk have already take place , and round 2 will take place later this month here in London . on Tuesday , in my capacity as trade envoy , I attend the korean embassy for the signing of a memorandum of understanding on the joint development of a small modular nuclear reactor — just one area in which the business between our two country be grow ever strong . will my right hon . friend press ahead with the enhance free trade agreement , which will offer huge opportunity to build on the exist £ 17 billion trade relationship ? my right hon . friend be absolutely right . in the UK , of course , we have our own , superb Rolls - Royce model of small modular reactor as well . he be right about the importance of our grow trading relationship with Korea . as a former Secretary of State for Culture , Media and Sport , he will also know that 71 % of our service trade with Korea last year be deliver digitally . [ Official Report , 11 March 2024 , Vol . 747 , c . 2mc . ] ( correction ) we need to upgrade the deal to make sure that it reflect modern , digital trade as well . both country be make good progress in the negotiation . trade with Zimbabwe what step she be take to increase trade with Zimbabwe . the Government be pleased that my hon . friend , who be the Prime Minister ' s trade envoy to Angola , Zambia and Ethiopia , and member of the Westminster Africa Business Group visit Zimbabwe on the group ' s inaugural trade mission . that be part of the Government ' s work to promote opportunity for UK company , particularly in critical mineral , renewable energy and sustainable agriculture . I be grateful to the Minister for that response . on my visit to Zimbabwe in January , I meet the President and a number of other Ministers . they make it very clear that they want to draw a line under the past , move forward and increase friendship — and , indeed , trade link — with this country . what more can the Government do to enlighten company and business in the UK about the many opportunity in Zimbabwe ? I thank my hon . friend for his report and letter to I all about that . I be pleased with the high - level meeting he have on his recent visit and a lot of the medium coverage . our embassy be follow up by prepare for the zimbabwe international trade fair in April , and it be expect a strong UK presence . my hon . friend ' s return visit in April will be a perfect chance to progress the deal that we have and boost british investment for this year and beyond . trade Agreements : Environmental Protections what step she be take to ensure future trade agreement include environmental protection . the Government be commit to pursue environmental provision in our trade agreement and to use our multilateral trade policy , diplomatic effort and trade promotion activity , all of which support our green objective . the Government boast about the trade deal they have do and the environmental protection they have secure , so presumably they have have the chance to analyse the impact . will the Minister tell the House whether the deal secure so far have improve or degrade our environment ? what lesson have be learn for negotiate future deal ? the hon . Gentleman raise an interesting point . many of the agreement have actually , for the first time , include environmental provision . if I recall correctly , he do not like the Australia trade deal , but it be the first time Australia have commit in a trade agreement to the Paris agreement and so on . when it come to the impact of our trading policy over the last 14 year , he will also find , for example , that 86 % of UK import of palm oil — a key interest for environmentalist — be certify as sustainable , up from 16 % in 2010 . again , we be see real result of UK trade policy move in a much more environmentally friendly direction . kinship Carers : Employment Leave if she will make an assessment with the Secretary of State for Education on the potential merit of introduce a right to pay employment leave for kinship carer . some 130 , 000 child be in the care of close family member in England alone . we recognise the vital role that kinship carer play in look after child who can not live with their parent . last year , the Government publish the national kinship care strategy and announce a £ 20 million package of support for kinship carer in 2024 - 25 . the Minister just reference the Government ' s kinship strategy , which be publish in December . their own strategy have recognise that kinship carer in employment often report the need to give up work or reduce their hour to be able to care for the child they support ; it cite a survey reveal that 45 % of kinship carer give up work and a similar number have to reduce their hour permanently . give the Minister ' s desire to drive up employment and the fact that kinship carer step up overnight to look after child save the taxpayer a huge amount of money in comparison with when child go into local authority care , why be the Government not make pay employment leave a statutory right and only publish guidance ? the hon . Lady raise a very important point . we call on local authority to be considerate to people who be in employment when they take on a child to look after in a kinship care situation . we think that employer be the right people to make sure that any provision we provide be a floor , not a ceiling . company such as John Lewis take a very considerate approach to people in that situation . we urge they to do so , but we also encourage local authority , which have budget allocate to this particular issue , to provide support where they can . infrastructure : impact on Business Investment if she will make an assessment of the potential impact of infrastructure on level of business investment . if she will make an assessment of the potential impact of infrastructure on level of business investment . high - quality infrastructure be crucial for deliver economic growth . to quote a previous Prime Minister : " you and I come by road and rail , but economist travel on infrastructure . " we know how important investment be . the whole House will agree that the UK be the lead light when it come to offshore wind farm , where we be already secure investment . let I point to a few example of further investment : Nissan be invest £ 2 billion in new electric car model in the UK , Microsoft and Google have announce data centre worth over £ 3 billion , and my Secretary of State oversee the global investment summit , unlock £ 30 billion of investment . in fact , since 2010 we have secure more inward investment than any other country in Europe . over the last few year , we have receive the third high amount in the world , after the United States and China . I could go on , Mr Speaker , but I might test your patience . that be all very well , but the Government ' s decision to defer the banning of petrol and diesel vehicle until 2035 have lead to huge uncertainty among consumer and investor , as the Minister well know . compare with other country , it seem that the Government lack ambition when it come to investment in electric vehicle infrastructure . France , for example , will have something like 400 , 000 installation by 2030 — 50 % more than the UK . what plan do the Minister have to ensure that the UK ' s investment keep up with our competitor and meet the grow demand for electric vehicle ? as the Minister for the auto sector , I be very keen to ensure that we be break bad meme around the electric vehicle sector . we be do a huge amount of work in this space . at the moment , we have 53 , 600 public charge point . we have a rapid charging fund and a local electric vehicle infrastructure fund — I be sure that the hon . Gentleman ' s local authority will want to tap into those . the Department for Transport be work with local authority to ensure that they have charge strategy . we have a £ 381 million local ev infrastructure fund , which will deliver ten of thousand more charge point and support for on - street residential charge point , too . it be really important that local authority be aware of the fund available , and I suggest that the hon . Gentleman get in touch with the DFT to support the installation of charge point in his constituency . I do not think that any hon . or right hon . Member could disagree in general term with the Minister ' s reply . it would have be a more interesting reply if she have make an assessment of the reduction in investment since the cancellation of High Speed 2 , because there be no doubt , as she say , that investment in rail infrastructure lead to business investment all along the route . we can see that in Birmingham and Manchester , and we can now see the lack of new investment because of the cancellation . be it not a mistake to swap that investment , which would have lead to many new high - technology job , for money to replace what have be take from local government to fill pothole ? in my previous response , I want to expose the opportunity and grant that be available to ensure that charge point be cris - cross the country . often parliamentarian be not aware of all the great work we be do . on HS2 , just last week we announce the extra support that will be make available for local transport plan , which cover everything include rail , road and even bus and , of course , pothole . Network Rail have receive £ 36 billion from the Government to improve transport in every region of the UK . just last week , we announce an extra £ 4 . 7 billion of additional funding for local transport authority in the north and midland . we want to make sure that decision on transport be make locally and that the infrastructure be need and want by local community , which be why we be make sure that the fund from HS2 be be make available . regulatory cost : small and medium - sized enterprise if she will make an assessment of the potential impact of regulatory cost on small and medium - sized enterprise . we be hack through the red tape , not least with our smart regulation programme . we have announce reform to employment law and the recording requirement of the work time directive , which will save UK business up to £ 1 billion , particularly benefit sme . I note that the Minister welcome yesterday ' s Budget as help small business , particularly in the hospitality sector , which be very hard hit in my constituency . one of the problem that many business tell we about be the business rate system . More business have fail in the past two and a half year than have be establish . in Scotland , we often find that while the downside of this Government ' s policy be happily pass on by the Scottish Government , any benefit be not . we would like to see complete reform of the rating system — not tinker but reform . can the Minister tell we whether widespread reform be plan ? how would he plan to do it ? how could business in Scotland also benefit ? the hon . Lady be absolutely right to point to some of the difficulty in the hospitality sector . I speak to hospitality entrepreneur in my constituency and across the country who be find it difficult , which be why we step in with , first , a package of about £ 13 billion of business rate support , and there be £ 4 . 3 billion of business rate support last autumn . we pass the equivalent money on to the Scottish Government to pass on to their hospitality venue , but they pass on none of it . a typical pub in Scotland be £ 15 , 000 bad off than a typical pub in England , and a typical guest house be £ 30 , 000 bad off . that be why Scotland have a 30 % high failure rate than England . similarly , a typical pub in Labour - run Wales be £ 6 , 000 bad off and a typical guest house be £ 12 , 000 bad off , and there be a 19 % high failure rate . it be critical that the benefit be pass on to those business , and that we look for structural reform . anyone who want to scrap business rate need to show where the £ 22 . 5 billion of income will come from , rather than simply say that they will scrap they without announce a replacement . National Minimum Wage Enforcement what assessment she have make of the effectiveness of publicly name employer for the enforcement of the national minimum wage . since 2011 , we have publish 20 press release and name around 3 , 200 employer that have , in total , repay over £ 41 million in arrear to over 460 , 000 worker . we have recently have round 20 of the scheme . name and shame serve as a deterrent , but should we not go far against persistent offender ? pay the minimum wage be not an opt - out ; it be a law that no company be above . strong penalty , include fine proportionate to the severity of the violation , to ensure that no employer can exploit its worker with impunity , would level the balance between employer and employee . will the Minister commit to explore these measure to safeguard the right and the dignity of worker ? the hon . Gentleman be right to point to this measure . we know that name and shame be a significant deterrent against underpayment of the national minimum wage , and we be very keen to ensure that naming continue . alas , in the most recent naming and shame round , 2 , 800 minimum wage investigation return more than £ 16 . 3 million in arrear to over 120 , 000 worker . his Majesty ' s Revenue and Customs issue business with nearly 700 fine , total £ 13 . 2 million . as the hon . Gentleman recognise , name and shame alone be a significant deterrent and we intend to continue do it . I call the shadow Minister . my hon . friend the Member for Bury South ( Christian Wakeford ) be right that too many employer still think they can opt out of pay the minimum wage . early this week , the Low Pay Commission publish its 2023 report , which say that non - compliance " appear persistent " in the social care sector . I have hear a range of evidence cite problem with record keeping , exploitation of migrant worker , and worker routinely not be pay for travel time . it be clear that the social care sector have a real issue with the minimum wage but , when browse through the late naming and shame list publish by the Department a couple of week ago , I find only 17 employer class as be within the social care sector , which be less than 0 . 1 % of the total number of employer in the sector . what will the Minister do to ensure that everyone work in the social care sector get at least the minimum wage ? the hon . Gentleman be right to raise this issue , on which we do much . for example , we make sure that people can anonymously report the underpayment of the national living wage through either his Majesty ' s Revenue and Customs or ACAS . it be really important that we do that . we have labour market enforcement undertaking and order , and we provide the tool for serious case . as of April 2022 , 40 employer be on labour market enforcement undertaking and 18 employer have be prosecute . the message should be loud and clear to employer that if they do not comply with the law , we will take action . Smart Data Road Map when she plan to publish the smart datum road map . my official be co - ordinating and lead on the drafting of the road map , which will set out the Government ' s ambition for future smart datum scheme development across seven different sector . we will publish that very shortly . I be delighted to hear that the road map be come very shortly . my hon . friend will recall that I ask this question just before Christmas and he say it would be out in January . we be then hope it might be come out in yesterday ' s otherwise excellent Budget , but it do not . other country be come up on the rail and try to overtake we . the noise of the approach herd be grow in our ear , so can we please move as fast as possible on this ? my hon . friend be right to hold our foot to the fire on this . we be press forward and we be determined to get it right , not just out quickly . he rightly say that I set the ambition to get it out in January , and that have put official ’ foot to the fire as well in get it out . I sign off the road map yesterday , so it should be out very shortly . I do not agree that other nation be hot on our heel on this issue , as we be way ahead . there be billion of call in open banking every month , and million be use this every day without even know it . we be go to extend those opportunity to energy , telecom and , crucially , small and medium - sized enterprise finance , make the journey for sme to get business finance far easy . topical Questions if she will make a statement on her departmental responsibility . last week , I travel to Abu Dhabi for the 13th World Trade Organisation ministerial conference , where I meet counterpart from many country , include Australia , New Zealand , Canada and South Africa , along with trade representative from the United States , European Union and the Gulf Co - operation Council . alongside WTO member , we negotiate real outcome for the UK and important agreement with our trading partner . we deliver for british business through the renewal of the e - commerce moratorium , a global agreement to avoid taxis on online transaction , from email to movie and music . build on the momentum from the 13th ministerial conference , we will continue to champion free , fair , open trade at every opportunity , recognise its potential to lower cost and increase prosperity , both here in the UK and around the world . I thank the Minister for that statement . we be no long constrain by european competition law . the german Government be provide at least € 6 billion in support for their steel industry . give the very credible plan put forward by my union , unite the union , to protect job and expand production at the steel plant at Port Talbot , why be the UK Government not invest more to create a viable future for our steel ? I be disappointed that the hon . Gentleman feel that we have not be invest as much as we should . what we have do in Port Talbot be the big investment that Government have ever make in steel . we be turn Port Talbot around ; it be go to be regenerate . we be replace high carbon emit blast furnace with electric arc furnace to help reduce emission , which his party and all of we across the House sign up to when we make the commitment to net zero . he may have specific thing he think we can do on the transition , so I can tell he that we have a transition board to help those whose job be not go to be there with electric arc furnace . however , we have do a significant amount for Port Talbot . may I commend to my right hon . friend the recent paper on industrial policy by Policy Exchange and its conclusion that we should avoid enter a subsidy race and should instead concentrate on broad , long - term measure support investment right across all industry ? I be grateful to my right hon . friend for highlight the Policy Exchange report , and I agree that the UK should not enter a subsidy race with other industrial nation . we already have our advanced manufacturing plan , which , obviously , focus on advanced manufacturing , and the Chancellor be also look at green industry , life science , creative industry and digital technology . those be all area in which we know we can grow as well . I have speak about the record level of investment we get into the UK . last autumn , when the Chancellor announce full expensing , more than 200 business leader and the CBI say that that be a game changer and the single most transformative thing we could do to fire up the british economy . we will continue to be competitive and ensure that we continue to be the third country , after the USA and China , in secure inward investment — of course , beat our european counterpart . I call the shadow Secretary of State . last month , the Secretary of State say at the Dispatch Box that she could state explicitly that trade talk with Canada have not break down . however , the canadian high commission have since contradict that in writing , say that neither negotiation nor technical discussion with respect to any of the outstanding issue have occur since the UK unilaterally break they off on 25 January . Mr Speaker , I just want to know who be tell the truth . I be very happy to expand on what I say last time I be at the Dispatch Box on this topic . I repeat that our engagement with Canada on trade issue have be extensive across multiple Departments cover the free trade agreement , cheese quota and rule of origin . on 25 January , the UK confirm to Canada that we would pause FTA talk on the basis that cheese access have be remove and that Canada have signal that rule of origin provision would not be extend . that be how negotiation work . I can tell the hon . member that there be a meeting on 8 February between the Foreign Secretary and his canadian counterpart where the cheese issue be discuss , and I raise cheese and rule of origin directly with the Canadians in Abu Dhabi last week . I must say to the hon . member that chase headline base on thing he have be tell by the people with whom we be negotiate be not helpful to achieve the outcome that our business , farmer and auto industry want to see . that be a lot of word for the Secretary of State to use to say that she believe the canadian high commission be correct in the answer that it give . may I ask an important question about the propose UK carbon border adjustment mechanism ? labour very much support the introduction of a UK cbam , but we be concerned that the Government will do so a year after the EU , result in the UK potentially be flood with carbon - intensive product originally destine for Europe , include steel , cement and fertiliser . do the Government recognise that danger ? if they do , what be their plan ? just on the first point , if the hon . Member still want to believe Canada before the UK , that be his business , but we on the conservative Benches know who we be work for , and we be work for british business . on the hon . member ' s second point , carbon leakage be a global problem face all country that be ambitious in tackle climate change , and we be work with international partner on how we tackle it together . we be follow development on the EU CBAM closely , and we be engage with the European Commission to discuss technical consideration relevant to UK manufacturer . we share its concern on carbon leakage , but we need to make sure that the UK response , whatever it be , be tailor to what the UK need , not just a copying and pasting of what other be do . Kettering be the beat heart of the east midland economy , so will the Secretary of State be kind enough to facilitate a visit from her ministerial team to Ball Corporation in Burton Latimer ? it have the new , large and most modern aluminium can manufacture plant in Europe and a fantastic example of the very good of successful foreign direct investment into the UK economy . I commend the Ball Corporation in Burton Latimer for all it be do . I also thank my hon . friend for what he be do to promote inward investment , which support more than 2 , 800 job across the east midland in 2023 . he have speak to I before about the importance of the Ball Corporation to Kettering , and I be happy to confirm that either myself or one of my Ministers would be delighted to visit when diary allow . I call the SNP spokesperson . while the UK Government struggle to support small and medium - sized enterprise export to Europe , they be provide a £ 600 million export guarantee to ineo so that it can build the large chemical plant in Europe for 30 year in Antwerp , Belgium . why can the UK Government find £ 600 million to support that investment , but not match the £ 500 million that the Scottish Government be invest in domestic energy transition at home ? UK Export Finance do not give the money ; it provide guarantee to loan that be be provide by bank . there be quite a significant distinction : we have not give that money ; we have guarantee a loan . the reason why we provide those guarantee be that they guarantee job to british business . there be a big difference between a loan guarantee and give money . if he would like more of an explanation on that , we be happy to provide one to he . as chair of the British - Switzerland all - party parliamentary group , I be delighted to commend the Government on the forthcoming new trade agreement with Switzerland , but will the Secretary of State please update the House on progress ? particularly , will she tell we which of the 20 - plus work group the Government intend to prioritise as part of the negotiation ? I thank my hon . friend , who be a lead member of the British - Switzerland APPG , for his interest . both the Secretary of State and I meet the Swiss Trade Minister in Abu Dhabi last week . the trade talk be progress well . we be seek high - ambition outcome in all area , include service and investment , mobility , digital , and the environment , which be not cover by our exist FTA . in short , there be a large number of high - priority area for we , build on the agreement that we do on financial service in Bern at the end of last year , to ensure that this UK - Switzerland FTA really take forward the bilateral trade relationship . the fourth round of negotiation be take place in Bern this week . we know the impact that mandatory pay gap reporting can have on tackle low pay and in - work poverty , but little progress be be make on tackle the disability pay gap , which be high now than it be a decade ago , with disabled people earn on average £ 3 , 400 less — effectively work for 47 day for free . when will the Government introduce mandatory disability pay gap reporting , and what step be the Secretary of State take to close the gap ? the hon . Lady raise a significant issue around ensure that disabled people be able to access employment and be pay properly . we have no plan to introduce mandatory disability pay gap reporting — no plan to introduce disability pay gap report at all . unlike gender pay gap reporting , which be very simple , binary and easy to execute , disability pay gap reporting , like ethnicity pay gap reporting , be very complex . there be a range of disability that could not be easily monitor , so I would like to work with she on other area where we can help to improve the life of disabled people at work . we do not believe that disability pay gap reporting be the answer . Israel be one of the United Kingdom ' s most dynamic trading partner , so do my right hon . friend agree that prioritise a free trade deal with Israel will complement the good work that the Government be do to defeat the hater as part of the Economic Activity of Public Bodies ( Overseas Matters ) Bill , and send an unmistakeable message that the UK stand ready to strengthen our unbreakable friendship with Israel ? my hon . friend be right . Israel ' s current relationship with the UK be worth about £ 6 . 4 billion , but our FTA be a roll - over of the one that Israel sign in 1995 with the EU . it do not take into account service , digital , artificial intelligence or genome sequencing . there be a lot that we can do . that be why we be work on this FTA . it be a priority for we . as I say early , we face many challenge in carry on negotiation with a country that be at war , but we be work to overcome they . quarter 4 of 2023 be the 10th quarter in a row in which more british business close their door than open up . just yesterday , a small business owner in Twickenham contact I to tell I that his business be on the brink . if the Secretary of State will not consider business rate reform , as my hon . friend the Member for Edinburgh West ( Christine Jardine ) suggest , what be she do to help our small and medium - sized business , and to stem the tide of insolvency ? the hon . Lady raise an important point . we do not shy away from the fact that thing have be difficult for business , with the covid crisis , of course , follow by the cost of do business crisis . that be why we step in to support business , with a £ 4 . 3 billion package for rate last autumn , which have help many business to get through a difficult time . unfortunately , that support have not be pass on in Scotland and Wales , but it certainly have in England . I be very happy to meet with she to discuss her particular business problem . because of its very large population and economic activity , Nigeria offer many opportunity for british business . I understand that there be a recent ministerial visit to that country . could we have a brief report of the outcome of that visit ? my hon . friend be right . I sign the enhance trade and investment partnership in Nigeria , alongside my counterpart , Dr Doris Uzoka - Anite , on Tuesday 13 February this year . it be the first of its kind in term of the UK ' s trade commitment across the region . the partnership aim to remove market access barrier and promote technical co - operation in area such as financial and professional service . the UK and Nigeria have co - create a partnership that tackle issue that business face , and this be the first step in a significant relationship and an already strong trading partnership worth a total of £ 6 . 7 billion in the 12 month to September . last week , Carl Cresswell , director of business resilience in the Department for Business and Trade , tell the Select Committee that he personally think that we will end up spend more money on Horizon compensation overall than that £ 1 billion currently allocate by the Treasury , but we do not hear anything about that in yesterday ' s Budget . do the Secretary of State share that view ? we have always be clear that the £ 1 billion be not a cap . clearly , the amount of compensation that need to be pay for redress be to get people back to where they be before the scandal take place . at the moment , we be not near that £ 1 billion , but I think that over time we will be . as I say , it be not a cap ; if we need to raise the amount , we will . I understand that another round of negotiation be about to start in India on our long - promise trade deal . the original proposal be to complete the trade deal by Diwali . this year , Diwali be on 1 November , so will the Secretary of State give we an update on negotiation and agree that we should conclude the deal by 1 November ? I thank my hon . friend for that question and for his continual interest in we get a high - quality trade deal with India , for which he have long be a passionate advocate . of course , the most important thing be what be in the deal , rather than the date that it be deliver . we remain in round 14 and we recently welcome Government of India negotiator to London . the prize remain large — with tariff as high as 150 % for whisky and 125 % for auto — and we want to ensure that we get our key service sector able to export into a market of 1 . 4 billion people . I call the Chair of the Business and Trade Committee . the Secretary of State will have see the recommendation that our Committee set out this morning for end the circus of the Post Office administration of the redress scheme for victim of the Horizon scandal . I know that she take this incredibly seriously and so I know that she will study our cross - party recommendation for the new legislation that she be about to bring before the House . the question for today be this : if we put all the ongoing investigation to one side , on the basis of the fact as they be know today , do she still have full confidence in Nick Read as the chief executive of the Post Office to run the redress scheme currently under way ? we thank the right hon . gentleman for his work . I have take a quick look at the report , although it be only issue this morning . all the recommendation he make in that report we have either fix or be fix with the assistance of the Horizon compensation advisory board . we agree with he that we need to bring the compensation scheme in house . the GLO — group litigation order — scheme be already be deliver by the Department for Business and Trade . we believe that further compensation will flow from our overturning of conviction . we will be overturn hundred of conviction through legislation in this House very shortly , as quickly as possible , and that will provide a flow of hundred of million of pound in compensation for those individual . that will be do by the Department for Business and Trade . as the trade envoy to the western Balkans , the issue of government - to - government agreement be raise with I frequently . there be no doubt that if they be available , more deal could be do with the balkan country . will the Minister give an update on the Government ' s position , please ? I thank my hon . friend , in particular for his brilliant work as a trade envoy . he cover more market than any of our other trade envoy with great skill and dexterity . back in 2017 , this Department and I be pioneer in put in place a g - to - g agreement with Peru for the UK to be the delivery partner for the 2019 Pan american game . a great deal of business with and in Peru have result since . we remain open to future g - to - g agreement on a case - by - case basis . I be happy to meet he to discuss what specific thing he have in mind that would work in the western Balkans . I have repeatedly ask Ministers whether any string be attach to the £ 500 million of taxpayer ' money that be give to Tata Steel , particularly with regard to job guarantee . I have not have a straight answer , so I will try again today . can the Secretary of State please confirm whether any conditionality be attach to the £ 500 million , or do the Government simply buy Tata Steel ' s bluff about closure , and give it £ 500 million so that we could make 2 , 800 people redundant ? the hon . Gentleman attend the transition board meeting , so he know that his question be not really relevant to what he be try to get to the bottom of . we provide £ 500 million to ensure that steel making continue in Port Talbot . Tata make it clear that it be uneconomic and unsustainable to continue with steel making , so the support that we have give will ensure that north of 5 , 000 job will continue in Port Talbot , and it will support supply chain . on top of that , £ 100 million have be provide to the transition board , so that its member , include the hon . Gentleman , the union and all the local representative , can ensure that local people who need to go through transition get the support that they need . without that support , there would not be any future steel making at Port Talbot . when will the Secretary of State wake up to the huge potential of university to tackle all the problem in society , include climate change ? will she come to Huddersfield , which have one of the good university in the country ? it be work with local business to make the future safe for our country . if the hon . Gentleman send a proposal to my office about what we could do on a visit to the University of Huddersfield , I would be very keen to take a look . we support our university . if he have a specific business and trade angle in mind , we will see what we can do , if diary allow . Mr Hussein from east Devon , whom I represent , have effectively be rob of £ 100 , 000 , give that £ 40 , 000 of sub - standard building work have to be level and destroy . the Federation of Master Builders have campaign for a compulsory licence scheme for construction company . the Domestic Buildings Works ( Consumer Protection ) Bill would outlaw cowboy builder , provide compensation for consumer and ensure that reputable builder be not undercut by unlicensed rogue . will the Minister take a fresh look at that Bill ? the hon . Gentleman raise an important point . some of the most frequent correspondence that I get from colleague from across the House relate to rogue builder . we be determined to ensure that this do not happen to our constituent . we advise they to use builder register with TrustMark , which be a trusted scheme , to ensure that work be do properly . I would be very happy to meet he to discuss that potential legislation . Goldman Sachs have find that Brexit Britain have significantly underperformed compare with other advanced economy ; the result be that UK GDP be 5 % low than it would have be have we not leave the European Union . do the Secretary of State appreciate that good way to grow the economy , boost business confidence and reduce trade barrier be to rejoin to the EU ? I recommend to the hon . Lady the report produce by my Department on 31 January about the benefit of Brexit . it explain exactly what be happen with the UK economy . claim that GDP would have be 5 % high when we be outperform our G7 partner be simply not credible . she want to take we back to square one , but that be exactly the reason why people need to stick with the conservative plan . I be very encouraged by the Secretary of State ' s comment about the free trade deal with Israel . the UK be a friend of Israel , and Israel be a friend of the UK , so what more can we do to increase trade between we ? more importantly — and very regionally — how can the Secretary of State ensure that Northern Ireland be very much part of that trade deal , so that company in Strangford and across Northern Ireland also feel the benefit ? the hon . Gentleman will remember that we have the Northern Ireland investment summit , at which we talk about bring more investment into Northern Ireland . he will know that around 500 israeli firm operate in the United Kingdom . that investment from overseas be create thousand of job in high - value sector , and a free trade agreement will help to increase the investment . that will benefit business in Northern Ireland , too . business of the House will the Leader of the House give we the forthcoming business ? the business for the week commence 11 March will include : Monday 11 March — Continuation of the Budget debate . Tuesday 12 March — Conclusion of the Budget debate . Wednesday 13 March — consideration of an allocation of time motion , follow by all stage of the National Insurance Contributions ( Reduction in Rates ) ( no . 2 ) Bill . Thursday 14 March — estimate day . there will be debate on estimate relate to the Department for Education , in so far as it relate to special educational need and disability provision ; and the Home Office , in so far as it relate to asylum and migration . at 5 pm , the House will be ask to agree all outstanding estimate . Friday 15 March — private member ' Bills . the provisional business for the week commence 18 March include : Monday 18 March — proceeding on the Supply and Appropriation ( Anticipation and Adjustments ) Bill , follow by consideration of Lords amendment to the Safety of Rwanda ( Asylum and Immigration ) Bill . Tuesday 19 March — remain stage of the Trade ( Comprehensive and Progressive Agreement for Trans - Pacific Partnership ) Bill [ Lords ] . further business will be announce in the usual way . this week , the Secretary of State for Science , Innovation and Technology make a grovel apology and retract baseless allegation she make against a member of her own advisory body on her personal Twitter account — allegation that be base on a dodgy dossier produce by a conservative think - tank . remarkably , the damage pay out come from taxpayer ' money from her Department . this be a new low for ministerial standard , so perhaps the Leader of the House can clarify a few thing . be the £ 15 , 000 pay in damage the total cost bear by the Department for Science , Innovation and Technology ? apparently , the Secretary of State be give appropriate advice , but do she follow it , or be her accusation against the advice she receive ? if they be , surely she should personally pay the cost . will the Leader of the House urgently ensure that the Secretary of State be accountable to Parliament ? the Government can not have it both way : if the money be pay by taxpayer because it relate to the Secretary of State ' s ministerial responsibility , she must come to Parliament as a Minister and account for that . other Ministers be tell that their Twitter account be matter for they personally . do the Secretary of State still have the confidence of the Leader of the House ? all we get from yesterday ' s Budget be old news , brief and leak to the paper before it be give to Parliament . the next time that the Leader of the House cry crocodile tear for the right of this place , she could reflect on the Government ' s failure to stand by the parliamentary convention that Budgets be deliver in the Chamber first . I be sure that she be relieve that her marginal constituency do not get a namecheck , because her colleague be all complain that their namecheck be the kiss of death . on the substance , the verdict be now in . the Office for Budget Responsibility forecast that tax receipt as a proportion of GDP be set to rise to their high level since the second world war . the Resolution Foundation say that the big picture have not change : taxis be head up , and this will be the first Parliament in modern history in which living standard fall to be low at the end than they be at the start . the Institute for Fiscal Studies agree that household be bad off since the last election , and no soon have the Chancellor sit down than the Under - Secretary of State for Energy Security and Net Zero , the hon . member for West Aberdeenshire and Kincardine ( Andrew Bowie ) , criticise a key plank of the energy plan on Twitter . the public ' s verdict be also in . a snap poll reveal that three in five voter think that the Government ' s plan be not work . the Sky News panel of 2019 Tory voter could not have be more damning : one voter say that the Budget be " absolutely farcical " . another say that the Government have " no plan " , and think that the Budget be " a great vote loser " and " a waste of time " ; " time for they to go " , say a third . that be because on the big issue , this Budget change nothing . on taxis , for every 5p the Government be give , they be take 10p in tax rise . million more middle - income family be pay more and more tax on their earning , as they be drag over high tax threshold . taxis be go up to their high level in 70 year ; the Government hate it , but that be the reality . that be the truth of this Conservative Government . on the public finance , borrowing have be revise upwards , with the Chancellor ' s measure in the Budget add £ 4 billion to borrow , and debt as a share of gdp at its high since the 1960 . borrow to fund tax cut — how irresponsible . on growth , after everything the Chancellor announce be take into account , growth forecast be revise down from November . growth figure would have be even bad be it not for high prediction of net migration . the Government hate that too , but be the truth . we be in a recession ; the economy be small than when the Prime Minister enter Downing Street , there have be the big fall in living standard since record begin , and real income be below what they be at the last election . that be the Conservatives ’ record , and it have the Prime Minister ' s name write all over it . finally , disgracefully , the Chancellor make no mention at all of infected blood compensation or Horizon scandal redress . the slowness in right these wrong be raise here most week . the Business and Trade Committee ' s highly critical report , out this morning , call for a legally bind timetable for deliver redress to sub - postmaster , and for that to be take completely out of the hand of the Post Office . do the Leader of the House agree ? give everything she have say on both these injustice , do she understand the anger that no new money be allocate , and no timetable be give , for those compensation scheme in yesterday ' s Budget ? be not that omission just another short - term , cynical act that will store up problem for the next government to sort out ? as ever , it be party before country . these be the final act of a desperate , die Government . I start by note that tomorrow be International Women ' s Day . I point out that on most Thursdays , the primary player in this session be three woman , and sometimes there be a fourth in the Speaker ' s Chair . it be sometimes note that woman be often the last to speak in meeting . that may be true , but we be often the first to set the right tone and approach . politic need more of we , and I hope that the spirit of tomorrow will carry into this important political year . I turn to what the hon . Lady say about a female colleague of ours , the Secretary of State for Science , Innovation and Technology . the hon . Lady can no doubt obtain from the Department detail of some of the issue that she raise . however , I remind the House , because the hon . Lady be really probe the character of the Secretary of State , that when the latter be entitle to a redundancy payment of £ 16 , 000 for have be a Secretary of State , she do not take it , but hand it back to the Department , because that be the right thing to do . that speak volume about my right hon . friend ' s character , and how much she value the fact that we be talk about taxpayer ' money . I see that the hon . Lady be channel Elmer Fudd this morning . bug may not have be in the Chancellor ' s hat , but there be support for business large and small , help for household , tax cut for work people , and help for single - earner family . also , the price of fuel at the pump be be hold down through another fuel duty freeze . we will ensure that the benefit of that be hand on to the consumer via Pumpwatch . I will not take any lecture from the Labour party on stewardship of public service and get growth into our economy . I will take no lecture on tax cutting from a Labour party that still have £ 28 billion of unfunded spending commitment , which can only be deliver through tax rise . it be the Labour party that leave office with a £ 71 billion black hole in the defence budget and equipment programme . it be Labour that bring in the fuel duty escalator , and be clobber the motorist in Wales and London . it be the Labour party in Wales that have cut the NHS budget , not once , but three time . that be in contrast to the increase that we have bring in , and the furth £ 6 billion announce yesterday . labour ' s NHS budget cut be one reason why a quarter of the population in Wales be on a waiting list . I will not take any lecture from Labour on council tax , which rise by 104 % under their administration ; again , in Wales , it have nearly triple since Labour have be in power . we have reform welfare to make work pay , double the personal allowance , cut national insurance and protect livelihood and job through furlough , but labour think it be a good use of taxpayer ' money to give asylum seeker £ 1 , 600 a month . I will not take any lecture on support those earn the least from a Labour party that bring in the 10p rate . the hon . Lady ' s rhetoric on growth and modernise our nation do not match her party ' s agenda to unpick 40 year of trade union reform or tie business in red tape , and it do not sit well with its voting record on minimum service level for the british public . I will not take any lecture from a party that do the square root of diddly squat for victim of infected blood and the Post Office . on that precise point , the hon . Lady clearly have not read the Red Book , which on page 24 commit we to pay full compensation to victim of the Horizon scandal . the estimate be in there , but it also say that amount will be increase if need . this be a tough shift , post - pandemic and mid - war . but thank God it be our shift . our country have turn a corner and we will get back to our inflation target soon , as the new forecast indicate . the plan be work and we will stay that course , as we must . otherwise , we will end up back where Labour leave we : compare with today , that be a million more workless household , 400 , 000 more child and 200 , 000 more pensioner in absolute poverty , 4 million few in work , youth unemployment at 45 % , literacy rate trail rather than lead the world , and a third less spending on the NHS . no thank you , shadow Leader of the House . we will stick with the Prime Minister . further business will be announce in the usual way . the Mayor of Greater Manchester ' s vanity project of a 493 - square - mile clean air zone have cost the taxpayer nearly £ 100 million . it have be support by all Labour council in Greater Manchester and Bury . will my right hon . friend make time for a debate to ensure that the voice of conservative mp who have campaign against this ridiculous project can be hear again , and that this tax on hard - work people never see the light of day ? I congratulate my hon . friend on lead the charge on this matter . there be a legal obligation to comply with emission in the short possible time , but we be review that . he will know that Greater Manchester authority have change their tune and be now propose an entirely different approach , thank to the campaign that he have run and the support that he have galvanise among his community . I congratulate he and encourage he to hold they to account . I call the Scottish National party spokesperson . follow the frankly appal behaviour of the Labour party leadership to disrupt the SNP ' s Opposition day debate on 21 February — [ interruption . ] obviously , they do not like the truth . the Leader of the House tell the House that she be sympathetic to the idea not only of the SNP get another Opposition day debate but of take it from the allocation give to the Labour party . could she update the House on how her thinking have develop on those point ? far to that , on the issue of ministerial responsibility , yesterday it be reveal that neither the Conservatives ’ branch manager in Holyrood nor their Energy Minister support the Government ' s energy policy . will the Leader of the House confirm whether the principle of collective responsibility in government apply to junior Ministers ? if so , what advice would she give to any Minister who be unable to support such a key plank of Government policy , either publicly or in any Budget vote ahead ? finally , the Secretary of State for Science , Innovation and Technology have cost the taxpayer £ 15 , 000 after falsely accuse an academic of support Hamas . could we have a debate on the limit of privilege , specifically whether it be now the Government ' s policy that Ministers can say whatever they like outside Parliament and be financially indemnify from the consequence by the taxpayer ? do she consider it the taxpayer ' s job to underwrite financially the conservative party ' s culture war whenever its member overstep the mark ? I thank the hon . gentleman for his question . I have speak to the leader of his party in Westminster regard future Opposition day debate , and he know that we will give more time to the SNP . I think SNP Members be badly treat and we will make that right . as I have explain , I also want to ensure that the Procedure Committee look at what happen , because I do not want minority party to receive more time on the Floor of this House and be in any doubt about how those debate will be conduct . I understand that Mr Speaker have write to the Procedure Committee to ask it to do a quick piece of work , and I will announce future opposition - day debate for the SNP . I hope SNP Members will have confidence in what the Procedure Committee say . the hon . Gentleman raise particular Budget measure . we have a balanced Budget — that be why the Chancellor make the decision that he make . it be the Government ' s Budget and the Government ' s plan . it be rather cheeky of the hon . Gentleman to lecture we about use of public fund ; I refer he to what I say early about the Secretary of State for Science , Innovation and Technology . the SNP be legendary in this respect . indeed , I have wrongly assume that the appalling Willy Wonka experience in Glasgow have be lay on by the SNP , give its high - cost poor return , and the fact that the police be call . however , the presence of a bouncy castle put pay to that theory , give that bouncy castle have be ban by SNP local authority on health and safety ground . the life of people across north Staffordshire have be blight for far too long by the stench come off Walleys Quarry landfill site in Newcastle - under - Lyme . there be delight that the Environment Agency have now issue a suspension notice , so will my right hon . friend join I in pay tribute to our hon . friend the Member for Newcastle - under - Lyme ( Aaron Bell ) for the work he have do on this incredibly important issue ? give that this issue affect community up and down the country , include yours , Mr Speaker , will the Leader of the House find time for a debate on landfill site ? I thank my right hon . friend for raise that important point . it be unacceptable that resident in Newcastle - under - Lyme have , for far too long , have to put up with the appalling smell emanate from that quarry , and she be right to pay tribute to our hon . friend the Member for Newcastle - under - Lyme . he have raise the issue many time in this House and have be fight for his constituent . I think he secure two Westminster Hall debate on the issue , and it be in very great part down to his effort that it be be resolve . I call the Chair of the Backbench Business Committee . may I thank the Chair of the Procedure Committee for a timely and affirmative response to our request to examine the Westminster Hall Standing Orders ? to that end , I have write to the Leader of the House this morning , and I hope she will give a similarly timely and affirmative response . the Backbench Business Committee welcome application from member across the House , particularly for Westminster Hall debate , where they can probably be facilitate after the Easter recess as we be pretty book up until then . I again thank the hon . Gentleman for his helpful advert for his Committee . he know that I very much agree both with his ask and with the advice of the Procedure Committee , so we will make that good innovation very swiftly . may we have a debate on defend the environment and quality of life in the London suburb ? transport for London and its development partner Ballymore want to build 25 tower block in Edgware town centre , include a 29 - storey skyscraper , which be completely unacceptable and inappropriate . we need a debate to make the point to the Mayor of London that he must demand that TfL withdraw from the project . I thank my right hon . friend for raise that issue . all community want to ensure that new home be build — that be very important — but we must ensure that they be the right type of home and do not affect the character of an area , and that the need of local people and their view be take into account . I know my right hon . friend have be campaign hard on such matter , and that the development must be to a gentler density that be in keep with the local character . I congratulate she and the Save Edgeware campaign , which be work flat out to ensure that the character of that community remain . I stand ready to assist she as she progress that campaign . this week , on 9 March , it will be 10 year since the death of my dear friend , Adjuah Annan . she be just 28 year old . Adjuah have sickle cell anaemia , the UK ' s fast grow genetic condition , but her untimely death be the direct result of serious failing in her care . her experience and those of many other be outline in the landmark report by the Sickle Cell Society and the all - party parliamentary group on sickle cell and thalassaemia , " no one ' s listen " , publish in 2021 , but since then the Government have fail meaningfully to engage with its finding and recommendation . it can not be right that 10 year after we lose Adjuah , those with sickle cell and thalassaemia continue to experience inequality in treatment , substandard care and avoidable death . when can we expect the Government to finally listen and put forward policy that implement in full the recommendation of the " No One ' s listen " report ? I thank the hon . Lady for remember her friend Adjuah , and allow we to pause and pay tribute to she . I thank she also for raise the important work the APPG do on the matter . as the next Health question will not be until late April , I will write on behalf of the hon . Lady to the Secretary of State for Health and Social Care and ask she to respond directly to she . may we have a debate in Government time — it would be nice — to talk about Mid Devon District Council ? I know I have talk about it before , but it have now go beyond a joke . there be now no planning enforcement officer in Mid Devon District Council , as all the staff have go . it be a free - for - all for developer . more importantly , the council have move to waste collection every three week . that be not a problem , except the service have be take over by a draconian " 1984 " - style group of councillor who be determined to make the life of the people of Tiverton and mid - Devon impossible . the chair of scrutiny , who be incompetent and lazy , be do nothing to scrutinise any of this . we can not have local government be run by people who seem to be out to make the life of local people miserable , so please may we have a debate on local government ? it be sometimes say that in response to question I refer the hon . member to the answer I give some moment ago , but my hon . friend could stand up every week and refer I to the question he ask the week before . he be assiduous in his campaigning to highlight the failure of his local authority , and I expect to see he do exactly the same thing next week . passenger must feel confident when make train journey . in the last two week alone , there be major cancellation on south Western Railway , as well as mass delay on Southern and Thameslink . at the same time , rail fare rise by nearly 5 % on Sunday . everybody be pay more for less . be it not high time we have a debate in Government time on how we can support our crumble rail infrastructure ? the hon . Lady will know that the Department have make recent announcement on considerable uplift to rail infrastructure . there have be particular issue with the service provide by South Western Railway and the quality of its rolling stock . the next Transport question will not be for some time , so I will raise the hon . Lady ' s concern with the Secretary of State and ask that his official get in touch with she . the Royal Air Force Museum in Colindale be one of London ' s premier tourist attraction and many people use the tube to visit it . however , Transport for London and the Mayor of London have decide that the work to upgrade Colindale tube station necessitate a six - month closure . that be dire for commuter but also for visitor to the RAF Museum . will a Minister come to the Dispatch Box to advise what assistance can be provide to mitigate yet more unintended consequence from decision make by the disastrous Mayor ? I thank my hon . friend for raise this important point . the Royal Air Force Museum be amazing ; I be there recently at the RAF gallantry award dinner . at most time , such work would be very unfortunate for one of our most impressive national museum , but anniversary come up this year will mean more people will want to visit the museum , particularly to see the reconnaissance aircraft . this matter be devolve to the Mayor of London , but I know my hon . friend have do service by get the concern of many people on the record . I will ensure the relevant Department have hear his concern , to see what pressure can be bring to bear on Transport for London and the Mayor of London . the Budget mean net tax cut of £ 9 billion take effect in an election year , but that be dwarf by the £ 27 billion of tax increase that take effect last year and the £ 19 billion of tax rise that will come into effect after the general election , because of the action of her party . the Chancellor have give with one hand and take with the other . do the Leader of the House think that her party be fool anyone ? I encourage the hon . Lady to re - read the Chancellor ' s Budget speech to see what progress we be make on growth and inward investment into this country . this year , our investment summit have a record amount of money be put into this nation , with more than £ 30 billion garner in just that week . she will know that yesterday we have revise forecast on return to our target for inflation . these be tough time , but the plan be work , and we be determined to see hard - work family through . before the pandemic , Transport for London ' s finance be in a complete mess , because the Labour Mayor of London refuse to raise fare in line with inflation . now , after receive from the Government the final instalment of the £ 6 . 2 billion to cover the covid period , he freeze fare again , refuse to pay the police the money they need to reform and keep London safe , and raise the council tax precept by 8 . 7 % . will my right hon . friend arrange time for a debate so that we can point out the error of the London Mayor and put we on course for proper government in London ? I thank my hon . friend for again raise the appalling maladministration of the Mayor of London . londoner be pay more to prop up the Mayor ' s budget , not just in the increase headline rate , but also in a whole series of stealth taxis and fine that be be levy . even the most fundamental service in London , such as the police , have enormous black hole in their budget . it be an absolute scandal , and I hope that Londoners will rectify that situation in the come month . the sorry saga of Teesworks continue , include the mysterious £ 20 million pay out to the joint venture partner over rubble . put to one side the bizarre hailing by the Secretary of State for Levelling up , Housing and Communities of Lord Houchen as Teesside ' s good champion since Sunderland win the FA cup in 1973 — the Leader of the House might want to send he a map of the north - east — will she prevail upon he to come to the House and make a statement to explain how the £ 560 million of public money so far invest , which be provide eye - water income for the joint venture partner without they put in any money of their own , be in any way consistent with his claim that the remediation of the site be achieve by bring in private investment ? there have be no such private investment ; the taxpayer have pay for the lot . can she please ask the Secretary of State to come to the House and explain himself ? I dispute what the hon . Gentleman say , and I think it go to the heart of his prejudice against private sector involvement . the proof of the pudding be in the eating , and the employment rate in Teesside be now 3 % above the national average . I be sorry he do not welcome that success . we do , and we want it to continue . the Leader of the House will be fully aware that I welcome the Prime Minister ' s remark outside no . 10 Downing Street last week , when he say : " it be not enough to live side - by - side , we must live together unite by … a shared commitment to this country . " he be right . immigration be only successful when integration be successful . in the light of that , will the Leader of the House agree to a debate on the Floor of the House concern a new proactive integration strategy , ensure that those who come to Britain be encourage to learn English , become part of UK community and embrace british value ? do she agree that we need a coherent UK integration policy ? I thank my hon . friend for raise that important point . the Home Office have do work in this area , and he will know that Departments have have initiative , such as the Department for Levelling up provide language class and so forth . the Home Office have be focus on those who have leave to remain and choose to make their home here but be not citizen of this country , as well as look at whether we need a more robust and proactive stance towards citizenship and all that it bring and mean to we . my constituent John , despite have be bear in North Lanarkshire and have live in Scotland his whole life , have to apply to become a british citizen , pledge his allegiance to the King and pay £ 260 for the process to apply for a passport because he do not have access to his mother ' s birth certificate . will the Leader of the House make Government time available for mp to raise and debate various passport issue ? be she aware of any recourse to allow my constituent to be reimburse ? I be happy to facilitate a meeting between Home Office official and the hon . Lady ' s office — or indeed herself — to talk about that case and anything that the Department can learn from John ' s experience of go through that process . he will know that we have clear line - of - sight reporting on the cost charge for particular thing , but if there have be some injustice , I be sure that meeting will help to rectify the situation . last week see the launch of the independent report that I , together with the Department for Work and Pensions and the lead research charity Autistica , prepare as result of a 10 - month review into autism and employment . there be still a huge gap in the number of people in work , with few than three in 10 adult who be autistic working , which be way below the disability average . I be grateful to the Backbench Business Committee for allocate time in April for a debate in this Chamber on the report and its finding . will my right hon . friend use her good office to ensure that that time be preserve as much as possible , so that colleague across the House can debate the report ' s important recommendation ? I thank my right hon . and learn Friend for all the work he have do on the report and on many other area of deep concern to people with autism and their family . it be a landmark report , and it be wonderful to hear that it will be debate on the Floor of the House . I will ensure that the time be protect and that nothing happen to it . I also congratulate my colleague at the Department for Work and Pensions on the work they have do and the proactive way in which they commission these finding . yesterday , after the Budget , Kate Burt , the chief executive of the Haemophilia Society , say : " today , Chancellor Jeremy Hunt could have reassure those infected and affect by contaminate blood product that resource for long - overdue compensation would be make available . instead , like so many chancellor before he , he ignore this issue , deepen the anxiety , anger and frustration cause by his government ' s failure to take responsibility for this long - run injustice . we deplore this cowardly and morally bankrupt attempt to kick the payment of compensation beyond the next general election . " I know that the Leader of the House care deeply about this issue and that she will be as disappointed as I be about the failure to put anything on it into the Budget . can we please have a statement from the Paymaster General about exactly what he be do ? he be not talk to those infected or affect , he be not take sounding from any of the campaign group , and he be appoint people to advise he but we be not allow to know their name . it be time for a statement . it be time to know what the Government be actually do . I thank the right hon . Lady for raise that important point , and I be very happy to set the record straight . it be not the intention to kick the can down the road on this issue . the Paymaster General and I have a weekly update on it , and he be work very hard . the right hon . Lady will appreciate that , of all this process , this be the hard bit — come up with the scheme in short order and ensure that it will deliver for those who be infect and affect . I do not think the House will have to wait long before it be update by the Paymaster General . he be plan a tour across the UK to meet particular group , and I hope he will be able to update the right hon . Lady on that very swiftly . this be a moral issue , and we have take it seriously . that be why we do the inquiry . that be why we do the compensation review . the Paymaster General will have to balance the issue the right hon . Lady raise against be swift . he feel that very deeply , and he will deliver for the House and all the victim . tomorrow be International Women ' s Day , and today mark five month since the barbaric Hamas attack on Israel . of the 134 hostage still cruelly hold by Hamas , 19 be woman , and of those , five be teenage girl . will my right hon . friend join I in mark International Women ' s Day by support the campaign call # bringbackourgirl ? will she also take this opportunity to send a message to their family , who be endure unimaginable pain and the live nightmare of these young woman be in the hand of vicious rapist terrorist ? I thank my right hon . and learn Friend for afford the whole House the opportunity to send the message to all the hostage family that they be still very much in our thought . of those woman and girl still keep hostage , the young be 19 and the old be 70 . we can only imagine the horror they be face . this week the UN publish its report on the sexual violence suffer by israeli woman and girl on 7 October . it look at over 5 , 000 photograph and over 50 hour of footage of those attack , and it conclude that there be evidence at the Nova music festival of rape , gang rape and murder . it be the most appalling situation , and I be glad that the UN now have that evidence on record and have produce that report . we can not let these poor woman and girl suffer what they must be suffer a moment long . we must bring they home , and I be sure that be the sentiment of everyone in the House . constituent in West Lancashire have this week be deeply concerned about the threaten closure of our dial - a - ride service . yesterday , I learn that , unlike Conservative - lead Lancashire County Council , Labour - lead West Lancashire Borough Council have manage to find some additional fund for this year , and dial - a - ride have announce that it will be able to continue for the next financial year . could we please have a debate about the impact of over a decade of cut to local government on the valuable community and voluntary sector , which all our constituent rely on ? the voluntary and community sector be thrive , and 13 million Brits volunteer every single month . the service that the hon . Lady talk about be incredibly important . different council will be do different thing . some have dial - a - ride service , and other have token for taxi , depend on whether they be urban or rural . this issue be incredibly important , and the hon . Lady will know that the Department for Culture , Media and Sport have put an enormous focus on support the community and voluntary sector through new initiative such as the national citizenship programme . however , I will ensure that the relevant Department have hear her concern . far to the question from the right hon . member for Kingston upon Hull North ( Dame Diana Johnson ) , my constituent Dave Farry , from Ferryhill , be one of the many who have be impact by the infected blood scandal . I understand that we be near the final compensation settlement for victim of this appalling scandal . will the Leader of the House please advise I on how people can well engage with Ministers on this subject ? I thank my hon . friend for raise this matter on behalf of his constituent . as I outlined early , the Paymaster General be keen not just to bring forward proposal in swift order , but to meet directly with those who have be infect and affect , in order to hear their view and get feedback on the scheme to ensure that it meet with their approval . my late information be that there will be 25 meeting around the country . I know that the Paymaster General feel strongly that that be the right thing to do . I will make sure that he have hear my hon . friend ' s interest on behalf of his constituent and that my hon . friend be update as soon as those date and venue can be announce . Manchester have a proud history of welcome those seek sanctuary , but the Home Office be fail to provide support for the move - on process to those recently grant asylum . since April 2023 , there have be a 575 % increase in the number of people who have present to Manchester City Council as homeless because the Home Office have evict they . the Government expect local authority and the voluntary sector to fill the gap that they be leave , but without provide the resource . Councillor Craig , the leader of Manchester City Council , have write to the Secretary of State to raise the issue . can we have an urgent debate in Government time on the support offer to newly recognise refugee ? I would be very happy to raise this matter with the Home Office and ask for a meeting on behalf of the hon . Gentleman . local authority have a great deal of flexibility on who they take , under what circumstance and where they provide accommodation , so I be not quite sure what the underlying issue be . I would be very happy to facilitate a discussion between the hon . Gentleman and the Home Office . my right hon . friend the Member for Gainsborough ( Sir Edward Leigh ) , my hon . friend the Member for Great Grimsby ( Lia Nici ) and I have a long - run campaign to restore the direct train service between Cleethorpes and King ' s Cross , which would serve our three constituency . we know that the Department for Transport have approve that . the Budget Red Book have a couple of section that could include that service . will the Leader of the House arrange for the Rail Minister to make a statement to clarify whether the Cleethorpes service be include ? I thank my hon . friend for all his work on this important service for his constituent , which will bring massive benefit to the area . I can absolutely confirm that we be committed to ensure that the service be stand up . I understand that work be still require to assess what infrastructure change be need at the station involve and that further operational readiness activity need to take place before direct service can be introduce . I will ensure that the Rail Minister have hear what my hon . friend have say today and that he contact he to give he assurance . it have be report that taxpayer have have to pick up a £ 15 , 000 bill due to the action of the right hon . member for Chippenham ( Michelle Donelan ) , who be rapidly become know as " the Member for chip In " . could the Leader of the House confirm that amount of £ 15 , 000 ? do she think it fair that taxpayer should be foot the bill for the disgracefully bad judgment and behaviour of her colleague ? as an experienced parliamentarian , the hon . Gentleman will know that each Department will have a permanent secretary and monitor officer to ensure that any such payment be correct , proper and justified . the propriety and ethic team at the Cabinet Office also oversee such thing . not have be directly involve in the matter myself , I be pretty confident that what have happen be perfectly correct . what the hon . Gentleman be get at be whether it be right . I point he to what that particular Secretary of State have do herself in other circumstance . she very much understand that taxpayer ' money be involve and have take action in the past to turn down thing that she be entitle to because she feel that it be morally wrong to take they . I hope the right hon . Lady know that I be not a fan of the " go for the player rather than the ball " type of politic that be so popular with so many in this place , but follow so many comment today , I have to say that , as public servant , we owe the public the right to question whatever we do . I fully respect what the right hon . Lady have say about the right hon . member for Chippenham ( Michelle Donelan ) turn down payment , such as for her redundancy after two day as Education Secretary . however , the matter will not go away until the public have the right to ask question . there be also the issue of whether the ministerial code be breach in any of what have happen . the Prime Minister promise we a Government of transparency , so will the right hon . Lady please take back to he the suggestion that there should be a statement to the House to clarify the situation , if nothing else ? I completely understand the legitimate issue that the hon . Lady raise . she have a reputation for play the ball and not the man or woman , and I take her question in the spirit in which I think it be intend . from what I know of the situation , and because of the oversight that be give to such matter , I believe that this issue have be deal with in line with the rule . I refer she to what I have say about the character of the individual in question . listen to the Chancellor ' s Budget this week , people would think that everything be rosy , despite our country be in a recession . however , that narrative fly in the face of the daily reality of worker and business . do the Leader of the House accept that the Government can not escape from their dismal economic record over the last 14 year ? I would ask the hon . Lady to reflect on how she think the hard - work people of this country will cope with have to plug a £ 28 billion hole in Labour ' s spending plan , which could only be raise — if the party be stick to its fiscal rule — by raise taxis . Scotland ' s baby box be deliver to every baby bear in Scotland . it be pack full of baby essential to be use from birth to six month , help parent to give their child a positive start in life . Scotland also have the large free book giveaway for child of any nation on Earth through the Bookbug book gift programme , give every child four free pack of book between birth and primary 1 . we also have the scottish child payment of £ 25 a week per child for our poor family . none of those thing be available anywhere else in the United Kingdom . will the Leader of the House make a statement set out her view on the importance of ensure that every child have the good start in life , recognise that it be the Government ' s job to address inequality as much as they can , with the power they have , to build a more cohesive and fair society ? I have no quibble with any of the issue that the hon . Lady raise , but it be also the duty of government to ensure that people have public service they can rely on , that the police can attend burglary and other such thing , that people have access to the healthcare they need , and that their ambition with regard to the growth of the economy and their local community be support . unfortunately , her Government in Scotland be not do those thing . my constituent Michelle be a cancer survivor who have campaign for year on access to NHS dentistry for cancer patient . I have make frequent attempt to secure a debate on this matter and will continue to do so , but will the Leader of the House allocate some Government time to discuss this important issue , give the traumatic impact chemotherapy can have on one ' s dental health and the incredibly significant impact that have on the life of those who be able to survive cancer ? I know that my right hon . friend the Member for South Northamptonshire ( Dame Andrea Leadsom ) , who be the Minister with responsibility for dentistry , have bring forward a new dental plan , which include an uplift but also new thing for the NHS in England , such as mobile dentistry van . she be particularly focus on people who be disproportionately affect because of other issue , include cancer patient , look - after child , and woman who be pregnant during the pandemic and could not access free dental care at the time . we have new opportunity with the new dental plan to ensure that everyone in our nation be dentally fit , include through change to how payment be make . I think that a debate on this matter would be very welcome , and I know that the hon . Gentleman know how to apply for one . public petition 648609 call for a debate on end the UK ' s membership of the World Health Organisation , but a debate be refuse by the Petitions Committee despite the petition well exceed the 100 , 000 signature threshold . can we please have a statement on why this House be determined to give away sovereign power to an unelected , unaccountable , non - tax pay , diplomatically immune organisation whose current director general be appoint only through an unholy alliance of Bill Gates and the chinese Communist party ? can the Leader of the House say why the WHO have join excess death and vaccine harm on the list of thing that we just can not talk about in this House ? I think there be enough health - relate issue , and all sort of other issue , to worry about , focus on and debate without invent crisis and drama where there be none . the hon . Gentleman acknowledge that petition be a matter for the Petitions Committee , which be a Committee of this House . I be not responsible for its decision . I will facilitate and help he to secure debate and raise question , and to do anything else he want to do , on any topic on which he wish to campaign . the hon . Gentleman will know , because he have secure well - attend debate in the past , that this House be very open to discuss all sort of issue , include the World Health Organisation and the treaty about which I know he be concern . let we focus on the real issue , the substance and the matter at hand , rather than pretend that this House , anyone in it or any of its Committees have a hide agenda , because he know that be not true . do the Leader of the House agree that this be probably the most perilous time for the world during my long time in the House of Commons ? do she also agree that this House need to be up to date on what be happen in the world ? last week , I have to watch the Foreign Secretary appear before the House of Lords on television to be inform of our foreign policy and what he be do . I understand that no Conservative Member of Parliament seem fit to be Foreign Secretary and that we have to go to the House of Lords , but can we have more regular debate and statement ? it be not right for the elect House of Commons to have no Secretary of State to answer question during these perilous time . I implore the hon . gentleman to recognise the merit of the Minister of State , Foreign , Commonwealth and Development Office , my right hon . friend the Member for Sutton Coldfield ( Mr Mitchell ) , who have appear at this Dispatch Box an enormous number of time , and to acknowledge that the Foreign Secretary , who obviously sit in the House of Lords , have make himself available to hon . member on a raft of issue . he have particularly make himself available to those member who have be affect by what be happen in Israel and Gaza . the hon . Gentleman will know that the Procedure Committee have make further recommendation on how this House can scrutinise the Foreign Secretary , and I be sure the House of Lords will shortly take a decision on those recommendation . despite yesterday ' s short - term tax cut , family across the country know that they be bad off than they be 14 year ago , so will the Leader of the House urge the Prime Minister to call an election and let the british people give their view on this government ? I be afraid that what the hon . Lady say be not the case . we have get an enormous number of people into work , and the good way for people to lift themselves out of poverty be through work . two million of those 4 million people be woman , and 1 million be disabled people who would not have have the dignity of a pay packet without our welfare reform to make work pay and to support people in work . we have an enormous childcare package that the previous Labour Administration go nowhere near . the number of pensioner live in absolute poverty have reduce by 200 , 000 , and the number of child live in absolute poverty have reduce by 400 , 000 . by any measure , the country be do well . it will have more opportunity in future because of what we have do in education . we be soar up the international literacy table , and we have reform post - 16 education to enable people to get a degree without get into massive amount of debt , as happen under the hon . Lady ' s party . what she say be not true , which be why we need to stay the course and stick with this Government . last week , I talk about my constituent Sue Sparkes , whose husband die as a result of the infected blood scandal . I know that the Leader of the House have a copy of the Red Book with she , as she mention that early . can she point to the line in it that show where the Chancellor have set aside any resource to deal with the compensation that she and he know will have to be pay as a result of this scandal ? be this not a moral obligation on the Chancellor to this House , to my constituent and to all those affect by this scandal ? the hon . Gentleman will know that provision have be make for this , and the final scheme be be work on . I can understand why people want to raise this issue ; it be a moral issue and it stir understandable passion . however , I just caution hon . member to recognise — I believe they know this — that the scheme be about to be bring forward . I have already announce today that the Paymaster General will be go around the country to talk to people directly about that and the plan he be bring forward . I care passionately about this issue , as I do when I give evidence to the inquiry , and I do not want victim of this appalling scandal to worry about what be go to happen . I want we to be able to reassure they , so I hope I will be able to continue to do that every week . I ask hon . member , who rightly want to know the detail of the scheme , to reflect that in the question they ask both I and the Paymaster General . will the Leader of the House join I in congratulate Oldham athletic football club owner Frank Rothwell on his sterling achievement in row the 3 , 000 mile across the Atlantic , in aid of Alzheimer ' s Research UK , in his 70 for the second time ? he manage to raise more than £ 350 , 000 for that charity , add to the £ 1 million he raise previously on the first row . will she also allocate Government time for a debate on the real issue of the near 1 million people affect by Alzheimer ' s in the UK , and the funding and early diagnosis that support work in that area ? as the hon . Gentleman ask that question and reveal the full extent of his constituent ' s incredible achievement , there be an audible gasp , so I be sure the whole House will want to join he in congratulate his constituent on those amazing achievement . I be close to HMS Oardacious , the Royal Navy ' s rowing team , which regularly row the Atlantic , so I be very familiar with the incredible ordeal that that be . do it at 70 year old be utterly remarkable , and I congratulate Frank deeply . I also thank the hon . gentleman for raise his concern about provision and care for those suffer from Alzheimer ' s . I shall make sure that the Health Secretary have hear what he have say . I welcome the Chancellor ' s announcement that he would be tax vaping product , but I wonder why on earth this have to be leave until 2026 . it be disappointing that in the same week that Laura Young , also know as Less Waste Laura , be name as scottish influencer of the year for her fantastic environmental campaigning , include on ban disposable vape , this important tax measure have be so resoundingly kick into the long grass . I be sure that the House would want to join I in congratulate Laura , but may we also have a debate in Government time on the imperative of move with more speed on tax vape ? perhaps we will also be able to make time to discuss the wholly unacceptable practice of vape company sponsor sport strip . I thank the hon . Lady for get her concern on the record . I will raise that matter with both the Treasury and the Health Secretary . the hon . Lady will also know that we be also hope to bring forward legislation shortly , which I be sure , give what she say , she would be happy to support . my hon . friend the Member for Middlesbrough ( Andy McDonald ) refer early to the gaffe by the Secretary of State for Levelling up , Housing and Communities , who demonstrate his ignorance while on a visit to Teesside , refer to the " hero of Sunderland " who win the FA cup in 1973 , when perhaps he should have be praise the 2004 League cup winner , Middlesbrough . instead of ignore the matter , can the Leader of the House arrange a humanity lesson for the Minister , so that he can well understand the history and geography of the north - east ? I take my responsibility to all member of this House very seriously . immediately after this session I will go and raise with the Secretary of State , his special adviser and his official what the hon . Gentleman have say . I think that we can take from that — give all the other issue that he might have raise in his question to I this morning — that he think the Government be do a very good job . can we have debate on personal responsibility ? if I say or tweet something defamatory , I would expect to be responsible for the consequence of that , not the taxpayer , and I think that be what the public would expect as well . the Leader of the House ' s response to an early question suggest that , somehow , the right hon . member for Chippenham ( Michelle Donelan ) have credit in the bank because she do not take the redundancy payment that be offer to she , or that these payment be within the rule . if that be the case , the rule be wrong , which be why we need a debate . the hon . Gentleman have hit on it : if the rule have be follow and if we be not question the character of the individual , it must be that the rule be wrong . I will raise this with the Department and the permanent secretary . however , I can reassure the House again that these matter have considerable oversight both from the monitor officer in the Departments and from the propriety and ethic team . this week , 4 March mark the one - year anniversary of Anu Abraham ' s death . Anu be a young man with a bright future and he should still be here . after speak to his family and see photo of he , I can say that he be one of the kind individual that anyone could know and that he have a smile that would light up a room . Anu tragically take his own life follow bullying while work as a trainee police officer with West Yorkshire police . can we have a debate in Government time on police recruitment , the training of police officer and the support package that be available ? lesson must be learn , change must be enact and voice must be hear . I thank the hon . gentleman for allow we to remember Anu and to get that on the record . clearly , Anu be somebody who want to step up to public service and serve his community . his suicide be an absolute tragedy . I know that police service in general , and in particular those responsible for training and ensure that the right safeguarding support be there for those go through training , review these matter . I know , too , that the Home Secretary take these matter very seriously . I will tell he that the hon . Gentleman have raise this today and ask that he be update on progress to help ensure that this tragedy never happen again . I have be try to amend the Road Traffic Act 1988 follow the tragic loss of a one - year - old child , Pearl Black , from Merthyr Tydfil . work with Pearl ' s parent , I have produce an amendment that seek to close a loophole that cause they such huge distress . in November , the Prime Minister give a commitment at Prime Minister ' s question to facilitate a meeting with the relevant Minister , possibly from Transport or Justice , for Pearl ' s parent . unfortunately , despite request , that meeting still have not take place . can I ask the Leader of the House to please offer her assistance in secure a debate on how we can deliver the change and , crucially , how we can facilitate a meeting with Pearl ' s parent ? I be sorry to hear that that meeting have not happen . I be sure that Transport Ministers would want to facilitate it , so , follow this session , I will make sure that they have hear what the hon . Gentleman have say and see whether we can rectify that . tomorrow be International Women ' s Day . it sadden I greatly that Warwickshire should have the bad conviction record for rape and serious sexual offence . Philip Seccombe , our police and crime commissioner , be one of the few to cut domestic abuse unit and close the rape and serious sexual offence unit in Warwickshire . can we have a debate in Government time on the accountability and scrutiny of police and crime commissioner ? the hon . Gentleman raise some very serious matter . I refer he in particular to what the Prime Minister say at Prime Minister ' s question this week about the progress that have make on support victim of these heinous crime in come forward , and the increase conviction rate that we want to see , particularly for rape and sexual assault . I think a debate on these matter would be excellent , because there be considerable variation between area , and in what police and crime commissioner be do . I would welcome that scrutiny . on Monday , I be out in Meppershall , where resident be feed up with the condition of the main road through the village . as be the case in many village , resident have be tell that the much - need roadwork can not take place until development be finish . as reasonable as that may sound , development drag on and on , and with no end to future development in sight , surely enough be enough . will the relevant Minister issue a statement on whether more guidance might be need about the length of time it be reasonable for private development to delay clearly need public roadwork ? I will certainly ensure that the relevant Departments have hear the hon . Gentleman ' s concern . he will know that local authority have be give a sizeable uplift in road maintenance grant , particularly for such thing as pothole and resurfacing . on the 15th of this month , local authority have to publish what they have do with that money . I encourage he to scrutinise whether that money have be spend , and spend on the right thing . at the end of January , the Government launch the Pharmacy First scheme , which encourage patient to consult pharmacist rather than GPs , or at least to take pressure off GPs . while that be good in theory , the reality be that the community pharmacy workforce be on their knee , with level of train support staff have be cut by 20 % . we be see the closure of pharmacy in rural and coastal town such as Axminster and Sidmouth , with a constituent tell I yesterday that queue at the pharmacy in Axminster be out the door . will the government please make time for a debate on recognise the value of community pharmacy ? the Government do recognise the value of community pharmacy . there can be no Prime Minister well place to recognise the importance of pharmacy . that be why we have not only enable the Pharmacy First service to be stand up , but work on it for a number of year . it be now available to all member of the public , but there be trailblazer programme prior to that for people who be on benefit . some 98 % of pharmacy be now make use of the scheme , which also enable they to derive an income from it . that be progress to be support and welcome . I hope that the hon . Gentleman will promote the scheme in his constituency . point of order on a point of order , Madam Deputy Speaker . it have be draw to my attention that on Monday the hon . member for Mansfield ( Ben Bradley ) publicise his meeting with the leader of the Nottingham Independents , which clearly take place in Old Market Square in my constituency . the hon . Member have not notify I that he would be visit Nottingham South . we all make genuine mistake ; however , when I look at his social medium feed I become aware that this be the fourth public visit that he have undertake in my constituency since the beginning of February , none of which he notify I of . I appreciate that he already have two job and be seek a third , but I would be grateful for your advice on how he might be prevail upon to follow the rule of behaviour and courtesy that apply to we in our job as member of this House . I be grateful to the hon . Lady for her point of order and for give I notice of it . I assume that she inform the hon . member that she intend to raise this . indicate assent . this be an incredibly serious matter . Mr Speaker remind the House on 22 January that when a Member intend to visit another constituency other than in a private capacity , they should make every reasonable effort to inform the Member represent that constituency before they do so . that apply in particular to public event and meeting . in addition , hon . member have a duty to look after the constituent who elect they to this place . boundary change do not take effect until the next election , and we must observe the convention of not involve ourselves in another Member ' s constituency until that time . I have have similar experience , and I know how annoying it be . it be also something that all part of the House need to observe . we have the Leader of the House present — I know it be not strictly in her remit , but I be sure that she will take back the view express , as will the Whips . I emphasise : everyone have to stick to that , particularly this year , because thing can get very fraught and difficult . I think we will leave it at that . Bill present National Insurance Contributions ( Reduction in Rates ) ( no . 2 ) presentation and First Reading ( Standing Order no . 57 ) the Chancellor of the Exchequer , support by the Prime Minister , Laura Trott , Nigel Huddleston , Bim Afolami , and Gareth Davies , present a Bill to make provision for and in connection with reduce the main rate of primary class 1 national insurance contribution and class 4 national insurance contribution . Bill read the first time ; to be read a second time on Monday 11 March , and to be print ( Bill 174 ) with explanatory note ( Bill 174 - en ) . way and Means Budget Resolutions Income Tax ( Charge ) Debate resume ( Order , 6 March ) Question again propose , that income tax be charge for the tax year 2024 - 25 . and it be declare that it be expedient in the public interest that this resolution should have statutory effect under the provision of the Provisional Collection of Taxes Act 1968 . I call the shadow Chancellor of the Exchequer . the stark reality of yesterday ' s Budget be clear : taxis rise , living standard fall , growth stall , and yet again the Tories make promise that they can not deliver . they have fail on the economy , they be out of idea and they be out of time . let I turn first to the most , and potentially only , remarkable bit of the Budget statement yesterday . after an hour and 10 minute , the Chancellor of the Exchequer seem to float an idea of get rid of national insurance altogether . I be not quite sure what I have hear , but then Ministers start tour the tv and radio station to say that that indeed be their intention . in what seem to have be a casual afterthought , the Chancellor have make a £ 46 billion unfunded commitment , leave a gape hole in the public finance , even big than the unfunded tax cut announce in the Tory kamikaze mini - Budget just 18 month ago . let I ask the Secretary of State for Work and Pensions this : how do the Chancellor plan to pay for the £ 46 billion tax pledge make yesterday ? to be more precise , what be the Chancellor ' s assessment of the impact that £ 46 billion of tax cut would have on borrowing , tax rise elsewhere or public spending , or have he simply manage to find the same magic money tree that his predecessor be so fond of ? this be an omnishamble Budget from a desperate Tory party . instead of recklessness , Labour will take a different approach : as Chancellor , I will never make a commitment without say where the money will come from . that be the responsible approach . let we turn now to the other tax cut that the Chancellor announce yesterday . two year ago , when the current Prime Minister want to increase national insurance , we oppose it . since then , I have consistently say that I want taxis on work people to be low and so , just as we support the last cut to national insurance , we support the measure announce in the Chamber yesterday to bring it down by a further 2p . let we be clear , however : the measure come in the context of a rise tax burden , the high it have be in 70 year , and the tax burden be rise in each and every year of the forecast period . for every £ 10 that the Government be take from family in high tax under their plan , they be only give £ 5 back . they be give with one hand and take twice as much with the other , and they expect people to be grateful . do my right hon . friend agree that the Prime Minister ' s tax plan will leave household on average £ 870 bad off under the Conservatives ? my hon . friend have do the math and be absolutely right . take into account the change to the tax threshold , the announcement yesterday and in November , and council tax , by the end of the forecast period the average family will be £ 870 bad off . as the Resolution Foundation highlight just this morning , the 8 million tax - pay pensioner will see their taxis increase by an average of £ 1 , 000 . that be a collective £ 8 billion tax grab from our nation ' s pensioner . as Paul Johnson , the director of the Institute for Fiscal Studies , say yesterday : " this remain a parliament of record tax rise . " that be the legacy of this Conservative Government . the Tory Government ' s pickpocketing have mean high taxis on work people , leave they with less money at a time when their daily life be get more expensive . yesterday , the Chancellor say that a person on average earning be £ 900 well off , but let we take a look at that claim . he have ignore not only his own stealth tax rise , with the tax threshold and council tax , but the rise cost of energy bill , food , mortgage and rent . in fact , rather than be well off , as he claim , household disposable income be set to fall by £ 200 per person over the course of this Parliament . I completely agree that deliberately leave tax threshold untouched at a time when pay and price be increase be a stealth tax . it be a stealth tax when this Chancellor do it , but it be also a stealth tax when Gordon Brown do it . it be interesting to have an intervention from the SNP , which be increase taxis on ordinary work people — I would probably just stay on the Bench . this be the only Parliament on record in which living standard be set to be low at its end than at its beginning . the Chancellor choose to ignore all those reality , but the truth be that ordinary family can not ignore they . as people up and down the country know , the definition of be well off be have more money . under the Tories , people have less . People feel bad off because they be bad off . let we look at economic growth . growth be critical for our success as a nation , for our living standard and for provide sustainable funding for public service , but the Tories have fail there , too . the context of yesterday ' s Budget be a Prime Minister who pledge growth but have deliver recession . this economy be now small than when the Prime Minister take up office . instead of bounce back , the UK ' s GDP be bump along the bottom this year . in his statement , the Chancellor rightly elevate the true measure of success : " not just high gdp , but high GDP per head . " — [ Official Report , 6 March 2024 ; Vol . 746 , c . 837 . ] I agree with he that that be the most important yardstick , so how be the Tories do against that measure ? the reality be that GDP per capita be set to shrink , not grow , this year , have shrink and not grow last year , too . GDP per capita be now expect to be low at the end of this year than it be at the start of this Parliament . yesterday , we learn that forecast gdp - per - capita growth have be revise down for four of the next five year — hardly the success that the Chancellor be look for . the Chancellor say that it be important not to follow a path that rely on net migration to provide growth and gdp , and I agree . have the Secretary of State for Work and Pensions see the chart on page 29 of the Office for Budget Responsibility economic and fiscal outlook , which show that net migration have be revise up by 350 , 000 over the next five year ? that be the exact opposite of what the Chancellor speak about . our country have go through a difficult time over these past few year . the origin of many of the crisis we have face be global : pandemic , war , and the energy crisis . other country have also experience those shock , but each time crisis have hit , Britain have find itself acutely expose because of the choice of successive conservative government : austerity that choke off investment , then Brexit without a plan , and then the Tories crash the economy with their kamikaze Budget . this Tory record of economic failure have hold our country back for far too long . if the UK economy have grow at the average of the OECD rate since 2010 , when the Conservatives come to office , it would now be £ 140 billion big than it be today . that be equivalent to £ 5 , 000 per household every year , and would mean an additional £ 50 billion in tax revenue to invest in our public service . growth matter , but the Tories be incapable of deliver it . [ interruption . ] the hon . member for Newcastle - under - Lyme ( Aaron Bell ) say from a sedentary position that we be do well than the G7 . there be only two G7 country in recession today : we and Japan . that be the Conservatives ’ record , and they should be ashamed of it . this be the 12th Tory plan for growth in 14 year , and we be still in recession . twelve plan from five Prime Ministers and seven Chancellors , with none of they succeed . we be trap in a Tory doom loop of low growth and high taxis , and it be work people who be pay the price . I be struggle a bit with the right hon . Lady ' s figure . my own calculation suggest that this year , pensioner will see an increase of £ 900 from an 8 . 2 % increase in the state pension as a result of the triple lock . in all , I think , pensioner will be get £ 3 , 700 more than they be in 2010 . that be a huge increase in their income , alongside all the help with the cost of living and winter fuel , yet the right hon . Lady be say early that pensioner be go to be bad off . I do not follow her math ; can she help ? those number about pensioner who pay tax be from the Resolution Foundation . they be publish this morning , so the hon . Gentleman can also look at they , but it be a fact that because the tax threshold have be freeze , pensioner who pay tax be pay more tax than they be before . that be the legacy of this Government . this be not just about line on a graph . it be about our high street , it be about whether business grow , and it be about whether we can create secure , well - pay job in all part of the country , with more money in the pocket of work people , because if an economy do not work for work people , it do not work at all . when the Tories be not pickpockete the taxpayer , they be pickpockete labour policy . have spend year defend the indefensible , the Tories have belatedly listen to Labour and recognise the importance of close the non - dom tax loophole . I believe that if people make Britain their home , they should pay their taxis here too . the Office for Budget Responsibility say that the steady state amount of revenue raise by the non - dom policy be £ 3 billion per year . I first call for that loophole to be close when it enter the public consciousness two year ago that some people be not pay their fair share of taxis , mean that we have miss out of £ 6 billion in tax revenue — money that could have be invest in our public service . if any further proof be need that Labour be win the battle of idea , it be our time - limit windfall tax on the oil and gas producer . have originally oppose the creation of such a tax , the Tories be drag kick and scream by Labour to create an energy profit levy . even after yesterday ' s announcement of a one - year extension , the Tories be still leave gape loophole , mean that many energy giant will still pay less in tax . meanwhile , the SNP oppose our proper windfall tax while , just three week ago , it put up taxis on work people in Scotland — on teacher , nurse , and plumber . will the right hon . Lady give way ? I will happily take another intervention , if the hon . Gentleman want to defend high taxis on work people . bring it on ! do the shadow Chancellor not understand that the SNP ' s position be that there should not be a single windfall tax that punish only north - east Scotland ? a windfall tax should be apply to every sector that have profiteer from war , covid and price increase . do she not understand that the SNP ' s income tax policy mean that low - pay worker — the people the Labour party be suppose to protect — pay less income tax in Scotland than they would in England , and that nurse and care worker be pay more in Scotland than in England ? that be true , be it not ? all I would say to the hon . Gentleman be : put that on your leaflet ! the fact be that nurse , teacher and plumber be pay more tax in Scotland . at the same time , the energy giant that be make huge profit from the windfall of war will pay less tax under the SNP . that be its record , and it should be ashamed of it . labour be committed to invest more in our school and hospital . that be a priority before the Budget , and it remain a priority , because public service be on their knee after 14 year of conservative failure . labour believe in aspiration for all our child , and we will not stand by while the roof fall in on state education under the Tories . history be repeat itself : child be again be teach in portacabin , as they be when I be at school under a Tory Government . when the Tories undervalue our young people , they be squander their potential and undermine our whole country ' s future . that be why the next Labour Government will close the tax loophole enjoy by private school . the money raise from end their exemption from business rate and vat will instead go where it be need — to help the 93 % of child in our state school . I will always be clear that all the policy in our manifesto will be fully cost and fully fund . now that the Tories have u - turn on their policy on non - dom , which we welcome , we will do the necessary work to show how our plan will be pay for . we will set that out in an orderly and responsible way . our public service be in a mess under the Conservatives , but a Labour Government will begin to turn they around , give an immediate injection of cash to our school and our hospital , and tackle Tory waste , through a serious plan to grow our economy and provide the sustainable finance that our public service need . it take some nerve for the Chancellor to wag his finger at local council this week , when the Tories and the Prime Minister have squander billion of pound of taxpayer ' hard - earn money . who have use excessive number of management consultant in central Government ? the Tories . who sign the cheque and lose an additional £ 10 billion through dodgy personal protective equipment contract ? the Tories . who leave the vault open , so that organise criminal gang could help themselves to £ 7 billion of public money through covid fraud ? the Tories . who make a costly mess of hs2 ? the Tories . who hand £ 500 million to the Rwanda Government , and have nothing to show for it ? the Tories . will my right hon . friend give way ? maybe my hon . friend have another example . my right hon . friend be absolutely right , because every area of conservative spending have a dimension of waste or profligacy . do she agree that the £ 15 , 000 of taxpayer ' money spend on settle the attack make by the Secretary of State for Science , Innovation and Technology on a british scientist — an entirely unfounded and defamatory attack — would have be so much well spend support british scientist to drive british economic growth ? I think taxpayer will find it pretty grating to see their tax bill go up , when that money be spend so callously and casually . meanwhile , the Chancellor fail to do the right thing yesterday , when he do not set out in the Budget compensation for those affect by the infected blood scandal or for wrongly accuse sub - postmaster . that be an abdication of responsibility , and a betrayal of all those who have fight for justice for so many year , and it will not be forgive . I be under no illusion about the scale of the challenge that we may inherit , or the scale of the task of rebuild our economy and country . labour ' s economic plan will take Britain from instability and short - termism to a mission - base Government , prioritise economic growth and security for family and our country — a Government build on the pillar of stability , investment and reform . stability be bring about by iron discipline , guide by strong fiscal rule and robust economic institution . investment be bring about by work with the private sector , so that we can lead the industry of the future through a modern industrial strategy . a new national wealth fund will invest , alongside business , in our automotive sector , renewable - ready port and the future of our steel industry . reform start with our planning system ; we will take on vested interest to get Britain build again , support work people in develop the skill that they need to thrive in the change world of work , and make work pay with a genuine living wage and a new deal for work people . our economy need change . Britain need change . the verdict on the Budget be in . there be no long - term plan for growth , and lead business organisation agree . the Institute of Directors say that the Budget " fall short of deliver a comprehensive plan for sustainable growth . " the British Retail Consortium say : " the Chancellor have do little to promote growth and investment " . the Trades Union Congress have highlight that real pay be still below where it be in 2008 . whichever way we look at it , the Tories have fail on the economy . the damage be do . nothing this week will compensate for the fact that people be bad off under the Tories . take £ 10 and hand back £ 5 be a swindle , not a giveaway . work people pay more , pensioner pay more and homeowner continue to pay more . reckless and desperate promise be repeat . the lesson from the Budget be simple : the Conservatives can not be trust with the economy . the question that people ask ahead of the next election be simple : be my family and I well off after 14 year of Conservative Government ? do our school , hospital , police and transport work well than when the Conservatives come to office 14 year ago ? frankly , do anything in our country work well than when the Conservatives come to power ? the answer be a resound no . if the Tories have any confidence in their plan and their record , they would name the date of the general election . it be time for the british people to give their verdict on 14 year of Tory failure . only Labour can provide the change that our country so desperately need . rise — Order . before I call the Secretary of State , I remind member that if they intervene on another member , it be important to wait until the end of their speech before leave the Chamber . it be discourteous to leave before the speech have finish . that be just a reminder . I be sure that everyone will follow that rule . I call the Secretary of State . thank you , Madam Deputy Speaker . the right hon . Lady commence her remark by say much about where Labour be on tax . she criticise the aspiration that the Government rightly have to abolish national insurance at some point in the future . she rather disingenuously reposition that as a firm commitment , rather than an aspiration , but let we set that to one side . the right hon . Lady know all about firm commitment , because we have a firm commitment from she to £ 28 billion - worth of spending every year over the forecast period . that do not survive contact with reality . indeed , she have little to say that be original . when she write about economic , she have to cut and paste from Wikipedia . when she trumpet she ruinous £ 28 billion spending plan , she ultimately have to u - turn and run for the hill . for this shadow Chancellor , when it be not cut and paste , it be cut and run . [ interruption . ] I think the right hon . Lady would like that . the right hon . Lady have also accept our tax measure as set out in yesterday ' s Budget , include the abolition of non - dom status and the windfall tax on oil and gas . she have hypothecate the money raise from those two measure many time over — for the NHS , dentistry , breakfast club and so on . now that she have accept all the tax measure in the Budget , I invite she to come back to the Dispatch Box ; I will give way to she if she will let we know whether she will u - turn again on her spending commitment on the NHS and dentistry , or whether she will put up taxis and borrowing . I would be very happy to hear from she — all right , perhaps not . when the Secretary of State be Chair of the Treasury Committee , he be keen on Office for Budget Responsibility assessment and forecast . indeed , he argue for they , but his then Prime Minister and Chancellor fail to listen to he and crash the economy . he and his Government want to pursue the aspiration , as he now call it , of scrap national insurance contribution altogether , which would cost £ 48 billion a year . will he commit to seek an OBR forecast and assessment of that , and show how the Government would pay for that ? let I talk about the general point that the right hon . member for Leeds West ( Rachel Reeves ) make about the tax burden . it be as if history have be erase from her mind . the fact be that the covid pandemic shrink the economy overnight by 10 % , and this Government step in , support job , and save 10 million job as a result of the intervention that we come forward with . it be as if it have be erase from her memory that a war be go on between Russia and Ukraine , and that that have lead to an increase in energy price and inflation . this Government have step in to support the most vulnerable in society , include family , pensioner , and the disabled up and down this country . the Government provide £ 400 billion of support across that period , and in all candour , I do not believe that there be a single occasion on which she oppose any of our intervention . she be up for spend the money to support people , but not up for recognise that it have to be repay . that be why the tax burden be indeed increase . to go back to the point about the OBR ' s economic and fiscal outlook raise by the hon . member for Bethnal Green and Bow ( Rushanara Ali ) , the OBR make it clear that the measure take yesterday in the Budget mean that the tax burden will be low than be forecast in the autumn , as a result of the management of the economy and the reduction in taxis that my right hon . friend the Chancellor bring forward . the Secretary of State might not be surprised that Labour member take it a little unkindly when he suggest that we be forget the past , when he seem to have forget the immediate past , and the state that the former Prime Minister leave the british economy in just a year ago . how much extra debt interest will the Government pay as a result of the Chancellor ' s unfunded commitment to abolish national insurance contribution , at a cost of £ 46 billion ? it be an entirely disingenuous statement to say that there be any such unfunded commitment . the only unfunded commitment in recent time be the £ 28 billion that the Labour party come forward with ; the Leader of the opposition call it something along the line of " absolutely critical " , only for the shadow Chancellor to u - turn on it not long afterwards . let I turn to the comment that the right hon . member for Leeds West make about pensioner . she neglect to point out that we have stand by the triple lock . since 2010 , there have be 200 , 000 few pensioner in absolute poverty after housing cost . that be a result of this government make the protection of our pensioner a key priority over many year . among many thing that have be erase from her memory , she have forget that on her watch , when Gordon Brown be Chancellor , there be the 75p increase in pension . this morning the Chancellor appear to suggest that income tax and national insurance contribution will be merge as part of his commitment yesterday . as national insurance be not currently levy on some form of income , will the Secretary of State confirm to the House how much extra tax pensioner will pay as a result of the Chancellor ' s policy decision ? there be no immediate Government approach to merge income tax and national insurance , and I rather put that in the category of those comment about the apparent commitment of £ 46 billion , although I think the hon . member for Bethnal Green and Bow nudge it up in a typical labour way to £ 48 billion a moment ago . let I turn to the remark that the right hon . member for Leeds West make about growth . as she know , we have have a technical recession of two quarter of negative growth — one of which be the princely amount of 0 . 1 % — and most of the purchasing manager index datum make it clear that the economy be on a very different path . indeed , to return to the comment of the hon . member for Bethnal Green and Bow , the OBR make it clear that over the period of the forecast , there will be reasonable and decent growth — great than that of France , Italy and Germany . that be on the back of exactly the kind of growth record that this Government have have since 2010 . on growth , it be the former Prime Minister , when seek election as leader of her party , who characterise the growth record since 2010 as lamentable . she be surely absolutely right about that particular point . my point be that the externality that I refer to , such as covid and the war between Ukraine and Russia , have impact economy around the world . relative to other economy , and look at the OBR ' s forecast over the next five year , we will have a growth record that be up there and well than many of our major competitor , include country such as Germany . to clarify a point that perhaps I have misunderstood , what be the growth per capita record for the last seven quarter ? my point clearly remain that growth be a function of both the size of the population and the level of productivity . as a consequence of all the element that feed into growth , the OBR have confirm that we will be grow a little fast at certain time than be anticipate at the time of the autumn statement , and our growth will compare favourably with country such as Germany . this debate be mean to be about make work pay , and the right hon . member for Leeds West have very little — in fact , next to nothing — to say about that . [ interruption . ] as she say from a sedentary position , she mention the national living wage — something the conservative party be proud that it bring into being . indicate dissent . you be think of the national minimum wage . the national living wage be a conservative decision — [ interruption . ] you do , but it be a pleasure to correct you on this occasion — [ interruption . ] order . this be the problem with conversation across the Dispatch Box . it be very difficult for the Hansard writer to follow if we veer off into private conversation . it should all come through the Chair . I be sorry Madam Deputy Speaker , and I be sorry for Hansard , but it be quite enjoyable . this debate be about make work pay , and the right hon . member for Leeds West have precious little to say about that . I wonder why that might be . might it be because unemployment have always go up under Labour government ? that be a simple fact for she to think about . it rise by 1 million under the last Labour Government . youth unemployment rise by 45 % under the last Labour Government , and the number of household in which no one have ever work double during the last Labour Government . I find it particularly strike that under Labour 1 . 4 million people spend almost a decade on out - of - work benefit . labour should be ashamed of that record of its time in office . the Minister mention make work pay , but Unison have point out that a number of social care worker be be disadvantage because HMRC mileage rate have not change since 2010 . do the Treasury not believe that the cost of run a motor vehicle have change in the last 14 year ? one of the principal cost of run a motor vehicle be the fuel in the tank . because of our stewardship of the economy , the Chancellor be able to announce yesterday that we be freeze fuel duty for the 14th year in succession , as well as beer duty , to help those support our vital pub . yesterday ' s Budget set the course for a bright future for our country . it be a Budget for long - term growth , with more investment , more job and an economy that be turn the corner . that have allow we to cut taxis because this Government believe in rewarding aspiration and hard work . I be incredibly grateful to the Minister for give way a second time . I remind he that the tax burden have go up by £ 27 billion in the last year , and it will go up by £ 19 billion after the election because of decision his party make . People who earn less than £ 19 , 000 will be bad off because of the Budget . two decade of lose pay growth — that be the record of his Government over the last 14 year . I think I have already cover this point , but the reality be that the tax burden have have to go up to pay for all the support we provide around covid , and because of the inflationary pressure create by a war on european soil . the hon . Lady can not get away from the fact that through this fiscal event , and the previous one , 27 million hard - work people , employ in business up and down the country , will be well off to the extent of £ 900 per year . some 2 million self - employ people will be £ 650 per year well off . she talk about those earn less than £ 19 , 000 , but those many million of people who earn above £ 19 , 000 will have a low tax burden than before , when we take into account the interplay of the freezing of threshold and the cut in national insurance . it have be widely report that the taxpayer be have to pick up the tab for £ 15 , 000 of legal cost and damage incur because of the action of the Secretary of State for Science , Innovation and Technology , the right hon . member for Chippenham ( Michelle Donelan ) , who be rapidly become know as the hon . member for " chip in " . will the Minister confirm that the figure of £ 15 , 000 be correct ? will he say whether he think it be morally right that the taxpayer should be pick up the bill for the outrageous lack of judgment and behaviour of one of his colleague ? what I think will be absolutely outrageous be the taxpayer have to pick up the bill for a future Labour Government . I have just explain the record of the hon . Gentleman ' s party in government . my right hon . friend be make a good case for yesterday ' s announcement in the Budget . he have deal very thoroughly with Labour ' s record when in office , but will he turn his attention to its present proposal ? if Labour will not reverse the tax on non - dom or the cut to national insurance , do that not leave a whopping £ 6 . 5 billion in uncosted expenditure pledge ? my hon . friend be absolutely right . at the beginning of my speech , I invite the shadow Chancellor to explain to the House what she will do , give that the non - dom status will be abolish and windfall taxis on oil and gas will come forward . will she once again u - turn and run for the hill , as she do with the £ 28 billion , or will she raise taxis or borrowing ? Answer come there none . when the Minister have time , he might want to read the shadow Chancellor ' s speech in Hansard and help his colleague who will be speak later . may I take he back to the subject of ordinary people ? as a result of last year ' s mini - Budget , people who remortgage be now pay £ 240 more — real money for they — than they be previously . if he do not accept that there be a £ 46 billion hole as a result of yesterday ' s announcement , will he tell we what he think the figure be ? can he assure people who be remortgage this year that they will not be far impact by yesterday ' s announcement and that there will not be a further scare on those market ? I can reassure all mortgage holder up and down the country that this Government be absolutely determined to see inflation return to its target . the OBR ' s economic and fiscal outlook , publish yesterday , make it clear that we will meet the 2 % target one year early than it forecast in the autumn . the significance of that for interest rate be obvious : interest rate will come down fast if inflation recede quick , and that be exactly what have happen . on that point , will the Minister give way ? I have be very generous with my time , but how can I say no ? I must then make some progress . the Minister be a decent man . the Government make much of get value for money , but they have little to say about the handing over of Teesside ' s great land asset to two private developer , who have since bank ten of million of pound in profit , leave crumb for the public . that be after the investment of £ 500 million of taxpayer ' money and no private investment . be the Minister content with that , or do he believe , as his own Government ' s inquiry into the Tees Mayor ' s business dealing recommend , that the deal should be renegotiate ? I will not get into the weed of the issue that the hon . Gentleman be attempt to draw I into , other than to say that he make at least one comment that I agree with : I be indeed a decent man . I thank he very much for that . inflation be fall fast than expect . People ' s wage be rise in real term , and have do for the last seven month . under this Government , our labour market have be strong and resilient , deliver opportunity despite the headwind . we have put incentive at the heart of our welfare . we have grow fast than Germany , France or Italy . accord to the OBR , we will continue to do so over the next five year . we be attract the business investment that be key to growth , deliver high - quality job across the country — from Nissan to Google to AstraZeneca , which announce £ 650 million of investment only yesterday . no matter how much the Labour party seek to talk down Britain , the investment flow into our economy be a huge vote of confidence in our country . it show that our plan be work . by contrast , as have be lay all too bare this afternoon , the Labour party have no plan or credible record . I have already go through the tale of woe about the level of unemployment that Labour have leave we in the past . those poor young people have a 45 % increase in youth employment on the watch of the shadow Chancellor ' s party , and over 1 million people be leave on out - of - work benefit for almost a decade . on the Government Benches , we believe that work , not welfare be key to improve living standard . that be why we be incentivise and rewarding work in this Budget . make work pay and ensure family be well off mean tackle the global inflation that I have refer to , on which we be make significant progress . as inflation decrease , we recognise that there be still some people who need extra help . I be pleased to see the extension of the household support fund for a further six month from April , which be also push for by the Chair of the Work and Pensions Committee , the right hon . member for East Ham ( Sir Stephen Timms ) . the Minister be right that I warmly welcome that extension . be there not a strong case for make the household support fund permanent , not just extend it for another six month ? six month be a meaningful period of time . inflation be come down . as the OBR say in its report , inflation be expect to hit target within the next few month , which will make a huge difference . it highlight some uncertainty around that , but £ 500 million of investment over six month , include Barnett consequential , be a major move forward to support the most vulnerable . the sustainable way to change life be through work , and the evidence could not be clear . it be good for the economy , community and the individual concern . I want everyone who can work to have the opportunity to do so . one of the great labour market challenge be economic inactivity , and I want to put that into context . in the UK , inactivity have come down since its pandemic peak and remain low than the average across the G7 , the OECD and the European Union . our progress have see a significant fall in the number of people who be inactive because of care responsibility . we have the second low youth inactivity rate in the G7 , and thousand of over - 50 be return to work . however , the rise in the number of people out of work due to ill health and disability be stifle potential — potential that I be determined to realise . that be why , as we cut taxis for work people , our multibillion - pound back to work plan be provide substantial support to help the long - term sick return to work and keep people in the workforce . that include double the number of placement on universal support , expand access to mental health support , deliver work well , give people early and well access to integrated work and health support , reform fit note and work with employer to improve occupational health . through our next generation of welfare reform , we be break down the barrier to work . our chance to work guarantee will enable people on incapacity benefit to try work without fear of lose their benefit if a job do not work out . as the OBR have confirm , our reform to the work capability assessment will reduce the number of people on those benefit by 371 , 000 . that is 371 , 000 more people get the support they need to enter employment . as part of our back to work plan , we be also tackle long - term unemployment , because the long people stay in unemployment , the less likely they be to rejoin the workforce . that be why we be phase in more rigorous requirement for fit and able jobseeker , with more time with work coach , more intensive support and mandatory work placement . ultimately , if a claimant do not engage with the support they be be offer , they will lose their benefit , underscore our belief that we should always be there for those who need our support , but we must equally be fair to taxpayer . by contrast , for all the protestation from the opposition that they have change , they be not fool anybody . they be squeamish on conditionality , weak on sanction and completely out of touch with the british public , who rightly expect a welfare system in which everyone meet their obligation . rise — rise — I be be ask to conclude , so I think I need to do that . [ interruption . ] I have be pretty generous in give way to just about everybody who have seek to catch my eye . this be a Budget that reward work and will grow the economy . it come on the back of a once - in - a - century challenge that this Government have meet . we have turn the corner , and this Budget take we far still . it reward work with low taxis , it deliver growth , it make work pay , and it ensure a bright future for we all . I call the SNP spokesperson . I think it be interesting when the topic for these Budget debate be set , because those topic be what the Government want we to believe the Budget be all about . there be no mention of public service , the cost of living or climate change and net zero for any of the three day . we be talk about rewarding work , and I want to talk about reward not only those currently in work , but those who will be and have previously be in the workforce , because all three group have be shamefully fail in this Budget . for I , rewarding work mean pay everybody a living wage — not a minimum wage . the Minister should be listen , but he do not particularly care about this . a wage that be not enough to live on be not a living wage — it be as simple as that . there be nothing in the Budget about ban exploitative zero - hour contact . there be nothing , obviously , about repeal the shameful anti - strike legislation that the Government be impose on a great number of public sector worker . I wonder whether it be just that the topic choose be not that good , and perhaps the Chancellor say more about those subject in his speech . I have a look at the speech on the Treasury website — all 7 , 260 - odd word of it . the word " poverty " be mention once , but " low pay " and " zero - hour " not at all . net zero get a mention , because the Chancellor mention his colleague , the Secretary of State for Energy Security and Net Zero , and zero emission be mention once . climate have not a single mention and Brexit — not surprisingly , as we be not allow to talk about it any more — have no mention . by necessity , some of my remark have to be about what be not in the Budget , as much as what be . this government be head to become the bad government in history for fall living standard . the Institute for Fiscal Studies have tell we that it be unlikely that real household income will be any high at the end of this Parliament than they be at the beginning . how can we call it economic growth when people in their real life , in real house with real job , do not notice any improvement in their standard of live over an entire five year ? tax as a percentage of gdp will soon be the high it have ever be . we have see a £ 66 billion increase in the tax burden in this Parliament alone , and far too often it be people on low income who pick up the big share . as have be mention , the six - year freeze on tax threshold will cost taxpayer an extra £ 30 billion in stealth tax by 2027 - 28 , even allow for the impact of the 2p national insurance cut . the UK ' s interest payment as a percentage of national income be about to become the high for 70 year . if someone be an international banker , the reward from work can be rich indeed , but they be not for someone try to scrape a living in any kind of normal job . this Chancellor ' s time in office have see the long unbroken run of decline living standard since record begin . the Government talk about rewarding work , but it be quite the opposite . income inequality in the United Kingdom be high than in any other large european economy . what have the United Kingdom do that they do not , and what have everyone else do that the United Kingdom do not do ? Germany , for example , have a covid pandemic , just as we do . Germany be impact by the war in Ukraine just as much as we be — possibly more so , because it be physically close to it . middle - income earner in the United Kingdom be 20 % poor than their equivalent in Germany . I wonder what it could be that affect the economy and living standard in the United Kingdom that have not have the same impact on Germany , France , Italy and other EU member state ? we be not allow to say the b - word , so I will leave the Chancellor to work it out for himself . as the Child Poverty Action Group have point out , child poverty be not inevitable , but a choice . it have say : " with the right policy change we can substantially reduce the extent and depth of child poverty across the country . " member do not have to take its word for what might happen if policy be change ; they need only look to what have happen in Scotland , despite the fact that the Scottish Government have substantially few fiscal , monetary and legislative power than this place . Scotland now have the " game - change " scottish child payment — that be not our word , but that of the Child Poverty Action Group . we have the child winter heating payment , support the most vulnerable young people with disability to cope with their fuel bill . we have free school meal for everybody in primary 1 to 5 and for eligible child throughout their time in school . the hon . Member mention the Child Poverty Action Group . after the Scottish Government ' s Budget , it say that it be " bitterly " disappointed and that , as it stand , the Budget will at good stall progress , hamper progress towards reduce child poverty . do the hon . member think his own Government be reduce child poverty as much as they could be ? I will come on to that in a minute . the Scottish Government be perhaps not reduce child poverty as much as they could , because nobody be ever perfect , but they be do a bloom sight more than any government down here ever will . as I say , we have free school meal for everybody in the first five year of primary school and for a great many child right up until they leave school . we have follow the example of our scandinavian friend by welcome every newborn baby in Scotland with a baby box contain the essential for the first six month of their life . that be not just about practical physical help ; it be also about the difference it make to a new mum . it simply say to they , " we think your new baby be somebody special . your baby be welcome as a new citizen of our country . " we have more than 1 , 140 hour a year of early learning and childcare for every three - year - old and four - year - old , and all eligible two - year - old . just to correct an early point , when the hon . Member say that the Scottish Government would do more than any government down here , I helpfully remind he that the last Labour Government lift hundred of thousand of child — I think up to 1 million — out of poverty , and we would seek to do that sort of work again . who be in government here in Westminster do make a difference , do he not agree ? I be not say that a Government here can not do it — in fact , I be say that a Government here can do it . the problem be that the Government , which the hon . member ' s party say we could trust with the welfare system , be not do that . we have also introduce free bus travel throughout Scotland for 2 million people , include all young people up to the age of 21 . that be important , because it not only significantly help those people with the cost of their travel , and therefore the cost of living , but it encourage young people not to get into the habit of travel by car . it encourage they to get into the habit of see public transport as a viable option . in answer to the hon . member for Rutherglen and Hamilton West ( Michael Shanks ) , independent analysis have indicate that 100 , 000 child in Scotland will be keep out of child poverty this year because of action by the Scottish Government . if the UK Government be willing simply to do what have already be do in Scotland , there could be 1 million few child live in poverty in the United Kingdom . child poverty be not inevitable ; it be a deliberate political choice . Scotland have choose to say no to child poverty . the Budget have choose to allow it to continue and to grow . as well as the right support for child in low - earn family , the Government could have announce any number of thing to help people in work to have well and secure pay . I have already mention the living wage , and they could have strengthen protection for worker instead of take away the right to strike of those work in all sort of public sector work . on strengthen protection , be it not true that the SNP hire people on zero - hour contract to deliver literature during the Rutherglen by - election ? I read that in Private Eye — it must be true , then . it be in Private Eye and therefore it must be true . I do not know if that have be fact - check . if the hon . Gentleman can provide I with evidence from something other than Private Eye , we will certainly look into it . I should say , incidentally , that the Labour party ' s record of industrial relation in its own workforce be nothing to boast about . he might want to have a look in his own house first of all . among the other step that the Government could take — I look forward to a likely incoming Labour Government commit to do all this — they could outlaw despicable fire and rehire practice and support the Bill propose by my hon . friend the Member for Paisley and Renfrewshire North ( Gavin Newlands ) . they could ban unpaid work trial , as be attempt by my hon . friend the Member for Glasgow South ( Stewart Malcolm McDonald ) in his private Member ' s Bill . they could give people the right to flexible working , rather than make it feel as if it be not really proper working . they could finally take action , seven year after the Taylor review . they could repeal the anti - strike legislation . incidentally , the Scottish Government have undertake not to use any of the anti - strike provision include in that legislation . I look forward to an incoming Labour Government undertaking not to use they , as a precursor to repeal they altogether . there be some change in the Budget that we can mention , although they do not go far enough . change to the high - income child benefit charge be certainly welcome , but they do not go far enough to catch up with the downturn in income people have suffer over the year of that freeze . in the same way , the VAT charge threshold for small business , which increase by £ 10 , 000 a year , be welcome , but that be not enough even to make up for the deterioration in small business income after seven year of that ongoing stealth tax . of course , we still have child maintenance liability for a non - resident parent base on assumption about wage level and cost of live level that be year out of date . the Government say they do not have time in the legislative programme to bring forward primary legislation to change it . however , last week the House finish three hour early because we have nothing to talk about . come on — if they be serious about it , they would have do something about it . I mention net zero and climate change early , and I welcome the confirmation of up to £ 120 million more — although the word " up to " worry I — for the green industry growth accelerator , which be , to quote the Chancellor , " to build supply chain for new technology , range from offshore wind to carbon capture and storage . " — [ Official Report , 6 March 2024 ; Vol . 746 , c . 844 . ] can we get an assurance that the Government will not make the same mistake with that as they do with contract for difference ? the former BiFab yard in Methil in my constituency go into administration because although it could have make jacket for offshore wind turbine under contract for difference , firm choose to import they from halfway around the world . while worker who could have do that work in my constituency be be lay off , we be pay to transport heavy - engineer good from the other side of the world . will the Government commit to review the criterion for the GIGA to include the manufacture of those jacket ? they make up about 40 % of the total cost of a turbine and 40 % of the supply chain but be currently exclude from that incentive scheme . if include , that could help to bolster the workforce in my constituency and a number of other across the UK . I would like the Government to welcome again the contribution that green hydrogen can make to our net zero future . I be very pleased that Methil in my constituency be home to H100 , the world ' s big ever conversion of domestic gas supply to run on clean , renewable green hydrogen . it be the big example of that kind of green energy innovation anywhere on the planet . the next stage be even more ambitious : the Government promise to support what they call a hydrogen town pilot to extend the same technology and the same practice into ten of thousand of house . I would love to see that happen in Methil and the surround area , but I would rather see it happen anywhere than not happen at all . the Government promise an announcement in March last year ; that be now a year overdue . I , and many other with an interest in clean energy technology , be concerned that the Government be simply lose enthusiasm for this world - lead work . we throw away our world - lead position on other green energy during the Thatcher year . we can not afford to do it again . briefly , I point out that if we be talk about rewarding work , we must also extend that to how we reward those who have finish their work career and now rely on the state pension to get by . in spite of all the rhetoric , we still have one of the mean state pension in western Europe . there be still million of WASPI woman — woman against state pension inequality — but the Government hope that if they just ignore those woman , they will go away . they will not , so the Government have well stop ignore they . we have see more than £ 1 billion illegally underpaid to pensioner — that be utterly scandalous — and woefully inadequate protection from pension scam both for people build up their private pension and , as some member will be all too aware , for pension fund such as those of London Capital & Finance , British Steel and United Kingdom Atomic Energy Agency Technology , and dozen of other . we have a Budget that choose to leave hundred of thousand of child in poverty , choose to allow the scandal of low pay and exploitative work practice to continue , and choose to continue inflict stealth taxis that hit low - pay worker hard . in answer to what the shadow Chancellor say early , I do not have a problem with debate a progressive tax regime that have low taxation for the low pay and high taxation for those who be well off . when we be talk about high rate of tax and low rate of tax , though , we should remember the entire tax burden and not just be selective about income tax , for example . let we look at council tax . I be the proud possessor of two council tax bill , with one for my house in Glenrothes and one that be pay by the taxpayer for the flat I use while I be down here . so I have the flat in London and , fortunately for I , a very nice detach house in Glenrothes . the flat in London already cost more in council tax than the house in Glenrothes , and this year the Labour - control council whose area I live in be likely to increase the council tax by 7 % , while the council in Fife have accept the Scottish Government ' s funding to allow it to freeze council tax . the council tax on the flat in London will therefore be 15 % high than that on a very nice , spacious detach house in Glenrothes . when we be talk about the different tax burden on people between the two country , let we consider the entire tax burden , not just the narrowly define income tax burden . of course , as I mention before , one reason why some people in Scotland pay high taxis be that they be pay more than their colleague do the same job south of the border . the Budget choose not to support the child of work people . it choose not to support work people . then , when people ' s work life be over , it treat they far bad than people of a similar age and similar background be entitle to be treat in almost any other civilised economy . by contrast , the SNP have a vision for a country where every child and every parent be value and support , and know that they be value and support ; every worker be guarantee a fair wage ; every worker be protect from exploitation ; every pensioner be entitle to a pension that be enough to live on without have to fall back on state benefit ; and people get the care they need as they grow old and less able to look after themselves , value and fairly rewarding not only today ' s worker but the next generation of worker and previous generation of worker , all of whom have be let down by this Budget . I hold out no great enthusiasm that an incoming Labour Government will significantly change the situation . I would like to be prove wrong , but I can not really see it happen . during the shadow Chancellor ' s speech — it may have be an intervention — it be say that if the Tories have any confidence in their record , they should name the date for the general election . absolutely . can I suggest that if the incoming Labour Government have any confidence in the record of the Union , they would have no hesitation in name a date on which to put it to a democratic test ? we will wait and see whether the incoming Labour Government be a great respecter of the will of the people of Scotland than the outgoing Conservative Government . in his closing remark , the Chancellor say that " those with the broad shoulder should pay their fair share " , and I absolutely agree . he also say : " an economy base on sound money do not pass its bill to the next generation . " — [ Official Report , 6 March 2024 ; Vol . 746 , c . 839 - 50 . ] oh , really ? I agree with both those statement . for that reason , among other , I can not support this Budget , and it do not deserve the support of anyone else in this Chamber . it be a great privilege to follow the hon . member for Glenrothes ( Peter Grant ) , who speak for the Scottish National party . what I do not really hear from he be the justification he and his party use for increase taxis — something that be total anathema to almost everybody else speak in the debate , who be complain about the high level of taxis we already have . I welcome the Government ' s rethink on national insurance . as somebody who have regularly vote against increase in national insurance by previous Chancellors of the Exchequer , I be delighted by the change of heart . I also welcome the rethink on the unfairness of the high income child benefit charge . when it be be legislate on , I put a lot of time and energy into ask question about it and speak and vote against it . however , I could not persuade anybody in the Conservative Government then that it be extremely unfair that a household with an income of £ 95 , 000 come from one person be subject to this charge , while two earner be able to avoid it by each earn £ 45 , 000 . that will now be put right ; in my view , it be long overdue , but it be none the less welcome . I would , however , be interested in ask the Minister a specific question arise from what be say about this issue : will the move to his Majesty ' s Revenue and Customs use household - level information from 2026 enable the Government to introduce transferrable tax allowance and end the discrimination in the tax system against married couple ? that would be an even big benefit of introduce household - level information and from tax people on that basis . I hope that that will be one of the great spin - off from this initiative , and I would be grateful if the Minister could respond to that point when he wind up . I welcome the increase in the vat threshold from £ 85 , 000 to £ 90 , 000 . however , that be a pretty meagre 6 % increase after seven year in which the threshold be frozen , and I would like to see it go even high . I also welcome the great british ISA , but why be it limit to £ 5 , 000 ? last night we have an amazing gathering in the Guildhall in London — I do not know whether any of my hon . friend on the Front Bench be there . it be a celebration of the 50th anniversary of the Centre for Policy Studies , and it be a great occasion . it celebrate the work that Keith Joseph , Margaret Thatcher and Alfred Sherman do 50 year ago in set up what have be the most successful conservative think - tank of all time . I have to say , however , that there be universal disappointment in the audience that the overall tax burden have not peak and that the Budget statement confirm that it will rise even far in each of the next four year and beyond , despite the fact that we already have the high tax burden ever . there seem to be no explanation as to why the Conservative Government be still pursue that policy of increase the tax burden . as ever , the Prime Minister speak eloquently , echo the philosophy and found principle of the Centre for Policy Studies . he speak of the small state , the need for low taxis , and promote enterprise and supply - side reform . indeed , his rhetoric chime with the Chancellor ' s own budget statement , and I will quote three of they . the first be : " conservative know that low tax mean high growth . " — [ Official Report , 6 March 2024 ; Vol . 746 , c . 837 . ] the second be : " keep taxis down matter to Conservatives " . the third be that " lower - tax economy have more energy , more dynamism and more innovation . " — [ Official Report , 6 March 2024 ; Vol . 746 , c . 848 . ] I could not agree more . yet we have a Budget that be actually increase the overall burden of taxation and that seem to run counter to that rhetoric . my constituent be concerned about action rather than word , and I hope that , in respond to the debate , my hon . friend the Minister will explain why the Budget ' s content do not fit with that rhetoric . where do that leave we ? as we approach a general election — from my point of view , the soon we have one , the well — I want to be able to tell my constituent that they have a choice between a Conservative Government who be really committed to the enterprise economy , follow in the step of the Centre for Policy Studies , Margaret Thatcher and Keith Joseph , and a Labour Government who be commit to ever high taxis and burden on individual , with dire consequence for economic growth . at the moment , however , I be not sure that that be be spell out with sufficient clarity to enable we to make the case as strongly as I would like when the general election come . another issue raise in the Budget be that of low , if not decline , public sector productivity , which be a scandal of the high order . lip service be pay to address the problem of low productivity in the national health service , but low productivity have be endemic in the NHS for year . I be look at a book produce by Lord Crisp — Nigel Crisp — when he work for the NHS , and in it he refer to the low or decline productivity in the NHS between about 2000 and 2010 . the late figure also show a decline in productivity in the NHS . two year ago , the Government commit themselves to productivity increase of 2 % per annum in the NHS . I think that that be already policy , but I see in the Budget statement that the head of the NHS , Amanda Pritchard , be say , " well , with the extra initiative from the Government , we might even be able to get to a productivity increase of 1 . 9 % . " I will give the hon . Gentleman a second to take a breath . do he accept that the NHS do not sit in isolation ? it be part of a wide ecosystem of public service , and it reflect local community . so many preventive early intervention service , such as those provide by local government , have be take away , and that have an impact . like I , the hon . Gentleman will be aware that we have see 900 , 000 few worker in local government since 2010 , but 900 , 000 more worker in central Government , and the civil service have grow too . that shift have definitely have an impact on productivity . I agree with the hon . Gentleman that , by expand the public sector and the number of administrator , we be undermine our attempt to increase productivity . the OBR say that a 5 % increase in productivity would give we a £ 20 billion dividend , so instead of fuss about £ 1 billion here , £ 100 , 000 there or whatever , why do the Government not concentrate on productivity ? one example of the lack of productivity be the increase in bed block . I have an example from my constituency , which I raise in a parliamentary question recently . on 31 January , 308 patient in acute hospital in Dorset be there with " no criterion to reside " , which be how what use to be call bed block be describe these day . if we take a ballpark figure and say that each of those bed cost about £ 1 , 000 a night , that be £ 300 , 000 a night . if we multiply that by the 365 day of the year , we get an enormous figure . money be be waste through the NHS ' s inability to address that long - stand problem . despite the establishment of integrate care board , the problem be get bad , rather than well — the whole essence of integrate care board be to try to link together all the player . do the hon . Gentleman agree that not enough appropriate shelter housing have be build over the past 14 year ? give the age population , surely we should be make great provision . my constituency have an enormous amount of sheltered housing and housing specifically for pensioner . a lot of it be vacant — it have be build , but it be not occupy at the moment . I be not give a plug for Churchill or any of the other housing developer , but I do not think that issue be really the key . the key be knock some head together and get they to realise that when somebody be ready to leave hospital , they do so and that there be significant penalty if they do not . there be lot of other example of where we have a productivity crisis . it be worth recall that Sir Roy Griffiths , who be bring in by Margaret Thatcher in 1985 to try to introduce great efficiency into the health service , say " if Florence Nightingale be carry her lamp through the corridor of the NHS today she would almost certainly be search for the people in charge " . one could bring that up to date now and say that today Florence Nightingale would almost certainly be look for anyone willing to get to grip with low productivity in the NHS . I hope that the Government will get a lot more serious about the issue than they have be hitherto . my final point be about the dynamism that come to the economy if we reduce taxis and encourage growth through that mean . in his speech , the Chancellor make pass reference to Arthur Laffer and his curve . some of my hon . friend may have be present at a previous dinner organise by the Centre for Policy Studies at which the speaker be Dr Laffer himself ; I still treasure a napkin that have his handwritten curve on it . why be we not apply the principle of his curve more widely ? in his aside about Laffer , in the context of reduce capital gain tax from 28 % to 24 % , the Chancellor be more or less say , " well , at last my official be wake up to the importance of this . " but who be in charge ? if the Chancellor of the Exchequer and the Prime Minister believe in the virtue of the Laffer curve and the dynamism that come from a low tax , low regulation economy , surely they should be get a grip on that rather than leave it to anonymous officialdom . I hope that we will be able to make more progress on these key issue and demonstrate to the public that there be indeed a big chasm between the two party vie to form the next government . we believe in the virtue of low taxis promote enterprise and increase productivity , particularly in the public sector . the other lot be beholden , particularly to the union , which take I back to where I start off in politic : when I be first elect to Wandsworth Borough Council , 50 year ago this week . in this Budget debate , I want to focus particularly on school , child and young people , and the pressure face headteacher and local authority in struggle to balance their budget . we get one chance at get a child ' s primary education right : they will not get those year back and we will not get that opportunity back . it be the one and only chance to set the foundation for their future , and every child be a building block on which our hope and aspiration for the country rest . in January this year , the local campaign group Calderdale Against School Cuts conduct an anonymous survey of all Calderdale primary headteacher about their budget and how they be manage school funding . some 65 % of the school contact complete and return the survey represent a broad cross - section of school , from right across Calderdale ' s community . the survey reveal that in this financial year half of all headteacher have make reduction to teaching staff , while 84 % have not replace staff who have leave . some 73 % have reduce support staff and 47 % of primary head be plan to make staff redundant to balance the book . some 80 % of school have be force to cut back on maintenance and building repair . perhaps most worryingly , 100 % of the head who respond anticipate that their school would be struggle to cope in the near future , with concern about balance the school budget for the next three year . an ever - increase number of school now face the prospect of deficit budget , force they to make redundancy within both their support and teaching staff . the result show that because of financial constraint , the non - replacement of staff be no long a choice but a necessity , which place even great demand on the already stretch remain staff . headteacher be keen to stress that it have become increasingly difficult to recruit support staff to work in school , give that they can earn more work in local supermarket , for example . in addition to the financial pressure face all school , there have be what we can only describe as an explosion in the number of child with emotional , behavioural or mental health difficulty , and school be especially struggle with resource , funding and specialist support for that cohort of child . Calderdale Council have a predict £ 5 . 9 million overspend on high - need child . it also report a 150 % increase in the number of child with education , health and care plan since covid . when a school have a child with additional need recognise by an EHCP , it have to find from its exist budget the first £ 6 , 000 to provide support for that child . in reality , the only way that be achievable be by divert money away from the day - to - day provision of teaching and learning . the Halifax Courier run the survey result on its front page with a headline about how cut be push school to the edge . the article include this quote : " our survey confirm that cut to funding , rise poverty and SEND be push school to breaking point . " nationally , accord to the Department for Education ' s own figure , one in eight local authority maintain school be in deficit in 2022 - 23 — the high number of school in deficit on record . the Observer also run the survey result , with a quote from a Yorkshire primary head teacher : " we be approach a time when it isn ' t safe to open . there will be child who be be violent and there win ' t be enough staff to manage . " she say that she have not be able to justify replace teacher and support staff who have resign over the past year and that in September she will be force to merge a year of child contain many who be vulnerable and have additional need with the year above , because they be lose yet another teacher . she say : " you have to do it to make your budget work , but what about the impact on the child ? " Mungo Sheppard , the truly outstanding headteacher at Ash Green Primary School , which serve the Mixenden area of Halifax in my constituency , tell the Observer : " head be force to balance the book rather than say ' how many staff do we actually need for our child ? ' it ' s terrify . " he say that some local school be have to cut pastoral role as well as teach job , and that many no long have enough classroom support staff " to cater for the ever - grow need of child " . he add that despite be over - subscribed , his school will have a " large " deficit by April next year and " other local school be already in perilous situation , run out of money " . Ash Green serve one of the most deprived part of my home town . lead by Mr Sheppard , the staff deliver food and voucher during covid , just to make sure that child and their family have at least some food on the table . just when staff be start to get some respite from the soul - destroy challenge of covid , the school be hit by deliberate arson , which tear through several classroom . the school run a breakfast club because so many child be go without , and it have also set up a lending scheme for family and parent who have nowhere else to turn . the staff at Ash Green represent school staff up and down the country , who have to overcome so many challenge before they can start the school day . it be just not right that the staff and headteacher spend so much time worry about how he will balance the book in order to cover the basic of pay the staff ' s wage and keep building and child safe . school be increasingly pick up the piece of our broken society . the Government have finally wake up to do something about non - dom tax status , adopt our long - stand policy , and we be still 100 % committed to fund breakfast club , additional teacher and mental health specialist in school — pledge that we know be necessary and that we be incredibly proud of . there be nothing in yesterday ' s Budget for council , which have limit mean of provide any additional support to school . the labour leadership of Calderdale Council and some truly dedicated officer be work their sock off to balance its budget . they will find a way , but they be struggle financially and morally to do so . in the last financial quarter , Calderdale Council ' s budget for child and young people have a £ 7 . 8 million overspend , which have increase by £ 1 . 7 million this financial year . the big driver of that overspend be the rise number of require placement for child in care , with the cost rise significantly . the lack of placement availability nationally and locally be a key factor , as it be everywhere . the Chancellor have something to say on this issue yesterday , state : " too many child in care end up be look after by unregistered provider that be much more expensive " . — [ Official Report , 6 March 2024 ; Vol . 746 , c . 848 . ] he announce some new investment , with the Government pledge to develop " proposal on what more can be do to combat profiteering , bring down cost and create a more sustainable market for residential placement , " which they will publish later this year . I really struggle with the use of the word " market " to describe placement for child in care — it reveal everything that be wrong with child ' s social care — but the announcement come two year after the Competition and Markets Authority conclude that the profit of the large private child ' s home and foster provider be high than would be expect in a well - function market , with average margin of 22 . 6 % in residential care between 2016 and 2020 . that beg the question of why it have take so long to do anything about this issue . why have the Government allow the system to become so broken , to the detriment of both local council and some of the most vulnerable child in our society ? with that in mind , why on earth be the Government not do more to support kinship carer ? in 2021 , it be estimate that there be 130 , 000 child in kinship care , but this figure account for just 15 % of child in the care system . I urge Ministers to look again at the Family Rights Group ' s call to extend the financial allowance pathfinder to more local authority , and to remove the perverse criterion that child must have previously be look after to be eligible . the pilot scheme for a new kinship financial allowance be under way in only a small number of local authority , with very narrow eligibility criterion . we know that it could be a way forward for council , carer and , most importantly , vulnerable child , so will the government please accelerate that work , make this issue a priority and roll out support for carer beyond the pilot scheme ? the OBR have confirm that this will be the bad Parliament on record for living standard , and the only Parliament on record in which living standard have fall . the BBC report that Nottingham City Council , Birmingham City Council and Woking Borough Council all go bust in 2023 , follow Thurrock Council and Croydon Council — for the third time — in 2022 . it be even more harrowing that half of all council be warn that , without reform , they will be effectively bankrupt within five year . do the Government think that this be some kind of phenomenon , or could it be a direct result of their decision making and their action ? the Budget will come as no relief to school or council that be desperately try to undertake their statutory duty to educate child and keep they safe . we need to be in a position to deliver Labour ' s commitment . we need a general election . it be a pleasure to follow the hon . member for Halifax ( Holly Lynch ) . she be do so well until she mention Thurrock . perhaps I could give some clarity on why Thurrock Council get in such bad financial trouble . over the last decade , as some Members will know , Thurrock be the subject of very aggressive three - way politic , with the UK Independence party hold the balance of power between a Labour minority administration and a Conservative minority administration . frankly , it be impossible to get a balanced budget pass , because sensible decision would not be take to either increase council tax or reduce spending . that lead council officer to pursue a risky borrowing strategy in order to plug the gap . the lesson we should learn be not so much about the Government ' s overall strategy on local government , but about the need for all of we , wherever we be in public life , to take sensible decision base on positive outcome for those we serve . I listen very carefully to what the hon . Lady say about special educational need , and she be absolutely right : it be an issue that we really need to get to grip with . the Budget be great for provide plenty of knockabout between the Front Benchers , but her speech remind we that we really need to think in a more granular way about whether we be deliver the outcome that we want for a mature , advanced society , and particularly about whether we be deliver the good outcome for those who be most vulnerable and perhaps least able to speak for themselves . we be witness some very real challenge for child with statement in our school , for a whole host of reason . one of they be that , for a while , there be a fashionable view in the educational establishment that child with special need ought to be educate in a mainstream setting . that will work for many of they , but we will fail other , include other in the school , if we continue with this model . overall , it have lead to under - investment in special provision , which have result in so many school have to manage more and more child with special need . I have see that at first hand in my constituency . we have report of a massive post - pandemic increase in child with statement , not all of which be relate to have be out of school ; some of these thing be genetic . there have be a massive increase in child present as non - verbal , and we have not really get to grip with why that be . we need to acknowledge that the explosion in special need be be absorb by our school sector . let we pay tribute to those work in the sector , who be do their good . I have see at first hand the real effort be make in some of my school to manage this issue , and to give the good possible education to all pupil . I recently visit Tudor Court Primary School in my constituency , where I be tell that 13 % of the school ' s intake now have a statement . I be also tell that the figure be low compare with that for other school , which strike I as a significant indication that this issue ought to become a top priority . I come back to the fact that we must , first and foremost , look after those who need our help the most , not those who shout loudest . I often say that this place work well for the pointy - elbow middle class . we really need to make sure that we focus on those who need our help the most . the hon . Lady make an excellent point about special need provision in most authority across the country , regardless of the politic of a place . the situation be really damaging for young people . Bristol City Council have become part of the Government ' s safety valve initiative , along with neighbour conservative - run council and other . do she agree that we need to take a serious look at this issue across the country to understand both demand and the provision that already exist , and that we need to work together for the benefit of child come through the system and their family , who be so desperate for support ? I agree , and we should embrace this outbreak of consensus . the hon . Lady be absolutely right , because we can not tackle this in a silo . ultimately , it be for the local authority to ensure that a statement of special educational need be give , but equally , local authority budget be under pressure . I go to my local education authority a few year ago to talk about the need to progress a free school application for special provision , and I receive a clear message : " we don ' t want to encourage that , because people will move here , and we would have to look after they until they be 25 . " we need to look at this at a high level to make sure that we deliver the provision that be need across the board . turn to the substance of the Budget , I welcome the decision on national insurance , which be clearly no long the contributory levy that it once be . the idea be that people buy credit towards their pension and out - of - work benefit entitlement , which have become much more universal , so national insurance make no sense as a separate tax . that raise a philosophical debate about whether there ought to be a contributory principle for some service . in particular , we still await a long - term solution to fund social care . although I welcome the aspiration to remove national insurance , we still need to sort out social care funding . there be still uncertainty about how we fund social care , and local authority be again leave to pick up the pressure . it have be very convenient to give local authority that responsibility , but we need to do our bit . ultimately , everything have to be pay for . if we be to have mature and sensible long - term decision at central Government level , we need to give local authority the same space . while there be still uncertainty about how the cost of social care will be meet , local authority can not make sensible decision , and the disaster that the hon . member for Halifax describe will only become more common . we need to look again at how to ensure that local authority make mature and sensible decision about their budgeting . the Audit Commission have be replace by audit firm , and the frank advice that ought to be give have simply not be give . we use to have the surcharge , which be a very blunt instrument , to ensure that councillor make mature and sensible financial decision , but now councillor have no stake . we often say in this place that we have great champion for local community , but we have to show leadership and maturity in make sensible decision . when it come to local council , we have the same situation on speed . they have great local ward champion who view themselves as street - by - street spokespeople for every problem , but they perhaps do not properly recognise their corporate responsibility for make sensible judgment . council be multimillion - pound business that be there to deliver outcome for the whole local authority area , not just individual ward . as well as look holistically , we need to make sure that , where local authority get thing wrong , there be an element of accountability outside the ballot box , especially because local election turnout be so poor . that be all our fault . we be all politician , and it be our job to motivate people to vote for we . I be often frustrate by the knockabout of political debate , which be a big turn off — it be sometimes a big turn off to sit here on a Wednesday lunch time . for people who be not engage with politic , it be an even big turn off . the result be that , particularly in local politic , people zone out and switch off . even after the big failure in local government finance , the turnout in my local election in Thurrock be less than 20 % in some ward . be that not shocking ? it tell we that the public be think , " well , it doesn ' t make any difference . it doesn ' t matter who I vote for . nothing will change . " we should all think about that as the general election approach , because I detect the same mood out there . the hon . Lady be never a turn off for I . she be make some excellent point , not least in respect of SEND child and kinship carer . the need of those individual and group should be address . on local government finance , my local authority be a coalition of Conservatives , independent and Lib Dems . Heaven know I have criticise it an awful lot , quite justifiably , but we should recognise that all local authority , include mine and Thurrock , have have to deal with huge cut over the past 10 or 14 year . my local authority have have to cut £ 260 million from its revenue spend . I be look at some figure , and would it not be more sensible to change council tax — order . we have quite a lot of time this afternoon , but that be an incredibly long intervention . I be look forward to the hon . Gentleman ' s speech in due course . I acknowledge that there have be cut to local authority budget , but the root of this be that so much local authority funding come from the centre . where be the accountability ? as far as local elector be concern , the council can spend only what it be give . give the cut , it be incumbent on council to make sensible decision . they can not have their cake and eat it . they have to live within their mean . give the rainbow coalition that the hon . member for Easington ( Grahame Morris ) have just describe , I suspect that there be an awful lot of play to the gallery . we expect our councillor to be more mature . do my hon . friend agree that one of the problem be that we give local authority a power of general competence , and that we should have concentrate their mind on the thing that they really have to do ? yes , I agree . with hindsight , that be a big mistake . it be do with the good of intention . give that local authority be in a new set of circumstance , there be a desire to give they freedom to be more relevant and to have few constraint , but it have give licence to risky behaviour . we will see further consequence of that in due course . clearly , we would all like to be in a much well place with regard to the strength and growth rate of our economy and the state of our public finance , but we need to reflect that the last 15 year have be challenge . we have have three significant shock that have cumulatively make we poor than we would like to be — that be just a fact . the 2008 financial crisis have to be manage , and we have have the consequence of the pandemic ; one way or another , we lock down our economy for the good part of two year , which have clearly have a massive impact on growth . the billion that we spend on keep people in their job still have to be pay for . there be also Ukraine . not only do we need to support the people of Ukraine , but we need to address the consequence for energy price . return to the need for responsible leadership , we should level with the public about what these thing mean . the public be not stupid , and they be not deceive by spin and rhetoric . they know that these shock have consequence . if we do not treat people with the respect that they deserve by level with they , they will show we the same lack of respect . they understand that this all need to be pay for . if we do not face up to that , we will end up compound the challenge create by those political choice . I return to the financial crisis . clearly , there be a need for a massive intervention to prevent the whole banking system collapse , but we get addict to quantitative easing . the correction that should have take place follow that financial crisis never happen , because , guess what , we do not want middle - class people who vote to have a reduction in the value of their property . by stick with that policy , we end up with interest rate that be artificially low for a very long time , which completely distort asset class price . that mean that everyone put all their investment into property , which have contribute to massive inter - generational unfairness , because people can not now afford to buy a house . do that not just show the short - termism and the failure to get real , explain thing to the public and make long - term financial decision that will do the most to grow this country ? we all bemoan the lack of growth in our economy but if we have generate a system where there be more profit to be make by invest in housing than in business and wealth creation , this be where we end up . we all need to make a determined effort to be more long - term in our decision making and not just pursue the retail benefit of go up a few percentage point in the opinion poll . we spend billion during lockdown to keep people in their job , but , again , that have to be repay by the taxpayer . People do understand that ; they know that nothing can be make for free . we also need to address the wide consequence of what we do in lockdown , because there be a long - term impact on our nation ' s productivity . we be all psychologically damage by be take out of social circulation for two year , and we have end up with work practice that be not always the most efficient . bad of all , we have an expectation that the state will deal with every problem . again , we need to get back to have the leadership that say , " we ' ve all , collectively , get to fix this problem . " fight covid be the equivalent of fight a war . after the second world war , everyone know that there be go to be a massive effort to get our country back together again . we have pretend , never more so than on public service , that the situation be easy than it be . I hear over and over again about underfunding , but what do that mean ? if there be not enough money to deliver what people be expect , we have to be honest about that and cut our cloth ; we have to recognise that nothing can be deliver without be pay for , so we must either increase taxis or look at what we be deliver . we all want to get to a position where we be much rich and can pay for a lot more , but concession will have to be make before we get to that place after the shock we have have to deal with . we also need to have a much more honest debate about what we should be spend our money on . the situation in Ukraine clearly illustrate the need to spend more on defence . since 1989 , we have take our eye off the ball , but we now face a more challenging and unstable world . to keep our energy price low and stable , the good measure be to invest in defence at an increase rate . the two big challenge that face we be perhaps not the focus of mature debate or leadership by this place . first , there be no doubt that the public think we have too much immigration , on which we have become dependent as a source of cheap labour . from 2006 , the UK ' s openness to immigration from eastern Europe have a very positive effect on growth , but it be " growth " as in the overall quantum . the impact on individual productivity , earning and GDP per capita be poor , because earning be depressed . overall , the resentment towards immigration come from a lot of those people who find their earning diminish as a consequence . we think about the " Auf Wiedersehen , Pet " generation of builder and labourer who earn lot of money by go overseas . Post - 2006 , they find that their earning be deplete because people here be choose to employ Lithuanians and Poles , because that be cheap labour . naturally , they will have a clear view that immigration have reduce their earning . the hon . Lady ' s account be completely inaccurate . often UK employer have employ worker from the European Union because the labour have not be available here . that be why , for example , we now have a crisis in recruitment to social care profession ; we have stop the Europeans come in and there be nobody in the UK who be able to do the work . on social care , the hon . Gentleman have a fair point , but I do not think that what he say be true as regard HGV driver , builder , labourer or anyone else in the construction industry . it be true that we have rely on cheap migrant labour to deliver social care , but that be largely because we have not value social care as a profession . while we have have that abundance of cheap labour in the sector , we have also be able to kick the can down the road about how we fund social care and our later stage of life , so the impact have be not just on earning but on allow policymaker to be lazy about grapple with these difficult issue . my hon . friend be make an important speech , with the authentic voice of common - sense Conservatism , which we need to hear much more of . the point she make about the depressive effect on wage of the high immigration so far this century be incredibly important and relevant to the debate we be have about the workforce . do she agree that at least our party have a plan to reduce legal migration substantially in the year ahead , which be more than we hear from any Opposition party ? I do agree that we have a plan , but I say to my hon . friend that it have to be more than word — it have to be deliver on . I be sure he would agree on that . he will have hear , as many of we have , about how many industry have lobby we to ensure that such and such a profession be add to the skilled workforce list . those employer do not want to pay those high wage and we , as politician , need to be robust about that and say , " you know what , we genuinely want to deliver a high - wage , high - skilled economy . if you want to employ HGV driver , you be go to have to pay they the money they deserve . " . that be how we will reward aspiration and hard work by the people of this country , and , overall , we will have well growth . it be not go to be painless get there , because some employer will have to start pay high wage and that will filter through to high price . but that be how we correct our economy and become the great world leader that we should be . we should be the powerhouse of the G7 ; give the skill and ability within our country , we should be lead the world . we have allow ourselves to become impoverished by quick fix , to be brutally frank . I come to my final issue . I have say for a long time that the big challenge face this country be the lack of affordable housing and the failure to build enough new home . I welcome the continue emphasis by the Government on this issue , but we be still fail to deliver . yesterday , the Chancellor mention new investment to facilitate new housing in Barking and Canary Wharf . if we be to learn from what can go wrong , I encourage he to travel a few mile east to my constituency , to Purfleet . it sit on the River Thames and it have a railway station that can take people to Fenchurch Street in the City of London in 45 minute . we have be talk about build 3 , 500 home in Purfleet since 2008 . if they be construct on the River Thames , 45 minute from central London , these home would have sell themselves . Purfleet Centre Regeneration Limited , a public - private partnership , be develop to deliver these home . it have £ 70 million - worth of public land gift to it . it be grant £ 5 million in 2015 to kickstart the work , and it subsequently receive £ 70 million in housing infrastructure funding . the first house be promise to be construct by 2018 . we be now in 2024 , and we do not have a single new home after all that public money . I want the Government to register that while it be great to see capital funding be make available , with all these wonderful brochure with nice plan for new home , nothing be be deliver . I wonder whether there be something wrong with how we approach these thing . from where I be sit , I can see consultant who have manage to earn a pretty penny over the past eight year out of Purfleet , but we have achieve nothing except the disappointment of the public . the public have support and get behind these proposal , but have find their hope and ambition dash . they deserve well . they have be seriously mislead by a number of people . it be not for I to apologise to the people of Purfleet — I have do my good to call out the fact that the emperor have no clothe for a very long time — but the public get very disillusioned when promise give by politician come to nothing . if we really be to deliver more new home , then we need to look at why we have not realise the ambition from such project in the past . after 14 year , we need a sober and serious plan to revive our economy , boost productivity , and encourage entrepreneurship and investment to power serious economic growth . we need a Budget for growth . instead , what do we get ? we get reckless gimmick and political trickery . when the country be cry out for renewal and investment in public service , this Budget put party before nation . after 14 year of conservative rule , our economy have be wreck and vandalise . before yesterday ' s tinker around the edge , we know that public debt as a share of national output be at its high since the 1960 . debt interest payment be at their high level since the second world war . the economy be small per capita than when the Prime Minister take over after the mini Budget fiasco , when his predecessor and the then Chancellor crash the economy . this will be the first ever Parliament in which living standard , as a measure of real household disposable income , have fall . the Conservatives now expect we to rejoice in their plan expenditure of £ 9 billion on tax cut , which will be fund by increase borrowing . this will be dwarf by the £ 27 billion of tax rise that come into effect last year , and the furth £ 19 billion that be due to come into effect after the election , because of the choice and the decision that they have make . let we look at the impact of these measure on different group . research by the Women ' s Budget Group show that single man will gain , on average , close to £ 500 more a year than lone mother from the combine national insurance cut in the autumn statement and spring Budget . the Institute for Public Policy Research estimate that half the tax cut will go to the wealthy household , and just 3 % to the poor . we also hear the Chancellor boast yesterday of the conservative party ' s intention to scrap national insurance altogether . without any plan to fund this , we would see a £ 46 billion black hole in the country ' s finance every year . that be deeply irresponsible . the conservative party should have learn its lesson , have crash the economy with the omnishamble of its mini Budget and its £ 45 billion of unfunded tax cut , which come at a very high price , particularly in relation to cost and mortgage hike . and people be still live through that crisis , while the former Prime Minister remain in denial , as she go off and earn huge amount of money , dine out on have crash the economy . this be why my right hon . friend , the shadow Chancellor , have commit to uphold and strengthen the role of the Office for Budget Responsibility . only Labour can deliver the economic stability that this country desperately need and put an end to the conservative party ' s fantasy of unfunded and unsustainable tax cut . I just wonder whether there be any scope for a special " crash the economy " tax , so that we can claw back some of the money that the former Prime Minister have earn from her speak tour . for a start , the former Prime Minister could certainly donate her earning to the million of child now live in poverty — poverty that be worsen by she crash the economy . the parent of child in my constituency be have to work even more to make end meet , particularly to pay their mortgage , which in some case have double . that be the consequence of the rot that she and her Chancellor cause by crash the economy . on a more serious note , report allege that , ahead of that mini - Budget , the then Chancellor brief certain hedge fund manager and they make significant financial gain off the back of it . surely there should be some comeback on that my hon . friend make an important point . those report be well publicise at the time , and it be shocking that there have not be an investigation or an inquiry into what happen . shockingly , the then Chancellor and Prime Minister continue to behave as if they have do nothing wrong , as if we should be grateful that they be in charge at the time . they continue to go on speak circuit , gaslighte the british public , have crash the economy and ruin their life . we be still pay for that . the time can not come soon enough for this episode to be over , for a fresh start with a new Labour Government . of the current Chancellor and his Budget , the former Treasury Minister David Gauke say in an article in the New Statesman that the Budget be a " work of fiction " . he say : " he want to be prudent and responsible , and he want to cut taxis . the reality be that he can not do both . " I have a lot of time for the current Chancellor , who inherit an awful situation , but he have not face up to the reality of need to be responsible . his former colleague set that out in the article . it be not labour that be attack the decision of the current Chancellor ; it be his own former colleague , who be a respected Treasury Minister . when it come to growth , one do not need to be an economist to know that the Government ' s economic policy be fail . wage have fall behind and , accord to the Resolution Foundation , real wage will only return to 2008 level by 2026 . that be nearly two decade of lose pay growth , nearly two decade of people not see an improvement in their living standard , and nearly two decade of people have to face real - term wage cut . by contrast , real wage growth across the OECD as a whole have rise by almost 9 % , on average , over the same period . this be cost british worker an average of £ 3 , 600 per year . it mean that they have have less to spend and , on top of that , they have have to live through the mini - Budget crisis , make in Downing Street , and the cost of living crisis that come after that . the House of Commons Library show that UK food and alcoholic drink price be nearly 7 % high in January 2024 than the previous year , base on the CPI measure of inflation . what do that mean in practice ? in constituency such as mine , and up and down the country , it mean million more child live in poverty during the last 14 year , child in this country go hungry because of the failure of this Government , and parent have to work more hour just to keep their head above water . that be the consequence of what the Conservatives have do to people ' s life in this country . the Budget leave those who earn £ 19 , 000 or less bad off . that can not be right . the Office for Budget Responsibility ' s forecast show that GDP will grow by just 0 . 8 % in 2024 and 1 . 8 % in 2025 . what about productivity ? the Government have talk about the productivity puzzle for a very long time , but they have not manage to address it . in the last quarter of 2023 , productivity be estimate to be 0 . 3 % low compare with the year before , accord to the Office for National Statistics . what we have , and have have , be sluggish productivity , flatline growth , stagnant wage and rise price . no wonder our country be in recession . as a consequence , the Government have preside over decline investment in our public service . we have see the spectre of queue for dentist appointment ; people stick in hospital because of the failure to invest in local government and social care ; the police struggle to cope because of underfunding and cut in police number ; the criminal justice system face massive cut and , as a result , people not get justice ; major infrastructure project cancel , such as HS2 , which mean that investor have lose confidence ; and so much more . I could go on , but I appreciate that other want to speak . the question be whether people feel well off than they do in 2010 when the conservative party come into government . the answer be no , because they be work long hour and work hard . after austerity , which damage our public service , and after the mini - Budget crisis , which crash our economy and cost £ 60 billion to begin with , along with mortgage increase , food price hike and much else , people be not well off . of course , we have not mention partygate , the abuse of power , the billion waste in personal protective equipment contract , and the money waste in fraud . the billion that we could have use to support people instead go to waste , and in particular case go into corruption , which have not be address . we have see an endless queue of Chancellors and Prime Ministers , one after another , experiment on our country and let people down . political and economic instability be cause huge distress to people in our country . what do they have to show for it ? a cost of live crisis , often make in Downing Street , and a sticking - plaster Budget design to help the conservative party to remain in power . People can see right through it ; they will not be fool by what have be provide . we need a serious Budget for productivity and growth — no more waste opportunity and people ' s talent . we need a government focus on national renewal , and an economic strategy for growth , which we do not get yesterday . we could have have a sustainable programme for support the small and medium - sized business that power our economy — 99 % of our business be in that sector . they could be support much more to grow our economy . we could have see much more support for those in the homebuilding industry by reform the planning system . we could have have more investment in green industry and generate green job ; a new national wealth fund to unlock billion in private investment ; a skill revolution in the form of set up new technical excellence college ; and investment in the young generation , and their skill , education and early year . we could have see a shift in make work pay , with a genuine living wage , ban zero - hour contract and end fire and rehire . those be some of the thing that the country desperately need . we have see none of that . we have see no vision for the future — for renew our economy and our society . those be some of the thing that we could , and would , deliver if we have the privilege of get into Government . it be time for change . it be time to end the misery and destruction be cause by this Government . it be time for a change in Government . it be a privilege to follow the previous speaker , and the hon . member for Bethnal Green and Bow ( Rushanara Ali ) . today ' s theme be make work pay . I believe that this be one of the key challenge face our country . conservative believe in conserving , but what be it that we seek to conserve ? in a word , freedom . as Ronald Reagan say : " freedom be never more than one generation away from extinction . we didn ' t pass it to our child in the bloodstream . it must be fight for , protect , and hand on for they to do the same " . there be nothing more important to the cause of individual freedom for human being than the opportunity to work . it be the only moral way to achieve financial security . it be the path to a well life . it be not the meaning of life , but there be no meaning in life without work . it be : " the force that through the green fuse drive the flower " , as Dylan Thomas say . God put Adam and Eve on Earth to work . I believe that be a wise decision , because good , hard , challenging , stressful and important work , do well , make people happy and purposeful . it be not just a means to an end for generate taxis ; the true gift of life be to be find in the struggle on the hard road . we Conservatives be not blind to the reality of human nature . we do not pretend that people be not motivate by financial incentive . it be not selfish to want to earn more for ourselves and to work hard for it . I believe that in the Budget that be set out yesterday by the Chancellor , Mrs Thatcher would have find much to be pleased with . in 1975 , she say that " the person who be prepared to work hard should get the great reward and keep they after tax … we should back the worker and not the shirker … it be not only permissible but praiseworthy to want to benefit your own family by your own effort " . how right she be in 1975 , and how right we be as conservative to do that now . that be why I welcome the Budget measure , especially the cut in national insurance , which will save the average worker £ 900 , and the average self - employ worker — we have a lot of they in Redditch — £ 650 per year . combine with the change to high - income child benefit and the childcare support that we have previously talk about , the reduction in inflation , and the economy start to turn a corner after a very difficult time , I know that those measure will be welcome by hard - press family in Redditch juggling work and home life . of course , the welfare state and benefit be necessary in today ' s world . our fellow citizen rely on we when they be sick , or strike down by life ' s blow , or can not sustain themselves , but the pandemic have have a worrying impact , and I have see a loosening of the link of the social contract between all our citizen as a result . we can not ask a shrink pool of worker to pay out of their taxis for a grow cohort of people who can not or will not work . benefit must only ever be a last resort for those truly unable to work — never a lifestyle choice cause by faulty wiring in our system . it be tempting to view the Budget as a single event . it happen over a day , and there be headline in the medium . we look at it through the obsessive lens of our 24 - hour news cycle and social medium feed , but we should not judge it in that way , and nor should we look at the event happen in our country as unique . we be not an outlier . every country around the world have suffer from the pandemic , and the energy crisis cause by the war in Ukraine . as my hon . friend the Member for Thurrock ( Dame Jackie Doyle - Price ) rightly say , the public be not fool — they definitely understand and can see what be go on . they can also see that , over the course of 14 year , it be the Conservatives who have make huge stride in reverse labour ' s " something for nothing " culture . we have ensure that welfare be truly target at the people who really need it , mean that we can be more generous to really vulnerable citizen . after all , Keith Joseph first articulate the concept of the cycle of deprivation , and he set about help people to break out of it . a Conservative Government implement the life - change universal credit reform so successfully be roll out across our country . those reform be conceive and lead by my right hon . friend the Member for Chingford and Woodford Green ( Sir Iain Duncan Smith ) . that be the true genesis of the value that work must always pay . every time we have make reform to welfare , the Opposition party have howl that we be cruel and heartless . it be totally fake outrage . the true moral failure be to let people languish on benefit and not expect any well from they . that be Labour ' s legacy , and we see record level of unemployment in every age group when they last leave office , in particular among young people and woman . we be prepared to take the hard decision about universal credit . I have the scar on my back from stand here to defend the Government ' s decision at the time . but guess what ? the apocalypse do not arrive . instead , we now see record number of people in work , include record number of woman and record number of woman over 50 . government analysis have consistently show that universal credit be have a positive impact on labour market participation for all group , include single parent and other vulnerable group who face the most barrier when return to work . Most people who experience the benefit system will understand and support the need for a more simplified one that work around work people . the hon . Lady must also accept , however , that that be not the design of universal credit that meet such opposition . the five - week wait limit before entitlement be draw , for example , mean that people be get into debt unnecessarily when they be entitle to the benefit early . she must accept that even give the principle of a simplified system , the way it be do be not right . I do not accept that , and I do not wish to rerun all the previous debate . the Government have listen to a lot of the issue involve in the roll - out of an incredibly complicated system , and the evidence speak for itself . universal credit have help more people get into work , and work be always the good route out of poverty . before I move on , I will make a few comment about mental health condition . a category of people in our country be the economically inactive , which be sad to I and many of we , because those people be fundamentally not free — they be dependent on the state . my concern be that the number of working - age adult who be out of the labour market because of long - term sickness have be rise since 2019 , from about 2 . 2 million people then to about 2 . 5 million in the summer of 2022 . I understand that that start before the covid pandemic . the big relative jump in economic inactivity due to long - term sickness be among the under - 35s , whose main complaint be depression , bad nerve or anxiety . I have two psychology degree , and I fully understand mental illness and mental ill health . I also believe in use word precisely . I be therefore alarmed to see the conflation of the term depression and anxiety together with " bad nerve " . bad nerve ? both anxiety and depression be clinically recognise condition ; bad nerve be not . government statistic , obtain follow several question that I pose to the Department , do not break down the number of people self - report under each condition , and there be no datum or information on how that concept of bad nerve be define , assess , treat , understand or prevent as a separate condition from depression and anxiety . that be because there can not be . have " bad nerve " be a totally meaningless phrase . no one know what it be , so how can people decide if they be unfit to work if they have it ? I have bad nerve about stand to speak in this Chamber , and my constituent have bad nerve when they be navigate the day - to - day challenge of juggle work and family . the phrase sound like something out of a good housewife manual in the 1950 . I simply do not believe , frankly , that bad nerve be a reason to be on sickness benefit , and yet figure from the labour force survey indicate that 1 . 3 million people be economically inactive due to some combination of bad nerve , anxiety and depression . we do not know how many be off because of each condition or how many be off because of bad nerve . I think it would be a good idea for the Department and the Ministers I can see on the Front Bench to understand on a more granular level what condition be prevent our constituent get back into work , so that we can target more efficiently the taxis of our constituent who be work hard for long hour and pay into the system , so ultimately reduce the bill . do the hon . Lady detect anywhere in the Chancellor ' s statement or the Red Book where he actually say , " we will put more resource into deal with mental health service " ? over my time as a Member of Parliament , I have detect many statement by many Ministers on the Treasury Bench about invest in mental health service and back to work service , nationally and in my constituency . Redditch have a brand - new local mental health hub , deliver by the Conservative Government , and the conservative borough council lead by the excellent Mr Matt Dormer . it be worth observe that a total of 2 . 6 million people report those condition be actually in work , and that be a credit to our mission to support people back into work , which ultimately be the good way to improve their mental health . I have a concern that follow the pandemic , we have possibly see a trend to over - medicalise some of the normal up and down of daily life . it be almost as though it be possible to live in a state of blissful utopia and that if there be any interruption to paradise , that be a condition require help . that be just not true . the struggle of life define we and build our character . take away individual ' opportunity and responsibility to face their fear by overprotect they be the bad way to develop resilience , as any parent know . the human condition be a state , mostly , of pain and fear . if we be fortunate , we will experience love and happiness in some small interlude , and we must appreciate those . I want to be very clear , however , that I do not criticise anyone who be suffer from any mental health condition — I do not — include bad nerve , whatever that be . if we have a poorly design system with poor labelling , it be not people ' s fault if they respond to the structural incentive that we have design , but we must not have bogus , badly define phrase and cod psychology as a pathway to a lifetime on benefit . I really hope that the Minister will return to that in the summing up . my hon . friend be give a very brave and eloquent speech . do she agree that there be a real problem with overprescription in the NHS ? doctor of people who have mental health difficulty respond too quickly with a chemical response . in fact , what would often be good be to encourage they either to work or to take part in social activity , which the Government support through the social prescribing programme . I thank my hon . friend for that observation . I hesitate to agree with he definitively , because I just do not have the evidence , but I strongly agree with the basic point that we should not reach straight for the chemical solution . we should look at other solution that be clinically much well for people , include the social prescribing to which he refer . I could highlight many issue in the Budget that I know would be welcome in Redditch . I have campaign long and hard for the Alex hospital and the Conservatives have deliver an £ 18 . 8 million operating complex , now open , ensure that we be make progress in cut the waiting list . People can get operation close to home and can get home quick , and they can have more lifesaving surgery close to their home . I be glad to see the emphasis yesterday on productivity gain in the NHS , as well as pour in money . constituent know that healthcare be expensive and valuable . staff time and public resource must be properly stewarde and not waste . yesterday , there be an unexpected but welcome announcement — a delightful one — by the Chancellor : £ 5 million to spend in Redditch on cultural project . that will be massively welcome in our area , where the art play a huge part in our local life . I will talk to local and community group about how we can well use that . we have plenty of potential destination , include the Palace theatre , Arts in Redditch , our new library complex — also boost by Government levelling - up funding — and many more . I be particularly proud of the record of my local council , which be lead by Councillor Matt Dormer , who instigate a council house building programme that have deliver 19 council house . I always appreciate the fact that we need to go far , but that be a significant move because they be the first true council house build in Redditch for 29 year . for all the year that it be in control , Labour do not build a single council house , even though they be much need . hear , hear ! I be glad to hear the " Hear , hear " from behind I . we all know that those council house be a route for local family to have a decent home , put down root , build and raise their family and well themselves through work . it be a platform for the life that they can build for themselves — that be the conservative way . ultimately , I observe that , as Roger Scruton remind we : " a free economy be an economy run by free being . and free being be responsible being . " our plan for work be make our country a place for free and responsible people to realise their full potential . it set out a pathway to freedom through work , and it will make work pay . I strongly welcome it and will back it in the voting Lobbies . family in my constituency have feel the consequence of the Government ' s political chaos and economic incompetence . five Prime Ministers , seven chancellor and 11 plan for growth have all leave they worse off than they be 14 year ago . the Budget will not change that , and , crucially , the Government know it . if the Conservatives have grow the economy at average OECD rate , household would be an astonishing £ 5 , 000 well off each year . that sum would make a huge difference to family in my constituency . it could have provide some financial security to they , help they to pay their bill , support their family , and maybe even have that holiday — but no . instead , family in Bristol South be struggle to make end meet . food price be still 25 % high than they be two year ago . rent be up by 10 % . we know that people be experience high mortgage as a result of the mini - Budget . the tax burden remain the high in a generation . work people have pay the price for the 14 year of Tory chaos . the Government ' s failure to grow the economy have go hand in hand with the cut to local spending that we have hear all about today . People be pay more and get less . they be be force to make do with struggle public service . parent know that school have have their per capita funding cut . People know that there be few police on the street . they know that bus route have be cut . crucially , they know when they try to get local appointment that the health service be under increase pressure . everyone know that they have lose out . everyone have see that the Government have take resource away . young people , family , the vulnerable — all leave without vital support and local facility after the past 14 year . council of all political stripe have declare bankruptcy because the Conservatives ' piecemeal funding have fail local government . as we hear early , the movement of resource from local government to national Government have devastate council ' ability to run local service . some 900 , 000 people who be work in local government have move to national Government , as we hear from my hon . friend the Member for Oldham West and Royton ( Jim McMahon ) . Bristol ' s Labour - run council have manage to maintain some vital service despite — not because of — the Conservative Government . as my right hon . friend the shadow Chancellor say early , it be a deep irony that the Government — have take away all those resource and , crucially , give the scale of waste and the fraud that we have see at national Government level — be now start to tell Bristol and other local council how to run our local service , it be absolutely astonishing . the idea that they can start tell local council how to run service be for the bird . the Budget have do nothing for people in Bristol , but the council be still able to maintain basic service . we have protect the most vulnerable . there be 12 , 500 more home , 14 , 000 dwelling have planning permission , we be on track for more affordable housing , and we be accelerate the delivery of council - own home . if we have a Labour Government work with that Labour council , we could really transform life . if we be in government , we would rebuild the foundation of local government , work in partnership with council , not against they , through long - term funding settlement to develop strong , more secure and prosperous local economy . to kick - start growth across the country , we need to invest in the workforce . a decline in skill and training be hold Britain back . as my hon . friend the Member for Leicester West ( Liz Kendall ) announce this week , that be why we be so focused on help people — particularly young people — back into work , give they the chance to have a good , healthy life with new skill , specialist employment support , new career advice and work experience , proper early mental health support and real opportunity , particularly for disabled people come back into work . employer desperate for skill know that we be not train people in the skill of the future . the Tories fail apprenticeship levy have prevent employer from do the good for young people in particular , as I see at first hand at my job and apprenticeship fair last week . while £ 1 billion of funding from the levy go unspent , the Budget have again fail to deliver the levy change that be need . Labour have listen to business that be concerned about the levy . our reform growth and skill levy will give employer great flexibility to use their funding so that people can gain new skill and access well job . we need to match the skill need in our local economy to young people in particular , but also to people who be retrain , so that we can get the growth that we need to drive well prosperity . by develop skill for the job of the future , we can unlock growth in the economy . in our approach to growth , we want to grasp the green agenda . we will establish GB Energy . clean power create right here in Britain will mean more job and low bill for household . our national wealth fund will invest in industry to fund green initiative . People and business in Bristol be desperate to transform our economy and get new skill , particularly in the construction industry , to build environmentally sustainable house , as well as in digital and cyber . where the Tories have ignore the potential offer to we by growth in green industry and job , Labour will invest in our future . under the Conservatives , people ' s living standard have fall . family , and young people in particular , can not afford to get on the housing ladder . price in the shop have rise , and the tax burden be the high in 70 year . yet the Prime Minister and the Chancellor still come here yesterday full of smile , laugh and say , " frankly , you ' ve never have it so good . " my constituent know that that be completely false . no number of Tory Budgets can rewrite the past 14 year of economic failure and the damage that it have do to our society . People need fresh hope , a sustainable plan for growth and a Labour Government who will put Bristol and our country first . the Chancellor of the Exchequer make one announcement in the Budget statement that have not be refer to today but be relevant give the contribution make so far : the Government will sell the last of their remain stake in NatWest bank , formerly the Royal Bank of Scotland Group . of course , we all remember that the Royal Bank of Scotland Group , once the world ' s large bank , run out of money and would have collapse if not for a complete government bail - out . it would have go down and take with it the livelihood , job and mortgage of million of people in this country , have an effect on the entire banking system . it have take we nearly 16 year to get to a position in which the Government can sell their stake in the bank and return it to fully private ownership . that be an important benchmark , because it be easy to pretend — as a number of hon . member have try to do — that 2010 , when the conservative party be elect , be a year zero and there be no issue from the past that we have to deal with . we come into government on the back of that banking crisis . both party acknowledge that the bail - out of the bank be necessary , inevitable and the right thing to do , but it come with a cost attach . it come with the recognition that the huge amount of increase Government debt require to take that stake in the bank would at some point have to be pay back , and that the massive shock to the global economy and our economy and the recession it create would lead to consolidation in public spending . however , it be the conservative party — work in coalition at the time — that have to put those plan in place . we inherit no detailed plan from the Labour party ; no difficult political decision be make about where spending would be cut or how debt would be repay . that be entirely leave to the conservative party to do , and that be what we do . we fix the roof when we have the chance to do so , and because we control debt and get it fall again , when the next shock come in the form of the covid pandemic — nothing anyone could have predict or know about — we be in a position to respond . we could increase borrow again to make the necessary decision to protect people ' s job and home , create the furlough scheme and give the economy the support it need . we could make those decision because we have regain international trust in the british economy and in our government , and we could borrow money to do so . will the hon . Gentleman give way ? I will in a moment . yes , borrowing have go up , and taxis have go up to pay for it . that be an inevitable consequence of those two massive global event that take place : one under the last Labour Government ; and one under the Conservative Government in the shape of the covid pandemic . I do not remember the Labour party ever criticise the furlough scheme or the support that be put in place , or suggest that it should not have be do . they want more . my hon . friend be quite right : if anything , Labour want the lockdown to carry on long , mean that the debt would have be even high . have the conservative party not put the public finance back in order , we would have start that pandemic with much high level of debt than we do . the necessary decision be make to put the economy right . the borrowing have go on because of the need to pay for covid . it have be complicate by a war in Ukraine — again , I have not hear any Labour Members say that we should not have support the ukrainian people . the hon . Gentleman ' s speech be give the impression — I understand why — that the world be rosy up until covid come and that the problem follow afterwards , but before covid , there be 2 million more people on the NHS waiting list than under the previous Labour Government . the NHS be in a fragile state , as be the national debt , which be over £ 1 . 5 trillion before covid hit . the hon . Gentleman can not say that that be strong foundation . no , I do not say that at all . what I say be that we pick up the piece of an international banking crisis , with no plan from the previous Government for how that would be pay for . it be entirely down to the conservative party to find that money . the criticism be that the previous Labour Government be increase borrowing before the banking crisis hit . they be already borrow for political reason — to sustain spending they could not afford — and then have to bail out the bank on top of that . if member be go to criticise the past 14 year of Government , let we start where the problem start , which be before we come into power . we be require to pick up the piece of the mess we inherit . there be big thing that happen , which require responsible government to take big , responsible decision . that sometimes mean that they have to put up taxis in order to pay for borrow to get through a crisis . let we not pretend that that be not the case , but the question be whether government have a serious , credible plan and whether they be prepared to be honest with the british people about what that plan entail . on the back of the pandemic , we have have to put up taxis and borrow to pay for that . we have do that , and we be now at a decision point . as the economy recover and the OBR project that debt will fall , what can we do ? what path should we go down ? as the Chancellor have set out , the priority of this Government be to recognise that because taxis have to go up to pay for the pandemic , we want to reduce taxis when we can . we want to lift that burden from the british people and start to reduce taxis . if any hon . member want to come in at this point , I be happy to give way . I will , because I be try to intervene a few moment ago , as the hon . Gentleman will hopefully recall . my point be simply go to be that during the mid - 2010 , there be a fantastic opportunity to invest in our infrastructure — repair our school and so on — when interest rate be at a record long - term low , and that opportunity be miss . do the hon . Gentleman not regret that ? I do not agree with that . just look at my own constituency , we have have two brand new secondary school build , a big new special need school , and primary school as well . there have be investment in most school building , and we have see a huge amount of investment in the infrastructure of this country . reference have be make to the decision not to complete the northern leg of high speed 2 . of course , that money be not be take out of infrastructure spending — it be just be spend on different thing . that be a point that have not be make . as the economy recover and debt be predict by the OBR to fall , we have a decision to make . the priority of the Government be to reduce taxis , and they have do so through the national insurance cut make in the autumn statement and again in the Budget : a 4 % cut in national insurance , and yes , a long - term ambition that that tax may go altogether . that be not an unfunded commitment ; it be say , " that be the priority . that be the decision we would take — the direction we would go in . " will the hon . Gentleman give way ? in one moment . what we have hear in today ' s debate — particularly from the shadow Chancellor , the right hon . member for Leeds West ( Rachel Reeves ) — be that Labour would go down a different path . labour would spend more ; they call it investment , but basically , Labour would spend more . labour ' s priority be not to cut taxis . it be begrudgingly go along with the tax cut we have announce because it do not want to oppose they , but there be certainly no statement make today that suggest Labour would seek to cut taxis . labour would seek to spend more , so that be the choice for the british people at the next election and move forward : as the nation recover from the shock it have be through , and as the Chancellor have get the discretionary money to spend , do we give that money back to the british people ? do we let they keep more of what they have earn , or do we just spend it on their behalf ? that be the classic separation between our party , which have exist for generation . the belief to which the Labour party be still wed be that growth be create — something that we both want to see — by the Government spend more . what have be demonstrate over the decade be that by back the british people , and their ingenuity and hard work , we generate the growth we need . that be the separation that we see now . the shadow Chancellor say at the beginning of her speech that she would not make unfunded commitment on spending or taxis , but she have do so today , because now that the money from the non - dom be no long available to fund the thing that Labour want to spend it on , there be no plan in place . on the radio this morning , she say that she would find the money ; today at the Dispatch Box , she say that there would be a detailed piece of work to seek it out , but we still do not know what the plan be . the only thing the Labour party could point to today that would increase revenue be taxis on private school , which will not pay for much at all , so we have an unfunded commitment to spend more — we do not know how ; I imagine that it will be borrow more , but it could be taxis go up — and some specific unfunded commitment . the Labour party will not say where the money will come from , but what it have say today , loud and clear , be that cut taxis be not its priority . there have be no ambition today to say that we should cut taxis at all . I thank the hon . gentleman for give way twice . he have mention a number of time the need to repay any debt and borrowing . he will know that part of the borrowing for hs2 be go to be service through the revenue from HS2 ticket sale , and through move more freight off - road and on to rail , to be carry by the track that be free up . be he absolutely confident that the new transport project , include on pothole , that will be fund by the spare capital that have be free up will be service through revenue , or will that be a funding gap in the future ? I be confident that the robust plan that the Government set out for spend that money on other transport project will deliver . what I would say about High Speed 2 in the north — base on my own constituency experience in Kent , where we have High Speed 1 — be that folkestone in my constituency have benefit enormously from high - speed rail . I believe that these big infrastructure project deliver benefit in time that be sometimes intangible and difficult to predict at the beginning . however , for HS1 , the train only go at high speed on the high - speed line as far as Ashford . the same rolling stock then run on the traditional railway to Folkestone , Dover , Canterbury , Ramsgate , and other place on the Kent coast . a high - speed rail service that run at high speed on the high - speed line from Birmingham to London , but with those train start elsewhere in the north of England , will still deliver huge benefit in reduce journey time and attract other investment . that have certainly be our experience in Kent , and that be why I have always support high - speed rail for the north : I think it can deliver the same thing . I still think it will deliver big benefit for the north - west , even though the train will only go on the high - speed line from Birmingham down into London . in addition to the point I have make about the very clear difference between the two party with regard to tax and spend — whether we want to cut taxis , or put spend up — I will focus on one or two specific thing . the Chancellor note in his speech that Britain have become a global centre for television and film making . sometimes , that be say as if it be a happy accident ; that , despite the fact that people could have invest anywhere in the world , they decide through serendipity to invest in the UK . the reason that the UK now have this leadership position , which be not one that we have in 2010 , be that we have invest in make it happen . we have recognise that in a highly global market , production tax credit mean that people will bring production investment to the UK , rather than take it elsewhere in the world . that generate revenue for the Treasury — my hon . friend the Member for Christchurch ( Sir Christopher Chope ) be not in his place , but that be another great example of Mr Laffer ' s curve at work . when we reduce the tax burden , the investment go up , and the revenue go up with it . that have have huge benefit for this country : the investment in our creative industry , the job that people have in studio and film production — job that simply do not exist before — and the fact that we remain a massive global centre for investment . we have introduce tax credit for high - end television production , animation , video game , orchestra and touring exhibition . I be very pleased to see in the Budget yesterday that those tax credit will be extend to small - budget independent production , which will massively open up opportunity for small film company to attract investment . however , the big thing we have see be the investment in studio space . Britain rival any place in the world for studio size , which make it , after California , the global home of film and television . one of the barrier to further investment in studio — I be think of a very exciting and ambitious studio project just outside my constituency in Ashford , an investment that will benefit the whole of east Kent — be that if someone build a film studio on derelict land , which studio be often on , the business rate cost would go up massively . be that fair , give that the uplift be generate by massive external investment ? if the Chancellor recognise that , and give new studio a 40 % reduction in business rate uplift for 10 year , it will unlock a further pipeline for investment , allow we to consolidate our global leadership , and be a huge boost for the creative sector in this country . I want to mention nuclear technology and small modular reactor . I have a constituency interest in this : dungeness nuclear power station be in my constituency , and it would be an ideal site for small modular reactor . the Government have launch a competition to design they , and the Chancellor be encourage people get their tender in . I hope that we will consider that the benefit be not just we produce the clean energy that we need for the future , but we back british industry . a British - design and build SMR manufacturing process in this country will meet our need , but this could also be a fantastic export industry for Britain . I urge the Government and the Chancellor to carry on back this new nuclear technology , to support the design competition , and to back one of the bidder . ideally , a british company such as Rolls - Royce would be great , but there be other excellent bidder . the Government should also support the roll - out of this technology . through their civil nuclear road map , they have establish how they intend to do that , and they acknowledge that they need more nuclear site . as a result of the road map and the consultation on it , I hope that other site , such as Dungeness in my constituency , will be identify where this technology can be deploy . huge investment in green energy and new nuclear have be deliver under this government . in 2010 , when we come into government , we still have not complete the national policy framework on nuclear energy , and there have not yet be any decision about where nuclear would go . the new fleet of power station , and the investment — and there be a lot — have entirely take place under this Government , which be something I whole - heartedly support . in closing , a number of hon . member have talk about housing , and a lot of important point be make about level up in the Budget , and in the statement release by Ministers alongside it . new house building be incredibly important for deliver economic growth , and growth of our community . I be very pleased that folkestone town centre be a beneficiary last year of a significant levelling - up investment . I encourage the Department for Levelling up , Housing and Communities and Homes England to continue their discussion with Folkestone and Hythe District Council about back the new garden town proposal in Otterpool Park in my constituency , which will not only deliver home that people need , but create a great many new job in east Kent for the come decade . it be a pleasure to follow the hon . member for Folkestone and Hythe ( Damian Collins ) . I absolutely concur with his point about the creative sector ; it be one of the absolute gem of the UK , and we need the concerted effort of those not just in the Government but across the House , and the support of our university and college , to ensure we have the stream of investment to deliver talent . I echo his point on nuclear development , and particularly on the work of Rolls - Royce . if the public be listen yesterday to the last - chance Chancellor , they would be forgive for assume that they have never have it so good . the Chancellor conveniently forget to mention the kamikaze Budget in September 2022 , when the right hon . member for South West Norfolk ( Elizabeth Truss ) , and for Spelthorne ( Kwasi Kwarteng ) , crash the economy , force up borrowing rate and cause mortgage market mayhem , leave average mortgage payment £ 240 a month high , and business struggle with high rate of interest . the Chancellor now seem to think that we be see Lamontian " green shoot " , ignore the economic wreckage wreak by the Government ' s own vain ideological vandalism after an economic experiment that cost the UK £ 30 billion . when I say " Lamontian " , I be of course recall the damage of a previous Conservative Government in the early 1990 . in his first Budget 16 month ago , the Chancellor promise a " Budget for growth " . call I a stickler for detail , but what do we get ? a recession . the Prime Minister may try to blame covid and Russia ' s illegal invasion of Ukraine , but the truth be that our growth be the low in the G7 , and there be absolutely no reason why the UK should be more affected than any of those nation . meanwhile , Mayor Andy Street be preside over the worst - perform region for growth in the United Kingdom . there be a pattern emerge . I ask the Secretary of State for work and Pensions about this early , and it seem that he confirm that , nationally , we have have seven consecutive quarter of negative growth per capita — in other word , output per individual — which be far contribute to 14 year of failure , include a decade of decay . that be underline by the fact that real income will be low at the end of this Parliament than at the start . the Joseph Rowntree Foundation have find that household ' average earning at the start of this year be £ 2 , 400 a year low than at the start of 2021 . in the 12 month to September , more people in England be make homeless than buy their first home , and the year of austerity have lead to 4 . 2 million child live in relative poverty . yesterday , the Chancellor announce this year ' s spring Budget , with a plan to " grow the economy " . instead , we get a Budget of what I would view as deception , delusion and dither . the Chancellor do not address any of the urgent issue face the country right now . it be as though he be rearrange the deckchair on the titanic . there be nothing on reinforce autoclaved aerate concrete in school , hospital and our university , nothing on dentistry , nothing on the contaminated blood scandal , and nothing on the Post Office Horizon scandal . yesterday ' s Budget be more an act of smoke and mirror . the Chancellor claim that GDP have rise , that growth be on the up , and that taxis be fall , because he want to set October 2022 as year zero . however , the public know differently , because they have see 24 tax rise and be feel the high tax burden since world war two . the Resolution Foundation have find that tax rise of around £ 20 billion be introduce in the last year , and that the Government have a furth £ 17 billion of tax rise set to come into effect immediately after the general election . meanwhile , unprotected Departments such as the Home Office , the Ministry of Justice and DLUHC — local government — will , by 2028 - 29 , face a real per capita spending cut of around 18 % . likewise , the Ministry of Defence will face major cut . the Government must be honest about their mistake . they have to be realistic about the state our country be in , and they must address these issue with long - term solution . instead , what they present we with yesterday be , to put it simply , weak . it be weak on energy price , which continue to dominate household bill . the Chancellor ' s extension of the windfall tax to 2029 fail to address the fact that 6 . 5 million household , include ten of thousand in my constituency , be live in fuel poverty in October 2023 . meanwhile , British Gas ' s profit increase tenfold to £ 750 million last year . I be afraid that the Government be not do enough . the Budget be weak on the housing system , which be break . the Chancellor offer nothing for those on low income in the shape of social rent property , which be so need in area such as Warwick , Leamington , Whitnash and the village in my constituency . the Government be yet to meet their target to build 300 , 000 new home in England . meanwhile , the Chancellor ' s solution be to scrap tax break for owner of holiday let property . I agree with that , but it be not enough . despite the OBR forecasting that real household disposable income per head will fall by 1 . 5 % in 2024 , the Chancellor have offer an extension of just six month to the household support fund . that be not enough . the private rental sector be break , and people be break . the Government be weak on find long - term solution to these issue . overnight we learn that the Chancellor have offer £ 46 billion of unfunded tax cut . once again , the Conservatives be gamble with the public finance and economic stability . they can not make these promise lightly ; we see the impact of that 15 or 16 month ago . the Government be weak on support the need of motorist . a paltry £ 50 a year in potential save fuel duty pale in comparison with the Government ' s insurance premium tax take , base on the astronomic increase in insurance premium . the insurance premium tax be another tax introduce by a Conservative Government . meanwhile , 23 , 000 car driver a year be make insurance claim for damage from Government pothole . more parochially , I be interested to hear that Warwickshire County Council will receive a devolution deal , though no detail be provide on what that mean for the leadership of our area . that be of concern , because the county council be already unable to fulfil its obligation . I will follow that proposal closely . elsewhere in his speech , the Chancellor claim that the Government be do a great deal for small business , yet last year the Office for National Statistics report that more than 27 , 000 more business close than open in the UK . the Federation of Small Businesses ' late quarterly survey show that a great proportion of small business expect their performance to worsen over the come year than expect it to improve . the Chancellor ' s increase in the threshold at which small business have to register for vat do not compensate for the seven year for which the threshold have be freeze . again , it be not enough . business investment be falter . interest rate be sticky , at a base of 5 . 25 % , although they be likely to fall , just marginally , later this year . that ensure that the UK ' s already woeful productivity remain bad than that of all our major competitor . for year , successive conservative government have reject the need for an industrial strategy . although I welcome the Chancellor ' s investment in life science yesterday , the Government be fail to harness the extraordinary power and innovation of our high education sector . labour will do well . despite all that , the conservative still claim that they have do a good job . it concern I that they may believe that . we have suffer 14 year of they put their party first and our country second . we have suffer 24 tax rise , while ordinary people struggle to pay their mortgage , put food on the table , get gp appointment and register with non - existent nhs dentist . they be struggle in Rishi ' s recession — a Prime Minister who float loftily above we in his chopper , burn up taxpayer ' money , contactless with the people below . I be afraid that the public view this Government as out of touch , out of idea and in denial about how they have let our economy go into recession , our school , hospital , university and infrastructure crumble , and our people suffer . they do not feel the cost of that failure , but the rest of we do . the people want change . they have lose confidence in the Conservatives and they look to Labour — a change party — to bring stability , strategy and sense to the governance of this country . the country be scar by 14 year of failure that have spawn a decade of decay . Labour will reduce NHS waiting time and introduce emergency dental appointment and free breakfast club . it will establish GB Energy for cheap , clean renewable energy , an industrial strategy council and a national wealth fund , and it will close the energy windfall tax loophole . that be what the country need and the public want . they want to see their doctor . they want an NHS dentist in their community . they want their school to be fully open , and they want their road resurface . the public will see through the Government ' s attempt to steal labour ' s clothe ; evidently , they do not quite fit the Prime Minister . first , they borrow our suggestion for a furlough scheme . then it be our NHS workforce plan , follow by a water - down version of our windfall tax . now , they be hijack our non - dom tax . however , they remain silent on climate change and the need for a green new deal . we need a plan , a project and an ambition . let we look to what Biden be do in the US , and the growth that the US be enjoy of 5 % ; it be right up there with China and India . where be we ? flatline at 0 % . the Government have have more reset than my broadband router , and be even more unreliable . the public be disconnect and tune out . they do not want to wait a minute long . for the sake of the great british people , let we have a general election , and may it be on 2 May . I be delighted to have catch your eye in this important Budget debate , Madam Deputy Speaker . I be also pleased to follow the hon . member for Warwick and Leamington ( Matt Western ) , although I disagree with almost every word he say . that be the nature of this place — we be entitle to debate these matter . I have listen to the speech from Opposition Members today . both they and most of the financial commentator who have criticise the Budget — I totally agree with my hon . friend the Member for Folkestone and Hythe ( Damian Collins ) on this — have fail to mention that we have be through two catastrophic world shock : namely , the pandemic and the unexpected war in Europe , in Ukraine . they have have catastrophic effect on our economy . I ask all the Opposition Members who have criticise the Budget this : would they not have spend the money on the furlough scheme or the business loan scheme ? would they not have help people out with energy loan ? of course they would have , so they would be in exactly the same place as we be , grapple with today ' s economic problem . a number of measure in the Budget be to be warmly welcome , and I will come to one or two of they . I be particularly pleased that inflation have come down from a high of 11 . 4 % to 4 % today , and it be forecast to be below the Bank of England ' s target of 2 % by the end of this year . that be the most important thing we can do for the cost of living of all our constituent , above all tax reduction or anything else . I warmly welcome that . I will turn to some of the individual measure in the Budget , before move to public sector productivity measure . after that , as my hon . friend on the Front Bench will not be surprised to learn , I will mention the tourist tax . my constituent will welcome a number of measure set out in the Budget , particularly the cut in employee national insurance contribution . take with those of the autumn statement , they amount to £ 900 for the average work person in this country earn £ 35 , 000 . I suggest to everybody across the House that that be a significant increase in the take - home money that our constituent will see in their pocket today . that , combine with the number of our constituent who be self - employ — a particularly important and grow sector — mean £ 650 for someone earn £ 28 , 000 , which be also warmly welcome . that will encourage our hard - work constituent to work long hour and become more productive . as my right hon . friend the Chancellor say yesterday , national insurance be a double tax on work people . national insurance combine with income tax be an unfair tax arrangement for work people . if we be to start make tax cut , which I hope we will , it must be right to try to drop one or other of they , and that be why I warmly welcome the cut in national insurance . will the hon . Gentleman give way ? let I make one important point , which I hope the hon . Gentleman will consider when he intervene . yesterday the Chancellor say that , through our tax cut and by raise the personal allowance , the tax on ordinary work people today be at its low level since 1975 , and possibly since the war , although we do not have record to prove that . it be low than in America , France , Germany or any G7 country . the ordinary work person ' s tax burden through national insurance and income tax be extremely low at the present time . it be clear that the tax burden be actually the high it have be in 70 year . the hon . Gentleman raise a point about national insurance contribution . I assume that he have see the email that the Chancellor of the Exchequer send to all conservative party member , make it clear that the plan be to scrap nic in the next Parliament . do he accept that that be the Government ' s plan , because it be in that email in black and white ? do he also accept that that would leave a £ 46 billion black hole in the public finance ? I think the hon . Gentleman be misrepresent what my right hon . friend the Chancellor say yesterday . I have hansard here . I can not look through it quickly enough to give the exact wording the Chancellor use , but he basically say that when the economy be in a fit state to so do , and when economic condition allow , such a move be an ambition — that be not a promise or a commitment to anything at all ; it be just , as my right hon . Friend say , a commitment to travel . rise — I will give way to the hon . Gentleman , but I hope he be not go to misrepresent what the Chancellor say . I will have to get it in Hansard , but I will give he one more chance . as the hon . Gentleman will be aware , I be an avid reader of the Chancellor ' s email to conservative party member . he state : " we want a simple , fair tax system where you only pay tax once . if we stick with our plan that ' s work , we ' ll be able to make progress towards that goal in the next Parliament . " if that be not a commitment to scrap nic in the next Parliament , leave a £ 46 billion black hole — why do they not just own up to it , and then explain how they be go to fill that black hole ? I be grateful to the hon . Gentleman for intervene a second time , because I now have the exact word from Hansard . the Chancellor say : " when it be responsible , when it can be achieve without increase borrowing , and when it can be deliver without compromise high - quality public service , we will continue to cut national insurance as we have do today , so that we truly make work pay . " — [ Official Report , 6 March 2024 ; Vol . 746 , c . 852 . ] I do not think it be as the hon . Gentleman be say . I think he be misrepresent the word of my right hon . friend the Chancellor , and I hope he will not persist with that line of questioning . I think we can all recognise a conservative campaign headquarters rebuttal on its own Chancellor when we hear it . the substantive point be that the NICs cut mean there be a low tax burden , but we must be clear for the record that that be not correct . this be the high tax burden since 1948 . the hon . Gentleman must recognise that freeze the personal tax allowance have a significant impact on all taxpayer . again , I hope we will not have my right hon . friend ' s welcome ambition to reduce national insurance traduce in the way that it have be . I do not think we will get very far by continue that argument . indeed , you will probably reprimand I , Madam Deputy Speaker , if I go too far down that rabbit hole . I be go on to say that it be not just worker , through the reduction in national insurance , who will benefit from this Budget , because of course pensioner will too . pensioner will see a significant increase in their pension through the triple lock of a huge 8 . 5 % this year . together with the enormous rise in the personal income allowance that we have introduce over the year , from £ 8 , 500 to £ 12 , 500 , that will affect not only those on the basic state pension but also those who earn a little bit of income on top . they will see that our measure have considerably benefit the amount that they receive in their pocket . move on to our commitment to family , we recognise the importance of ease the financial strain , especially for parent . I have listen closely to those constituent in the Cotswolds who have contact I about how they have have to tighten their purse since the covid pandemic , when so many find their work interrupt , as well as about the cost of food and energy price rise in the year follow . People in rural area will be particularly pleased to see another freeze on fuel duty , because they rely very much on have to use their car . I be pleased that the threshold for the high - income child benefit charge have rise from £ 50 , 000 to £ 60 , 000 . it will directly impact nearly 500 , 000 family , provide an average boost of £ 1 , 300 per household , empower family and ensure that every child have the support they need to flourish . I welcome the british ISA , which allow for a £ 5 , 000 investment . it should have be more . I also welcome the incentivisation of nuclear investment asset . rather than hit saver , we bolster economic resilience and pave the way for a bright future for generation to come . I welcome the disclosure move for local government pension that will encourage investment in UK infrastructure project . our commitment to family and business remain unwavering , from child benefit to increase vat registration from £ 85 , 000 to £ 90 , 000 . that should have be more , but it will help a number of business . one of the key measure yesterday , alongside what happen in the autumn statement , be the extension of full expense relief to lease asset , which will drive up growth . growth be now even track . as a percentage of gdp , business investment be now the high it have be for many year , substantially high than in the whole time Labour be in power . my hon . friend be entirely right . the Chancellor ' s announcement in the autumn statement of £ 10 billion for full business expensing be one of the most important economic announcement of this entire conservative Government . he be try to address the problem of lease that my hon . friend just ask about . that be contain in the Red Book and the Chancellor be now look at that important piece , so I welcome my hon . friend ' s intervention . before I turn to public sector productivity , let I put it in context . paragraph 2 . 14 be one of the most important paragraph in the Red Book . it say that over the next 25 year , growth will be at 1 . 7 % but spending will be at 2 . 5 % . that be unsustainable and every Government in the next 25 year will have to address that . when average growth be 1 . 7 % and health spending in modern , civilised country like ours be grow at 4 % , that too be unsustainable . so we have to do something to address public sector productivity . from my role as Deputy Chairman of the Public Accounts Committee , I know that one of the quick and easy way to deal with that be to increase the use of digital method , as the Committee find when we visit Denmark . the Danes have their health service properly digitalised and they be a long way ahead of the NHS . everything from book patient appointment , patient experience in hospital , procurement of equipment and medicine , and everything to do with the health service be digitalise . it work incredibly efficiently . that be why I welcome the £ 3 . 4 billion for NHS digitalisation . such investment in productivity can yield huge dividend in future output . it be not just in the health service where digitalisation can have an impact . the Secretary of State for Levelling up , Housing and Communities be currently consult on a relatively small investment in the digitalisation of the planning system . every business , everywhere , want to do anything , complain about the slowness of the planning system and that local authority do not have enough planning officer . digitalisation will cut some of the bureaucracy for planning officer , allow they to take well and quick decision . it will help productivity enormously and have a huge knock - on effect for business . as I promise the Minister , I will now turn to tax - free shopping — he would be disappoint if I do not mention this subject as there be disappointment that there be very little mention of it in the Budget . there be a small mention in the Red Book and the OBR have produce a separate report , which I will come to shortly . in the debate on the autumn statement , in response to an intervention I make , the Chancellor say : " we change policy on this issue a year ago because it cost around £ 2 . 5 billion a year and we do not think we could afford to continue it , but we be look again at the number in the light of the most recent datum and we can see what have happen to comparative shop in Paris and Milan . we will review this to see if it be still that expensive , and I hope that it be not . " — [ Official Report , 22 November 2023 ; Vol . 741 , c . 349 . ] yesterday ' s OBR review be not a full review . all it do be review its very limited 2020 forecast and its own figure , with no reference to how badly the UK be perform relative to our continental competitor . the OBR make no mention of the cost and benefit to the Exchequer of extend the scheme to EU visitor , and the OBR have never be ask to look at that . I give the Government credit where credit be due . we have a new doctrine in the OBR , and it start to address some of the point that my hon . friend the Member for Christchurch ( Sir Christopher Chope ) be make . the Chancellor say that " if we reduce the high 28 % rate that exist for residential property , we would in fact increase revenue because there would be more transaction . for the first time in history , both the Treasury and the OBR have discover their inner Laffer curve . " — [ Official Report , 6 March 2024 ; Vol . 746 , c . 849 . ] if they can do it for the cut in capital gain tax , why can they not do it for the reintroduction of the tourist tax ? I will acquaint the House with one or two figure , because I have some figure for what be go on in the real - world economy . if the Minister will bear with I , I be not sure the Treasury be truly take they into account . when he and the House hear the figure , they will begin to think we should be invest in this . first , let I refer to two independent report . one be the well - respect and well - renowne forecasting by Oxford Economics , which predict that restore vat RES — the VAT retail export scheme or , colloquially , the tourist tax — could increase gdp by £ 6 billion . another report predict £ 7 billion . we be deal with huge stuff here , and a potential huge benefit , so I can not see why the Government will not at least do a proper study . we know from our figure that british business lose out by £ 1 . 5 billion in 2022 and by even more in 2023 . the measure would benefit many of our big retailer , hospitality venue , airport and cultural destination , particularly tourist destination , such as the Cotswolds . the report also show that Britain be lose out on a £ 10 billion EU market , and that the measure would give the Exchequer a net benefit of £ 500 million in vat alone . the figure on how we compare with our competitor be stark . in 2022 , spend by american visitor to Britain be at 101 % of the pre - covid level of 2019 , but guess what ? in France , it be 226 % . in Spain , it be 206 % . in Italy , it be 190 % of pre - covid level , as compare with our level peg with the situation pre - covid . this be big stuff , and I can not understand why the Treasury will not study it properly . in 2022 , spend by visitor from the Gulf Co - operation Council state in Britain be only at 65 % of 2019 level , but it be 198 % in France , 158 % in Spain and 166 % in Italy . those be not my figure , but figure from real trader that have give the Association of International Retail their actual figure audit from their book . they be not make up . I gently suggest that the Chancellor and the industry — industry would fund it , if necessary — jointly commission a proper independent study into the full impact of tax - free shopping on british business , the economy and the Exchequer , so that we can have a real evidence - base decision on this huge and important area . will the Chancellor meet I and industry representative to discuss it far ? I be delighted that we have see inflation fall from 11 . 1 % to 4 % . wage be rise , mortgage rate be start to fall and interest rate will hopefully fall towards the latter end of this year . it have be a tough few year . pandemic and war cause economic strain that few country have manage to avoid . I be vocal last year on rise energy and food price , which be a regressive cost hit low earner the most . I be pleased now to see the cost of live easing . the people of the Cotswolds want to see their hard work pay , the innovation of small and medium - sized business encourage , and public service such as school and the NHS well fund but operate efficiently . however , those service can improve only if our economy be strong and thriving and the UK be see as the good place to do business . that be why I be so pleased that yesterday my right hon . friend the Chancellor ' s Budget cover so many world - lead sector , include the creative economy , unicorn , artificial intelligence , and the financial and pharmaceutical sector . we have much to be proud of in so many sector , and the Chancellor do a lot yesterday to encourage every single one of those business , with their innovation and energy . I commend his Budget . rise — Order . before we proceed , I hope that we can manage the rest of the day without have a formal time limit , but approximately 90 minute be leave for Back - Bench contribution , so I hope that member will take about nine minute each . that be quite a long time — it be not curtail debate to take nine minute or so each — and if we can do that , we will not need a formal time limit . if we can not achieve that by simple courtesy and arithmetical calculation , I will impose a formal time limit . thank you , Madam Deputy Speaker ; I shall of course be guide by you . it be now almost 14 year since I first have the immense honour and privilege of be elect to the good job in the world — Member of Parliament for Newcastle Central — but over those 14 year it have be heartbreaking and outrageous in equal measure to see the consequence for my constituent of tory economic failure . first , we have austerity : the cruel gutting of community , public service and job , which dampen growth instead of drive it . tory austerity be why the Resolution Foundation tell we that the average wage will not return to its 2008 level until 2026 . we then have covid : a global pandemic , but one that disproportionately impact the very community — the poor , the black and minoritise , the unwell and infirm , and the disabled and disadvantaged — which austerity have undermine and weaken , while strain our NHS to breaking point , yet member of the Conservative Government see it as an opportunity to help their mate get rich . my hon . friend in the opposition have destroy the fake Tory fig leaf that everything be rosy before covid . then we have a cost of living crisis make in Downing Street , with energy and food price , mortgage , rent and transport cost all soar . the Budget be the Tories ' last chance to try to repair the damage they have do and stop the rot , and what do we get ? More of the same fail economic policy that have plunge we into recession . my constituent work incredibly hard to provide for themselves and their family , and local business be also work hard through the Tory economic gloom . we can see that in our fantastic start - up , spin out and scale - up and Newcastle ' s world - renowne hospitality sector , which offer so many from all over the world a great Geordie welcome as well as add £ 361 million of gross value add each year to my constituency . I note that ukhospitality say that the Budget offer little for this sector with so much growth potential . Labour member believe that work should pay ; the Tories ' break economic model increasingly mean that , too often , it do not . the average person in the north - east be £ 11 , 500 bad off since 2010 than if the economy have grow at the rate it do under Labour . shamefully , child poverty across the north - east of England have climb by more than a third since 2014 - 15 accord to the end Child Poverty coalition . increasingly , those child ' s parent be in work . the North East Child Poverty Commission find that the proportion of north - east child in poverty who be from work family have rise from 56 % to 67 % — more than 10 percentage point — in under a decade . I put on record my gratitude to both those organisation and to other researcher for their work . I only wish that the Government would take their evidence as seriously as it demand . Madam Deputy Speaker , I would like to wish you and all woman , as well as our ally , a happy International Women ' s day for tomorrow . I also want to highlight the particular struggle of woman in my region . our economic trouble and the run down of public service have mean that many Geordie woman face spiral problem with debt , poverty and housing and be struggle to access mental and physical healthcare . in its recent report , change life , a charity work with vulnerable woman in the north - east , find that " woman live in the North East be more likely to live short life , to spend a large proportion of time live in poor health , and to die prematurely from preventable disease . " at - risk woman in the north - east be 1 . 7 time more likely to die early as a result of suicide , addiction or domestic murder , compare with the average for England and Wales . that be just a disgrace — a Tory disgrace — and it perfectly demonstrate the human cost of bad government . if we have have Labour ' s workforce plan in place , the NHS back on its foot and able to provide consistent , high - quality care and productivity improvement , Labour ' s new deal for work people to give people security in work , and action on housing , poverty and bill , the difference that that would have make would have be life - change and lifesaving . I be disappointed to hear nothing in the Budget about the Government ' s approach to the loan charge scandal . a constituent who retire after a lifetime of hard work be be bombard with letter from HMRC threaten he with retrospective demand and a possible bill of £ 50 , 000 — we can imagine how he be enjoy his retirement . the issue absolutely need an independent review . the Chancellor and the Government have fail my constituent , fail to make work pay and fail to get the economy grow . the tax burden be at a 70 - year high , so I of course welcome the cut to national insurance contribution . however , Rishi ' s tax double take mean that household will be £ 870 bad off on average . I also welcome the new devolution deal for the north - east , but my constituent would be much well off if the Conservatives get the basic right in our economy , provide the vital change we need in housing , energy , industrial strategy , transport and so on . the North East Mayor , who will be elect in May , will have a difficult job to fix the Tory ' s mess . fortunately , Kim McGuinness , our excellent labour candidate , be determined to hand power to our community and to create real opportunity for everyone who live in the north - east , and a Labour Government would be the partner she need . this Budget have be determine by politic and by attempt to manage Tory division and to desperately save the skin of Tory Members , instead of do the responsible thing . look at the way the Government have adopt some of the Opposition ' s proposal on non - dom tax regime — not as part of a long - term plan , but because they have be bounce into it . my constituent do not care about Tory infighting ; they be sick of it . they want to see real action to kick - start our economy through stability , reform and investment . that be what Labour be offer . our industrial strategy would bring together our excellent university across the north - east , our skilled workforce and our deep capital market to turbocharge growth in constituency such as mine . in fact , we have a plan for the life science — " a prescription for Growth " , which I highly recommend — to help grow the economy and get the NHS back on its foot . labour would support business in Newcastle through our plan on business rate , skill and the planning system and would get Britain build again . we would bring bill down by switch on great British Energy , a new british company that will create new , high - pay job across the north , reduce bill and leave we less dependent on tyrant such as Putin . this morning on Radio 4 ' s " today " programme , the presenter interview the Chancellor set out just some of the fact and figure that demonstrate Tory economic failure . the Chancellor respond by say that such a characterisation be unworthy of the BBC — well , he have just be call " the fiscal drag queen " , which clearly annoy he , but that be no excuse for say that fact , figure and evidence be unworthy of our national broadcaster . the Government would do well in remind their Ministers — in particular the Secretary of State for Science , Innovation and Technology , whose libel bill the taxpayer have just pay — that fact matter . labour ' s evidence - base , mission - drive Government would give the people of Newcastle upon Tyne Central our future back . yet again , this Budget will only hold they back . we need a general election , and a change of Government . I have enjoy the debate , which have be useful ; we have hear important contribution from both side and I welcome the constructive tone . however , I do think that the comment just make by the hon . member for Newcastle upon Tyne Central ( Chi Onwurah ) reflect a Labour party commit to ever - increase public spending while simultaneously complain about the high tax burden that the country labour under . that come without any commitment to reduce taxis far than we be — in fact , the party just make ever - increase spending commitment . will the hon . Gentleman give way ? I be very happy to . when do I ask for increase spending ? will he clarify that now , for the benefit of the House ? well , we hear repeat complaint about the underfunding of service and the requirement for improvement . that be what the hon . Lady believe in . if she be happy to say that she do not believe in additional spending , I will be delighted to hear it . I thank the hon . member for give way again . as he know , we have set out our spending commitment , and crumble service be a consequence of the Tories ' absolute failure to give growth to our country and our fantastic business , which can drive economic growth across our country . we have make repeat investment in public service , but I recognise that there be all sort of problem across our country . on the subject of crumbling , there be also a major hole in the Labour party ' s public finance plan follow yesterday ' s Budget . we look forward to see how it will plug the new hole in its plan . I make the remark because I think there be a common recognition across the House that improvement need to be make to our economy . there have be significant challenge to the UK in recent year . I be pleased to hear yesterday that significant improvement be now under way : inflation be fall , wage be rise , mortgage rate be start to come down and debt be on track to fall . all that be welcome . I also very much welcome the combination of the autumn statement and yesterday ' s Budget , which together have see cut to national insurance totalling £ 20 billion , benefit the average worker by over £ 900 , and a tax cut of around £ 650 for the average self - employ person . I recognise the point about fiscal drag ; we have to acknowledge the reality there . but give that the threshold have not be raise , the tax reduction be welcome . I particularly welcome the change promise for the high - income child benefit charge by the raising of threshold and halve of the rate at which child benefit be withdraw . that important step will benefit some family by an average £ 1 , 260 . that be welcome , as be the commitment to end the unfairness on single - earner family altogether by April 2026 . I welcome those significant development . I particularly welcome the extension to the household support fund . I have be call for that on behalf of Wiltshire Council , to which I pay tribute for its really good work in support household in need with essential such as food and utility . that extension be a really important development . the Chair of the Work and Pensions Committee , the right hon . member for East Ham ( Sir Stephen Timms ) , make the interesting suggestion that the household support fund should be make permanent . I recognise that there be voice on my side of the House who think that it be only a stick plaster measure during these difficult time . I actually agree with the Chair of the Select Committee : it be important to ensure that local authority have discretionary funding that they can use . they should be accountable to their local resident for how they use that money . I would like to see the money raise locally as well , but the principle of a discretionary fund for local government be important . there be obviously still significant concern about the state of the economy , and I be somewhat concerned by the obeisance and genuflection that the Chancellor feel oblige to make towards the Office for Budget Responsibility . I recognise that he would have like to have do more in the Budget if the OBR have allow he . it be the wrong way round to outsource responsibility for fiscal forecasting to an unaccountable body in this way . it be wrong that he regard the only measure of the Budget ' s success to be whether the OBR give it a green light . fundamentally , we be restrict the reform that we need to make in this country . I come to a broad concern . I welcome the Budget , and all its measure be good and helpful , but there remain profound and powerful structural problem with the model of our economy , all of which start before we come into power . it be a cross - party responsibility . the Liberal Democrats , the Conservatives and Labour be all responsible for the structure of the economy under which we operate in this country , and I will describe it briefly in the follow term . we have have cheap money and decade of artificially low interest rate , follow by money print from the Bank of England that go on too long , create chronic asset inequality in our country . essentially , there have be a transfer of wealth from poor to rich . we have have cheap labour , create low wage , and we have pressure on housing , public service and community cohesion that have be cause by import million of people from abroad to work for low wage in our economy . we have an economy build on cheap import : we burden our own producer with cost while we import cheap product from abroad that be make to lower standard . I regret all these condition in our economy . the result be huge geographic inequality , a long tail of unproductive business and , I be afraid , too low real - term wage growth . I suggest that all this be endemic to the economy , which be make by Labour and the 2008 financial crisis , but which have not be sufficiently address over the last decade and a half by the Conservative Government . we fix the damage that be do to the public finance under Labour — imagine what the party would have do if it have be in power after 2010 — but we do not change the economic model . I be glad the Budget indicate that the Government be commit to reform in the right direction . I particularly welcome the recognition that debt will fall during the next Parliament if we be in charge — it be impossible to see how the opposition will get debt fall without policy to drive growth and improve public sector output . that be a good commitment . I also welcome the commitment to improve public sector productivity , and my hon . friend the Member for the Cotswolds ( Sir Geoffrey Clifton - Brown ) make some very important point about the way in which we need to improve output and efficiency in the NHS . I particularly welcome the Government ' s focus on improve private saving and investment . I want to quickly mention the Wiltshire economy . in my wonderfully beautiful , traditional and old - fashioned - look county , we have some of the most hi - tech business in the UK produce really innovative product for the global economy . a highly positive story be develop in Wiltshire , lead by the agritech sector . one of the great benefit of our new Brexit freedom be that we can liberalise and enhance the opportunity for biotech and agritech , but we need more , and I will quickly run through what they be . first , I welcome the minor uplift of £ 5 , 000 in the vat threshold for business . I regret that we could not do more , and I particularly regret that the reason we could not do more be , as I understand it , due to the Windsor framework . we be effectively tie into the EU ' s vat regime , because we do not want to diverge from Northern Ireland in GB — quite rightly — but I regret that we could not raise the vat threshold to significantly more than £ 90 , 000 . we should find a way to make that possible . secondly — other hon . member have make this point powerfully — we need to grow our rate of house building significantly . I would like to see more new town be create . I would also like to see land reform to get the cost of land out of the price of housing , which seem to be the fundamental blocker , particularly on housing in rural area . we should greatly enhance and expand community land trust , which have such a useful role to play not just in urban setting but in rural setting , to create low - cost , affordable housing for local family . we also need to reform the labour market . today ' s debate on enhance the world of work be so timely and relevant to the reform that the Government be try to bring about . I welcome all that the Secretary of State for Work and Pensions , whom I meet this week , be do to get more people into work . we have a chronic problem with economic inactivity . significantly , million of people be not able to contribute to the economy and to their own prosperity . there be major disincentive to work and train , fuel by our high - migration economy , which be simply a subsidy to employer at the expense of work people . it be very good that the Government be focus on gdp per capita , which be the fundamental measure , despite the poor record of GDP per capita in recent year , as Opposition Members have point out . there be many reason for that poor record , but the primary reason be the high rate of migration . low - pay worker have drive down contribution and income per capita . I welcome the work that the Government be do to get people off benefit and into employment , particularly through the WorkWell programme . I finish with a plea on behalf of Wiltshire and the whole country . More than anything , I regret the Budget ' s slow and frankly insignificant uplift in defence spending . it be a good thing that more money be now go into the defence budget , and I welcome the commitment that have be make in recent Budgets , but the increase of less than 1 % in the defence budget yesterday be disappointing , give the current global crisis and the historical underfunding of our armed force under many government . I be proud to represent the British Army ' s large garrison , on Salisbury plain . it would be a great thing for the nation and for Wiltshire to see the significant investment in the Army that will be necessary for our security . it would also boost our economy . rise — we will try an eight - minute formal time limit , which do not prevent member from take intervention . listen to part of this debate , I wonder what universe some conservative Members have be occupy for the last four year . in fact , I wonder whether someone have be slip soma , or something , into their tea . the House will recall that soma be the magic potion that be feed to the character in the Aldous Huxley novel " Brave New World " to quell their unhappiness and blind they to the reality of life around they . that be how it feel listen to part of this debate . try as they might , this Government can not escape responsibility for the state of our economy , the cost of live crisis and the damage they have do to family budget and to the people they have plunge into debt . in my pre - Budget survey , selly Oak constituent be clear : 93 . 3 % want the Chancellor to prioritise the cost of live crisis — he have not ; 70 . 7 % want he to concentrate on grow the economy — he have not ; and 67 . 7 % be against apparent giveaway follow by public service cut — that be exactly what he have do . this be not a tax - cut Budget because , as we have hear , tax be still go up . the Chancellor be preside over the high level of tax for 70 year , and he have the effrontery to prance around pretend to be a tax cutter . he be a bit like a Prime Minister who profess a love for equality while boast of transfer fund from poor area to rich area . People be not stupid . they know that the continue freeze on allowance mean that they be pay more . People like teacher and nurse be now pay high rate tax and , since the Tories come to power , the average income tax pay by pensioner have rise , with 1 million more suck into the tax system in the last year . and , of course , there be the hide cost . a prudent Chancellor would have put something aside for the contaminated blood scandal , the victim of the Post Office Horizon nightmare , the WASPI — Women against State Pension Inequality Campaign — woman debacle and the LGBT ex - service personnel . those be all thing that he should have sort by now but have ignore , probably deliberately . perhaps he be plan to leave those issue for someone else . if the Chancellor want to grow the economy , he would have do more to help small business . for example , Attic Brew in my constituency be a popular little business that , have weather covid , have create about 40 full - time and part - time job , but it struggle with high energy bill and taxis , which hit sale of locally produce beer . I acknowledge the alcohol duty freeze , but he do nothing about energy bill or reduce duty on draught beer and cider , which would have do far more to help small independent producer . that be how to reward work and enterprise . grow our economy be the only way to get enough money to pay for good public service . where in the Budget be the support for skill investment , which be essential if we be to grow and provide job for the future ? I hear Conservative Members laugh yesterday at the idea of GB Energy , just as they use to laugh at a non - dom tax . GB Energy will allow we to take control of our energy sector and protect we from hostile power , and will help to wean we off fossil fuel . labour know the value of that , because we have do it before . when we create the British National Oil Corporation , we create a structure that could have rival the Norwegians for provide dividend and a sovereign wealth fund for our people , have not the Tories squander the proceed of North sea oil receipt . they understand the need of oil giant , but they show little understanding of , or care for , the need of ordinary people and small business . finally , we have see the classic Tory deception . the Chancellor end his Budget speech by plant a story about something that he will probably not do . he want we to talk about the total abolition of national insurance , an unfunded proposal worth more than the tax bonanza from the right hon . member for South West Norfolk ( Elizabeth Truss ) , which almost wreck our pension fund . of course , that assume that he be promise to scrap only employee NI . if he be also consider employer contribution , we would be talk about a black hole of not £ 46 billion , but £ 178 billion . we can see why we need clarity from these people about what they be actually promise . my hon . friend be make an excellent speech . do he think that it be extraordinary , give what happen after the so - call mini - Budget , that the conservative party seem to have learn nothing and be still make all sort of unfunded commitment , which could wreak havoc on our economy , just as happen last time around ? this be extremely serious , and I be not surprised that the Conservatives be try desperately to get away from it , because we can all see the risk that be pose . this be a Budget base on the kind of fantasy reality that could well have come from an Aldous Huxley novel . we have a Chancellor with nowhere to go , represent a Government no one believe . it be time to let the people decide . Hastings and Rye be a vibrant and dynamic place that be home to amazing and resilient tourism , retail and hospitality business , hundred of small and medium - sized enterprise , and a robust manufacturing sector specialise in vacuum and precision engineering . however , it have pocket of deprivation . that be why I welcome the measure take by the Chancellor in yesterday ' s Budget , which be bold than it seem , reflect a dose of optimism and a good dollop of resilience , and build on policy that have halve inflation , reduce debt and promote a grow economy . I particularly welcome the measure take to support hard - work family . the Budget address the cost of live burden by reduce employee national insurance contribution by another 2 % ; they have go from 12 % to 10 % , and now to 8 % . it be give thousand of people in Hastings and rye a tax cut — a cut of over £ 900 for the average worker . let I take this opportunity to correct the shadow Chancellor and dispel the nonsense be spout by Opposition Members . the Chancellor do not promise to abolish national insurance contribution yesterday . he express an ambition to do so , without compromise public service , but say that it could not be achieve any time soon , and would require responsible fiscal management . cut class 4 national insurance contribution from 9 % to 6 % will help self - employ people in my constituency , and alongside the duty freeze on fuel and pub pint and the extension of the energy price guarantee , it will help put hundred of pound back into people ' s pocket . I also welcome the historic investment in early year and childcare , which will help hard - work family . the 2024 Budget build on the significant stride make in 2023 , when an unprecedented sum of more than £ 1 billion be allocate for early learning and childcare . the 8 % increase in funding for early learning and childcare for 2024 will directly benefit our child , our hard - work family and the dedicated professional who nurture our child ' s growth . the enhancement of teacher training will , I hope , help to ensure early intervention and prevention of problem for all child , include those with special educational need , so that they receive the support that they need to reach their potential . address the unfairness of the child benefit system will benefit thousand of family in Hastings and Rye , promote equity and social justice , and ensure that family receive support base on their need . I also welcome the measure take to help the most disadvantaged in my community , such as the increase in the repayment period from 12 to 24 month for those on universal credit who be force to take out advanced budgeting loan , and the fact that the £ 90 charge to take out a debt relief order will be scrap completely . the household support fund be set up temporarily to help the poor through the cost of live crisis with a one - off payment of £ 500 , depend on circumstance . its continuation for another six month be vital for a number of reason , not least because it provide immediate relief to vulnerable household face financial hardship . its extension mean that particularly vulnerable family in Hastings and Rye can continue to receive essential support during challenge time and avoid debt . however , it be worth note that the fund be a temporary fix , and the Government need to continue their focus on long - term solution to address poverty and prevent family slide far into financial distress . work be the only route out of poverty . that be why the Department for Work and Pensions back to work plan and our family hub , which support family in so many way , be vital policy measure . it be really good news that , despite the challenge pose by the pandemic and the war in Ukraine , our economy be show sign of recovery . the OBR ' s revised growth forecast for 2024 show a modest improvement from 0 . 7 % to 0 . 8 % . that may seem incremental , but it do signify progress . small and medium - sized enterprise be the backbone of our local economy . I welcome the £ 27 billion tax cut for business through the radical policy of full expensing , and through capital allowance reform . this move will drive investment , stimulate growth , empower our entrepreneur , encourage innovation and create job in Hastings and Rye , but we need to encourage more local young people into science , technology , engineering and math , further education and apprenticeship . university technical college and utc sleeve will be a real step forward in provide skill for the future . while tourism and hospitality have greatly benefit from generous Government support over recent year , include the extension of relief into 2024 - 25 , I would have like more of a boost for our tourism and hospitality business from the Chancellor ; a clear pathway for reform of business rate in England up to 2026 , include relief ; and action on vat . the British Retail Consortium say some time ago : " we need a business rate tax that ﬂ exes with overall economic performance , be share equitably across different industry and come with positive incentive for business . " I will briefly mention student loan . we all recognise the punitive rate of interest pay on student loan by our graduate , and it be not feasible to write off all the debt . could the Chancellor please ensure that no graduate pay interest at a rate high than the average available commercially ? that will help million of graduate who deserve a fair rate of interest , allow our young professional some financial stability , and give they the certainty to make sound life choice . let we embrace this Budget with optimism . the last few year have not be easy for the british economy , with the legacy of covid , and war in Ukraine and the middle east . it be only because our economy be in a well state as a result of the Government ' s policy since 2010 that we could afford to protect people and business , and support Ukraine . our economy be now turn a corner . we can not allow the Labour party to play fast and loose with our economy again , and take we back to the economic tatter of 2010 , after all we have be through in the past few year . this Budget be a road map to a bolder , bright future for Britain — a future in which business flourish , our family thrive , and our community can stand resilient . it be interesting to follow the hon . member for Hastings and Rye ( Sally - Ann Hart ) . I will leave it there . the test of any Budget be simple , and we all know it , in politic and elsewhere in life : be work people well or bad off ? the fact be that Britain be bad off . there be high taxis , low wage and a stagnant economy . the tax burden be at its high for over 70 year , since 1948 , and the national debt be at its high since the 1960 . average household will still be £ 870 bad off after all the Budget measure , and this will be the only Parliament on record in which living standard fall lower at the end of it than they be at the start . the real cruelty be not that the Budget be a miss opportunity for the conservative party to gain some ground ; it be that work people do everything that be ask of they and more , but that work be not reward . real pay have go up by just £ 17 a week over 14 year of Conservative Government . compare that with the last Labour Government , under which wage rise by £ 183 a week over 13 year . even the national insurance reduction pale into insignificance when we consider that the personal tax allowance freeze will take £ 41 billion from work people . in the end , work people be bad off , and they know it . work people know that the community where they live and work , and that they care about and be invest in , be feel the strain , as be public service . People be wait long for NHS treatment than ever before . even before the pandemic , which have be use a number of time as a reference point , 2 million more people be on waiting list than when Labour be last in office . today , waiting list stand at 7 . 6 million , impact more than 6 million patient . what of the nation ' s productivity , when there be low life expectancy , which in some case be go down , and when quality of life be compromise by pain , worry and stress ? how can we talk about productivity in the economy when the nation be simply not well ? there be a firm poverty postcode lottery . the King ' s Fund report that people who live in the most deprived area of England be twice as likely to wait more than a year for treatment as those who live in more affluent area . it be a postcode lottery on health , and an inequality that be not right in the modern age . there be no healthy economy without a healthy society . that the Chancellor do not get it be one thing , but for a Chancellor who be previously Health Secretary not to get it beggar belief , frankly . we all know that health and social care be interlink , and that people ' s wellness and the economy be interlink . labour will get the NHS back on its foot — we do it before and we will do it again — but we be disappoint not to see more interaction between health and social care yesterday . like the Local Government Association , I be disappoint not to see a focus on adult social care . let I focus on Oldham , a borough of nearly a quarter of a million people — good , decent people who should have be front and centre of this Budget . there , like everywhere else , they know that good public service be the foundation of a good economy , not a burden place on it . they know the cost when public service be overwhelm by demand , staff be under immense pressure , and those they love do not get the care they need . many mp will know this from our surgery , but not that long ago , if people be have a struggle with housing , adult social care , SEND support or a range of other different public service , it would have be the exception and not the rule that they be find to be in a difficult position . now , however , we all know that when people come to we to say that they have a housing crisis , we have to reply , " that ' s the rule for many ; it ' s not the exception any more . " when people say that the person they love can not get adult social care , we say , unfortunately , " that ' s the rule now for too many ; it ' s not the exception any more . " when parent come and say that they be fearful for their child because they have not get the SEND assessment and support need , we say too often , " that ' s not the exception any more ; it ' s the rule for too many people . " the public service infrastructure for too many people have completely be erode . in many place the market have completely fail . we see that in adult social care and in child ' s service , where the cost of placement be significantly impact on local authority budget . then we come to temporary accommodation , which have to be mention . in Oldham , the cost of temporary accommodation have increase from £ 1 . 9 million to £ 6 million in just a few year . that be not the real story , of course ; that be just financial pressure . the real story be that behind every figure be a family , a family in desperate need . in Oldham , 1 , 000 people be in temporary accommodation , include 500 child — 500 boy and girl in temporary hotel accommodation , share a room , mixed gender , mixed age group and often in mixed hotel , where the hotel be not even block book to stop private client be able to access the facility . that be not right , it be not safe and it reflect a broken market . in the end , we need to rewrite the british contract , because it have fail too many work people . the idea that if people roll their sleeve up , work hard and make a contribution , they can get on in life and build something for themselves and their family , have be take away from people . More than that , the generational progression that should be there have be deny . I look at my child grow up now and I see a housing market that be move far and far away from they , not close . People in my community see that the good , well - pay , skilled working - class job be something of the past and not the future . that fundamentally hit at the heart of the british contract , so we need a different way . as chair of the Co - operative party , I would say that we should be look at many example in the co - operative movement . ownership matter . we have see a complete hollowing out of ownership in our community . look at our high street and our town centre : we do not even know who own the building that have be board up for 10 , 15 or 20 year . ownership matter . on energy , we see that people be pay more and more for their gas and electricity to oligarchs and offshore interest , when here we be not build something that we can own together . that be where the Labour party be set out a different path . with onshore and offshore renewable through great British Energy , we can own something together , where we get to share its value , where we can take back control of our energy supply , our energy security and our energy bill . in the end , this come down to the Government decide to choose a path and a course . I think that some of those issue should be beyond politic . part of the problem with british politic be that thing follow the parliamentary cycle far too much , when some be far more structural , such as adult social care and the future of health and social care . there should be a big response to that than whatever the Chancellor of the day think at a moment in time . great consideration should be give to the future world of work , and ensure that work pay and give people the opportunity to live a decent life . when we do not have that big politic and those big idea , I be afraid we end up in the same situation that we find ourselves in yesterday : frankly , vacuous and without idea . it be a pleasure to follow my hon . friend the Member for Oldham West and Royton ( Jim McMahon ) . my constituent , like his in Oldham , have a sense of disappointment about the Budget ' s failure to address many of the challenge that they and other in former coalfield and industrial area face . taxis in the UK be unfairly distribute , penalise our poor community . rather than support our fragile regional economy , Government policy and decision making take money and resource out of our community . datum from the Office for Budget Responsibility show that , despite the headline cut to national insurance , the UK ' s tax burden be the high it have be in 70 year , and that it rise every year of the forecast period . it be true that anyone in my constituency live on the national minimum wage — earn around £ 20 , 000 — will receive an extra £ 148 . 60 a year , or £ 12 . 38 per month , from the reduction in national insurance . however , we need to look at the overall tax burden . around 40 % of that extra income will be lose to the increase in council tax . my council ' s website , which give some example , say that those live in a band a property will be charge £ 61 more next year . of course , that figure will be much high once we have add increase to parish police and fire precept . the problem be compound in area that , like mine , have a small council tax base because the majority of property be in band a to C . indeed , the additional money that council raise will not even cover the rise cost , so we will have to pay more but see service cut . Durham County Council will receive — I have check this figure — £ 130 million less in revenue support in 2024 compare with 2010 . indeed , a survey by the County Councils Network find that 95 % of local authority be increase council tax by the maximum permit 5 % . in east Durham , that mean that our poor community be pay the most . here be an interesting example : a band a property in Easington Colliery face a council tax bill of £ 1 , 671 , which be not far short of the Prime Minister ' s £ 1 , 824 council tax bill for his band h flat in Downing Street . if the Prime Minister be pay council tax on a band h property in Horden in my constituency , his council tax would be £ 5 , 157 . 88 . despite our property price be significantly below the national average , our poor community , and resident in my constituency , be face council tax bill similar to that of the Prime Minister . council tax be a new poll tax in all but name . I often feel like a lone voice advocate for a proportional property tax , but I should not be , because it would benefit 77 % of UK household . proportional property tax be a flat tax — a charge of 0 . 48 % — on a property ' s current value . it would effectively be an annual economic stimulus to the regional economy worth £ 6 . 5 billion a year , increase disposable income of household in the poor community , which do not enjoy the same level of public and private investment as household in London and the south - east . service that take up the large part of Durham County Council ' s budget be adult social care and look - after child . those be important service , but they should be fund nationally base on a need assessment . those cost should not fall on local taxpayer , particularly as we have see a rise in some council and service provider effectively outsource those with complex need by move their people into our poor community . if the Minister be not aware of that issue and want to understand how council in the south be game the system at the expense of my constituent , I recommend that he read an article by the Express journalist Zak Garner - Purkis — I do not normally recommend the Express , but he be an excellent journalist . far from give our community a chance , the Government ' s policy , taxation and investment decision be widen the economic divide in our country through high taxis and a lack of public investment , which impact on the private sector ' s willingness to invest in my constituency . of course , there would be opportunity if we have the right investment and growth policy . we have large area with derelict and run - down housing that would be ideal for redevelopment and the creation of decent family home , but we have a tax and investment system that hold back our regional economy and deprive they of opportunity . we have a Government who refuse to take any step to address widen economic disparity — I think that be the whole purpose of level up . there be other national issue that affect my constituency , include the NHS : there be long wait in A & E , and NHS dental provision be collapse . we have over - subscribe school , a lack of home - to - school transport , and school in a poor state of repair — not only those affect by RAAC or asbestos , but some quite new school build by disreputable construction company that have fleece the taxpayer . the conservative party have now have 14 year , either in government by itself or in coalition with the Lib Dems and other , to improve the opportunity for constituency such as mine . however , 14 year on , the problem that our country face today be just as deep - rooted and extensive as ever . the Chancellor and the Prime Minister say that they be proud of their record . well , I think my constituent have reach the same conclusion as many other . they say it be time to put that confidence to the test . if this government have a shred of integrity , we should be go to the poll on Thursday 2 May for a general election . the Chancellor ' s Budget have lift the lid on 14 year of tory economic failure : taxis be still rise , price be still go up for consumer , mortgage be go through the roof , and the Chancellor do nothing yesterday that be go to change that . we need a government that can rebuild Britain . it be time for change . it be time for a general election . it be a real pleasure to follow my hon . friend the Member for Easington ( Grahame Morris ) . we on the Labour Benches talk a lot , and rightly so , about the Conservatives crash our economy and send mortgage up by almost £ 3 , 000 , rent up by 10 % , and food price up by 25 % . we talk a lot about the fact that the Prime Minister be utterly blinker about the truth that he have go from be a low - growth Chancellor to a no - growth Prime Minister , with the introduction of Rishi ' s recession , and that work people be pay the price in this cost of living crisis . we talk a lot about Tory waste : the fact that the Prime Minister have blow £ 7 billion on covid loan fraud , and £ 500 million on a Rwanda plan that have fly three home Secretaries to Kigali , but not a single asylum seeker . we know that the tax burden be at its high level for 70 year , while debt have rocket and be still go up . however , we should probably talk more about the underpinning mismanagement of our economy and the broken economic model that have see Tories under - investing , turn our country into a stagnation nation . we have a record high NHS waiting list of more than 7 million people ; school that be literally crumble because the Prime Minister cut the school building budget when he be Chancellor ; 90 % of crime go unsolved , with rape victim wait three year for their day in court ; and three time as many child live in poverty today as do six year ago . the reality be that the past 14 year have be an omnishamble . as a result , nothing in this country seem to work any more , yet the british people be be force to pay more and more for less and less . what idea have the Conservatives put forward to fix this mess ? none whatsoever . instead , they resort to pilfer labour ' s policy like some sort of embarrassingly bad tribute act . when the cost of living crisis hit , we know we need to support household through it , so we propose a windfall tax on the excess profit of oil and gas company . the conservative party eventually cave in and deliver that policy , but poorly and riddle with loophole . this week , the Government have make a feeble attempt to mimic our policy of end the non - dom tax loophole . just think : if they have act when Labour first suggest end this loophole two year ago , they would have generate £ 6 billion for the policy area we suggest . they could have deliver 3 . 8 million extra operation , 1 . 3 million emergency dental appointment and free breakfast club for nearly 4 . 5 million child . the Conservatives be follower , not leader . they be slogan - monger , not servant of the people . they believe in government by gimmick rather than the hard graft of govern in the national interest . labour , meanwhile , be take a long - term responsible approach to get our economy back on its foot and grow again , which be why we have our five core mission . we will get business grow and put demand back into the economy , start with our new house building programme for 1 . 5 million home over five year , create new job and get young people and family the housing they need . we will deliver clean energy by 2030 and switch on great British Energy . our transition to a modern economy will deliver half a million good job , low household bill and make our energy supply secure from Putin . we will get the NHS back on its foot and fit for the future , and bring down wait time with the big ever workforce expansion , include 17 , 000 more doctor and nurse and 2 million more available appointment . we will put 13 , 000 police back on the street , and halve the number of incident of violence against woman and girl . we will spread opportunity for young people everywhere by shatter the class ceiling through well early year provision and improve technical education . instead of the Government ' s hands - off , " not my problem , guv , " approach to the economy , we can deliver an active industrial strategy , back our business to make , buy and sell more in Britain . this include Labour ' s £ 3 billion steel renewal fund . with that , I be urge Tata Steel to step back from the cliff edge , which would cost 2 , 800 people their job in Aberavon and Wales , and not do anything that can not be undo before the next general election . what a disgrace it be that the Conservative Government have give £ 500 million to Tata to make 2 , 800 people redundant . we will work with industry to secure a bridge to the new economy , so that steel company can seize the opportunity of the future and Britain can maintain its sovereign capability to make its own steel from scratch . this be a vital security issue in the dangerous and turbulent world in which we live . if we want to get Putin ' s boot off our throat , we have to sustain our vital steel industry . we on these Benches be also commit to support small business . we will legislate to tackle late payment , unlock £ 20 billion in unpaid invoice . we will scrap business rate , and replace they with a system that be fair for brick and mortar business . these be the kind of growth measure we need to get Aberavon , Wales and Britain fire on all cylinder . last year , the Prime Minister say , " we ' ve turn the corner , " and promptly plunge Britain into a recession , with an economy small now than when he enter Downing Street , mortgage through the roof , house building fall off a cliff , worklessness rise , homelessness never higher , crime go unsolved and rape victim wait year for their day in court . we have river full of sewage , which be the perfect metaphor for the stench of decay that be emanating from this clap - out government . household be £ 870 bad off on average under Sunak ' s — the Prime Minister ' s — tax plan . with just 5p give back for every 10p take from our constituent , he be give with one hand and take twice as much away with the other . that be not a plan ; that be a scam . it be a con from this Government , who have run out of idea , run out of energy and run out of road . we need an election this spring , and we need a Labour Government who will rebuild our public service , re - energise our economy and get our country back on track . rise — order . let I remind member that we do not use the christian name or surname of current serve member . I think the hon . member for Aberavon ( Stephen Kinnock ) know what I be refer to , but I do not want to stop he in his flow . all hon . member be incredibly bright , and I be sure that they will think of another way of make their point . fourteen year of Tory Government and they still can not find a Chancellor who understand poverty , inequality and the need for public service . despite the late one be a former Health Secretary , he do not understand health and the role it play in our society . I remind Government Members that they cancel the new hospital for Stockton in 2010 , and health inequality in my area have since widen , despite the tremendous work of NHS worker and other . today I will try to help the Tories understand the consequence of their 14 year in power : over a decade of austerity and , now , " somebody ' s " recession . at the weekend I be appal to hear that life expectancy in the north - east compare with the rest of the UK will continue to fall for the next 50 year . a report by the Institute for Public Policy Research North ' s state that wealth , health , power , opportunity and systematic inequality be just a few of the reason why the north - east be set to see the north - south life expectancy divide endure for decade . it state : " the number of year you can expect to live in good health in the North and Midlands would be two - and - a - half year shorter than the South and three - and - a - half year shorter than in London . extend these overall trajectory , the gap in healthy life expectancy between the North and the all - England average would not close until 2056 / 57 while the gap between the North and South East would endure until 2079 / 80 " . after 14 year of Conservative Government , nothing have happen to close the gap , and national comparison be widen far . it be even bad locally . People in the town centre ward in Stockton be expect to live 16 year few than those down the road in Ingleby Barwick . that news come after report of a huge increase in child poverty , people be unable to see a gp for week on end , dental appointment that be simply not available , and waiting list for operation stretch and stretch . some appointment for operation that take just a few week in 2010 now take many month or , in some case , over a year . I welcome the new diagnostic centre be build in Stockton , but it be only one small piece of a very large jigsaw of provision need to do the good for our people . the author of the report and IPPR North research fellow Marcus Johns have confirm that urgent action be need to tackle the inequality . he say : " no one should be condemn to live a short , sicker , less fulfilling , or poor life simply because of where they be bear … it ' s hard to avoid the conclusion we be head in the wrong direction on inequality in health , wealth , power , and opportunity while local government finance languish in chaos . " let I turn to another report demonstrate regional inequality . the North East Child Poverty Commission ' s February 2024 report highlight that there have be no child poverty strategy for England or the UK as a whole since 2017 . however , the proportion of north - east child in poverty from work family have rise from 56 % to 67 % in less than a decade . the report also find that the intensity of child poverty in the north - east be get bad , with one in five child in our region now live below the deep poverty line , and more than one in 10 north - east child live in very deep poverty . almost one in five north - east child be live in a food - insecure household , mean that they do not have access to sufficient food to facilitate an active and healthy lifestyle . child in our region have be let down in a range of other childhood health measure , have either the high or second high rate in England of A & E attendance , emergency hospital admission , and hospital admission for asthma , diabete and dental treatment . all of those be associate with high level of deprivation . on child in care , the north - east have the high proportion of look - after child of any english region — 113 per 10 , 000 child , compare with the England average of 74 . in the Tees valley , all five local authority be among the 20 area with the high rate of look - after child in England . indeed , the link between high rate of child poverty and social care intervention be flag by the 12 north - east director of child ' s service , which make a joint submission to the independent review of child ' s social care back in 2021 . it say : " exceptional level of poverty in the North East be drive dramatic rise in child protection intervention and the number of child in care . the cost of this can not be afford . exacerbate by reduction in government funding , spend on early help have reduce at a time when it have be most need . this vicious cycle can only be break by different way of working , back up by adequate investment . " do we not want the good for every child , whether they grow up in the south - east or the north - east ? we will not have it unless every child ' s basic need be meet . it be deplorable that the Government , with their failure to act , have become complacent , with child in my region go to school hungry , unable to concentrate , unable to learn , and unable to have the future for which they have the potential . I be pleased that Labour be committed to ensure that all primary school child have free breakfast club that set they up for the day , so that no child start the day hungry and there be a safe space in which to be support with friend . there be another matter of great importance to Teesside . there be one area where there have be colossal amount of taxpayer investment in the north - east , but sadly , those same taxpayer be be rob of the benefit of £ 0 . 5 billion invest at Teesworks . my advice to the Chancellor be to get the forensic accountant to pore through the book and report , and they will find ten of million of pound that could have be reinveste in the people of Teesside , instead of be pocket by two private sector businessman , after the Teesworks Tory Mayor gift they 90 % of the asset . teeswork be probably one of the most important project in the country , but private individual will benefit most from the hundred of million in profit expect over the come year — individual who be yet to invest their own money . I have wonder how the ten of million of pound pay out in dividend to those two individual could have be use on Teesside , where all our local authority be be force by the Government to cut service and hike council tax . if those local authority have just £ 10 million each , they would not have to cut service and our social care could be give a major boost . the Chancellor also need to look at the 28 recommendation in his own Government ' s inquiry into the appalling way the Tees Mayor have be run his business — 28 recommendation because of the lack of transparency , poor value for money , and a total disregard for proper process . recently the Mayor land we with a legal action bill in excess of £ 3 million against PD Ports . it leave the legal fee of the Secretary of State for Science , Innovation and Technology look like chicken feed . if the Chancellor be serious about value for money from taxpayer , he would show the gut that the Secretary of State for Levelling up , Housing and Communities have fail to show , and order the National Audit Office to see exactly how the £ 0 . 5 billion of taxpayer cash have be use at Teesworks and who be derive the benefit . I think he will discover that Teesworks be not work for our community , and we have see only a few hundred of the ten of thousand of job promise actually create . in conclusion , we have have the year of austerity and we now have the Prime Minister ' s recession . the ramification have be immense : appalling regional inequality , poor health , and a cost of living crisis , but above all , poverty on a scale we should be ashamed of . it be a pleasure to follow a fellow Scot , my hon . friend the Member for Stockton North ( Alex Cunningham ) . a decade ago George Osborne — remember he ? — stand in this place to deliver the first Tory Budget . he speak about a Budget that recognise " the hard work … of the british people " and set out a plan for Britain " to keep move we from a low wage , high tax … economy " . — [ Official Report , 8 July 2015 ; Vol . 598 , c . 321 . ] a decade later , after 14 year of Conservative Government , where be we ? in a recession , whether the Chancellor call it " technical " or otherwise , and with taxis high than at any point in the past 70 year . we have have 20 year of lose pay growth , with the Resolution Foundation confirm that the average wage will not regain its 2008 level until 2026 . shamefully , this be the first Parliament since record begin to see living standard fall — the most significant year - on - year decline in living standard since the 1950 . that be the reality of yesterday ' s Budget — a record of economic incompetence and squander opportunity . will the public feel any change in their circumstance after their pocket have be raid by 25 tax increase , and with mortgage soar , food bill continue to go up and up , and wage stagnate ? who on earth will feel any well off in those circumstance ? give the lacklustre response from those on the Government Benches during the Budget yesterday and in today ' s debate — I have enjoy it enormously , but there have be more contribution criticise the Budget than support it — it seem that they be not particularly impress by it either , and no wonder . Less than 24 hour after the Chancellor stand up , the chaos have continue . we have a floated promise of a £ 46 billion cut to national insurance without a single thought give to how it would be fund , although I now hear that have be downgrade to the Chancellor express an ambition , which apparently be different . it be perhaps how Liz Truss express an ambition to crash the economy not that long ago . order . I do say not to mention the name of current sit member . I forget she be a sit member , Mr Deputy Speaker ; I apologise . the Government be put off any long - term spending plan to the next Government to avoid face up to the reality that public service be crumble . shamefully , they be not put aside a penny for the victim of the contaminated blood scandal or the victim of the Post Office scandal . minute after the Chancellor sit down , we have the spectacle of the Under - Secretary of State for Energy Security and Net Zero , the hon . member for West Aberdeenshire and Kincardine ( Andrew Bowie ) refuse to say whether he would back his own Government ' s plan to expand the windfall tax on the oil and gas industry . I be not sure if he be still on resignation watch or whether his chat with the Chancellor have move he back to a strong position , but yesterday , the Tories in the Scottish Parliament have a debate denouncing expand the windfall tax , and the leader of the Scottish Conservatives , the hon . member for Moray ( Douglas Ross ) have say he will vote against it . this morning , the Chancellor say it would present a little local difficulty . this be utter chaos , less than a day after he deliver the Budget . with any other Government , at any other time , they would be the laugh stock of the country , but so low have our expectation fall that it be not even get the attention it should . we should welcome the Government ' s conversion to labour ' s economic plan , follow where Labour have lead on the non - dom tax loophole or expand the windfall tax . now it be only the SNP that be out on a limb , say that it do not support increase a tax on the £ 1 billion a week profit from oil and gas , while happily put up taxis for those earn £ 29 , 000 a year . in SNP Scotland , teacher , plumber , police officer and nurse pay more ; oil and gas giant do not . the hon . member mention the specific case of nurse . his colleague be reluctant to acknowledge the fact that nurse in Scotland start off with much high pay than those in England . I do some check while other be speak . a newly qualified ward sister in Scotland on 2023 - 24 rate , even allow for slightly high income tax on part of their earning , be take home £ 31 , 884 a year . his or her equivalent in England be take home £ 30 , 960 . why do the hon . Gentleman want nurse in Scotland to earn £ 900 less when move to England ? I know I be in a different party to the hon . member , but I be in the same country , so it concern I how nurse in Scotland be treat , and they be pay more tax than their colleague in England . that be the reality of the SNP ' s budget . the truth be that a lack of economic growth across the UK mean less for public service , despite the Scottish Government receive almost £ 300 million in consequential , include £ 237 million from increase spending in the NHS . I hope that the Scottish Government use that to invest directly in public service , and especially in Scotland ' s NHS , where statistic this week have show a damn picture of the SNP ' s 17 year in power . the list of in - patient wait more than 12 week have go up 125 time in a decade . cancer treatment within 31 day be three time bad than a decade ago . all the while , taxis be go up in Scotland and wage growth be stagnate . the House of Commons Library have carry out some research that show that weekly real earning be low today than in 2007 when Labour leave office in Scotland and the SNP first come to power . the analysis show that real wage continue to rise until 2010 , when the Labour Government leave power in the UK , but under the Tories and the SNP , the average Scot earn less in real term now than they do in 2007 . EY this week find that average employment growth in Scotland between 2024 and 2027 be expect to be just 0 . 8 % , lag beyond all other part of the UK . there be some really tough long - term issue in Scotland ' s labour market that we must wrestle with . long - term sickness appear to be a particular factor in economic inactivity in Scotland , account for nearly 32 % of inactivity compare with 27 % across the UK . there be difficult demographic trend , too . these issue be not easily resolve , but they require a Government with a laser focus on the problem , not one from a hopelessly distract party . the Secretary of State speak about level of employment in the UK . recent research by the Work Foundation and Lancaster University find that of those in employment , 21 % be in extreme job insecurity — worker who experience involuntary part - time work , involuntary temporary form of work and precarious work — and a further 33 % suffer from low or moderate insecurity . in other word , more than half of people currently employ have a degree of insecurity in their work . the UK be become a less secure , precarious place for people to work , and part of the cause of low productivity and rise level of in - work property be that problem . it be a challenge for we to wrestle with , but we must do so . the Tories be the architect of this economic mess , ably assist by the grow incompetence of the SNP . neither can be the solution . scot will rightly ask themselves after 14 year of the Tories and after 17 year of the SNP whether they feel any well off . the answer will come back : no . they will ask if public service and the NHS be well now in Scotland than they be 17 year ago , and the answer will be no . the only way out of this doom loop of economic chaos , high taxis and stagnant living standard be real change , with a government focus on grow the economy , make work pay and turn the UK into a green energy superpower . that be the change that Scotland need . that be the change that the UK need . that be the change that Labour will deliver . we need a general election so that we can get on and do it . Liz Twist will make the last Back - Bench contribution , so anyone who have take part in the debate should make their way to the Chamber now . listen to yesterday ' s Budget , we could be forgive for think that the Chancellor be live in a different universe from the rest of we . wage be stagnate , taxis be rise , growth be stall , and nothing the Chancellor announce yesterday have change that . the OBR ' s own figure tell we that this will be the bad Parliament on record for living standard . after 14 year of economic failure , his legacy be less money in people ' s pocket and the high tax burden since 1949 . the Chancellor tell we that absolute poverty have go down and that growth can come only from a high - wage , high - skill economy , which we be suppose to believe his party be on the way to building . let I tell he that that be not the reality that my constituent be deal with . the Chancellor may try to tell we that people be well off after cut to national insurance contribution , but for every 5p that my constituent get back , they will be pay double that in extra tax accord to his plan and the package . People be be squeeze far and far as price continue to rise . even a reduced inflation rate mean that price be go up and cost people hard . for those already on low pay , the benefit be even less . the cut be well for high pay worker and come at the cost of lower - pay worker , many of whom live in my constituency . for generation , parent have hope that their child would have it well than they do grow up . of course , that have never be guarantee , but for too many people today it be a far - off dream . there be 9 million young worker in this country who have never see sustained average wage rise . this be the only Parliament on record where living standard have fall . consecutive Conservative Governments have see inequality outstrip that see in any other large european country , and our public service on their knee just as people need they more than ever . many of we in the House will recognise the story behind these statistic in the constituent who come to our office door in the most desperate of circumstance with nowhere else to turn . a report release in January by the Joseph Rowntree Foundation lay out the extent of rise poverty and destitution , which be hit family with child and disabled member hard . it say : " this be a story of moral and fiscal irresponsibility " , and it be one that affect constituent in Blaydon and across the north - east . in the north - east , the proportion of child in poverty who be from work family have rise from 56 % to 67 % in less than a decade . that be the impact of Tory Government decision on real people ' s live day to day . time be really hard for people , and we know that there be a well - establish link between socioeconomic factor , such as financial distress , and mental health problem , and vice versa . it be therefore disappointing to see nothing on offer in this year ' s Budget to tackle our mental health crisis , and organisation such as the Samaritans , YoungMinds and the Mental Health Foundation have all comment on that . despite uncertainty and anguish in the sector about the ringfenced funding for local suicide prevention plan , which be set to run out this financial year , we do not hear a word about those plan on Wednesday . nor do we hear anything about specialist mental health support in school , suggest that the Government ' s aspiration remain limited to cover just 50 % of school . the hon . member for Redditch ( Rachel Maclean ) , who be just walk into the Chamber , talk about people with mental health problem and bad nerve . would it not be great if we could tackle NHS waiting list for mental health service so that people could get the support and diagnosis they need and could improve their life ? in the meantime , the picture on social care also remain bleak , with the Government ' s ambition fail to meet the essential need of old people , disabled people and their carer , and with local authority struggle to balance their budget . there be nothing to tackle that issue . as a north - east MP , I notice the Chancellor ' s reference to a deep devolution deal for the north - east . I be pleased to see the north - east get more power , and many more power be need regionally . however , our aspiration in the north - east be even high than those in this deep devo deal , and I have no doubt that we will continue to press for even more measure to reduce regional inequality . if one thing be clear from yesterday ' s Budget , it be this : the Government be out of touch and out of idea . unable to face up to the crisis they have preside over , they be leave spin and scrabble , try to tell we that we be out of the wood , while our constituent feel the impact of the recession and tell we about it . the Government ' s plan have fail . it be time for a new approach . it be time for a general election . we come to the wind - up . I call Liz Kendall . thank you , Mr Deputy Speaker . yesterday , the Conservative Government ' s seventh Chancellor give his second Budget — thankfully , the last before the general election . minister have repeatedly claim that the economy have turn a corner , but they have drive it into a dead end . our economy be small now than when the Prime Minister enter Downing Street . not only be gdp per person down in every quarter last year , but it will be low at the end of this year and low , too , in four of the next five year . in this Parliament , we have have the big hit to living standard on record , and we have the high tax burden for 70 year . but people in this country do not need statistic to tell they the dire state we be in or that they be pay more but get less . they see it every day in the high cost of the weekly shop and in their gas and electricity bill . they see it in high mortgage and rent and in soar childcare cost . they see it in their crumble school building and in the 8 am scramble to see their gp . the argument I want to make today be that one of the central reason why the Government have fail on the economy be that they have fail on work . for all the claim make by Ministers , the OBR lay bare the scale of their failure and the appalling cost to the british people . the official unemployment rate be low , but that be not because a record proportion of people be in work . we be the only country in the G7 whose employment rate have not return to pre - pandemic level . yesterday , the Office for Budget Responsibility reveal that our employment rate will be low by the end of this year than it forecast in November ; that the rate will be low in five year ' time ; and that in 2028 - 29 it will still not be back to where we be before the pandemic . that be the truth of what another five year of the Conservatives will bring . the reality be that increase number of people be leave the labour market and not even look for work . whatever the Secretary of State say — he repeat it today — the OBR say that economic inactivity be increase , not decline . it say that economic inactivity be prove more persistent than it previously think . it be no long decline from the post - pandemic high and have instead rebound to a total of 9 . 3 million people — the high in over a decade . much of the problem be drive by poor health , an issue raise by many hon . member in this debate . on the labour side of the House , we know that a healthy nation be critical to a healthy economy and that the Government be fail on both . some 2 . 8 million people be now not in work because of long - term sickness — an all - time high . many of they be over 50 : often woman struggle with bad hip , knee and other joint , often care for elderly parent at the same time . there have be an extremely worrying increase in young people out of work due to mental health problem , with many lack basic qualification . as the Centre for Cities have show , all those problem be far bad in northern town and city , which the Conservatives promise to level up , but which have once again borne the brunt of their economic failure . in place such as Blackpool , Blackburn , Middlesbrough and Hull , if we include the hide unemployed in the figure , it take the official unemployment rate from 5 % to 20 % . the Labour party think that unacceptable . the waste of individual potential be appal , as hundred of thousand of people who want to work be write off and deny help to get back on their foot . this be a waste for british business , which be desperate to recruit and need the talent of everyone in our country to grow and succeed . it be an appalling waste of taxpayer ' money , too . over the next five year , 600 , 000 more people will be on sickness and disability benefit , which will cost an extra £ 33 billion — more than our day - to - day expenditure on defence . the impact on our economy be profound . yesterday , the OBR say that " high and rise level of inactivity " be offset increase in the size and growth of our population , and will leave GDP in five year ' time " unchanged … and the level of gdp per person … low . " there it be in black and white : the Conservatives ' failure on work be a drag on the economy , a drag on growth , and a drag on living standard and money for our vital public service . that be not good enough . rise — I will willingly take an intervention . I thank the hon . Lady . she be rightly not happy with the level of economic inactivity ; that be why we be bear down on it . give that the level of economic inactivity be high during every year of the last Labour Government , would she like to comment on their record on it ? I will not take any lesson from a Government who be oversee economic inactivity at record level . the number of people out of work due to sickness be at a record level , result in soar cost for individual and livelihood . if I be the Secretary of State , I would put in place a proper plan for reform , not offer half - bake programme , rehash and re - announced scheme , and more of the same empty rhetoric on benefit . if our plan be half - baked and rehash , why have the OBR confirm that by the end of the forecast period , 371 , 000 few people will be receive the long - term sickness and incapacity benefit to which the hon . Lady refer ? if our plan be half - baked , why will 371 , 000 few people be on those benefit ? the OBR say that there will be 600 , 000 more people on those benefit , and the total cost will be £ 33 billion . the Secretary of State try to deny that the scheme be rehash . well , let we look at the reform to fit note announce in 2023 . back in 2017 , what do the Chancellor , then Health Secretary , announce ? reform to fit note , take they beyond GPs . the Government recently announce that there will be mandatory work placement . in 2011 , what do they announce ? a mandatory work activity programme . in 2017 , the current Chancellor , as Health Secretary , say : " we will appoint an Expert Working Group on occupational health . " they be the same policy with the same failure . it be absolutely time for a change . we do not have to go down this road ; we can choose a different path . under a Labour Government , we will do so . our back to work plan will tackle the root cause of worklessness by drive down wait for NHS treatment , and we will recruit 8 , 500 more mental health staff . we will ensure that employment support be tailor to individual and local need , by overhaul jobcentre to end the tick - box culture , and devolve employment support to local area . in every part of the country , we will create more good job in clean energy and through our modern industrial strategy . we will make work pay and improve the quality of work , by ensure a genuine living wage , ban exploitative zero - hour contract , and strengthen right to flexible working . and we will do more . there be now 850 , 000 under - 24s who be not in education , employment or training — one in eight of all our young people . that be a terrible waste for they and for our country as a whole . give that half of all mental health problem start before people turn 14 , we have to intervene early , so the first part of our offer to young people be about provide specialist mental health support in every school , and walk - in access in every community . that way , we will tackle one of the key driver of worklessness before it take hold . secondly , we will deliver 1 , 000 new career adviser , and good - quality work experience , so that young people leave school ready for work and ready for life . thirdly , we will overhaul skill by create new technical excellence college and reform the Tories ' fail apprenticeship levy , which have see apprenticeship start by young people fall by a third . our new growth and skill levy will help young people to get the skill that they need , include by offer they a second chance at basic skill and pre - apprenticeship training if they do not get the right qualification at school . fourthly , we will provide new employment adviser for young people in our young future hub . they will offer join - up specialist help and support , because the old , one - size - fit - all approach will not work when it come to tackle this problem . finally , we will overhaul access to work for young disabled people who want to work , so that they know what equipment , adaptation or personal support they will get before they start , give they the confidence to take the plunge . our proposal be fully cost and fund , and will be pay for by scrap tax break for private school and close the tax loophole enjoy by private equity fund manager . that be our offer to young people . this year , they and the rest of the british public face a choice : another five year of stagnation , low growth , high cost and worklessness under the Tories , or a long - term plan to get Britain build again , grow again and work again under Labour . the public know it be time for change . let we have an election , and let we have the gut to have it now . it be my pleasure to close the first full day of debate on this spring Budget , which my right hon . friend the Chancellor of the Exchequer bring before the House yesterday . I thank everybody for their contribution today . the past few year have be a sobering lesson in live through history . they have not be easy for the british economy or the british people , as we face the challenge and the legacy of covid , war in Ukraine and , now , war in the middle east . we all know that we be in an election year , but it be important that we focus on the policy as well as the politic , and on the fact , not just the spin , so let we have a look at some of the fact . inflation have fall from 11 % last year to 4 % now . we know that reduce inflation be the single most important thing for help family , and it have happen . real wage be now rise , and some mortgage rate be start to come down . the economy have also perform well than forecast . it be project to grow by 0 . 8 % this year and by 1 . 9 % next year , defy expectation that we would enter a long recession . the International Monetary Fund forecast that the UK will have the third - fast cumulative growth in the G7 over the next five year , and will grow fast than Japan , Germany , France and Italy . we be on track to meet our fiscal rule , underlie debt be forecast to fall as a share of gdp in the fifth year of the forecast , and by the end of the forecast , borrowing will be at its low share of gdp since 2001 . of course , it be only because we responsibly reduce the deficit by 80 % between 2010 and 2019 that we be in a position to provide much - need support , to the tune of £ 450 billion , during the pandemic and the recent cost of living challenge that follow the invasion of Ukraine . as have be repeat by many colleague , we do not hear the opposition complain about that support . the support inevitably lead to high taxis , because public expenditure be high . how on earth do the opposition think all those intervention would be pay for ? this reality have be forcefully emphasise today by my hon . friend the Members for Folkestone and Hythe ( Damian Collins ) , for the Cotswolds ( Sir Geoffrey Clifton - Brown ) , for Devizes ( Danny Kruger ) and for Hastings and Rye ( Sally - Ann Hart ) , all of whom make important contribution , but the job and the recovery be not yet do . because of the progress we have make , though , the economy be turn a corner , and we have be able to afford tax cut as part of our plan to reward work and grow the economy . it be astonishing that on day two of the Budget , the Government still want to tell the country that it have never have it so good . will the Minister address some of the point make by my hon . friend the Member for Leicester West ( Liz Kendall ) ? what do he say to those young people who can not work because of disability or ill health ? what do he say to woman in their 50 who be not work ? how do he propose to get those people back to work ? we be the party of work , and we have hear a lot of myth today from Conservative Members . we believe in well - pay , good - quality work . the clue be in the name of our party . what will the Government do for those woman , and for those young people with disability ? that be quite amazing . I open my speech by say , " let ' s focus on the fact . " be labour really claim to be the party of employment ? every single Labour Government in history have leave office with unemployment high than they begin with . the Secretary of State for Work and Pensions outline how we will help the very people whom the hon . member for Bristol South ( Karin Smyth ) mention . far from say that everything be fine and that people have never have it so good , we be be honest with the public by say , " we know that you have be through an incredibly difficult time . " that be precisely why we intervene to such an extent , provide over £ 450 billion of support during the pandemic and since . it be out of necessity . that support be need . it be important that we be honest with the british public that the money clearly need to be pay back . we have high taxis out of necessity , but as my hon . friend the Member for Folkestone and Hythe say , we reduce taxis out of choice when we can . we increase they out of necessity , and we reduce they out of choice . the opposition do not have that philosophy . from April 2024 , we be far reduce national insurance contribution , and employee across the UK will see their national insurance contribution rate cut from 10 % to 8 % . alongside the cut we already make to nic at the autumn statement , this be a total annual tax cut of £ 900 for the average worker on £ 35 , 400 a year . self - employ national insurance will be cut far too , to 6 % ; 2 million self - employ will also get a tax cut , worth , on average , £ 650 a year . those measure will incentivise , encourage and support more people into work or to work long hour . the OBR say that , when combine with the autumn reduction , our national insurance cut will mean the equivalent of 200 , 000 more people in work , fill one in five vacancy and add 0 . 4 % to GDP , and 0 . 4 % to GDP per head . this late cut to NICs be the late step towards our long - term ambition to end the unfairness that mean that if somebody get their income for have a job , they pay two type of taxis — nic and income tax — but if they get it from other source , they pay only one . when it be responsible and when it can be achieve without compromise high - quality public service , we will continue to cut nic , make work pay . I believe that my neighbour , my hon . friend the Member for the Cotswolds , outline the precise wording from the Chancellor yesterday on that . of course , this should be see in the context of our overall record on job , which be impressive . since 2010 , more than 2 . 5 million more people be in work . that be equivalent to 800 job create every day of the Conservative - lead Administrations . do the Minister agree , however , that many of those job be part of a low - wage economy ? the OBR , which he cite , say that in the 13 year of the Conservative Government pay have go up by just £ 17 a week , which contrast with the 13 year of Labour when it go up by £ 183 a week . do he agree that many of these job be low pay and precarious ? the hon . Gentleman be clearly not listen yesterday to the Chancellor , who have a key focus on job . that be precisely why we be lift so many people out of poverty and why we have have a focus on increase the national living wage over the year . let we not forget that the tax - free allowance be about £ 6 , 500 under Labour , whereas it be more than £ 12 , 500 now . we have lift so many people out of pay tax altogether , and that have be a key focus and strategy of this Government . on low income tax payer , by the Government ' s own assessment how many people have be bring into taxation because of the freeze on the personal tax allowance ? the hon . Gentleman be make an important point . I say early that , unfortunately , we have have taxis at a high level than we want , but now we be in a position to reduce they . reduce they and focus on NICs be impactful for 29 million worker — anybody earn above £ 12 , 500 . People now need to earn more than £ 1 , 000 a month before they pay any tax whatsoever . as I say , when we come into power unemployment be near 8 % , but it be now about 4 % . we should not take full employment , or near full employment , for grant . we all know that every Labour Government have increase unemployment — that be not an impressive record but it be a consistent one . I particularly want to reflect today on how our plan reward hard - work family . the Government believe that people ' s career should support rather than undermine another important role : parenthood . that be why at last year ' s Budget the Chancellor announce the big ever expansion of childcare from September 2025 , extend the 30 - hour free childcare offer to all child of work parent from nine month old . that will result in an extra 60 , 000 parent enter the workforce in the next four year . but to deliver on that we need to support the private sector to play its part too , so yesterday we confirm that the Government be guarantee the hourly rate pay to childcare provider to deliver the free hour offer . the Minister have not yet mention the Government ' s damascene conversion on scrap the loophole for non - dom , but there be a point here about what they could have generate . if they have listen to Labour and do that two year ago , it would have generate an extra £ 6 billion of revenue , which could have pay for free breakfast club for nearly 4 . 5 million child . so on the point of childcare , do he think that be relevant ? the hon . Gentleman give quite a wish list early , which , by my calculation , could come out as be quite expensive . I do not know whether he have have conversation with the hon . member for Leicester West , who be on his Front Bench . on the hon . Gentleman ' s point about non - dom , we will be scrap the non - dom status , but we will be replace the system with one that be residency base , include measure that will encourage and incentivise further investment into the UK , because we will be implement transition measure . I do not hear the opposition talk about they . those transition measure be likely to encourage £ 15 billion of additional investment into the UK . non - dom at the moment pay about £ 8 . 5 billion in taxis . we want to welcome people , but we recognise that those with the broad shoulder must carry the great burden . none the less , we want to be internationally competitive , and the new system that we have propose will be . return to the childcare measure that I outline early , this commitment would mean over £ 500 million of additional investment in childcare over the next two year . this will give childcare provider the confidence to invest in expand at a crucial time , to deliver the free childcare expansion and help bridge the gap between parent ' career demand and their childcare need . this approach complement further change that we be make to the tax system to incentivise parent to increase the hour they work . yesterday , the Chancellor announce that from 6 April the high - income child benefit charge threshold will be raise to £ 60 , 000 . in addition , the level at which child benefit be withdraw completely will increase to £ 80 , 000 . that be very much welcome by many member on the conservative Benches , include my hon . friend the Members for Devizes , for the Cotswolds and other . as a result , no one earn under £ 60 , 000 will now pay the charge . this will put pound in parent ' pocket , save nearly half a million family with child an average of £ 1 , 300 a year . accord to the OBR , this change will also result in an increase in hour for those already work , which be equivalent to around 10 , 000 more people enter the workforce full time . I be grateful to the Minister for give way . one of the remain injustice with the high - income child benefit charge be that a single person earn £ 60 , 000 will have to pay the charge , but a couple earn £ 59 , 000 each will not , because it be assess on a single earning . do the Government have plan to amend that anomaly ? if so , when can we expect to see that happen ? if the hon . Gentleman have not intervene and give I just one more second , I would have say that , go forward , we will also consult on move the high - income child benefit charge to a household - base system , to be introduce by April 2026 . that point be also raise by my hon . friend the Member for Christchurch ( Sir Christopher Chope ) , who point out the potential opportunity in other area relate to household income . it be important , because our tax system be base on the principle of individual taxation , and there be many aspect of confidentiality and so on that be important in that as well . the Government will consult shortly on option to enable well target of economic support to household in time of crisis . I , too , very much welcome that commitment to move towards a household basis for taxation . do my hon . friend recognise that most other country , particularly european country , operate on a household basis for taxation , because they recognise the obligation that family have to dependant . yes , I hear my hon . friend but , as I have say , there be some challenge in move to a household system . there will be a consultation and I be sure that he and other will participate in that , and we will have further discussion in the House . rise — I do need to make some progress and respond to comment , and my right hon . friend the Secretary of State be extraordinarily generous in take intervention early on . will the Minister give way ? I be afraid that I can not take any more intervention , as I have to respond to other colleague ' question . my hon . friend the Members for Christchurch , for the Cotswolds and the right hon . member for Leeds West ( Rachel Reeves ) and other talk a lot about the tax burden . it be important to point out that , take together , this Budget package and the autumn statement will reduce the tax burden by 0 . 6 % in 2028 - 29 . the tax burden be forecast to be low than expect in the autumn . the tax system be competitive , when compare with other european nation , such as Germany , France and Italy , which have much high tax - to - gdp ratio . the hon . member for Glenrothes ( Peter Grant ) and other raise the point about green policy and green energy . of course , the UK have halve its emission since 1990 , which be fast than any other G7 country . since September alone , company have announce plan for £ 30 billion of new energy investment , and the Budget deliver on the green industry support announcement in the autumn statement 2023 , include an additional £ 120 million for the green industry growth accelerator and other measure . my hon . friend the Member for Redditch ( Rachel Maclean ) , who be my constituency neighbour on the other side , not only proudly quote Margaret Thatcher , which of course always go down well among Conservative Members , but give she consider insight into mental health and resilience . she also mention productivity , as do several other member , which be a key theme of the Chancellor ' s speech yesterday . my hon . friend the Member for Thurrock ( Dame Jackie Doyle - Price ) and other make important point about the role of local government and local government finance . on 24 January , the Government announce an additional £ 600 million for local authority in England . take into account that additional funding , the final local government finance settlement for 2024 - 25 be a 7 . 5 % increase in cash term on 2023 - 24 . several hon . member mention the importance of house building , which of course be a priority for this Government and a central part of our plan for growth . we be on track to deliver 1 million new home in this Parliament , and have already deliver more than 233 , 000 home on average each year since 2019 . the hon . member for Bristol South say that there be nothing in the Budget for the people of Bristol South . I respectfully suggest that the national insurance cut that we announce in the Budget will impact thousand of her constituent . she may not appreciate or value that , but I assure she that her constituent will . will the Minister give way ? very briefly . my point be about the change that we do not yet really understand in the Budget , and their effect on woman in particular . will there be an equality impact assessment show how these change will affect woman ? as the hon . Lady know , there be always tax information and impact note — impact assessment — as part of the budgetary process . my hon . friend the Member for Folkestone and Hythe , in his very strong contribution , remind we of not only the context in which we take power in 2010 , which be far from the golden legacy that the opposition receive in 1997 when they take power , but the challenge that we have face in power over the last few year . he be also very enthusiastic , as I be , about the opportunity and progress of the creative industry . that be exactly why we have focus on they , and provide more support measure in the Budget , follow on from several measure over the last few year . the creative industry be vital to our economy and future growth , grow on average at about double the normal pace of the economy . I have to call out the comment of the hon . member for Warwick and Leamington ( Matt Western ) regard the West Midlands Mayor , Andy Street , who have do so much to grow and attract investment in the west midland . I gently remind the hon . Gentleman that the Labour council be not without its problem in Birmingham . will the Minister give way ? I will happily follow up with the hon . Gentleman , but not now . my hon . friend the Member for the Cotswolds mention vat RES , which I be absolutely expect . he make some really important point in many area . I will happily follow up with he regard VAT RES . the Government be consider the OBR ' s finding about VAT RES , in the context of the wide public finance , but the Chancellor have express that he be always happy to receive further representation . the hon . member for Halifax ( Holly Lynch ) mention several area , include SEND , which other colleague mention as well . we know that it be a really important part of the education system and our overall social provision . the Government be invest an initial £ 105 million over the next four year in build new special free school , and 20 successful alternative provision free school as well . I be aware of the time , so I will conclude my comment . I genuinely thank all member for their contribution . there have be some extremely interesting contribution today . the hon . member for Leicester West ( Liz Kendall ) outline her vision of a clear choice , which I think we might be hear quite a lot over the come month . I do believe that there be a clear choice this year : sustainable economic recovery , sound finance , low taxis , more productive public service , support for business and household , optimism , confidence and opportunity for all with the Conservatives , or reckless spending , unfunded promise , high taxis , pessimism and negativity from the Labour party , with no hope , no clue and no plan . we have a plan , it be work , and I encourage everyone to stick to the Conservatives , and not to risk a Labour Government . order , that the debate be now adjourn . — ( Mr Mohindra . ) debate to be resume on Monday 11 March . Pavement Parking Motion make , and question propose , that this House do now adjourn . — ( Mr Mohindra . ) I rarely have the chance of speak two time on one day in quick succession . I be glad to have secure this debate , but I be sad that we be have to revisit the topic . my first Adjournment debate in this House on 6 June 2018 be on pavement parking . I be sorry that nearly six year on , we be still only talk about prevent it . I be by no mean the only person to have raise this subject , as the Minister know . since that debate , we have have promise to resolve the problem , a few government announcement and even a consultation three year ago — but still no Government response , much less any action . Guide Dogs set out well what have be happen . it point out that it have support private Member ' s Bills in the House of Commons in 2014 and 2015 , which contribute to the Department for Transport decision to commission research on pavement parking . the Department subsequently hold a consultation on manage pavement parking between 31 August and 22 November 2020 , explore three option : first , to improve the traffic regulation order process by which local authority can already prohibit pavement parking ; secondly , a legislative change to allow local authority civil parking enforcement power to enforce against unnecessary restriction of the pavement ; and , thirdly , a legislative change to introduce a London - style pavement parking prohibition throughout England . Guide Dogs support all three , but it strongly emphasise the third option , to introduce a law across the rest of England . I thank my hon . friend for secure this important debate . in Manchester , pavement parking continue to prevent people from participate in everyday life , especially vulnerable and disabled people . back in May 2023 , I petition Parliament to outlaw pavement parking across the country . that have huge support from my constituent and local authority , but the Government have do nothing about it . do she share my concern that the Government continue to show their contempt for the people of Britain by fail to enforce simple measure that would greatly benefit the public ? I absolutely agree with my hon . friend . the argument for a pavement parking ban need little restatement . all the organisation that have contact I since I secure this debate be largely in agreement . they say that pavement parking put pedestrian in danger , include disabled and old people , as well as parent with child , and that the Government must take action . locally , I know , there be major issue with the school run for parent and child negotiate park car . from my constituent who raise this issue , I know it be clearly one that be deeply feel . I be sure that they be not alone in that in Blaydon . resident regularly tell I about the problem pavement parking cause outside the little shop in Winlaton , along the high street in Birtley or even just up from my home along the main road in Ryton . Guide Dogs UK have do a lot of work on this issue because pavement - park vehicle pose a particular risk to people with sight loss , block their route , create trip hazard and force they to walk on to road full of traffic which they can not see . research by Guide Dogs have find that virtually all people with sight loss have be force to walk in the road due to pavement - park vehicle . some 80 % of respondent say that pavement parking affect they weekly , while one in five say that they have be injure as a result of it . a third of people with sight loss say that they be less willing to go out alone just in case they come up against vehicle block their path . it be deeply unjust that people with sight loss should have their everyday life disrupt because of this issue . in my last Adjournment debate , I talk about my experience of meet Margaret and Laurel , constituent of mine who be both visually impaired , and take a walk with they blindfold , or with restrictive glass , on my local street . at the time , they tell I that they have lose confidence in go out alone , and that their independence be at risk because of the number of vehicle park on the path . I have the chance to catch up with Laurel ahead of this debate , and I be sad to say that little have change for she in the past six year . she share with I the follow message : " where I live , all the house be build in the 1950 and many don ' t have their own drive . as a result , everyone park their car on the pavement . you can ' t get past they , and often Tasha , my Guide Dog , and I have to walk in the road . it ' s not just the one car we have to get past — I frequently have to go in the road to get past a few of they , which be so frightening as you can ' t hear bike or quieter car . if I try to get past without go on the road , I find that I often hit my head on the wing mirror , which be unnerve in itself . I want to be independent and use the pavement without have to get help , but there be so many car about that it ' s get hard all the time . I recently go to catch the bus but find there be car park each side of the bus stop pole , stop I from wait there , and prevent the bus from pull up . I have to step out into the road to get to the door of the bus , which be nerve racking . you don ' t know what might be come towards you and you be put yourself and your guide dog in danger . because I ' d have to step down into the road , the step onto the bus wasn ' t at the height I ' m use to , and I miss it and fall , really hurt myself . the driver didn ' t help and just say he ' d report the problem . on another occasion when I be come home , the bus get to my stop and struggle pull into the curb because of the car . the driver actually stop right in front of the pole so that it be right in front of the door when they open . if I ' d get out , I ' d have walk straight into it but fortunately , my son be with I on that occasion , and he grab hold of I to stop I . I feel really angry because people park on the pavement just don ' t realise what problem they cause Tasha and I when we ' re out , and I want someone to stop this happen . " the focus of my debate be the problem that we be have in my Blaydon constituency , which , as the Minister know — it be next to his constituency — be in the north - east . I note that the north - east deep devolution deal , which be publish yesterday , contain a section that address pavement parking . the North East Mayoral Combined Authority ' s state intention to develop a consistent approach to enforcement be laudable , and I know that my local authority , Gateshead Council , have previously look at what it can do to help with the problem , but identify street and issue traffic regulation order be a lengthy , impractical and costly process , and local authority civil enforcement officer have few power where there be no line or sign present . that be why so many organisation and local authority have call for a system that allow for blanket prohibition , such as the one that currently operate in London , with the potential to allow for exception where local geography or street design make they necessary . the national consultation be set up to consider what the Government could do to support council to take action on this issue . I gently remind the Minister that that consultation take place in 2020 , and it state that a summary of response would be publish within three month of its closing . it have now be 1 , 285 day since the consultation close , but we be without a substantive update . that be without consider the dawdling that take place prior to the consultation , which I understand the Government have initially plan for early 2017 , or — to look even far back — the time that have elapse since the hon . member for North Dorset ( Simon Hoare ) introduce a private member ' s Bill on this issue in 2015 . in a debate in the House of Lords only a few week ago , the Under - Secretary of State , Lord Davies of Gower , tell that House : " yes , it be time and I be hopeful that in the not - too - distant future we will come out with a report on this . " — [ Official Report , House of Lords , 21 February 2024 ; Vol . 836 , c . 607 . ] I can understand that the 15 , 000 response that I believe be submit need to be look at , and that consider they take some time , but from hear those word from Lord Davies , one could be forgive for assume that the Government be just run a tad over the deadline . we be now more than three year on , and it be disappointing that the Government can not promise we anything well than vague hope for a response . I thank my hon . friend for be generous in give way . a recent Sustrans report find that 49 % of people in Greater Manchester wish to walk or use their wheelchair more , and 40 % want to cycle more . do she agree that if the Government ban pavement parking nationally , that would improve the accessibility of our footway , make our street safe , and encourage people to choose active travel alternative to car ? my hon . friend make an important point . we be all look to develop active transport policy , and make it easy for people to walk on pavement and use public transport safely be a real issue , so I very much welcome that report . as I have say , 15 , 000 response might be a lot of paperwork to get through , but they also suggest a high level of public engagement and interest in this issue . the Government owe it to disabled people , as well as the wide public , to ensure that they complete this process . as such , I ask the Minister whether the Department for Transport will commit today to urgently publish the response to the consultation on manage pavement parking , and to set out a timetable for introduce legislation . everyone should feel safe and confident when use pavement in their local area , but so many people , include many family walk to school , be suffer . People like my constituent Laurel and Margaret be suffer from social isolation and a loss of independence due to the lack of action on this issue . People with disability must not be an afterthought , so I hope that the Government will stop take they for a ride , crack on and address their concern . I congratulate the hon . member for Blaydon ( Liz Twist ) , who be my constituency neighbour , on secure this Adjournment debate on what be genuinely a very important issue — I do not diminish it in any way whatsoever . I acknowledge that the hon . member for Manchester , Gorton ( Afzal Khan ) have also previously raise this matter in the House . I have have my brief for about 100 day , and have take the trouble to read transcript of the previous debate . I be also acutely conscious that a vast amount of evidence have be provide by a large number of organisation . like the hon . Lady , I have meet Guide Dogs UK , and I know that this be a very serious issue that affect individual up and down the country in a genuine and serious way , include people who be disabled , those who have child , those with pram and buggy , those who be walk their dog and those who be engage in active travel , for which I be also the Minister . we have increase the budget for encourage active travel by 10 , and we be try to persuade people to get behind it , so I do not want to diminish the importance of this issue in any way . I acknowledge that it be very serious . as the hon . member for Blaydon know and have previously outline , there have be a total ban on pavement parking in London since 1974 . however , to be fair , successive government of different political persuasion have decide since 1974 that there should not be a nationwide ban . that be partly because London be clearly a different environment from other part of the country , particularly in term of rurality . however , she will also be aware — I be repeat thing that both she and the hon . member for Manchester , Gorton know — that there be traffic regulation order , as well as prescribed traffic sign and bay marking . to give some context , the Transport Select Committee ' s report in September 2019 be highly detailed and take huge amount of evidence , and to a certain extent trigger the Government to respond . that Committee seek reform of the tro process , a change in the legislation govern the enforceable offence of obstructive pavement parking — as I will deal with later , that legislation be not simple by any stretch of the imagination — and consideration of a nationwide ban in some shape or form . as a result , and follow consideration and , rightly , extensive debate in the House on an ongoing basis , there be the consultation . as the hon . member for Blaydon say , 15 , 000 people respond to a Government consultation be probably more than any other that I be aware of — certainly in the transport space . when I be the Employment Minister , I be not aware of such detailed consultation . clearly , there be some that do generate more than that , but this be not just on the three main point , because bear in mind that there be 15 , 000 response on 15 different issue . that produce , as she rightly outline , thousand of piece of individual feedback , all of which need to be read and analyse . an awful lot of different Departments need to consider different matter , and local authority be utterly key to that , as be the Department for Transport and the like . I want to make the point that we understand the issue , and if we do not understand they before the consultation , we most definitely do now . there be obviously inherent danger for all pedestrian , and the hon . Lady rightly identify the particular situation for her constituent , for whom I have genuine sympathy . however , it must be recognise that many town and city — as be clearly set out in the Transport Committee report and the consultation the Government undertake — be not design to accommodate today ' s traffic level , and in some location the pavement be the only place to park without obstruct the carriageway , not least because there need to be a free flow of traffic for the emergency service , which be a factor that the Government have to consider . I understand that issue , and I understand that one of the proposal be to have a blanket ban , but allow opt - out in particular circumstance . that be clearly necessary , and I do not think anyone be argue that there be not circumstance in which that would be the case . however , this be sound as though we be not get to a conclusion and that we be not go to have a decision on this issue , because it be too difficult . be that right ? no , I think that be a slightly unfair , with great respect . I endorse entirely the comment of my noble Friend Lord Davies of Gower , who respond to that specific point in the House of Lords very recently . he specifically say that the Government be come to a conclusion very soon . I have unquestionably become aware of that since have take up this post , and it will unquestionably be decide in the very near future . I do not want the hon . Lady to walk away from this debate thinking that this be not under consideration . as the hon . Lady know , exist legislation allow local authority to introduce traffic regulation order to manage traffic . example be one - way street or ban turn , and the tro also allow local authority the freedom to decide if and how they wish to restrict pavement parking in their local area . however , we acknowledge — and the consultation clearly show — that the process of make a tro can be time - consume and burdensome for local authority , and it be clear that that require reform . what reform look like be not simple , but we unquestionably feel there be a capability to do that . there be also scope to reduce the cost of this process , because there be undoubtedly a lot bureaucracy and time that go with it . if one could introduce a digitise , non - paper - base system , that would speed up application and clearly make communication well . there be a clause to make that change in the Automated Vehicles Bill , which be go through the House and have its second reading early this week , and that will make it quick and cheap for local authority to implement tro . the second recommendation be about unnecessary obstruction of the road . there be already some criminal offence in this space , and we be look at how we amend the regulation to make unnecessary obstruction of the pavement enforceable by local authority , while leave obstruction of the carriageway , rightly , as a criminal matter . this would label civil enforcement officer to address instance of unnecessarily obstructive pavement parking , as and when they find it . the enforcement of these offence would be more targeted than for a general prohibition of pavement parking . the Minister have accept that we have law in London but not in the rest of the country . would it not be consistent to have the same law across the board ? after all , London be not the only important city . city such as Manchester or Birmingham be also important . this option have challenge . parking offence currently subject to local authority civil enforcement be violation of clearly define restriction indicate by traffic sign and road marking . by contrast , unnecessary obstruction that could not be indicate by traffic sign or bay mark as an obstruction be a general offence , which may occur anywhere . that be difficult to define and will require case - by - case assessment . the Department will likely need to issue very specific guidance to steer local authority on what might be deem unnecessary obstruction in order to prevent inappropriate and inconsistent enforcement . the third option be a national prohibition . that be be consider , but there be considerable pushback against it in certain circumstance . as the hon . member for Blaydon outline , one would have to assess how it would possible in circumstance where there be significant and large local authority , particularly rural one , which would struggle to make the specific decision on exemption . however , we be look at that particular situation to make a decision on where pavement parking would be necessary . a local authority would have to limit the necessary exemption , and install traffic sign and bay mark to indicate all the place where pavement parking be to be permit . that would be extremely difficult , particularly in rural area . however , it be not by any stretch impossible . consideration also need to be give to whether a ban would be disproportionate . I mention the rurality issue , but I want to finish on one key point . one can talk about the relative merit or otherwise of local government , and whether the London approach be the panacea that we all seek to say it be , but this be ultimately about the personal responsibility of the vehicle owner . I really want to ram home the point that , as be set out in the gospel , " do unto other as you would have do to yourself . " rise — I will not take a further intervention . it be unquestionably the case that we need to send a strong message to the driver of this country that it be incumbent upon they to park responsibly , to look after their neighbour , and to be conscious of the wide impact of their decision to own a car , so that in their street and community , they be accommodate the people who be struggle . question put and agree to . House adjourn .