it be a pleasure to follow the hon . member for North Cornwall ( Ben Maguire ) , who give a passionate if controversial maiden speech . it be also a pleasure to follow my hon . friend the Member for Warrington South ( Sarah Hall ) , whose father - in - law be one of my predecessor as MP for Northwich . I pay tribute to Mike Hall , whose contribution towards get the funding we need to stop the town sink into a big hole of subsidence be vital . I be grateful to you , Madam Deputy Speaker , and to the House for the opportunity to make my maiden speech in this important debate on sport , follow the incredible achievement of our Olympians and Paralympians at this year ' s game . we be lucky enough to have a great record of sporting success in Mid Cheshire . our own Paula Radcliffe , who need no introduction , achieve incredible feat in athletic over her long career , smash the marathon world record . northwich rowing club ' s Matt Langridge win gold at Rio in the man ' s eight . the club , which have a proud tradition of break the perception of rowing as an elitist sport , tell I about the " Matt Langridge " effect , as more young people have take up the sport with that club than ever before . and this year , the awe - inspire Poppy Maskill , from Middlewich , who be mention by the shadow Minister , not only swam her way to five medal , a world record and the accolade of be the most successful british athlete at this year ' s Paralympics , but be give the honour of be the GB flagbearer at the closing ceremony . I can not leave this list without mention my mum , who get the run bug after I be bear — I do not think the two be related — and go on to win the gold medal in the 10 , 000 metre at the european veteran championship in 2013 . all these athlete , and other like they , have be an inspiration to the next generation of runner , rower and swimmer . it be fitting that we honour they and their achievement today . it be a tremendous honour to have be elect to represent Mid Cheshire , and our three great and historic salt town of Northwich , Winsford and Middlewich . the last constituency to bear the name — back then , a two - member constituency with a strong pedigree of elect man with beard and the same surname — be abolish in 1885 . thank to 139 year of boundary change , I now pay tribute to not one but four predecessor . Mid Cheshire gain the village of Rudheath from the right hon . member for Tatton ( Esther McVey ) , who have represent the area since 2017 . I thank she for her service . it seem that Rudheath ' s loss be Lymm ' s gain , and I be sure the people of Lymm can look forward to many year of common - sense solution to the challenge they face . Middlewich be transfer from Congleton , formerly represent by Fiona Bruce . she serve as a Member of this House for 14 year and , prior to that , as a councillor in Warrington for six year , a remarkable 20 year of public service that be testament to Fiona ' s character . I know her former constituent appreciate her hard work and advocacy on their behalf , and her focus in Parliament on champion the right to freedom of religion and belief . I pay tribute to she as a campaigner for well transport infrastructure in her constituency , something on which I hope to build in my time here . I gain Winsford from the former constituency of Eddisbury , represent by Edward Timpson from 2019 , who prior to that serve as the Member for Crewe and Nantwich . Edward ' s outstanding work on improve the life chance of fostered child will undoubtedly shape his political legacy . Edward say in an interview in 2014 that he would not have be child ' s Minister and he would not have be a family lawyer if his parent have not foster . he may no long be a Member of Parliament , but I be certain we have not see the last of Edward ' s contribution to public life . finally , I pay tribute to my good friend , my hon . friend the Member for Runcorn and Helsby ( Mike Amesbury ) , who have represent Northwich these past seven year . colleague from across the House will know of his loyalty and his diligence , as well as his successful campaign from opposition to make school uniform cheap for all . he have be unfailingly kind and supportive towards I , and extremely generous with his time and sound advice . I be until recently a councillor in Northwich , so I know at first hand how assiduously my hon . friend work on behalf of his former constituent , and how highly regarded he be locally . he certainly leave some big shoe to fill . each of my predecessor would have be a worthy custodian of the constituent part that now form Mid Cheshire , but these area be not just name on a map — they be vibrant community , each with its own natural beauty , rich history and promise future . the town of Northwich , Middlewich and Winsford be predicate on the salt industry . from the roman era to the industrial revolution , these town have be shape by the salt deposit find beneath their foundation and their strategic location at the confluence of several waterway that have be exploit to support trade , transport and our community ' growth . in the good tradition of british innovation , the people of Mid Cheshire have find interesting thing to do with the hole in the ground after the salt have be remove . the Adelaide mine in Northwich once host a banquet for Emperor Nicholas I of Russia , with over 10 , 000 candle illuminate the orange crystal banqueting hall , all 130 foot below the surface . today , the Winsford salt mine keep the nation ' s secret , with over 33 km worth of paper from the National Archives store safely underground , while just outside Middlewich , preparation be well under way to store the hydrogen produce by Cheshire ' s Hynet project in the salt seam below . the salt mine , canal and river that run through my constituency have play a pivotal role in shape the local economy and culture and each have leave an indelible mark on our landscape and identity . but these town be not just about salt and their storied past ; today , they be thrive place that be build on resilience , innovation and community spirit . Northwich be a vibrant town with an exciting and lively event programme . the now Northwich international dance and street art extravaganza have delight visitor with giant insect , peacock , princess and rainbow butterfly , while the annual Pi ñ a Colada festival , inspire by Northwich - bear Rupert Holmes ' s song " Escape " , which I will not provide a rendition of now , have become an important fixture of life in the town centre . these event and dozen more like they would not be possible without the council , local business , rotarian and community group all pull together and support the town centre to make it the event capital of Cheshire . there be pride in our community , with people will it to succeed in the face of 14 year of manage decline under the previous Government . it be in Northwich in 1933 that polythene be accidently discover by ICI researcher , and , in Winsford today , we have company deal with that industrial legacy , eliminate single - use plastic and recycle they . indeed , Winsford be home to more than 200 innovative company , from creator of advanced tissue - heal technology to developer of a sophisticated AI model to keep people safe from plant and equipment on construction project all over the world . but the true lifeblood of Mid Cheshire lie in its people . they be compassionate , friendly , and proud of their heritage . they be people like Julie , Diane or Matthew , run charity to help people with down ' s syndrome , autism , and muscular dystrophy . they be people like John , Alan or Janet , volunteer hour of their time to keep the park and the street of Winsford Northwich and Middlewich look their good . they be people like Catherine and Ant who have keep our community feed , and people like Gale and Jess who have help more people in Winsford than I could begin to count . they and hundred like they be at the heart of our community . they be the custodian of our history , and the architect of our future , and , despite the challenge time that we be face , I be convinced that it be a future fill with promise and possibility . I have long believe that the people of our three great Mid Cheshire salt town , and , indeed , our country , want a Government who be on their side . they want politic and politician to serve they , to end the chaos and dysfunction of Westminster and to rebuild our country . the key mission of this Labour Government be to restore trust in politic , to show that politic can be a force for good , and to demonstrate that politic and politician can deliver for people and change life for the well . I promise always to do my good to serve and represent my constituent , to work tirelessly to deliver the change that people have vote for , and to repay the trust that the people of Mid Cheshire have place in I .